The administration has now deleted its statement online about the spike. The BBC asked officials there why, and they said "because this incident comes under the authority of the defence ministry".
The navy is now keeping all shipping out of nearby Dvina Bay, on the White Sea, for a month. But an Arkhangelsk port official told the BBC that it was a planned closure, which had been announced before the Nyonoksa blast.
There are reports of panic buying of iodine drops in Severodvinsk. Emergency officials reported a spike in background radiation. The White Sea bay where both the shipbuilding port and the regional capital, Arkhangelsk, are located has been ordered closed for swimming and fishing because of the presence of toxic rocket fuel. A month after a fire aboard a secretive military submarine killed 14 people and prompted criticism of the Russian Defense Ministry, a new fatal incident involving military forces in Russia's far north has raised new criticism of how authorities handle deadly, and potentially embarrassing, information. The explosion, reported Thursday, occurred in Nyonoksa, a Dvina Bay port not far from the shipbuilding town of Severodvinsk, at a naval site that has been used for decades to test missiles, including intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs). In the hours that followed, however, city emergency officials in Severodvinsk reported a spike in radiation levels. The levels were 20 times higher than normal, according to Greenpeace, which prompted the environmental group to call on federal authorities to identify what kind of radiation had been released and whether it was any danger to nearby residents. Emergency officials, meanwhile, said that radiation levels posed no risk to people nearby, and did not exceed annual norms for humans. That hasn’t assuaged the concerns of residents of Severodvinsk. The Arkhangelsk regional news site 29.ru said that nearly all the pharmacies in the city have been emptied of iodine drops, which are used to protect the thyroid gland from certain types of radiation. Contacted by telephone by RFE/RL, one pharmacy in Severodvinsk reported being sold out of iodine as of Thursday. A second said most of its supplies had been bought up. The employees contacted would not give their names. Citing unnamed officials at the Arkhangelsk airport, 29.ru also reported that three of those injured in the explosion had been sent in an emergency flight to Moscow for treatment, and those accompanying them were wearing hazardous-material protective suits. On Friday, meanwhile, the newspaper Kommersant reported that military officials had ordered a monthlong ban on swimming and fishing in the entire Dvina Bay, which flows into the White Sea, after detecting the presence of a highly toxic rocket fuel known as heptyl. The fuel has been used in Russian rockets for years; Kazakh environmentalists have long complained about heptyl-fueled rockets being launched from the Baikonur facility poisoning the Kazakh steppe. Norway's official nuclear safety agency reported Friday that its sensors had not reported any increase in radiation levels since the previous day, and it had received no official notification from Russia about any potential incident. Severodvinsk, which has nearly 180,000 inhabitants, itself is the site of two major naval shipyards that build and repair nuclear-powered submarines and other ships. Environmental groups have for years warned of increased radiation levels in nearby waters. If the incident was caused by a rocket explosion or crash, the most important question, said Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona, is where it occurred: on land or in the water. That will determine how much contamination is released and where, he said. "It's a bad thing either way," Zolotkov told RFE/RL. Russian news agencies said that three of the injured were in critical condition. What was potentially more concerning, Zolotkov said, were the reports about emergency workers wearing radiation suits as they accompanied some of the injured being transported to Moscow hospitals. That would be an indication of radioactive contamination, something that the Nyonoksa test site isn't known for, he said — from possibly a low-level nuclear device or even a nuclear-powered rocket engine. “This worries me more than anything else,” he said. The explosion is the second mishap to occur at the Nyonoksa test site in recent years. In 2015, a test of a cruise missile went awry, sending the weapons flying into an apartment building. No casualties were reported, nor was there any reported radiation or other contamination. Last month, another incident involving Russia's Northern Fleet also drew criticism from Russians upset by a lack of information from authorities. And earlier this week, a series of massive explosions destroyed an arms cache in Siberia, sending blast waves and plumes of black smoke into the atmosphere, and devastating nearby settlements. A secretive surveillance submarine known informally as the Losharik suffered a catastrophic accident on July 2 while conducting tests in the Barents Sea. In all, 14 crew members were killed. Officials have released scant details about the sub, which is based at the Kola Peninsula port of Severomorsk, and what exactly occurred during the fire. Zolotkov said that the reports of people panic-buying iodine in Severodvinsk was symptomatic of the distrust that Russian civilians have for the authorities and for public statements after incidents like this. The regional emergency service statement about the spike in background radiation had been published on Thursday on the official website of the Severodvinsk city administration. By Friday, however, the statement was no longer available on the site. Asked by the news site 29.ru about the missing statement, a city civil defense official cited an unspecified technical problem; another city official said they were working on the issue. He pointed to the Kursk disaster in August 2000, when the Kremlin and military officials concealed the details of a sunken sub, some of whose crew survived the explosions that crippled the vessel. He also pointed to the news concerning a mysterious radioactive cloud that drifted over Europe in 2017. European researchers recently concluded that a notorious nuclear processing facility in the southern Ural Mountains, known as Mayak, was the likely source of the release. The repeated Russian denials, which continued even after the release of the peer-reviewed publication, further undermine trust in Russian official statements, Zolotkov said.
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
During your trial you will have complete digital access to FT.com with everything in both of our Standard Digital and Premium Digital packages. Standard Digital includes access to a wealth of global news, analysis and expert opinion. Premium Digital includes access to our premier business column, Lex, as well as 15 curated newsletters covering key business themes with original, in-depth reporting. For a full comparison of Standard and Premium Digital, click here. Change the plan you will roll onto at any time during your trial by visiting the “Settings & Account” section. If you do nothing, you will be auto-enrolled in our premium digital monthly subscription plan and retain complete access for $69 per month. For cost savings, you can change your plan at any time online in the “Settings & Account” section. If you’d like to retain your premium access and save 20%, you can opt to pay annually at the end of the trial. You may also opt to downgrade to Standard Digital, a robust journalistic offering that fulfils many user’s needs. Compare Standard and Premium Digital here. Any changes made can be done at any time and will become effective at the end of the trial period, allowing you to retain full access for 4 weeks, even if you downgrade or cancel.
Russia’s nuclear energy agency has said an explosion that caused radiation levels to spike in the Arkhangelsk region was caused by an accident during a test of an “isotope power source for a liquid-fuelled rocket engine”. In a statement released late on Friday, Rosatom said five of its employees had died as a result of the accident and three more were being treated for burns. The statement was the first confirmation that the agency was involved in the incident, which briefly drove radiation levels up to 20 times their normal levels in the nearby city of Severodvinsk. Rosatom’s description of the incident could indicate it was testing the nuclear-powered cruise missile Burevestnik mentioned during a speech by Vladimir Putin last year. Russia’s ministry of defence first confirmed the explosion on Thursday, saying two people had been killed and six injured in a botched test of a liquid-fueled rocket engine. The injured included ministry employees and civilian contractors. Rosatom’s statement may indicate that three of those first reported as injured had since died. Despite reports that the wounded had been transported to Moscow for medical care, neither their names nor locations had been confirmed. The explosion caused radiation levels to rise for about half an hour in Severodvinsk, contradicting official ministry of defence claims that there had been no rise in radiation levels. Severodvinsk removed a statement confirming the spike in radiation levels from its website, saying the ministry was managing the response to the incident. While local officials urged calm, residents in several cities stocked up on iodine, which is often used to limit the effects of radiation exposure. Russia also closed a bay in the White Sea to civilian traffic for a month, driving speculation that either the water had been contaminated or that a search operation was being launched.
The world learned why the Russian defense industry could be categorized as “unsafe at any speed” last Thursday when a huge explosion occurred at the Nyonoska missile test range in the far north of Russia on the White Sea. Radiation levels in Severodvinsk immediately spiked to 20 times the normal level, making it clear that this was a nuclear accident of some kind. Initial reports from Rosatom, the Russian state nuclear energy corporation, admitted the explosion was from the test of a “radioisotope source of energy,” while representatives of the corporation told Fontanka, the St. Petersburg-based Northern Russia news outlet, that the mishap involved “a nuclear battery.” Early emergency service announcements in the region even mischaracterized what happened as an explosion from a nearby military ammunition dump. Immediate speculation, which has now been confirmed, was that this was another test of the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile. At least seven people were killed in and an unverified number injured. Residents of a nearby village were finally advised to evacuate on Tuesday. Vladimir Putin first revealed the weapon in a State of the Nation speech to the Federal Assembly in March 2018, in what was basically an infomercial for six nuclear delivery doomsday weapon system that are in various stages of development. Besides the Burevestnik were a new liquid-fueled ICBM called the Sarmat that supposedly carries enough warheads to devastate an area the size of France, a hypersonic cruise missile that carries a single two-ton nuclear warhead, an unmanned robot submarine designed to travel for weeks and then surface offshore New York or Los Angeles or in Baltimore harbor to rain enough enhanced radiation warhead weapons to render the ports unusable, and a missile called Kinzhal that can be launched from the centerline of a single Russian MiG-31 fighter aircraft. These weapons, if ever made operational, would be unimaginably destabilizing to the world’s delicate nuclear balance. But until they have been tested adequately, they probably pose more danger to the Russian people themselves than they do anyone else. The Burevestnik is designed to be like any other cruise missile with a nuclear warhead – except that this missile is supposed to have an on-board nuclear reactor that powers its propulsion system. It is not a conventional, air-breathing, small jet engine-powered cruise missile that has a finite supply of jet fuel on-board and therefore range limitations. In theory, a nuclear-powered engine gives the Burevestnik unlimited range. It is designed to be able to hit targets thousands of miles away, so that in the event of a nuclear exchange, Russian submarines or bombers would not have to come within so many miles of the U.S. to launch conventionally powered nuclear weapons. It could be launched from anywhere: a true end-of-the-world weapon system. Khodorkovskiy’s worst predictions seem to have come to pass. And Moscow’s explanation is nearly as feckless as the immediate reaction to the infamous 1985 nuclear reactor meltdown in Ukraine. That no one in Russian leadership wants to own up to the potential disaster this weapon presents is unsurprising given the country’s history. But it also has to do with Putin’s mindset. Khodorkovskiy echoes an endless number of Russians and Ukrainians from older generations who have “fond memories of [Leonid] Brezhnev, who had lived through a war and knew what war was really about. What I take away from Putin’s address today … is that in his mind war assumes a quality not unlike that of these neatly packaged films that are shown to him [by his underlings]. Yulia Latynina is one of the best-informed and spot-on critics of Putin and writes for Novaya Gazeta—about the only newspaper in all of Russia with any editorial independence left. She was forced to leave Russia two years ago after multiple attacks ( including her automobile being burned) in reprisal for her anti-Putin articles. She lives abroad now in a location she does not reveal. In an article on August 10 she used Khodorkovskiy’s moniker for the Burestevik program: “Flying Chernobyl.” She also correctly assesses how embarrassing this failed test is for Rosatom by contrasting how it was advertised when Putin presented pictures and CGI film footage to the Federal Assembly in March 2018—and how it was described last week after the explosion. When Putin is presenting its capability for destruction “it is a nuclear-powered rocket,” she writes, showing how the Russian president thumps his chest to show these parliamentarians what a strongman he is. “Nuclear-powered rocket” sounds scary and something uniquely destructive, a traditional Russian specialty. But when the test failed the system mysteriously and suddenly lost its magical qualities. “When it exploded,” she observed, it became “a liquid installation with isotopic sources.” It is, to say the least, an underhanded way of describing what transpired. Those who offer this explanation undoubtedly hope it would be so confusing that the uninformed observer would not realize that these two weapons were actually one and the same. If the truth were known, this is at least the third failed test of the missile. The first two tests prior to Putin’s March 2018 presentation resulted in the nuclear motor failing to engage after the conventional first-stage booster propelled it to cruise flight altitude. This time, the nuclear motor did apparently ignite, albeit with these disastrous results. Intelligence reports state that the Russian designers had warned their political masters that the weapon’s design was far from being ready for testing but were overruled. U.S. specialists familiar with similar attempts in the 1950s and 60s by the U.S. and others to deploy this technology found it to be unworkable and infeasible—in addition to unacceptably hazardous. Of course, the Kremlin continues to pour money into this program for the benefit of a few, despite the dangers. Since October 2016, Sergei Kiriyenko has been the “first deputy chief of the presidential administration,” one of the most powerful positions in the country. He was also the general director of Rosatom from 2005-2016, and he still sits on the company’s board. This agency runs the program that is responsible for the Burevestnik’s design and testing, which gives him and others the chance to profit from the program—as is common in Russia—by skimming from its budget. And being Putin’s right-hand man also means Kiriyenko will have little difficulty making sure that the program continues to receive priority funding. When you consider these arrangements, this may be the most dangerous Russian leadership we have ever seen. If Putin wants to continue testing this Flying Chernobyl there is nothing to stop him from contaminating his own land and irradiating his own people. But the first test that is conducted in which this vehicle flies out beyond Russia’s air space has to be condemned and appropriate sanctions imposed commensurate with its potential for creating an ecological catastrophe.
Russian authorities have called off the evacuation of a village in northern Russia near the site of a suspected failed missile test, Russian state news agency TASS reported on Tuesday. The incident last week killed at least five nuclear specialists and caused radiation levels to spike. Valery Mashenkov, the head of the administrative department for the village of Nyonoksa, told TASS that the military had cancelled upcoming military drills, and that villagers would not be required to leave their homes on Wednesday. Village residents had been previously advised to leave their homes for safety reasons because the military was planning exercises, said Ksenia Udina, the head of the communications department for Severodvinsk, a nearby port city, confirming the news to CNN. Nyonoksa is a small settlement around 30 miles west of Severodvinsk on the White Sea. News of the planned evacuation there became public on Tuesday. Last week’s explosion caused widespread international speculation that the accident involved a nuclear-powered cruise missile known as the Burevestnik or Skyfall. Although Russia is developing such a missile, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday declined say whether it was involved in the incident. Rosgidromet, the Russian meteorological agency, reported that Severodvinsk recorded radiation levels four to 16 times higher than normal background levels on Thursday. The Russian military on Thursday told state news agencies that radiation levels in the vicinity were normal. Irina Sakharova, the deputy head of Severodvinsk, told TASS the situation in Nyonoksa was normal. “Everything is calm at Nyonoksa, life goes on,” she said, according to TASS.
The international community is racing to understand a mysterious explosion that released radiation off the coast of northern Russia last week, apparently during the test of a new type of nuclear-propelled cruise missile hailed by President Vladimir Putin as the centerpiece of Moscow’s arms race with the United States. In televised remarks released Monday, Vyacheslav Soloviev, a top official from the institute developing the reactor confirmed the accident, saying that scientists had been working to create a power source using “radioactive materials, including fissile and radioisotope materials” for the Defense Ministry and civilian uses. The five who were killed in the test were buried Monday, and worked at an elite Russian nuclear center, which is part of Rosatom, Russia’s state nuclear agency, Valentin Kostyukov, the center’s director, said in the video. The video was also posted to an official website in Sarov, a high-security city devoted to nuclear research 400 kilometers east of Moscow. Russian officials have been drip-feeding information about the blast, which occurred on a testing platform on the White Sea on Thursday, driving radiation levels in nearby towns to some 20 times normal. But the Russian government’s slow and secretive response has sparked anxiety among local populations — and attracted the attention of analysts in Washington and Europe who believe the explosion may offer a glimpse into technological weaknesses in Russia’s new arms program. US-based nuclear experts have said they suspected the explosion occurred during the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by the Russian president Vladimir Putin in a speech last year. The blast occurred August 8th in the Arkhangelsk region, close to the Arctic Circle, Rosatom said over the weekend. The Defense Ministry initially reported two were killed in the accident, which it said involved testing of a liquid-fueled missile engine. The ministry didn’t mention the nuclear element. But the explosion caused radiation levels to rise for about half an hour in Severodvinsk – which houses one of the Russian Northern Fleet’s most important bases – contradicting the Ministry of Defense’s claims that there had been no rise in radiation levels. Severodvinsk removed the statement confirming the spike in radiation levels from its website, saying the ministry was managing the response to the incident. Despite efforts to dampen reports of radiation, residents of Severodvinsk reportedly caused local pharmacies to run out of iodine, which protects the thyroid gland from absorbing radiation. Oskar Njaa, Bellona’s general manager for international affairs, offered advice to locals, which, so far, has not been forthcoming from Russian officials. Rosatom named the five who died in the test as Alexei Vyushin, Evgeny Koratayev, Vyacheslav Lipshev, Sergei Pichugin and Vladislav Yanovsky. Russian media have speculated that the weapon being tested was the SSC-X-9 Skyfall, known in Russia as the Burevestnik, a nuclear-powered cruise missile that Putin introduced to the world in a brief animated segment during his state-of-the-nation address last year. While the scale of the accident appeared vastly smaller than the explosion of the Chernobyl nuclear reactor in 1986, which killed thousands, the slow release of muddied information, the public confusion and distrust of official accounts – and the race for some limited form of protection – seemed to have echoes of the reaction to that disaster. The incident comes after a series of massive explosions earlier last week at a Siberian military depot killed one and injured 13, as well as forcing the evacuation of 16,500 people from their homes. Russia’s worst post-Soviet naval disaster also occurred in the Barents Sea, when 118 crew died on the Kursk nuclear submarine that sank in after an explosion in August 2000.
Russian authorities and media continue to puzzle observers by offering contradictory information about whether victims of an August 8 rocket test explosion were exposed to radiation resulting from the accident. The latest of these reports come from health workers in the Arkhangelsk region where the incident took place. According to a Friday report in The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily, senior medical staffers who treated victims of the blast say they were dealing with patients who had been exposed to radioactivity – a claim downplayed by official state media. The doctors told the newspaper that authorities failed to warn them that the wounded coming from the site of the accident had been exposed to radioactive materials, which placed hospital staff in jeopardy. One doctor who treated the patients was later found to have a radioactive isotope in his muscle tissue, said the paper. Russia’s Federal Security Service, or FSB, later coerced the doctors to sign non-disclosure agreements forbidding them to reveal their patients’ conditions, according to the paper’s interviews with anonymous medical officials. A report released by the official TASS newswire the following day claimed no medical staff had been exposed to “excess levels of radioactivity.” The TASS item made no mention of the article published by the Times. The conflicting reports serve to deepen the mystery surrounding the August 8 explosion, which Russian authorities have acknowledged but have failed to fully explain. While the fallout from the Archangelsk accident is vastly smaller than what was released by Chernobyl, the slow drip of information coming from Moscow bears echoes of that 1986 Soviet catastrophe. Russia’s Defense Ministry initially said the blast killed two people and injured six, but the state-controlled nuclear agency, Rosatom, later disclosed the explosion killed five of its workers and injured three others – the first suggestion from Moscow that radioactive materials had been involved. More than a week after the explosion, the final death toll is still unknown. The Russian Defense Ministry initially said no radiation had been released, although the city administration in Severodvinsk ­– a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers away from were the accident occurred – reported a brief rise in radiation levels on the day of the accident. The Defense Ministry sought to censor that report, but by the following Tuesday, Russia’s state weather agency Rosgidromet said that radiation levels had spiked by four to 16 times beyond natural background levels in the city. Amid the chaotic reports, Archangelsk residents caused local pharmacies to run out of iodine, which protects the thyroid from radiation. At the center of the confusion is uncertainty over what sort of radioactive device was involved in the accident. Last year President Vladimir Putin boasted that Russia was testing a cruise missile that would be propelled by a small nuclear reactor, in addition to carrying a nuclear warhead, flying a path too unpredictable to be intercepted. Western analysts called the missile “Skyfall,” and last week, President Trump tweeted that the accident had been a Skyfall exploding. The Times report cited interviews with four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital – two in senior positions — and a medical worker. They spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing a period of heightened attention by Russian security services. The doctors told The Times the facility received three men at the hospital around 4:30 p.m. the day of the accident who were naked and wrapped in translucent plastic bags. Health care staff at the time were only told there had been an explosion hours earlier at a military site, the paper reported. All five men who spoke to the newspaper did not treat the patients, but attended a briefing on August 12 at the hospital. The Moscow Times reported all who attended the briefing gave an “identical” version of events and were frustrated with not being made aware of potential risks. A nurse at the hospital who gave only her first name, Viktoria, out of concern she said might face retribution, told the New York Times that doctors who worked on those injured in the blast discovered their scrubs were causing radiation meters to click and were later evacuated to Moscow.
Four of Russia’s nuclear monitors went silent in the days following a mysterious explosion that led to radiation spikes in the country’s Northwest region, the Wall Street Journal reported, fueling suspicions that Moscow may have tampered with them. The radiation detection stations resumed reporting data on Tuesday, according to a report from the Associated Press. Russian officials have confirmed at least five nuclear engineers died during a rocket test involving “isotope power sources” in the White Sea, leading to international speculation that the accident involved a cruise missile that runs on nuclear power. Four international stations designed to monitor nuclear activity have detected “an event coinciding with the [August 8] explosion in Nyonoksa, Russia,” the world’s main nuclear test-ban body said. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization is an independent body that watches for nuclear weapons testing violations, and it maintains more than 300 stations around the world. Both the Russian and the United States are signatories of the treaty. The Dubna and Kirov stations, which are closest to Russia’s Arkhangelsk , where the blast took place, told the CTBTO they were experiencing “communication and network issues” shortly after the explosion, its chief Lassina Zerbo told The Wall Street Journal. “We are pending further reports on when the stations or the communication system will be restored to full functionality,” Zerbo was quoted as saying Sunday. Late on Tuesday, Sergei Rybakov, Russia’s foreign minister seemed to acknowledge the apparent blackout, telling Interfax that Russia’s transmission of data from radiation stations to the Vienna-based CTBTO was voluntary, and in any case was not subject to the organization’s consideration. The four stations may have intentionally stopped transmitting signals to hide the composition of isotopes involved in the accident from other countries, an unnamed nuclear industry source told the Znak.com news website later on Tuesday. The mysterious disruption to the radionuclide detection stations came as Russian officials have given conflicting accounts about the level of radiation released in the rocket test explosion. The Russian Defense Ministry initially said no radiation had been released, although the city administration in Severodvinsk ­– a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers away from were the accident occurred – reported a brief rise in radiation levels on the day of the accident. The Defense Ministry sought to censor that report, but by the following Tuesday, Russia’s state weather agency Rosgidromet said that radiation levels had spiked by four to 16 times beyond natural background levels in the city.
The three injured men arrived at the hospital around 4:30 pm, naked and wrapped in translucent plastic bags. The state of the patients made staff suspect they were dealing with something very serious. But the only information they had at the time was that there had been an explosion at a nearby military site around noon. “No one — neither hospital directors, nor Health Ministry officials, nor regional officials or the governor — notified staff that the patients were radioactive,” one of the clinic’s surgeons told The Moscow Times by phone this week. “The hospital workers had their suspicions, but nobody told them to protect themselves.” The hospital was Arkhangelsk Regional Clinical Hospital, a public healthcare center in Russia’s far north, and the day was last Thursday, Aug. 8. After the explosion, radiation spiked to as much as 20 times its normal level for about 30 minutes in the region’s second largest city of Severodvinsk. Russia’s state nuclear agency Rosatom has reported that the accident killed five of its staff members. Russian authorities are keeping the circumstances surrounding the explosion shrouded in mystery. With government agencies releasing information piecemeal amid a mass of contradictions, the state’s response to the accident echoes its behavior after Chernobyl, the catastrophic 1986 nuclear accident in then-Soviet Ukraine. Official reaction has included initial denials that radiation spiked at all, and an announcement four days after the accident that the village of Nyonoksa, close to the military site, would be evacuated. Authorities later denied that they had ever ordered villagers to leave. The lack of information has led to confusion among locals, who reportedly scrambled to buy up all of the iodine, a chemical used to limit harm to radiation exposure, in the Arkhangelsk region. They are not the only ones who have been left confused and demanding answers. Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker told The Moscow Times that its staff have been left shocked and angered by the events that took place. The doctors spoke on condition of anonymity, citing a period of heightened attention by Russian security services. While none of the doctors worked directly with the patients in question, they all attended a briefing at the hospital on Aug. 12 by a deputy health minister for the Arkhangelsk region and are in constant communication with colleagues who did treat the victims, they said. The doctors said that all staff who worked with the patients directly were asked by Federal Security Service (FSB) agents on Aug. 9 to sign non-disclosure agreements that prevent them from talking about what happened. “They weren’t forced to sign them, but when three FSB agents arrive with a list and ask for those on the list to sign, few will say no,” said one of the senior doctors. The Moscow Times was unable to speak with any of the doctors who tended to the three patients or obtain a copy of the reported non-disclosure agreements. But the versions of events that the five men recounted are identical. They also concur with two additional anonymous accounts published on Aug. 15 — one from a female doctor at the hospital in a local news outlet, Northern News, and one in a local chat group on the popular Telegram messenger. All of the accounts express pointed frustration with the authorities for keeping medical staff in the dark about the risks they were facing. “The staff is furious to say the least,” said one of the doctors who spoke to The Moscow Times. “This is a public hospital. We weren’t prepared for this and other people could have been affected.” “Still, everyone did their jobs professionally,” he added. All of the accounts also ask why state personnel exposed to radiation would be sent to a civilian hospital, rather than a military one, in the first place. The doctors who spoke to The Moscow Times said they and their colleagues had prepared a thorough list of questions for Health Ministry representatives who visited on Aug. 12 to clarify the staff’s concerns, and not a single one was answered clearly. The Health Ministry, the FSB and the Arkhangelsk Regional Clinical Hospital did not respond to requests for comment for this article. A spokesperson for the Arkhangelsk governor’s office said that the Health Ministry and the hospital did not have information about non-disclosure agreements. Rather than answers, the doctors were offered a trip to Moscow for tests. All four doctors said that about 60 of their colleagues, including four or five paramedics who had transported the patients to the hospital, took up the offer. The first group flew to Moscow hours after the meeting with the Health Ministry representatives, they said. According to three of the doctors, including both senior sources, one of the doctors flown to Moscow was found to have Caesium-137 — a radioactive isotope that is a byproduct of the nuclear fission of uranium-235 — in their muscle tissue. One of the sources said the affected doctor had told him so directly, though he was not informed about the amount or concentration of the isotope found. The affected doctor declined a request for an interview. “[The person is] beaten down emotionally, but physically seems to be fine, for the moment,” the doctor who spoke to The Moscow Times said, describing his colleague. The doctors said that after two groups flew to Moscow the rest of the flights were canceled. They also said after the results had come back radiation experts were flown to Arkhangelsk to carry out the tests there instead. Yuri Dubrova, an expert on the effects of radiation on the body at the University of Leicester in the U.K., said by phone that the patients brought to the hospital most likely had high doses of the isotope on their skin. The level of danger for the Arkhangelsk doctor all depends on how much the person was exposed to, Dubrova said. “If the dosage wasn’t very high, the person should be able to fully recover within a week if they are given clean food and water,” he said. But Dubrova also noted that the lack of information is what would have put the doctor in harm’s way. “Exposure to Caesium-137 is quite preventable — all you need to do is wash the patient really well,” he said. “But the doctors were made vulnerable to radiation because they hadn’t been told what had happened.” According to the doctors, the operating theater, located on a third-floor wing of the hospital, was sealed off until Aug. 13. They said that Russia’s consumer safety watchdog Rospotrebnadzor and the Emergency Situations Ministry inspected the hospital over the following days. The doctors also said Rospotrebnadzor representatives have told staff that the hospital is now safe.
Their bodies were taken to the Burnazyan Federal Medical and Biophysical Center in Moscow, a leading institution in the fields of radioactive and nuclear medicine. The explosion occurred Aug. 8 on a sea-based platform off the village of Nyonoksa, in Russia’s far north. The Russian atomic agency Rosatom said a device employing “isotopic sources of fuel on a liquid propulsion unit” was destroyed. Few additional details were provided. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday that a “nuclear-propelled missile” was being tested, giving credence to the suggestion that it involved a prototype of a weapon designated as Skyfall by NATO and called Burevestnik by Russia. The newspaper report does not clarify the extent of casualties, and the information that has been reported may not be consistent. Rosatom reported that five of its workers died when they were blown off the platform into the sea; they were from the Russian Federal Nuclear Center in Sarov, where a funeral was held for them Aug. 12. The Defense Ministry said two people were killed. The Interfax news agency reported Wednesday that six people were hospitalized with injuries, three from the Defense Ministry and three from Rosatom. How the two who reportedly died of radiation sickness fit into those numbers is not clear. Novaya Gazeta reported that three of those hurt were taken to the Semashko Medical Center in the city of Archangel, which has expertise in radiation treatment, where they were attended to by staff wearing hazmat suits. The other three were taken to the regular regional hospital. The newspaper confirmed a report published earlier in the Moscow Times that medical personnel there were not warned that the accident involved potential radiation exposure. The patients arrived at the regional hospital at 4:35 p.m. on Aug. 8, the medical staff employee told Novaya Gazeta. They were examined in the emergency room, then each was taken to a separate operating room. An hour later, traces of cesium 137 were detected in the ER, which then had to be decontaminated. “Doctors and nurses used soap solutions for decontamination. The medical staff had only face masks to protect themselves,” the employee said. Several complained afterward of tingling sensations in their faces and hands. A bath caused dosimeters to buzz, the paper reported, so service members dismantled it, loaded it on a truck and took it away. Other service members cut the grass short around the hospital. Government agencies reported a brief spike in radiation levels in the nearby city of Severodvinsk after the explosion. Officials say there is no lasting contamination or cause for concern. Four sensors in various locations across Russia that are in place to monitor compliance with the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty stopped reporting information shortly after the explosion, as first reported by the Wall Street Journal, but at least one has since resumed. Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said that the accident had nothing to do with the testing of nuclear weapons and that the operation of the sensors was therefore irrelevant. He said the information they provide is transmitted voluntarily by Russia. An independent news website, Znak.com, quoted an unnamed nuclear expert as suggesting that the explosion does not pose a health threat to the general population but that the sensors may have been turned off to prevent disclosure of particular isotopes that would give clues as to the nature of the device being tested on the White Sea.
At least five nuclear experts have been killed in a mysterious explosion during a rocket engine test at sea in northern Russia last week. Officials have been slow to release information about Thursday’s blast, which led to a radiation spike in a nearby city and sparked heightened demand for iodine. U.S.-based nuclear experts said they suspected the explosion occurred during the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile touted by President Vladimir Putin last year. Here’s what we know about the explosion so far: What happened? — The rocket's fuel caught fire, causing it to detonate and knock several people into the White Sea, the state nuclear agency Rosatom was quoted as saying by the state-run TASS news agency. The explosion took place at around 6:00 a.m. on Aug. 8, according to one expert's reading of nuclear data. — Officials in the nearby city of Severodvinsk said radiation had briefly spiked without saying how high, but their statement was taken down on Friday without explanation. Regional media reported that local residents had begun stocking up on iodine, which is used to reduce the effects of radiation exposure. — Authorities said after the incident they had shut down part of a bay in the White Sea, although public shipping information from the port of Arkhangelsk showed the area had been closed for the preceding month. It did not say why. What are the authorities saying? — The involvement of nuclear workers was acknowledged for the first time by Russia's state nuclear agency Rosatom on Saturday. It said three of its staff members have been hospitalized. — Russian media have said the rocket engine explosion may have occurred at a weapons testing area near the village of Nyonoksa. Those reports say an area near Nyonoksa is used for tests on weapons, including ballistic and cruise missiles that are used by the Russian Navy. — Local media reported Tuesday that an Arkhangelsk region district hospital had “sealed off everything that had to do with admitting and treating the victims of the explosion in Nyonoksa.” The Federal Security Service (FSB) has summoned medical personnel and doctors have signed non-disclosure agreements, the region’s newsnord.ru website reported. — Residents of Nyonoksa will be evacuated by a special train for two hours early Wednesday morning for planned military activities, the state-run RIA Novosti news agency reported. Villagers told the 29.ru news website that “this is planned, everyone is taken from the village about once a month, although some used to stay behind.” “But now, after the latest events, I think everyone will leave,” 29.ru quoted an unnamed villager as saying Tuesday. — An image released by a small satellite firm appears to show the Serebryanka, a ship that carries nuclear fuel and waste, offshore from the Nenoksa Missile Test Site. Its presence “may be related to the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile,” Jeffrey Lewis, a nuclear scholar at the Middlebury Institute, wrote on Twitter. Casualties: — Rosatom named the five nuclear experts as Alexei Vyushin, Evgeny Koratayev, Vyacheslav Lipshev, Sergei Pichugin and Vladislav Yanovsky. The agency released the five experts' photos to the RBC news website on Monday. — As many as six other staff members were injured and transported by helicopter to Moscow to be treated for radiation exposure, the Baza Telegram channel reported. The workers were brought from the airplane to a Moscow hospital in vehicles wrapped in film, the Telegram channel added. Rosatom has said that three people were injured in the blast.
Жители Нёноксы сообщили сайту 29.RU, что утром 14 августа их вывезут из села. От местной войсковой части они получили информацию, что в этот день в селе необходимо отсутствовать с 5 до 7 часов утра. Специально для этого со станции Нёнокса будет отправлен поезд, который и увезёт людей из населённого пункта на время работ на полигоне.
After the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region, four nearby radiation detection stations suddenly shut down. The stations are operated by Russia’s Defense Ministry, which also conducted the nuclear-powered missile test that caused the explosion. Meduza set out to explain why having the four monitoring stations turned off would have been to the Russian government’s advantage even though Russian officials have publicly acknowledged both the explosion and the cloud of radioactive particles it released. According to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) website, there are seven radionuclide detection stations in operation in Russia with one more under construction in Norilsk. After August 8, two stations in the European section of Russia (one in Kirov and one in Dubna) stopped transferring data to the CTBTO, and after August 13, two more stations in Siberia (one in the Altai region and one in Yakutia) did the same. The latter two stations were back online by August 20, but the Kirov and Dubna monitoring posts remain disconnected. Around the world, there are more than 300 facilities set aside for equipment that collects primary data about possible nuclear tests. About 80 radionuclide detection stations collect air samples and test them for radioactive materials and other signs of nuclear fallout. The rest collect information on seismic waves in the Earth’s crust and on fluctuations in the air or in water. The sensors installed in radionuclide stations detect emitted by radioactive aerosols and . By analyzing gamma ray spectra, sensors can identify various radioactive isotopes. On a daily basis, every radionuclide station sends its spectroscopy data to the CTBTO. Here’s an example of what those spectra look like. The precision of the sensors depends on their distance from the source of the radionuclides detected and on the wind trajectory that brought them to the station. If a spectrum that reaches the CTBTO appears to be the result of a nuclear explosion, that data is transferred to two radionuclide laboratories (there are 14 of these labs in all, and one of them is in Moscow). There, scientists produce a wind map that allows them to locate the source of the radioactive particles detected. They also use the spectra to determine what the source of the particles may have been. At first, Russian officials claimed that the stations had simply experienced a signal failure. Then, Foreign Affairs Ministry representatives argued that they were not obligated to share information from the detectors even though they had opted into the CTBTO’s data sharing system as a whole. Data from the monitoring stations are typically transferred to the CTBTO automatically. Lassina Zerbo, the Executive Secretary of the CTBTO, explicitly tied the data outages to the August 8 nuclear explosion, which took place near the village of Nyonoksa in Russia’s northwestern Arkhangelsk region. Seven people died as a result of the blast, and sensors detected a short-term release of radioactive particles. The Russian Defense Ministry, which controls the country’s CTBTO monitoring stations, also conducted the missile test in Nyonoksa that caused the explosion. U.S. officials have suggested that the missile in question was a Burevestnik (known in NATO terminology as Skyfall), which is both nuclear-powered and capable of transporting nuclear weapons. According to Zerbo, the timing of the data outages at Russia’s nuclear monitoring stations coincided with the spread of airborne particles from the Arkhangelsk region through northern Eurasia. Those particles, including radioactive substances from the explosion, were initially carried over the European section of Russia before turning toward Siberia. From there, some of the airborne cloud moved north toward the Krasnoyarsk region and then eastward while another portion of the cloud traveled toward Mongolia and northern Asia. Two Russian radionuclide detection stations in Ussurysk and Kamchatka that were not located near the traveling particle cloud continued to operate throughout the aftermath of the explosion. Apart from Russia’s detection stations, the monitoring sites with the best chance of analyzing the airborne particles from Nyonoksa are located in Mongolia and northern China. The CTBTO did not report on spectra detected by those two stations. Only CTBT signatories have a right to receive nuclear detection data from other member countries. Another monitoring station in northern Norway that is not a part of the CTBTO’s network also detected heightened radiation levels. However, the wind in Nyonoksa was blowing away from Norway at the time of the incident, leaving the station unable to gather precise data about the blast. The purpose of radionuclide monitoring stations is to determine the isotopic composition of airborne radioactive substances. That means the stations can typically identify the processes and materials that caused the radioactive emissions they detect. The isotopic profiles of underground nuclear explosions, missile explosions above ground, medical devices, nuclear reactors, and atomic batteries are all very different from one another. The sensitivity of the stations is such that they can even allow scientists to develop a model of the specific device that exploded in a given nuclear test. That was how a group of scientists argued in 2010 that the North Korean government had conducted tests aimed at adding fusion boosts to fission-based nuclear weapons. Some nuclear scientists disagreed with their colleagues’ conclusions, however. There have been similar disagreements about what exactly blew up on August 8. Immediately after the incident, Russian scientists gave a remarkably vague description of the device in question, but a contradictory set of semi-official claims emerged in the following days. Those arguments held that the device was a liquid rocket engine containing atomic batteries, which release energy using natural nuclear decay, not a chain reaction. U.S. officials, as echoed in a tweet from President Donald Trump, have expressed certainty that it was a Burevestnik missile that exploded in Nyonoksa. The Burevestnik, which has a practically unlimited range, does require a power source that runs on a nuclear chain reaction. Data from nuclear monitoring stations could likely determine which country’s claims about the origin of the explosion is correct. It appears that the Russian government has made an attempt to keep that data out of other governments’ hands because it could also have been used to reveal the construction of one of the country’s newest and most powerful weapons.
President Vladimir Putin has said there is no threat from a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath. Putin said Monday in France that experts sent to the site on the White Sea are “controlling the situation” and no “serious changes” have been reported, according to the Associated Press. But he also said that “measures are being taken to ensure that there is nothing unexpected” after the August 8 incident in the Arkhangelsk region. He didn’t elaborate on those measures, or what the experts are measuring or finding. He added that those who died or were injured in the explosion were performing the “most important national tasks” and will be awarded state medals. Putin’s remarks represent the first high-profile statements from the Kremlin in the wake of the mysterious accident. Since the beginning, Russian officials have issued contradictory information about what happened at the test range near Nyonoksa, a village located in the Arkhangelsk region. The Russian Defense Ministry initially said no radiation had been released in what is suspected to be a missile test gone wrong. But the city administration in Severodvinsk ­– a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers away from Nyonoksa – reported a brief rise in radiation levels on the day of the mishap. The Defense Ministry sought to censor that report, but Tuesday, August 13th, Russia’s state weather agency Rosgidromet said that radiation levels had spiked by four to 16 times beyond natural background levels in the city. Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated the blast’s victims later complained they had not been warned that their patients had been involved in a radioactive accident, The Moscow Times reported. According to the independent Russian news site Meduza, the radioactive isotope cesium-137 was detected in the muscle tissue of one of the treating doctors during an examination in a Moscow clinic. The medical workers involved in treating victims of the mysterious blast – who spoke anonymously with these outlets – told The Moscow Times they had been coerced to sign non-disclosure agreement forbidding them to discuss the accident by the Federal Security Service, or FSB. Earlier this week, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization said several of Russia’s radiation sensors had been switched off during the time the blast took place, fueling suspicions that Moscow was seeking to obscure the nature of the accident. The monitors came online again on Tuesday, the AP said. Still unknown is what sort of radioactive device was involved in the blast. Last year President Vladimir Putin boasted that Russia was testing a cruise missile that would be propelled by a small nuclear reactor, in addition to carrying a nuclear warhead, flying a path too unpredictable to be intercepted. Western analysts called the missile “Skyfall,” and last week, President Trump tweeted that the accident had been a Skyfall exploding.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S.-based nuclear experts said on Friday they suspected an accidental blast and radiation release in northern Russia this week occurred during the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin last year. The Russian Ministry of Defense, quoted by state-run news outlets, said that two people died and six were injured on Thursday in an explosion of what it called a liquid propellant rocket engine. No dangerous substances were released, it said. Russia’s state nuclear agency Rosatom said early on Saturday that five of its staff members died. A spokeswoman for Severodvinsk, a city of 185,000 near the test site in the Arkhangelsk region, was quoted in a statement on the municipal website as saying that a “short-term” spike in background radiation was recorded at noon Thursday. The statement was not on the site on Friday. The Russian Embassy did not immediately respond for comment. Two experts said in separate interviews with Reuters that a liquid rocket propellant explosion would not release radiation. They said that they suspected the explosion and the radiation release resulted from a mishap during the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile at a facility outside the village of Nyonoksa. “Liquid fuel missile engines exploding do not give off radiation, and we know that the Russians are working on some kind of nuclear propulsion for a cruise missile,” said Ankit Panda, an adjunct senior fellow with the Federation of American Scientists. Russia calls the missile the 9M730 Buresvestnik. The NATO alliance has designated it the SSC-X-9 Skyfall. A senior Trump administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he would not confirm or deny that a mishap involving a nuclear-powered cruise missile occurred. But he expressed deep skepticism over Moscow’s explanation. “We continue to monitor the events in the Russian far north but Moscow’s assurances that ‘everything is normal’ ring hollow to us,” said the official. The official was referring to the 1986 explosion at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, in the former Soviet republic of Ukraine, which released radioactive airborne contamination for about nine days. Moscow delayed revealing the extent of what is regarded as the worst nuclear accident in history. Putin boasted about the nuclear-powered cruise missile in a March 2018 speech to the Russian parliament in which he hailed the development of a raft of fearsome new strategic weapons. Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, said he believed that a mishap occurred during the testing of the nuclear-powered cruise missile based on commercial satellite pictures and other data. Using satellite photos, he and his team determined that the Russians last year appeared to have disassembled a facility for test-launching the missile at a site in Novaya Zemlya and moved it to the base near Nyonoksa. The photos showed that a blue “environmental shelter” - under which the missiles are stored before launching – at Nyonoksa and rails on which the structure is rolled back appear to be the same as those removed from Novaya Zemlya. Lewis and his team also examined Automatic Identification System (AIS) signals from ships located off the coast on the same day as the explosion. They identified one ship as the Serebryanka, a nuclear fuel carrier that they had tracked last year off Novaya Zemlya. He noted that the AIS signals showed that the Serebryanka was located inside an “exclusion zone” established off the coast a month before the test, to keep unauthorized ships from entering. Lewis said he didn’t know what kind of radiation hazard the Russian system poses because he did was unaware of the technical details, such as the size of the nuclear reactor. But he noted that the United States sought to develop a nuclear-powered missile engine in the 1950s that spewed radiation. “It represented a health hazard to anyone underneath it,” he said.
Was inzwischen zum Nuklearunfall am Weissen Meer bekannt ist – und warum es ein schlechtes Licht auf die Behörden wirft Die russischen Behörden spielen die Folgen des schweren Unglücks auf einem Raketentestgelände herunter. Trotzdem gelangen Details an die Öffentlichkeit und verstärken den Argwohn der Betroffenen. Das Video ist verwackelt, der Ton ist schlecht, und dem Offizier, der zu hören ist, fällt es schwer, die aufgebrachten Bürger zu beruhigen. Die halbstündige Aufnahme ist dieser Tage im russischen Internet aufgetaucht und wird für glaubwürdig gehalten. Sie zeigt, wie schwer es den Behörden fällt, nach dem mysteriösen Nuklearunfall bei einem Raketentest in Njonoksa am Weissen Meer vor zwei Wochen die Gemüter zu beruhigen. Offizielle Stellen schweigen über die Hintergründe des schwerwiegenden Vorfalls oder relativieren ihn. Selbst gegenüber den Ärzten, die sich um die Schwerverletzten zu kümmern hatten, verbargen die Behörden bewusst, dass die Patienten radioaktiv kontaminiert waren, und setzten sie so unnötigerweise der Strahlenbelastung aus, wie die Zeitung «Moscow Times» berichtete.
A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia resulted in the deaths of two workers due to radiation sickness, not traumatic injuries, as officials had indicated, according to a report from an independent newspaper on Wednesday. The blast on Aug. 8 took place at a military shooting range in Nyonoksa, in the far northern Arkhangelsk region. Russia's Defense Ministry initially said the blast killed two people and injured six, but the state-controlled nuclear agency, Rosatom, later disclosed that the explosion killed five of its workers and injured three others. Rosatom said the explosion occurred while engineers were testing "a nuclear isotope power source" for a rocket and were thrown into the sea by the explosion. But on Wednesday, the independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta said two of the patients that were injured in the blast died from radiation sickness before they could be taken to Moscow for treatment. The news outlet also confirmed earlier reporting from the Moscow Times, another independent outlet, that health workers who treated those injured in the blast were not informed about potential radiation risk from handling the patients. Four male doctors and a medical worker at the Arkhangelsk Regional Clinical Hospital, located near Severodvinsk, told the Moscow Times the facility received three men around 4:30 p.m. the day of the accident who were naked and wrapped in translucent plastic bags. Health care staff at the time were only told there had been an explosion hours earlier at a military site, the Moscow Times reported Friday. A hospital employee who spoke to Novaya Gazeta on the condition of anonymity said that traces of cesium 137 were detected in the emergency room area an hour after the patients were brought in, forcing the area to be decontaminated. "Doctors and nurses used soap solutions for decontamination. The medical staff had only face masks to protect themselves," the employee told the news outlet. The online news site, Meduza, also quoted a rescue worker who said that people who were injured by the explosion were exposed to high levels of radiation and that medical teams who treated them lacked the necessary protective gear. It also cited a doctor who treated the patients as saying that the authorities hadn't warned them about the dangerous radiation levels. Meduza said it did not publish their real names because of the sensitivity of the issue and the report did not mention radiation levels the patients and the doctors were exposed to. The mysterious explosion was followed by a brief rise in radiation levels in nearby Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000, but the authorities insisted the recorded levels didn't pose any danger to local residents. Russia's state weather agency, Rosgidromet, said last week that it believed radiation levels had risen up to 16 times after the accident. Russian officials' changing and contradictory accounts of the incident have drawn comparisons to Soviet attempts to cover up the 1986 explosion and fire at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine, the world's worst nuclear disaster. The Russian Defense Ministry at first denied any radiation leak in the incident even as the authorities in nearby Severodvinsk reported a brief rise in radiation levels and advised residents to stay indoors and close the windows. Earlier this week, the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization said that several Russian radiation monitoring stations went silent shortly after the explosion in Nyonoksa. By Tuesday they were back in operation and backfilling the data. Russian President Vladimir Putin insisted Wednesday the recent deadly explosion hasn't posed any radiation threat, but he remained coy about the circumstances of the mysterious incident. Speaking after talks in Helsinki with Finnish President Sauli Niinisto, Putin emphasized that neighboring nations haven't recorded any spike in radioactivity. Speaking in Helsinki, Putin hailed the victims, saying they were doing "very important work for the nation's security," but kept mum on what type of weapon they were testing. Fox News' Edmund DeMarche and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
The Northern Department of Russia’s Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Roshydromet, together with its Research Association ‘Typhoon’ on Monday revealed some of the radionuclide composition found after analyzing gases from the cloud sweeping over Severodvinsk in the hours after the fatal accident on August 8th. According to information posted by Roshydromet, the researchers found a mixture of isotopes of barium, strontium and lanthanum and daughter nuclides. All are short-lived fission products. Norwegian nuclear safety expert Nils Bøhmer says the information removes any doubts. «The presence of decay products like barium and strontium is coming from a nuclear chain reaction. It is a proof that is was a nuclear reactor that exploded,» Bøhmer says. He explains that such mixture of short-lived isotopes would not have been found if it was simply an ‘isotope source’ in a propellant engine that exploded like Russian authorities first said. Nils Bøhmer is today Head of R&D with the Norwegian Decommissioning, a governmental agency established to study options for safe handling of the spent fuel from the country’s closed-down research reactors. Several public statements from Russian officials in the days after the accident, that happened on a barge offshore from Nenoksa test site, claimed the failed test involved a ‘isotope source of a liquid fueled propulsion unit.’ That triggered speculations it could have been a Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (RTG). Such isotope sources are previously known from lighthouses in the remote Arctic regions and space-satellites. «Had it been an RTG none of these isotopes would have been detected,» Bøhmer says. Roshydromet underlines that the radiation situation in Severodvinsk and Arkhangelsk now is ‘normal and stabilized’ with no levels above background. The isotopes discovered at the time are very short-lived. Strontium-91 has a half-life of 9,3 hours, while Barium-139 and Barium-140’s half-life iare 83 minutes and 12,8 days respectively. Barium’s daughter product, Lanthanum-140, has a half-life of 40 hours. Severodvinsk city administration first published information about a spike in radiation levels, up to 16 times normal background, but the information was soon unpublished from the public portal. Social media sites in Russia were soon filled up by posts showing first responders in Arkhangelsk wearing hazardous materials protection suits as the moved victims from a helicopter to a waiting ambulance. Later, other ambulances were shown swiped in plastics while driving victims. Five Rosatom employees died in the accident. Russia has two known new weapons systems that include a nuclear reactor; the Burevestnik cruise missile and the Poseidon underwater drone.
Russia’s state weather agency said Monday that it had found the radioactive isotopes of strontium, barium and lanthanum in test samples taken after a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month. The findings offer the clearest suggestion yet that the device involved in the August 8 weapons test mishap, which caused radiation levels to briefly spike in the city of Severodvinsk, was a nuclear reactor – and not, as Russian nuclear officials had previously suggested, some other type of radioactive power source. Moscow has slow dripped vague and conflicting details to the media about the source of the blast since it occurred, fueling speculation that the damage could have surpassed what officials have reported. In the fresh details coming Monday, the Rosgidromet weather service detailed the radioactive gases it measured following the explosion, saying they were responsible for the “sharp, short-lived change in the radiation situation over Severodvinsk.” Rosgidromet reported that it has been monitoring the situation since the accident but said no further radiation had been detected. Five nuclear scientists from Rosatom, Russia’s state nuclear corporation, were killed in the incident, which officials from the company said involved a rocket engine running on a nuclear power source. Both descriptions are consistent with the design of an RTG – or radioisotope thermal electric generator – which, unlike a reactor, doesn’t use a chain reaction, but instead converts heat from the natural decay of radioactive materials into electricity. Through much of the Soviet period, Moscow deployed RTG-powered navigational beacons throughout the Arctic, and the devices have been used in satellites as well. But according to Bøhmer, who works with Norwegian Nuclear Decommissioning, a government agency developing nuclear fuel storage strategies for Norway’s research reactors, the isotopes Rosgidromet reported finding on Monday could not have resulted from an explosion involving an RTG. “Had it been an RTG, none of these isotopes would have been detected,” Bøhmer, who has also worked with Bellona, told the Barents Observer. Edwin Lyman of the of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Washington, DC, agreed, telling the Guardian that the detection of the fission products indicated a reactor release. “However, I’m still puzzled why there was no detection of iodine isotopes, some of which would be released in greater quantities,” he said. In the days following the mysterious blast, Norwegian radiation officials reported a minor uptick in airborne radioactive iodine. But because such small iodine measurements are detected numerous times a year, Norwegian radiation safety officials were loath to tie it to the explosion. Last year President Vladimir Putin boasted that Russia was testing a cruise missile that would be propelled by a small nuclear reactor, in addition to carrying a nuclear warhead, flying a path too unpredictable to be intercepted. The radioisotopes detected by Rosgiromet would be consistent with an accident with that sort of weapon. Indeed, information about the accident has been mostly restricted. The initial radiation reports were posted by the city administration of Severodvinsk – a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers from where the blast occurred. The Defense Ministry sought to censor that report, but on Tuesday, August 13th, Rosgidromet said that radiation levels had spiked by four to 16 times beyond natural background levels in the city. Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated the blast’s victims later complained they had not been warned that their patients had been involved in a radioactive accident, The Moscow Times reported. The Federal Security Service, or FSB, later coerced the staff to sign non-disclosure agreement forbidding them to discuss the accident. According to the independent Russian news site Meduza, the radioactive isotope cesium-137 was detected in the muscle tissue of one of the treating doctors during an examination in a Moscow clinic. On August 19, eleven days after the accident, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization said several of Russia’s radiation sensors had been switched off during the time the blast took place. The monitors came online again last week, the AP said. The isotopes Rosgidromet reported finding Monday are very short-lived. Strontium-91 has a half-life of 9.3 hours, while Barium-139 and Barium-140’s half-lives are 93 minutes and 12.8 days respectively. Barium’s daughter product, Lanthanum-140, has a half-life of 40 hours.
Background radiation levels are still spiking near the two pontoons that were damaged in an apparently botched missile test last month in the Arkhangelsk region, according to journalists from the Belomorkanal news agency, who recently visited the site and took measurements. In the daytime on August 31, about 165 feet from the pontoons, the background radiation ranged from 70 to 154 microroentgen per hour. The journalists say the levels jumped to 750 microroentgen per hour, once the pontoons washed up on shore. According to Greenpeace, the levels in the area are just 20 microroentgen per hour, while Russian federal emergency officials say 30 microroentgen per hour are the norm. In materials released by Russia’s National Weather Service, normal levels are described as microroentgens per hour between 28 and 42. The pontoons are currently located at the mouth of the Verkhovka River on a sandbar in the White Sea’s Dvina Bay. According to video footage, the pontoons are neither fenced off nor guarded.
MOSCOW >> A deadly explosion at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia. A brief spike in radiation levels. An evacuation order issued, then rescinded, for a nearby village. Last week’s mysterious accident on the White Sea, along with changing or contradictory information from Russian authorities, has led to speculation about what happened and what type of weapon was involved, and has even raised comparisons to the 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. A testing range was set up near the village of Nyonoksa, about 615 miles north of Moscow on the White Sea in 1954, when the Soviet Union’s missile program was still in its nascent phase. It has served as the main ground for testing a variety of missiles used by the Soviet and then Russian navy ever since. They included anti-ship and anti-aircraft missiles of various types, as well as intercontinental ballistic missiles intended for the nation’s nuclear submarines. The authorities have routinely closed various parts of the White Sea’s Dvina Bay to navigation during missile tests, and the approximately 500 residents of Nyonoksa have regularly been asked to temporarily leave their homes, usually for a few hours at a time, apparently as a routine precaution during military activity. The area has been off-limits to the outsiders, but tourists who ask for advance permission have been allowed to visit Nyonoksa, the site of a beautiful 18th century wooden church. The village is connected by rail to Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 people about 19 miles to the east. First word of the explosion came from the Russian Defense Ministry, which initially said the Aug. 8 blast of a liquid-propellant rocket engine killed two people and injured six others. It said in a statement that no radiation had been released, although the city administration in Severodvinsk reported a brief rise in radiation levels — a contradiction that recalled Soviet-era cover-ups of disasters like Chernobyl. Two days later, Russia’s state-controlled nuclear agency Rosatom acknowledged that the explosion occurred on an offshore platform during tests of a “nuclear isotope power source,” and that it killed five nuclear engineers and injured three others. It’s still not clear whether those casualties were in addition to the earlier dead and injured. Russian authorities then closed part of Dvina Bay to shipping for a month, an apparent attempt to keep outsiders from seeing an operation to recover the missile debris. On Monday, the five engineers were buried in Sarov, a city that hosts Russia’s main nuclear weapons research center. The city administration in Severodvinsk, which has a huge shipyard that builds nuclear submarines, said the radiation levels there rose to 2 microsieverts an hour — about 20 times the area’s average reading — for about 30 minutes on Aug. 8. It then returned to the area’s average natural level of 0.1 microsieverts per hour. Emergency officials issued a warning to all workers to stay indoors and close the windows. Frightened residents rushed to buy iodine, which can help reduce risks from exposure to radiation. A later report from Russia’s state weather and environmental monitoring agency said the peak radiation reading in Severodvinsk on Aug. 8 was 1.78 microsieverts an hour in just one neighborhood — about 16 times the average. Peak readings in other parts of Severodvinsk varied between 0.45 and 1.33 microsieverts an hour. It said that radiation levels fell back to normal after 2½ hours. The brief increase in radiation didn’t pose any health dangers, authorities said. The recorded peak levels were indeed lower than the cosmic radiation that plane passengers are exposed to on longer flights or doses that patients get during some medical scans. The authorities haven’t registered any increase in radiation since then. Local emergency officials also said ground samples from around the area revealed no trace of radioactive contamination. On Monday, Nyonoksa residents were asked to leave the village for several hours, causing new worries. The order was quickly rescinded by the military, who said they canceled the activities at the range that had warranted the initial evacuation order. Arkhangelsk region Gov. Igor Orlov said, “There is no evacuation,” and he claimed that some reports about the incident sought to sow panic. Neither the Defense Ministry nor Rosatom identified the type of weapon that exploded during the test. The missile was first revealed by Russian President Vladimir Putin in his 2018 state-of-the-nation address, along with other doomsday weapons. Both the U.S. and the Soviet Union worked on nuclear-powered missiles in the 1960s, but they abandoned such designs as too unstable and dangerous to operate. When he spoke about the prospective nuclear-powered cruise missile, Putin claimed it will have an unlimited range, allowing it to circle the globe undetected by missile defense systems. He said the missile had successfully undergone the first tests, but many observers have remained skeptical, arguing that such a weapon could be difficult to handle and pose a threat to the environment. Some media reports indicated that previous tests of the Burevestnik had been conducted on the barren Arctic archipelago of Novaya Zemlya and the Kapustin Yar testing range in southern Russia.
Experts link the explosion to the Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile touted by President Putin in March 2018. A previous version of the story featured images not associated with the blast at a missile testing site near Severodvinsk. They have been removed. Thousands of people have attended the funerals of five Russian nuclear engineers killed by an explosion as they tested a new rocket engine, a tragedy that caused a large increase of radiation and raised questions about a secretive weapons programme. The engineers were laid to rest on Monday in Sarov, which hosts Russia’s main nuclear weapons research centre, where they worked. Flags flew at half-staff in the city 370km east of capital Moscow that has been a base for Russia’s nuclear weapons programme since the late 1940s. The coffins were displayed at Sarov’s main square before being driven to a cemetery. Russia‘s defence ministry initially reported that the explosion at the navy’s testing range killed two people and injured six others. But over the weekend, the state-controlled Rosatom nuclear energy company said the blast also killed five of its workers and injured three others. The final toll remains unknown. Rosatom said the explosion occurred while the engineers were testing a “nuclear isotope power source” for a rocket engine. The company said the victims were on a sea platform testing a rocket engine and were thrown into the sea by the explosion. Rosatom director Alexei Likhachev praised the victims as “true heroes” and “pride of our country”. The Russian government said on Tuesday that radiation levels around the site in Severodvinsk were up to 16 times higher than the norm, confirming widespread speculation. “In six of the eight points in Severodvinsk, an excess gamma radiation dose rate at 4 to 16 times the background values was detected,” federal environment watchdog Roshydromet said in a statement, referring to the incident last Thursday. Local authorities in Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000, had already reported a brief spike in radiation levels after the explosion, but said it did not pose any health hazards. That statement from Severodvinsk’s administration came just as the defence ministry insisted that no radiation had been released, a claim that drew comparisons to Soviet-era attempts to cover up catastrophes. Al Jazeera’s Step Vaessen, reporting from Moscow, said more questions were being raised about what exactly happened last Thursday. “Only now, five days later, it is becoming known that the radiation levels near the test site had gone up 16 times more than normal. The highest concentration was measured at a local kindergarten,” Vaessen said. “Authorities have been extremely tightlipped about the accident, which is feeding speculation and conspiracy theories. Many people here remember what happened in 1986 when the Chernobyl accident occurred in neighbouring Ukraine. Of course this is of a very different scale, but the same sort of information blackout happened at that time,” Vaessen added. Spooked residents rushed to buy iodide, which can help limit the damage from exposure to radiation. Following the explosion, Russian authorities also closed part of Dvina Bay on the White Sea to shipping for a month, in what could be an attempt to prevent outsiders from seeing an operation to recover the missile debris. Russian environmental groups have urged the government to release details of the radioactive leak, but officials offered no further details. Neither the defence ministry nor Rosatom mentioned the type of rocket that exploded during the test, saying only that it had liquid propellant. But Rosatom’s mention of a “nuclear isotope power source” led some Russian media to conclude it was the Burevestnik (Petrel), a nuclear-powered cruise missile first revealed by Russian President Vladimir Putin in March 2018 during his state of the nation address along with other doomsday weapons. Experts have also linked the blast to the 9M730 Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, known by NATO as SSC-X-9 Skyfall. The US and the Soviet Union pondered nuclear-powered missiles in the 1960s, but they abandoned those projects as too unstable and dangerous. While presenting the new missile, Putin claimed it will have an unlimited range, allowing it to circle the globe unnoticed, bypassing the enemy’s missile defence assets to strike undetected. The president claimed the missile had successfully undergone the first tests, but observers were sceptical, arguing that such a weapon could be very difficult to handle and harmful to the environment.
WASHINGTON — A U.S. intelligence assessment found that the mysterious explosion off of Russia's northern coast occurred during a recovery mission to salvage a nuclear-powered missile from the ocean floor, according to people with direct knowledge of the report. The mysterious explosion on Aug. 8 killed five scientists and sparked fears that Russia had tested its new nuclear-powered Burevestnik missile, also known as Skyfall. "This was not a new launch of the weapon, instead it was a recovery mission to salvage a lost missile from a previous test," said a person with direct knowledge of the U.S. intelligence assessment. "There was an explosion on one of the vessels involved in the recovery and that caused a reaction in the missile's nuclear core which lead to the radiation leak," said another person, who spoke to CNBC on the condition of anonymity. The U.S. intelligence report did not mention potential health or environmental risks posed by damage to the missile's nuclear reactor. CNBC learned last year of Moscow's similar preparations to try to recover a nuclear-powered missile lost at sea. Crews attempted to recover a missile that landed in the Barents Sea after a failed test. The operation included three vessels, one of which is equipped to handle radioactive material from the weapon's nuclear core. If the Russians were able to regain possession of the missile, U.S. intelligence analysts expected that Moscow will use the procedure as a blueprint for future recovery operations. Last March, Russian President Vladimir Putin unveiled a slew of hypersonic weapons, as well as Burevestnik, saying it was a nuclear-powered missile with unlimited range. However, the Kremlin has yet to perform a successful test of the weapon over multiple attempts, according to sources with direct knowledge of a U.S. intelligence report on the weapons program. Burevestnik was tested once earlier this year and prior to that, the weapon was tested four times between November 2017 and February 2018, each resulting in a crash. The U.S. determined that the longest test flight lasted just more than two minutes, with the missile flying 22 miles before losing control and crashing. The shortest test lasted four seconds and flew for five miles. The tests apparently showed that the nuclear-powered heart of the cruise missile failed to initiate and, therefore, the weapon was unable to achieve the indefinite flight Putin had boasted about. What's more, CNBC learned in March that the Kremlin will only produce a few of these weapons because the program has yet to complete a successful test and is too expensive to develop.
Ani téměř měsíc po záhadném výbuchu v ruském Bílém moři stále není jasné, co vlastně nedaleko Severodvinsku na severu Ruska vybuchlo. S dosud nejpravděpodobnější verzí přišli po důkladné analýze otevřených zdrojů novináři ruské redakce Radio Svoboda Mark Krutov a Sergej Dobrynin. Podle jejich teorie k havárii nedošlo během zkoušek nové rakety, ale při pokusu o vyzvednutí rakety, která klesla na dno moře při neúspěšných zkouškách v minulém roce. Jejich verze vychází z toho, že do roku 2017 Rusko testovalo raketu s jaderným pohonem Burevestnik na cvičišti Pankovo. Následně byla základna uzavřena. Blogeři ale na základě satelitních snímků objevili, že naprosto stejné základny vyrostly u vojenského kosmodromu Kapustin Jar v Astrachaňské oblasti na jihu Ruska a u vesnice Ňonoksa v Bílém moři. Tedy přesně tam, kde 8. srpna došlo k výbuchu a následnému úniku radiace. "Nemůžeme samozřejmě tvrdit, že je naše teorie stoprocentně správná, ale odpovídá všem dostupným údajům. Jak těm oficiálním, jako jsou údaje hydrometeorologického úřadu, tak i svědectvím, která jsme našli na nejrůznějších internetových fórech," popsal deníku Aktuálně.cz novinář Mark Krutov. Že loni Rusové testovali raketu, naznačuje i fakt, že ve stejné době byla na místě i loď Serebrjanka, která je určená pro převoz radioaktivních materiálů, a ruské úřady tehdy oficiálně uzavřely vzdušný prostor nad Bílým mořem. Podle této teorie test nevyšel a raketa i s jaderným reaktorem spadla do moře. Letos počátkem srpna se ruská armáda pokusila havarovanou raketu ze dna Bílého moře vyzvednout. Tentokrát vzdušný prostor nad oblastí úřady neuzavřely. Do Bílého moře znovu připlula loď Serebrjanka, jejímž úkolem bylo přepravit do bezpečí vyzvednutý reaktor, a loď Zvezdočka, která je vybavena dvěma jeřáby a podvodním robotem na vyzvedávání předmětů ze dna moře. Na vodě byly i dva pontony s kontejnery, včetně jednoho na převoz radioaktivních materiálů. Osmého srpna pak došlo k výbuchu při pokusu o vyzvednutí rakety, s nejvyšší pravděpodobností ještě pod vodou. Napovídalo by tomu, že pontony, které námořníci nyní odtáhli na pobřeží, jsou jen mírně poškozené. Při výbuchu zahynuli pracovníci jaderného centra ze Sarova, kteří měli podle všeho vyjmout z rakety jaderný reaktor. Zemřel také vojenský potápěč, který byl nejspíš v době výbuchu ve vodě. Výbuch pod vodou by také vysvětloval, proč do atmosféry uniklo relativně málo radioaktivního materiálu, ale pontony na břehu jsou poměrně výrazně radioaktivní, což potvrdila i archangelská agentura Belomorkanal. "Změřit úroveň radiace na samotné pontony nikdo nepůjde bez odpovídající ochrany. Takoví hlupáci se nenašli," popsala agentura, jak je nebezpečné se k místu havárie přibližovat. Novinář ze Severodvinsku Nikolaj Karnějevič došel s dozimetrem pěšky z okraje Severodvinsku do asi 30 kilometrů vzdálené vesnice Ňonoksa. Úroveň radiace naměřil 7 až 14 mikrorentgenů za hodinu. Ve vzdálenosti 150 metrů od pontonů to již bylo 70 až 154. Přirozené radiační pozadí je přitom 20 mikrorentgenů. Stále však není jasné, co výbuch mohlo způsobit. První verze tvrdí, že explodovalo palivo z raket, které slouží ke startu střely předtím, než ji začne pohánět jaderný reaktor. V tom případě by zafungovala jako špinavá bomba. To ovšem nevysvětluje, proč byly naměřeny izotopy stroncia a berylia, které svědčí o tom, že v momentě výbuchu probíhala jaderná reakce. Podle druhé verze se při vyzvedávání rakety ze dna moře uvolnila pojistka, která brání spuštění reaktoru předtím, než vyhoří rakety prvního stupně. Třetí varianta zase tvrdí, že reakce nastala z fyzikálních důvodů. Voda v Bílém moři je na povrchu mnohem méně slaná než u dna. Odborníci na jaderné technologie ovšem popisují, že v takovém případě by v raketě musel být použit jaderný reaktor nezvyklé konstrukce. Co se stalo, Moskva dodnes podrobně nevysvětlila. Podle ministerstva obrany "při zkouškách reaktivního motoru na kapalné palivo došlo k výbuchu a požáru zařízení", podle Rosatomu o život přišli pracovníci, kteří "měli na starosti práce související s radioizotopovým zdrojem energie v raketě".
Понтоны, стоящие у берега Двинского залива после инцидента 8 августа на морском полигоне ВМФ России, по-прежнему сильно "фонят", при этом доступ к ним совершенно свободен: не нужен даже специальный пропуск в закрытый поселок Нёнокса, где расположена заведующая полигоном войсковая часть. По словам очевидцев, охрана, поначалу выставленная вокруг понтонов, бежала с места, оставив после себя ящики с вещами и едой – из-за того, что Росатом и Минобороны не смогли согласовать доплаты охранникам "за вредность" и обеспечить их спецодеждой. Местные жители тоже требуют выплаты компенсаций за причиненный выбросом радиации в атмосферу ущерб, а также хотят, чтобы испытания ракеты "Буревестник" с ядерным двигателем перенесли на Новую Землю, где они проводились ранее. Новые фотографии понтонов, которые впервые в полном разрешении публикует Радио Свобода, позволяют подробно рассмотреть расположенное на них оборудование: его состав и характер повреждений поддерживает версию, что взрыв произошел под водой при попытке поднять на поверхность компактный ядерный реактор. Утром 2 сентября информационное агентство "Беломорканал" опубликовало видео, снятое 31 августа рядом с двумя понтонами, оказавшимися у берега Двинского залива рядом с селом Нёнокса после взрыва на морском полигоне ВМФ. На видео показан замер радиационного фона, и его уровень рядом с понтонами существенно превышает допустимый. Сегодня Радио Свобода впервые публикует фотографии понтонов в высоком разрешении: на одном из них мы обнаружили подъемный кран, дизель-генератор, а главное – небольшой желтый контейнер для транспортировки опасных радиоактивных отходов. В сочетании с данными Росгидромета, опубликованными 26 августа и показывающими, что в результате взрыва в воздух были выброшены короткоживущие радиоактивные изотопы, эти фотографии позволяют окончательно сосредоточиться на версии аварии малогабаритного ядерного реактора. Наличие на одном из понтонов подъемного крана также подтверждает выдвинутую в прошлом расследовании Радио Свобода версию о том, что ЧП в Нёноксе произошло при попытке поднять со дна испытанную ранее ракету. Судя по всему, желтый контейнер был предназначен для выгрузки с поднятой ракеты ядерного топлива, однако сделать это участники операции не успели. Взрыв, который им помешал и унес жизни по меньшей мере семи человек, по одной из версий, мог произойти из-за особенностей состава морской воды в Белом море: на поверхности она гораздо менее соленая, чем на глубине, – в отличие от Баренцева моря, где анонсированную Владимиром Путиным ракету с ядерным двигателем "Буревестник" испытывали ранее. Впрочем, эта и другие версии без дополнительной информации пока обречены на то, чтобы оставаться лишь догадками. "Основное настроение – тревожная тишина. Можно выделить несколько групп по реакции на происходящее. Во-первых, там живет довольно много пенсионеров, которые еще со времен СССР "выдрессированы" Министерством обороны по части испытаний на полигоне. Люди привычны к тому, что их часто просят на время покинуть свое жилье, уехать куда-нибудь, уйти ненадолго в лес, и их не сильно пугает даже этот инцидент с радиацией. Другая часть людей, похоже, просто опустила руки, считая, что испытания все равно будут проводить в том объеме, в котором это нужно государству и Минобороны. Но [еще одна] часть людей очень рассержена: требует рассказать, что произошло, провести исследования, показать их данные и выплатить денежные компенсации тем, кто собирается продолжать жить в Нёноксе, и тем, кто теперь собирается оттуда уезжать. Однако даже та часть, которая настроена наиболее решительно, пока странным образом занимает выжидательную позицию: кажется, что они ждут, когда придет кто-то, кто спросит их, сколько им выплатить, когда выплатить и так далее. Люди ждут, но не готовы действовать сами. Возможно, потому что они боятся, что за ними придут. Такие прецеденты уже были: к одному местному жителю, который замерял радиацию у понтонов примерно через неделю после 8 августа и намерял там 750 микрорентген в час, пришли и взяли с него подписку о неразглашении – после того как он попытался выложить фото с этими показаниями в интернет". По словам Николая Карнеевича, который ссылается на разговоры с жителями Нёноксы, один понтон вынесло на берег моря спустя сутки после аварии 8 августа, а вот второй – со следами повреждений, которые были заметны еще на предыдущих фото, найденных и опубликованных Радио Свобода, – к берегу притащили два буксира примерно через пять дней. Именно после этого местные жители и бросились замерять радиацию в этом месте. Вскоре Росатом выставил вокруг понтонов охрану – "то ли из местных военных, то ли свою собственную". Однако, как говорит журналист, охранники оттуда просто бежали: местные обнаружили это, в очередной раз приехав к понтонам и увидев брошенные вещи и продукты. "Это было похоже на панику. Говорят, что охрана спрашивала о процентах за вредность, требовала специальные средства защиты. Видимо, Росатом или Минобороны не могли им этого предоставить, и они просто уехали". В открытых источниках Радио Свобода не удалось найти свидетельство того, что берег в районе понтонов какое-то время охранялся, однако на форуме местных рыбаков есть сообщение о том, что как минимум акватория Двинского залива в районе места взрыва была перекрыта для прохода рыбацких катеров и лодок еще 10 августа. Нёнокса – закрытый поселок, правила въезда в него довольно строгие. Как следует из нескольких сообщений в сообществе "Нёнокса в сердце моем" в социальной сети "ВКонтакте", с середины прошлого года списки гостей в войсковую часть, к которой приписан полигон, надо подавать раз в месяц – если не успел, до следующего "окна" оформить пропуск нельзя. Несмотря на это, попасть в Нёноксу и к понтонам может любой: например, у самого Карнеевича такого пропуска никогда не было. "Официально пропуск нужен, – говорит он, – если вы пользуетесь услугами общественного либо частного транспорта. Неофициально – на территорию могут попасть разные люди, все-таки она довольно далеко от цивилизации, каждый встречный туда обычно [сам] не пойдет". По словам еще одного источника Радио Свобода в Северодвинске, пожелавшего сохранить анонимность, пройти по берегу Двинского залива из Северодвинска в Нёноксу и попасть в поселок без пропуска можно было всегда, обойти надо было лишь фрагмент береговой полосы непосредственно напротив войсковой части. Так или иначе, сейчас подойти к понтонам можно свободно, говорит Карнеевич: "Даже если допустить, что на сами понтоны никто не полезет из страха, в 150 метрах от них, на пляже, рядом с местом впадения реки Верховка в Белое море, тоже лежат обрезки тросов, канатов, специальная одежда белого цвета. Все это достаточно серьезно "фонит", так что можете себе представить, как должны фонить сами понтоны". На этом фото – предположительно, выброшенный специальный защитный костюм. Обратите внимание на голубую полосу: такие же есть, к примеру, на одном из комбинезонов химической защиты, представленном на российском рынке. Если верить описанию, комбинезон предназначен, в числе прочего, для "защиты от проникновения радиоактивных частиц". Что до версий случившегося, циркулирующих среди жителей Нёноксы, то они разнообразны, хотя чаще всего и сводятся к разговору о подъеме ранее затонувшей ракеты – правда, сейчас, после выхода нескольких материалов в СМИ на эту тему, уже трудно сказать, не являются ли эти версии следствием таких публикаций. Некоторые из версий звучат довольно экзотично, хотя их правдивость допускало в предыдущем расследовании и Радио Свобода: так, один из жителей Нёноксы рассказал Николаю Карнеевичу, что это не первая попытка поднять "Буревестник" со дна моря. По словам этого человека, после неудачного запуска зимой 2017–2018 года ракета "упала прямо на лед и лежала там, пока при потеплении не ушла под воду". Как ранее удалось установить Радио Свобода, в конце октября 2018 года в районе полигона ВМФ в Нёноксе было замечено судно Росатома для сбора радиоактивных отходов, его присутствием сопровождались и августовские события. Возможно, в октябре ракету не испытывали, а тоже пытались достать после еще более раннего испытания, но по какой-то причине решили отложить операцию на более поздний срок. В одном рассерженные жители Нёноксы единодушны, как можно судить по видео "сельского схода": они не сомневаются, что на полигоне испытывали ракету с ядерным компонентом, и требуют вернуть такие испытания на полигон на Новой Земле, где они проходили ранее. Благодаря свободному доступу к понтонам Николай Карнеевич не только снял видео в рекордной близости от них, но и сделал целый ряд качественных фото в высоком разрешении, которыми любезно согласился поделиться с Радио Свобода. На основании этих снимков нам удалось выяснить еще несколько подробностей о случившемся 8 августа и подтвердить предыдущую теорию о том, что взрыв произошел при попытке достать некий предмет из воды. ТУК-ТУК, кто в домике живет? На приближенной фотографии поврежденного понтона можно достаточно подробно рассмотреть оставшееся на нем оборудование. Самое явное разрушение – упавший на бок кран-манипулятор, стрела которого помяла контейнер синего цвета. Радио Свобода удалось установить марку этого крана-манипулятора: судя по различимым на фотографии элементам, это КМУ итальянской фирмы Fassi, которая производит широкую номенклатуру популярных в России коммерческих подъемных устройств, в том числе в морском исполнении – для установки на палубу судна. Представитель российского дилера Fassi, которому Радио Свобода направило фрагмент снимка, предположил, что это модель из ряда F85-F125, грузоподъемностью (при минимальном вылете стрелы) от 4,5 до 5,5 тонн. Впрочем, в ассортименте Fassi есть модели и более высокой грузоподъемности. Кран упал вместе с металлической рамой (черная, с желтыми отметками), которая, вероятно, служила его основой для надежного крепления к палубе понтона (так же этой цели служил бетонный противовес, который можно заметить на другом фото). Стрела КМУ помяла крышу синего контейнера, на которой можно различить устройство с выхлопной трубой: мы предполагаем, что это глушитель дизель-генераторной установки, которая и размещена в контейнере. Дизель-генераторы такой компоновки с глушителем на крыше контейнера достаточно широко представлены на рынке, в основном их предлагают для арктических станций. Левее упавшего крана видна металлическая конструкция с V-образным ложементом. Радио Свобода предполагает, что это кантователь – механическое устройство, предназначенное для фиксации объектов и их поворота под различными углами, своего рода большие тиски. Форма кантователя намекает на то, что он предназначен для работы с цилиндрическими объектами. Дает ли он возможность поворачивать объект или просто служит подставкой, по снимку понять сложно. Левее, в глубине палубы понтона, можно заметить также лежащий на боку цилиндрический объект с желтым основанием и серо-коричневым верхом. Это может быть контейнер для транспортировки высокоактивных ядерных отходов – так называемый ТУК (транспортно-упаковочного контейнер). Похожий ТУК можно найти в презентации (.pdf) немецкой компании Siempelkamp для выставки "Атомэкспо-2014": "особый контейнер" выглядит как бочка желтого цвета, в которой размещен чугунный вкладыш биозащиты с отверстиями для ядерных материалов. При аварии этот вкладыш мог наполовину выехать из бочки, поэтому на фотографии из Нёноксы ТУК кажется состоящим из двух частей. Наконец, последний из явно различимых объектов на этом понтоне – две лестницы, которые могут быть водолазными трапами. Верхняя часть одной из лестниц повреждена. При этом сам трап поднят: если он использовался для подъема водолазом, то в момент взрыва тот уже был на платформе. О ранениях и последовавшей гибели военного водолаза во время аварии в Нёноксе ранее писало издание Newsader. Понтон №2 Благодаря хорошему разрешению фотографии второго понтона можно различить индексы одного из синих контейнеров: LCLU 201111 22U1. Вторая группа символов указывает на тип контейнера: стандартный 20-футовый высотой 8 футов 6 дюймов (22) с открытым верхом (U1). Действительно, можно заметить, что верх контейнера закрыт тентом, прикрепленным с помощью перетяжки на люверсах. Буквенный код LCLU позволяет установить его владельца. Это петербургская компания "Контейнер Лизинг", предлагающая транспортные контейнеры в аренду и продажу. Обнаружить экономические связи "Контейнер Лизинга" с НИИЭФ, Атомфлотом или Минобороны РФ Радио Свобода не удалось, впрочем, контейнер в Нёноксе мог несколько раз сменить владельцев. Как же выглядело все это оборудование накануне аварии 8 августа? Судя по спутниковому снимку с причала на территории предприятия "Севмаш", оба понтона были загружены еще в конце июля – уже тогда на них были размещены контейнеры, кран-манипулятор, кантователь и другое оборудование. Радио Свобода предполагает, что для выполнения работ 8 августа понтоны были сцеплены между собой и находились в 3–5 километрах от берега напротив Нёноксы в Двинском заливе. Кран, прикрепленный к палубе с помощью специального основания, мог использоваться как для подъема затонувшего ранее объекта со дна, так и для манипуляций с ним на борту одного из понтонов. Кантователь или подставка могли служить тисками для работы с лежащим рядом желтым контейнером для радиоактивных отходов, ТУКом, предназначенным для транспортировки радиоактивных материалов. Также на понтонах было несколько стандартных грузовых контейнеров, один – с дизель-генераторной установкой, другой с открытым, но затянутым тентом верхом, третий – с жесткой крышей. Интересно, что на первых опубликованных Радио Свобода снимках понтонов дверцы этих контейнеров закрыты, а на снимках Николая Карнеевича – открыты. Возможно, уже после того, как первый понтон прибило к берегу, военные или сотрудники "Росатома" что-то оттуда забрали: например, документацию или оборудование, ценность и секретность которого были выше, чем риск получить опасную дозу облучения. В процессе работы над этим расследованием Радио Свобода обратило внимание на комплекс оборудования, созданный научно-производственной фирмой "Сосны" из Димитровграда. Он предназначен для вывода из эксплуатации плавучей технической базы (ПТБ) "Лепсе" (судно-заправщик атомных ледоколов), в частности, для выгрузки отработавшего ядерного топлива, скопившегося в баках плавучей базы, – работы проводились в 2015–2018 годах. В состав этого комплекса входит кран-манипулятор, близкий по параметрам к КМУ Fassi, и специальная "переходная плита" для крепления крана к палубе (она напоминает металлическое основание для КМУ на фотографии понтона). На одном из снимков на сайте "Сосен" манипулятор производит погрузку отработавшего элемента ядерного топлива реактора (стержня-ТВЭЛа) в бочкообразный контейнер, напоминающий по форме и размеру тот, что виден на палубе понтона в Нёноксе. Еще один проект того же НПО "Сосны" – крупнотоннажный "транспортный пакет" на основе стандартного ISO-контейнера без крыши для перевозки цилиндрических ТУКов. Маловероятно, что НПО "Сосны" имело отношение к военным работам в Нёноксе, но во многом совпадающий по составу набор оборудования указывает на то, что и устройства на борту понтонов могли использоваться для выгрузки и консервации ядерного топлива из малогабаритного реактора. Выводы Оборудование, которое Радио Свобода удалось разглядеть на снимках понтонов, аналогично тому, которое используется для демонтажа и консервации отработавшего топлива атомных реакторов, кроме того, кран мог использоваться не только для манипуляций с реактором, но и для подъема аварийной ракеты со дна Двинского залива. На факт подводных работ дополнительно указывают имеющиеся на одном из понтонов трапы, предположительно, для водолаза (или водолазов). Характер повреждений на этих и более ранних фотографиях соотносится с версией о том, что взрыв произошел не на самой платформе, а под водой или прямо над поверхностью. Об этом можно судить по тому, что на более ранних снимках, где поврежденный понтон находился на отдалении от берега, его задняя часть выглядит подтопленной – вероятно, были смяты или пробиты некоторые секции поплавков. Об этом же говорят и вмятины на торцевой части поврежденной платформы. В то же время основные повреждения на палубе вызваны падением крана, а на контейнере с дизель-генератором нет очевидных следов воздействия пламени. Мы считаем новые фотографии еще одним аргументом в пользу версии, что авария произошла при неудачной попытке подъема ранее потерянного в акватории боевого устройства с ядерной энергетической установкой на борту – это могла быть крылатая ракета "Буревестник" или новая система подводного вооружения "Посейдон". Независимый эксперт по ядерным технологиям Валентин Гибалов отметил в комментарии Радио Свобода, что состав обнаруженных в воздушных пробах Росгидрометом радионуклидов похож на последствия вспышки самопроизвольной цепной реакции в реакторе, в то же время эксперт подчеркивает, что состав "осколков" в этом случае не является полным. Среди экспертов до сих пор нет единой версии того, как именно такая цепная реакция могла возникнуть. Основная гипотеза: в процессе подъема ядерного устройства из реактора выпал специальный защитный стержень, сдерживающий запуск реактора до окончания работы первой ступени. Альтернативная гипотеза: запуск реактора (его выход на критичность) мог произойти в результате смены среды – воды на воздух или соленой воды в глубине залива на более опресненную воду в поверхностных слоях. Гибалов видит несостыковки в каждой из этих версий: риск нештатного удаления стержня должен был бы особо учитываться при любых манипуляциях с реактором, а переход на критичность из-за изменения среды или теплоносителя означает слишком экзотическую конструкцию ядерной установки.
The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation may have occurred when specialists tried to salvage a sunken missile from the White Sea floor. Documents, photographs, satellite imagery, and other open-source materials reviewed by RFE/RL point strongly to an accident -- most likely underwater, or just near the surface -- as the cause of the August 8 blast in Nyonoksa, where Soviet and Russian military planners have conducted missile tests for decades. In the days after the mishap, Russian civilian and military authorities gave conflicting information as to what exactly occurred, how many casualties there were, and where a recorded spike in radiation came from, and whether it was dangerous. It also sent intelligence analysts from Washington to Brussels to Oslo scrambling to figure out what happened. President Vladimir Putin has said the test involved a new weapons system. The institute where the men worked is Russia's premier facility for military nuclear research, known by its acronym VNIIEF and located in the closed city of Sarov. Meanwhile, monitoring stations in the nearby shipbuilding port of Severodvinsk reported a brief spike in radiation levels in the hours after the explosion, but emphasized that there was no danger to public health. Among the photographs and videos obtained by RFE/RL and first published on August 22 is one that shows two pontoon platforms floating close to the shoreline just west of the main Nyonoksa range site. On each platform are two 6-meter, blue shipping containers, the kind that often appear in Defense Ministry promotional materials about missile launches. The location of the containers matches up with satellite imagery obtained by RFE/RL in the days shortly after the explosion that also shows two objects floating close to shore in a similar position. It matches up with another image obtained exclusively by RFE/RL that shows a blue container onshore at the Nyonoksa test site in October 2018. And it matches up with a Google Maps image from 2019 of Kasputin Yar, a test range in southern Russia where analysts say a nuclear-powered cruise missile called the Burevestnik may have been tested in the past. Identical pontoon platforms also appear in photographs showing the wharves at the Sevmash shipyard in Severodvinsk, 30 kilometers east of Nyonoksa. Sevmash is one of Russia's largest shipyards and the country's only builder of nuclear submarines. The platforms, whose current locations are unclear, are widely believed to be irradiated, along with other debris that washed up on the Dvinsk Bay shores after the blast. That prompted military officials to warn local residents not to approach anything washing up on the shore. Videos obtained by RFE/RL show Naval Captain First Rank Vladimir Bosy, the commander of the Nyonoksa range, meeting with local residents on August 12 to warn them about irradiated flotsam. Satellite images and websites that track global shipping traffic have also identified the presence of a Rosatom ship called the Serebryanka that was in the Dvinsk Bay in the days leading up to the August 8 explosion. The ship is known for its role in transporting nuclear waste for the atomic energy company. The ship was located 4 kilometers from Nyonoksa on the day of the blast and was tracked leaving the region and returning to its home port of Murmansk on August 9. Another ship also appears in a satellite image dated August 13: a special purpose rescue and recovery ship known as the Zvyozdochka. Equipped with two heavy-lift cranes positioned on its aft, the ship also has two deepwater, unmanned submersibles believed to be used primarily for salvage and recovery operations. In an online Russian chat room called sanatatur.ru, used by fishermen in the Arkhangelsk region, where Nyonoksa is located, at least two users posted messages dated August 9 saying that there had been an operation the previous day to recover what they called a "warhead" that had been lost last year at the Nyonoksa range. One of the users, who did not respond to inquiries from RFE/RL, also said one of the ships in the vicinity of the blast had suffered a hole in its hull. Another said he had been within 4 kilometers of the test site on the morning of August 8 and witnessed a 100-meter column of water that burst into the air. Another indication that the explosion first occurred underwater or near the water's surface came in the presentation by Navy officer Bosy before the Nyonoksa villagers. "On August 8, people got onto the pontoon, and then everything under the pontoon exploded," he said. In the days after the explosion, one of the most frequently cited theories for the cause was a failed test of a nuclear-powered cruise missile known in Russia as the Burevestnik and under NATO standards as Skyfall. The missile, which Putin boasted about during a nationally televised speech in March 2018, has reportedly suffered several failures during testing, and there has been at least one previous attempt to recover a missile lost at sea. But evidence that emerged later, including from the Rosatom statement, has undermined that theory, leading analysts to focus on other explanations. Another piece of evidence that suggests the August 8 blast was not the result of a missile test was the absence of an aviation warning from Russian authorities in the vicinity of Nyonoksa. Aviation authorities -- in Russia, the United States, and many countries -- typically issue a notice to pilots when a potential hazard is anticipated in a certain location. Russia nearly always issues such notices -- known as NOTAMs -- before major missile tests, including the recent one of a submarine-launched ballistic missile from the Barents Sea. A NOTAM was issued for the Nyonoksa vicinity last October when a similar test was reported, a test that included the presence of the Rosatom-owned ship, the Serebryanka. But no NOTAM was issued in the days before August 8 for that area, meaning authorities did not anticipate any flight hazards. During past tests at the range, Nyonoksa residents have been notified in advance and evacuated for the duration of the tests. However, there was no such notification leading up to August 8, one resident told RFE/RL, which raised questions in locals' minds about what exactly had happened. The possibility that the explosion occurred during a recovery operation was also raised in a report on August 29 by the U.S. television network CNBC.
«Росатом» показал фотографии погибших во время ЧП на военном полигоне под Архангельском пятерых сотрудников. Их передала РБК пресс-служба госкорпорации. Сотрудники саровского ядерного центра — Алексей Вьюшин, Евгений Коротаев, Вячеслав Липшев, Сергей Пичугин и Владислав Яновский — погибли во время испытания «нового специзделия», заявил глава «Росатома» Алексей Лихачев. Похороны погибших состоялись 12 августа, их представят к госнаградам посмертно. Ранее в госкорпорации сообщили подробности инцидента, который произошел 8 августа. На морской платформе проводились испытания неназванной ракеты. В ходе испытаний началось возгорание топлива с последующей детонацией. При взрыве погибли пять сотрудников «Росатома», еще несколько человек пострадали. Уточнялось, что в составе ракеты находился радиоизотопный источник питания. Трагедия произошла из-за «стечения факторов», отметили в «Росатоме».
Nyonoksa residents asked to leave within a day after last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times. Russian authorities have advised residents of a village to leave while clear-up work is being carried out nearby following a mysterious rocket engine accident last week that caused a temporary spike in radiation, according to a report. Russia‘s Rosatom nuclear agency said five of its staff were killed in the August 8 blast at a naval facility that tests ballistic missiles used by nuclear submarines. At least three people were injured. The workers were providing support for the “isotope power source” of a missile and were thrown into the water from the testing platform in the White Sea by the force of the explosion. On Tuesday, Interfax news agency cited local officials as saying they had received a notification about clear-up work being carried out by military authorities. Rosgidromet, the weather monitoring service, said on Tuesday its sensors in Severodvinsk – located about 30km from the test site – registered radiation exceeding background levels by “four to 16 times” on the day of the blast. The service said the levels were higher at six out of eight of its stations in Severodvinsk and returned to normal after 2.5 hours. One of the sensors registered a level of 1.78 microsieverts per hour, well above the local average but far below dangerous levels. The blast caused panic, with residents rushing to buy iodide, which can help limit the damage from exposure to radiation. Following the explosion, Russian authorities also closed part of Dvina Bay on the White Sea to shipping for a month, in what could be an attempt to prevent outsiders from seeing an operation to recover the missile debris. Rosatom’s mention of a “nuclear isotope power source” led some Russian media to conclude it was the Burevestnik (Petrel), a nuclear-powered cruise missile first revealed by Russian President Vladimir Putin in March 2018 during his state of the nation address along with other doomsday weapons. Some experts have also linked the blast to the 9M730 Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, known by NATO as SSC-X-9 Skyfall. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday did not confirm that the accident was linked to the Burevestnik project. Peskov added, however, that Russian research and development in the sphere of nuclear-powered missiles “significantly surpass the level reached by other countries and are rather unique”. Lawrence Korb, a former US assistant secretary of defence who has worked with Russia on nuclear issues and arms control, said the so-called Skyfall weapon is considered a “fantasy” by most experts in the United States as “it’s a very dangerous thing”. “It sounds great in theory but as we’ve seen with this accident, it’s much easier said than done and the chances of having accidents are great because you have a nuclear weapon with nuclear fuel so that’s a very dangerous thing,” Korb told Al Jazeera. Al Jazeera’s Step Vaessen, reporting from Moscow on Tuesday, said information had only begun emerging five days after the blast, adding that this had created a lot of confusion and prompted the emergence of conspiracy theories. “Soon after news came out that [residents] were ordered to leave this village within the next 24 hours, other authorities in the region have said that that was complete nonsense, that there has never been an order to evacuate,” Vaessen said. Local authorities in Severodvinsk last week initially published information about the spike in radiation, but later deleted it and a local official said that radiation levels were not above the norm. Vaessen added that the medics who treated the victims of the blast were being sent to a Moscow hospital for testing. “It’s also not clear what kind of tests are going to be done but it’s happening right now. According to a report, it will take three days before the results become known,” Vaessen said. US President Donald Trump on Monday weighed in on the blast on Twitter, saying the US “is learning much from the failed missile explosion” and claimed that Washington has “similar, though more advanced, technology”. The US and the Soviet Union pondered nuclear-powered missiles in the 1960s, but they abandoned those projects as too unstable and dangerous.
Update September 2: If one believes CNBC’s story here then the cause of the incident was a failed recovery attempt of a prior Burevestnik missile test from 2018. In recovering the missile from the bottom of the bay something exploded under one of the vessels, which also damaged the missile’s reactor, leading to the radiation release. So there was no missile test, no reactor test, no launch, and equally there was no RTG or some other device responsible. I will leave the rest of the text below without updates so you can see my thought process, right or wrong, early on in this episode before much information was available. I was going to stay away from this because there simply was not enough information to tell what happened, and the hot take factory had already run away with the story on the basis of close to nothing. Here is the most likely scenario as I see it. The explosion was not a missile launch test, and it was not Burevestnik, no matter how much arms control wonks want to think it was. It’s just unlikely based on the scant information available about the incident. I have a different view from Jeffrey Lewis here. The notion that Russian Burevestnik program was in major trouble after moving from Novaya Zemlya test site is also probably incorrect. I think Lewis’ own commercial satellite imagery confirms the story that VNIIEF, the Russian nuclear research institute in charge of this work, basically tried to tell but couldn’t get out in time because people already piled in with speculation. Update August 26: Looks like its not a RTG based on the isotopes detected, and instead a nuclear reactor. Also unlikely to have been a missile, and the initial explosion may have taken place underneath the platform rather than above it. Let’s ask first order questions. Why did five leading researchers die? If it was a nuclear powered missile test why would they be near the missile? I know I’m always standing next to experimental missiles I’m testing, it’s the best way to see the explosion. If it was an experimental nuclear reactor (unshielded), why were they standing next to it at the time of the mishap? I know I always stand next to experimental nuclear reactors I’m testing. Typically when people stand around things, it is because they don’t expect them to explode or massively irradiate them. The explosion was caused by a liquid fueled engine – why would there be a liquid fuel engine in Burevestnik? Subsonic cruise missiles have solid fuel as their boost phase. Ok here is the last question for Burevestnik theory enthusiasts. Imagine they are conducting a missile test on a small platform out at sea, and you believe that this is a missile powered by an unshielded reactor. I mean, kind of hard to shield a reactor on a relatively small cruise missile. In this theory Russia’s leading nuclear researchers are standing around an unshielded nuclear reactor on a barge, with the intent to turn it on. Forgive my skepticism. Some in Russia have combined the two theories, suggesting that Burevestnik has a nuclear power component, but there is a separate liquid fueled engine for maneuverability. While interesting, its still unclear how either system actually powers Burevestnik and why a subsonic missile with maneuvering surfaces would remotely need liquid fueled thrusters or jets to maneuver. I’m raising this here to dismiss it because it doesn’t make much technical sense. We will get back to Burevestnik later. VNIIEF’s statement, in classic Russian style, alluded to two types of projects without saying exactly what it was, a novel Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator or a novel reactor type akin to U.S. Kilopower project. In my view they were indeed testing a novel Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator with a liquid fuel engine combo. (That turned out untrue after it became clear that the different nuclides produced could only come from nuclear fission). While we’re in the speculation business on RTG use, it might also be a maneuvering satellite. That sort of weapon could use a sustained power source, in space, and possibly have liquid fueled thrusters. Just working through the non-Burevestnik list here. If the radiation emitted sounds too high for a RTG, and I’m not an expert here so I don’t know how much radiation you get if you blow one up, I suppose it varies considerably depending on the type of material used and how much of it they were using. RTGs are fairly simple in design, but perhaps this RTG was novel and therefore more powerful. Equally likely it was a novel nuclear power source, but again it begs the question as to the cause of an explosion, and why leading researchers would ever be standing around such a thing on a platform at sea. The obvious answer is they were setting up equipment, but I don’t see them testing an unshielded reactor off the coast of a town near Severodvinsk. Now let’s imagine that the RTG story is a canard meant to distract us (which it turned out to be in retrospect). It could be a novel nuclear power source, but for what? Well, probably 10-20 different projects, at least those that I can think of. I’m not ruling out a component related to Burevestnik, but saying that something was tested with infrastructure associated with Burevestnik tests is like going to Kaputsin Yar and just guessing which missile was involved at a range testing 10 different missiles. The scientists, the explosion and a source of radiation were all co-located which suggests they were working on something with explosive potential and a source of radiation. The radiation released seems quite small for a reactor, just my impression based on commentary from people who follow the nuclear side of things but perhaps too high for a typical RTG. So the circumstances suggest it was something other than an unshielded reactor, involving an engine with liquid fuel propulsion, which should point us away from Burevestnik. Moscow Times released a story from the hospital talking about exposure to Cesium 137 isotope, which while a byproduct of fission, is a source of gamma radiation. The thing is Cs-137 is total junk for power level and is basically one of the weakest isotope sources you can use for a RTG. Good PDF here with comparisons for those interested. So after initially leaning towards the RTG story, it seems that was a distraction and instead we are dealing with a nuclear reactor. There are several options for nuclear reactor tests with military applications at sea, from Poseidon torpedo to various types of ATGU’s, undersea atomic power stations, to of course our reactor for Burevestnik. However, to release these different isotopes it is likely that fission might have had to take place at the site, whereas in a missile the reactor would not turn on until after boost phase, which creates obvious problems since the explosion and material was released from the platform. I wonder why people assume that Burevestnik is an open air flow reactor/ramject powered missile? Just because in 1960s U.S. project Pluto used this combination on a large supersonic missile does it make sense to assume that’s what Russia is working on as well? The U.S. tried to build 1957-1964, and it doesn’t make much sense that it is what Russia would try to build in 2019. Pluto was a large supersonic missile, with rocket boosters and multiple warheads designed as a supersonic low altitude missile (SLAM), while Burevestnik is a single warhead cruise missile shaped for subsonic or perhaps transonic flight. Its certainly not a mach 2 weapon. Burevestnik clearly doesn’t look like a supersonic low altitude missile with those wing surfaces. Given Burevestnik appears to be a subsonic, or a transonic missile, not meant for supersonic flight and therefore not utilizing a ramjet which is better suited for mach 2+ it is probably not an open air flow system. Ramjets are highly inefficient at slower speeds and the wings on the missile don’t exactly look like a mach 2+ weapon. Burevestnik is going to have probably one of two propulsion types, direct air cycle or indirect air cycle. Direct air cycle just throws the air into the reactor and out the back. Highly radioactive. Indirect cycle is probably liquid metal cooled. Air makes contact with a heat exchanger that’s carrying the liquid metal from the reactor and goes out the back, much less radioactive. Of course maybe there is a nuclear power source just powering a turbojet and they’re not using the air for propulsion at all. Also I don’t think its index is 9M730, although it was initially reported as such. There are still too many assumptions here about an experimental weapon without enough images or information, so in my view it is best to hold back on the guesswork. Comments and feedback as always welcome. If you have alternative explanations please send them in. I do not know what it was, but there’s enough information to suggest that the hot take factory is wrong on this one.
Russian President Vladimir Putin seemed to confirm on Wednesday something that international weapons experts had already suspected: that a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels was the result of testing what he called a promising new weapons system. Russian President Vladimir Putin seemed to confirm on Wednesday something that international weapons experts had already suspected: that a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels was the result of testing what he called a promising new weapons system. The Russian leader didn’t specify the name of the weapon, but the trail of evidence suggests that the Aug. 8 test, which was responsible for the most serious release of radiation since the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, was related to the 9M730 Burevestnik—or SSC-X-9 Skyfall, as it has been termed by NATO. This theory was bolstered on Tuesday when Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, confirmed that the test was of Russia’s development of a nuclear-propelled missile. But not everyone is convinced that the blast was a result of a botched missile test. Michael Kofman, a Russia expert at CNA, said that while it was undoubtedly a test of a nuclear reactor for military application, there wasn’t enough evidence to say specifically that it was for the Skyfall. “Russia has quite a few different weapons projects, a few different nuclear power projects,” Kofman said. It could have been a test of a component of another weapons project, he added. Whatever the cause of the explosion, arms controls experts remain skeptical that Russia has the money and technical know-how to make the Skyfall a reality. “Maybe they’re just throwing spaghetti at the wall to see what sticks, but I don’t think it can all stick,” said Ian Williams, the deputy director of the Missile Defense Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, who added that he is skeptical about Moscow’s ability to see through development and production of the Skyfall. “It’s just the novelty of it. No other country is even considering this kind of thing. It’s the most technologically unproven, probably the most expensive in the long run,” Williams said. Whether or not the accident was indeed related to the new weapon—a nuclear-powered cruise missile that Moscow claims will be able to fly around the world for days or even months and to skirt U.S. missile defenses—Putin’s remarks were just one part of a pointed campaign to reestablish Russia as a major player on the world stage. In a March 2018 state of the union speech that shocked the international community, Putin unveiled several next-generation nuclear-capable weapons that he claimed would render U.S. missile shields “useless.” During the presentation, Putin showed a computer-animated video of an intercontinental ballistic missile flying around the Earth, headed toward Florida’s west coast—an area that news outlets at the time were quick to point out is very close to U.S. President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort. The speech drew international condemnation but resonated across Russia, where Putin has sought to woo voters with promises of both guns and butter. The exotic weapons announced include a nuclear torpedo and a hypersonic weapon that can travel several times the speed of sound. One thing they all have in common is that they are designed to evade U.S. missile defense systems, which hints to where Russia’s defense fears lie. “I think the big picture here is that Russia is afraid of U.S. missile defense systems,” said James Acton, the co-director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Putin has long promised to restore Russia to greatness on the world stage. Without the economic might and population of neighboring China, or the diplomatic clout of the United States, Russia’s nuclear weapons have played an outsized role in the country’s conception of what it means to be a great power. “If Russia didn’t have all of these nuclear weapons and a relatively advanced military system, what else do they have?” Williams said. The United States experimented with developing a similar weapon in the 1950s and 1960s known as SLAM. It was ultimately abandoned as unrealistic, partly, as Russia may be discovering, due to the challenges of testing a nuclear-powered weapon. “I place my money on Skyfall not ever being fielded,” Acton said. Satan II. A 200-ton intercontinental ballistic missile with a range of 11,000 kilometers, the SS-X-30 Satan II, dubbed by Russia as the RS-28 Sarmat, is planned to replace the legacy R-36M Voevoda. Putin claimed the weapon’s short boost phase will make it more difficult for U.S. missile defense systems to detect and intercept. Avangard. A nuclear-capable, ground-launched glide vehicle capable of flying at hypersonic speeds—defined as more than five times the speed of sound—the Avangard is said to be able to maneuver around U.S. missile defenses, making it “absolutely invulnerable,” according to Putin. Once boosted to sufficient height by the Satan II, it is designed to separate from its rocket and cruise down toward its target through the atmosphere. The missile “flies to its target like a meteorite, like a ball of fire,” Putin said. Dagger. Putin also bragged about the Kinzhal, which means “dagger,” a nuclear-capable air ballistic missile that can reach hypersonic speeds and deliver both nuclear and conventional warheads. He claimed the weapon, which can be launched from Russia’s bomber and interceptor aircraft, has a range of more than 2,000 kilometers and can maneuver to avoid U.S. missile defenses. It reportedly reached service in December 2017.
Пострадавших после ЧП на закрытом военном полигоне около Северодвинска доставили в Федеральное государственное бюджетное учреждение «Государственный научный центр Российской Федерации – Федеральный медицинский биофизический центр имени А. И. Бурназяна» в Москве. На вопрос «Фонтанки», отправили ли в их заведение пострадавших после испытаний, дежурный администратор центра имени А. И. Бурназяна зачитал текст статьи 13 федерального закона «Об основах охраны здоровья граждан РФ», который рассказывает «о врачебной тайне»: «Сведения о факте обращения гражданина за медицинской помощью, о состоянии его здоровья и диагнозе и иные сведения, полученные при его медицинском обследовании, составляют медицинскую тайну». На все другие вопросы о пострадавших в клинике не стали отвечать, заявив, что уже «прочитали статью».
После выписки пострадавших во время взрыва в Белом море в Архангельской областной клинической больнице (АОКБ) опечатаны все кабинеты, в которых побывали раненые. Врачей не предупредили, что для приема военных нужна спецодежда. Об этом 13 августа сообщает ИА «Северные новости». По утверждению издания, в больнице опечатаны кабинеты, в которых принимали раненых после взрыва в Нёноксе, палаты также закрыты. Весь медперсонал после общения с ФСБ подписал документы о неразглашении, тем не менее журналистам известно, что врачей не предупредили о вероятном превышении радиационного фона, когда в АОКБ привезли военных. «Северные новости» утверждают, что фартук хирурга после операции проверили на аппарате по диагностике радиации – он якобы пищал. Сейчас медперсонал, который контактировал с пострадавшими, отправили в Москву на обследование.
8 августа в результате взрыва на военном полигоне в Архангельской области погибло пять человек и пятнадцать пострадало. По официальному сообщению Министерства обороны России, взрыв произошёл при испытании жидкостного реактивного двигателя. Различные открытые данные указывают на то, что с большой вероятностью причиной инцидента стали испытания межконтинентальной крылатой ракеты неограниченной дальности «Буревестник» с ядерной энергетической установкой. Директор восточно-азиатской программы Центра Джеймса Мартина по нераспространению ядерного оружия в Монтерее Джеффри Льюис совместно с рядом исследователей пришел к выводу, что взрыв, вероятно, имел место в ходе испытания крылатой ракеты «Буревестник» с ядерной энергетической установкой. О появлении новой ракеты впервые заявил президент России Владимир Путин в ходе своего послания Федеральному собранию 1 марта 2018 года. Ракета была представлена как ответная мера на возможное ядерное нападение. Ключевой особенностью нового оружия была заявлена его неограниченная дальность действия и возможность маневрирования для обхода систем противоракетной обороны. В своём исследовании Льюис с соавторами ссылаются на три ключевых момента. По их мнению, Россия недавно переместила испытания «Буревестника» с архипелага Новая Земля в Нёноксу. На спутниковых снимках Airbus от 14 мая 2019 года видна стартовая площадка в Нёноксе, при этом её конструкция и сооружения соответствуют стартовой площадке Паньково на Новой Земле (запись испытания на площадке в Паньково была показана в ходе послания Федеральному собранию, место проведения испытаний было установлено с помощью геолокации видео). Как и самолёты, морские суда оборудованы специальными устройствами (так называемыми транспондерами). Они передают различные данные о судне, такие как его текущее местоположение и название. Благодаря этому было установлено, что в день аварии в закрытом прибрежным предупреждением от 10 июля районе моря недалеко от вероятной стартовой площадки находился теплоход «Серебрянка». Как следует из описания на сайте Росатомфлота, он спроектирован для хранения жидких реактивных отходов. В 2009 году судно было дооборудовано для временного хранения, транспортировки и выдачи жидких радиоактивных отходов, погрузки/разгрузки облучённых тепловыделяющих сборок в контейнеры. Спутниковый снимок Planet Labs, опубликованный Центром Джеймса Мартина, показывает, что в указанный день на переданных транспондером «Серебрянки» координатах действительно находилось морское судно. Летом 2018 года, по данным исследователей, этот теплоход уже участвовал в работах по ликвидации последствий крушения ракеты «Буревестник». По заявлению «Росатома», пятеро сотрудников госкорпорации погибли в ходе проведения работ, связанных с инженерно-техническим сопровождением изотопных источников питания на жидкостной реактивной двигательной установке. Судя по контексту, речь идет о радиоизотопном источнике энергии. Самым известным (но отнюдь не единственным) типом таких источников являются радиоизотопные термоэлектрические генераторы (РИТЭГи), широко используемые на космических аппаратах и (в последнее время благодаря развитию альтернативной энергетики в меньшей степени) в труднодоступной местности. Такие источники энергии отличаются от ядерных реакторов АЭС и подводных лодок тем, что вместо цепной реакции получают электроэнергию из тепла, выделяемого при естественном распаде радиоактивных изотопов. В 2018 году адьюнкт-профессор Университета Северной Каролины Марк Губруд отметил, что в отличие от реактора радиоизотопный источник энергии, достаточно мощный для приведения в движение крылатой ракеты, будет генерировать мегаватты тепловой энергии в том числе и до её полёта, что крайне затрудняет хранение такой ракеты и делает практически невозможной её эксплуатацию. Для сравнения, одним мегаваттом тепла можно отапливать большой многоквартирный дом (суммарной площадью помещений порядка 10 тысяч квадратных метров). Анкит Панда, старший научный сотрудник Федерации американских учёных, в комментарии изданию Рейтер заявил следующее: «Жидкостные ракетные двигатели при взрыве не выделяют радиацию, и мы знаем что в России работают над неким ядерным двигателем для крылатых ракет». О том, что происшествию сопутствовало выделение радиоактивного излучения, свидетельствуют, например, меры предосторожности, которые были предприняты при транспортировке пострадавших в больницу в Москве. На опубликованной изданием Baza видеозаписи видны машины скорой помощи, задние двери которых заклеены плёнкой. При этом люди внутри машин одеты, предположительно, в костюмы химзащиты. В результате взрыва после ракетных испытаний на морской платформе в Архангельской области погибло пять сотрудников «Росатома». Список погибших 10 августа появился в одной из групп Вконтакте, посвященной новостям закрытого города Сарова, а 11 августа их имена были названы директором Российского федерального ядерного центра, входящего в «Росатом». Мы установили личности погибших по открытым источникам. Впоследствии наши выводы подтвердились официальным сообщением «Росатома». 10 августа в группе «МЫ — ИЗ САРОВА!!! | Саров» Вконтакте был опубликован пост со ссылкой на пресс-релиз «Росатома», в котором говорится о пяти погибших сотрудниках госкорпорации при испытании жидкостной реактивной двигательной установки в Архангельской области. Владислав Яновский, заместитель начальника научно-испытательного отделения. 11 августа в той же группе Вконтакте была опубликованы фотографии с траурными лентами, на которых изображены все пять погибших. Нам удалось найти фотографии трех погибших сотрудников «Росатома» в социальных сетях. На странице Евгений Коратаева стоит город проживания – Саров, а в друзьях – сотрудники ВНИИЭФ. С помощью сервиса поиска по изображениям мы нашли страницу женщины, на которой часто встречаются фотографии с Евгением Коратаевым на различных праздниках. Как написано у нее в статусе, она является ведущей торжественных мероприятий. Если верить комментариям местных жителей в паблике «МЫ — ИЗ САРОВА!!! | Саров» Вконтакте, Евгений Коратаев тоже подрабатывал ведущим праздничных мероприятий. Сегодня, 11 августа, его коллега по организации праздников разместила на своей странице скорбный пост, посвященный гибели сотрудников ВНИИЭФ на территории военного полигона в Архангельской области. В социальной сети Одноклассники зарегистрирован один профиль с именем Вячеслав Липшев из города Саров. Фотографию, размещенную на этой странице, опубликовали в комментариях скорбного поста в местном паблике Вконтакте. С помощью сервиса поиска по изображениям Вконтакте нашлась страница женщины, на которой размещены совместные фотографии с Вячеславом Липшевым. С 9 августа на ее странице стали появляться скорбные посты (1, 2, 3), один из которых посвящен пятерым саровцам, погибшим в Архангельской области. Фотографию еще одного погибшего 11 августа опубликовали BBC со ссылкой на опубликованный днем ранее скорбный пост в группе байкерского клуба VAGABOND MC Вконтакте. Инженер-испытатель Сергей Пичугин был членом этого байкерского клуба, отмечают BBC. Изучив имеющиеся открытые данные, можно с уверенностью предположить, что пятеро сотрудников «Росатома» погибли в ходе испытаний межконтинентальной крылатой ракеты «Буревестник». Взрыв ракеты привёл к попаданию неизвестного количества радиоактивных материалов в окружающую среду.
OSLO (Reuters) - Norway’s nuclear safety authority is analyzing tiny amounts of radioactive iodine detected in the air in northern Norway in the days after a deadly explosion during a rocket engine test over the border in Russia. Russia’s state nuclear agency, Rosatom, said on Saturday that five people killed in the blast were its staff members, and the accident involved “isotope power sources”, giving no further details. Norway’s radiation and nuclear safety authority DSA said it had detected the radioactive iodine at its air filter station in Svanhovd, which is by the Russian border. A river separates the two countries. The samples were collected in the period Aug. 9-12, while the accident in the Arkhangelsk region of northern Russia occurred on Aug. 8, it said. “At present it is not possible to determine if the last iodine detection is linked to the accident in Arkhangelsk last week. DSA continues more frequent sampling and analysis,” DSA said. Such radiation measurements are not unusual in Norway, as its monitoring stations detect radioactive iodine about six to eight times a year and the source is usually unknown. Russia’s state weather service said on Tuesday that radiation levels in the city of Severodvinsk had spiked by up to 16 times last Thursday, while medics who treated victims of the accident have been sent to Moscow for a medical examination, the TASS news agency reported.
