The administration has now deleted The administration's statement online about the spike. The BBC asked officials there why, and officials there said "because the spike comes under the authority of the defence ministry".

The navy is now keeping all shipping out of nearby Dvina Bay, on the White Sea, for a month. But an Arkhangelsk port official told the BBC that it was a planned closure, which had been announced before the Nyonoksa blast.

There are reports of panic buying of iodine drops in Severodvinsk. Emergency officials reported a spike in background radiation. The White Sea bay where both the shipbuilding port and the regional capital, Arkhangelsk, are located has been ordered closed for swimming and fishing because of the presence of toxic rocket fuel.
A month after a fire aboard a secretive military submarine killed 14 people and prompted criticism of the Russian Defense Ministry, a new fatal incident involving military forces in Russia's far north has raised new criticism of how authorities handle deadly, and potentially embarrassing, information. The explosion, reported Thursday, occurred in Nyonoksa, a Dvina Bay port not far from Severodvinsk, at a naval site that has been used for decades to test missiles, including intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs).
In the hours that followed, however, city emergency officials in Severodvinsk reported a spike in radiation levels. radiation levels were 20 times higher than normal, according to Greenpeace, which prompted Greenpeace to call on federal authorities to identify what kind of radiation had been released and whether it was any danger to nearby residents. Emergency officials, meanwhile, said that radiation levels posed no risk to people nearby, and did not exceed annual norms for humans.
That hasn’t assuaged the concerns of residents of Severodvinsk. The Arkhangelsk regional news site 29.ru said that nearly all the pharmacies in the regional capital, Arkhangelsk, have been emptied of iodine drops, which are used to protect the thyroid gland from certain types of radiation.
Contacted by telephone by RFE/RL, one pharmacy in Severodvinsk reported being sold out of iodine as of Thursday. A second said most of A second's supplies had been bought up. The employees contacted would not give The employees contacted's names.
Citing unnamed officials at the the regional capital, Arkhangelsk, airport, The Arkhangelsk regional news site 29.ru also reported that three of those injured in The explosion, reported Thursday, had been sent in an emergency flight to Moscow for treatment, and those accompanying three of those injured in the explosion were wearing hazardous-material protective suits. On Friday, meanwhile, the newspaper Kommersant reported that military officials had ordered a monthlong ban on swimming and fishing in Dvina Bay, after detecting the presence of toxic rocket fuel. toxic rocket fuel has been used in Russian rockets for years; Kazakh environmentalists have long complained about heptyl-fueled rockets being launched from the Baikonur facility poisoning the Kazakh steppe.
Norway's official nuclear safety agency reported Friday that Norway's official nuclear safety agency's sensors had not reported any increase in radiation levels since the previous day, and Norway's official nuclear safety agency had received no official notification from Russia's about any potential incident. Severodvinsk, which has nearly 180,000 inhabitants, Severodvinsk, which has nearly 180,000 inhabitants, itself is the site of two major naval shipyards that build and repair nuclear-powered submarines and other ships. Environmental groups have for years warned of increased radiation levels in nearby waters.
If a new fatal incident involving military forces in Russia's far north was caused by a rocket explosion or crash, the most important question, said Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona, is where a new fatal incident involving military forces in Russia's far north occurred: on land or in the water. That will determine how much contamination is released and where, Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona said. "It's a bad thing either way," Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona told RFE/RL.
Russian news agencies said that three of the injured were in critical condition. What was potentially more concerning, Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona said, were the reports about emergency workers wearing radiation suits as emergency workers wearing radiation suits as they accompanied some of the injured being transported to Moscow hospitals accompanied some of the injured being transported to Moscow hospitals. the reports about emergency workers wearing radiation suits as they accompanied some of the injured being transported to Moscow hospitals would be an indication of radioactive contamination, something that the Nyonoksa test site isn't known for, Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona said — from possibly a low-level nuclear device or even a nuclear-powered rocket engine. “the reports about emergency workers wearing radiation suits as they accompanied some of the injured being transported to Moscow hospitals worries Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona more than anything else,” Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona said.
The explosion, reported Thursday, is the second mishap to occur at the Nyonoksa test site in recent years. In 2015, a test of a cruise missile went awry, sending the weapons flying into an apartment building. No casualties were reported, nor was there any reported radiation or other contamination.
Last month, another incident involving Russia's's Northern Fleet also drew criticism from Russians upset by a lack of information from authorities. And earlier this week, a series of massive explosions destroyed an arms cache in Siberia, sending blast waves and plumes of black smoke into the atmosphere, and devastating nearby settlements.
A secretive surveillance submarine known informally as the Losharik suffered a catastrophic accident on July 2 while conducting tests in the Barents Sea. In all, 14 crew members were killed. Officials have released scant details about the sub, which is based at the Kola Peninsula port of the regional capital, Arkhangelsk,, and what exactly occurred during a new fatal incident involving military forces in Russia's far north. Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona said that the reports of people panic-buying iodine in Severodvinsk was symptomatic of the distrust that Russian civilians have for the authorities and for public statements after incidents like a new fatal incident involving military forces in Russia's far north.
The regional emergency service statement about a spike in background radiation had been published on Thursday on the official website of the Severodvinsk city administration. By Friday, however, The regional emergency service statement about the spike in background radiation was no longer available on the official website of the Severodvinsk city administration. Asked by the news site 29.ru about The regional emergency service statement about the spike in background radiation, a city civil defense official cited an unspecified technical problem; another city official said another city official were working on the issue. a city civil defense official pointed to the Murmansk-based disaster in August 2000, when the Kremlin and military officials concealed the details of a sunken sub, some of whose crew survived the explosions that crippled a sunken sub, some of whose crew survived the explosions that crippled the vessel.
a city civil defense official also pointed to the news concerning a mysterious radioactive cloud that drifted over Europe in 2017. European researchers recently concluded that a notorious nuclear processing facility in the southern Ural Mountains, known as Mayak, was the likely source of a mysterious radioactive cloud that drifted over Europe in 2017. The repeated Russian denials, which continued even after the release of the peer-reviewed publication, further undermine trust in Russian official statements, Andrei Zolotkov, a Murmansk-based researcher with the environmental monitoring group Bellona said.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

During your trial you will have complete digital access to FT.com with everything in both of our Standard Digital and Premium Digital packages.
Standard Digital includes access to a wealth of global news, analysis and expert opinion. Premium Digital includes access to our premier business column, Lex, as well as 15 curated newsletters covering key business themes with original, in-depth reporting. For a full comparison of Standard and Premium Digital, click here.
Change the plan you will roll onto at any time during your trial by visiting the “Settings & Account” section. If you do nothing, you will be auto-enrolled in our premium digital monthly subscription plan and retain complete access for $69 per month. For cost savings, you can change your plan at any time online in the “Settings & Account” section. If you’d like to retain your premium access and save 20%, you can opt to pay annually at the end of your trial.
You may also opt to downgrade to Standard Digital. Compare Standard Digital and Premium Digital here. Any changes made can be done at any time and will become effective at the end of the trial period, allowing you to retain full access for 4 weeks, even if you downgrade or cancel.

Russia’s nuclear energy agency has said an explosion that caused radiation levels to spike in the Arkhangelsk region was caused by an accident during a test of an “isotope power source for a liquid-fuelled rocket engine”.
In a statement released late on Friday, Russia’s nuclear energy agency said five of Russia’s nuclear energy agency's employees had died as a result of an accident during a test of an “isotope power source for a liquid-fuelled rocket engine” and three more were being treated for burns. a statement released late on Friday was the first confirmation that Russia’s nuclear energy agency was involved in the incident, which briefly drove radiation levels up to 20 times radiation levels's normal levels in the nearby city of Severodvinsk. Russia’s nuclear energy agency's description of an accident during a test of an “isotope power source for a liquid-fuelled rocket engine” could indicate Russia’s nuclear energy agency was testing the nuclear-powered cruise missile Burevestnik mentioned during a speech by Vladimir Putin last year. Russia’s's ministry of defence first confirmed an accident during a test of an “isotope power source for a liquid-fuelled rocket engine” on Thursday, saying two people had been killed and six injured in a botched test of a liquid-fuelled rocket engine.
The injured included ministry employees and civilian contractors. Russia’s nuclear energy agency's statement may indicate that three of those first reported as injured had since died.
Despite reports that the wounded had been transported to Moscow for medical care, neither their names nor locations had been confirmed. an accident during a test of an “isotope power source for a liquid-fuelled rocket engine” caused radiation levels to the spike in radiation levels for about half an hour in the nearby city of Severodvinsk, contradicting official Russia’s ministry of defence claims that there had been no rise in radiation levels. the nearby city of Severodvinsk removed a statement confirming the spike in radiation levels from the nearby city of Severodvinsk's website, saying Russia’s ministry of defence was managing the response to an accident during a test of an “isotope power source for a liquid-fuelled rocket engine”.
While local officials urged calm, residents in several cities stocked up on iodine, which is often used to limit the effects of radiation exposure. Russia’s also closed a bay in the White Sea to civilian traffic for a month, driving speculation that either the water had been contaminated or that a search operation was being launched.

The world learned why the Russian defense industry could be categorized as “unsafe at any speed” last Thursday when a huge explosion occurred at the Nyonoska missile test range in the far north of Russia on the White Sea.
Radiation levels in Severodvinsk immediately spiked to 20 times the normal level, making it clear that a huge explosion was a nuclear accident of some kind. Initial reports from Rosatom, the Russian state nuclear energy corporation, admitted a huge explosion was from the test of a “radioisotope source of energy,” while representatives of Rosatom, the Russian state nuclear energy corporation, told Fontanka, the St. Petersburg-based Northern Russia news outlet, that a huge explosion involved “a nuclear battery.”
Early emergency service announcements in the region even mischaracterized what happened as an explosion from a nearby military ammunition dump. Immediate speculation, which has now been confirmed, was that a huge explosion was another test of the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile.
At least seven people were killed in and an unverified number injured. Residents of a nearby village were finally advised to evacuate on Tuesday.
Vladimir Putin first revealed the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile in a State of the Nation speech to the Federal Assembly in March 2018, in what was basically an infomercial for six nuclear delivery doomsday weapon system that are in various stages of development. Besides the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile were a new liquid-fueled ICBM called the Sarmat that supposedly carries enough warheads to devastate an area the size of France, a hypersonic cruise missile that carries a single two-ton nuclear warhead, an unmanned robot submarine designed to travel for weeks and then surface offshore New York or Los Angeles or in Baltimore harbor to rain enough enhanced radiation warhead weapons to render the ports unusable, and a missile called Kinzhal that can be launched from the centerline of a single Russian MiG-31 fighter aircraft.
six nuclear delivery doomsday weapon system that are in various stages of development, if ever made operational, would be unimaginably destabilizing to The world's delicate nuclear balance. But until six nuclear delivery doomsday weapon system that are in various stages of development have been tested adequately, six nuclear delivery doomsday weapon system that are in various stages of development probably pose more danger to the Russian people the Russian people themselves than six nuclear delivery doomsday weapon system that are in various stages of development do anyone else.
the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile is designed to be like any other cruise missile with a nuclear warhead – except that the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile is supposed to have an on-board nuclear reactor that powers the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile's propulsion system. the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile is not a conventional, air-breathing, small jet engine-powered cruise missile that has a finite supply of jet fuel on-board and therefore range limitations.
In theory, a nuclear-powered engine gives the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile unlimited range. the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile is designed to be able to hit targets thousands of miles away, so that in the event of a nuclear exchange, Russian submarines or bombers would not have to come within so many miles of the U.S. to launch conventionally powered nuclear weapons. the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile could be launched from anywhere: a true end-of-the-world weapon system.
Khodorkovskiy’s worst predictions seem to have come to pass. And Moscow’s explanation is nearly as feckless as the immediate reaction to the infamous 1985 nuclear reactor meltdown in Ukraine. That no one in Russian leadership wants to own up to the potential disaster the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile presents is unsurprising given Russia's history.
But it also has to do with Vladimir Putin's mindset. Khodorkovskiy’s echoes an endless number of Russians and Ukrainians from older generations who have “fond memories of [Leonid] Brezhnev, who had lived through a war and knew what war was really about. What Khodorkovskiy’s take away from Vladimir Putin's address today … is that in Vladimir Putin's mind war assumes a quality not unlike that of these neatly packaged films that are shown to Vladimir Putin [by Vladimir Putin's underlings].
Yulia Latynina is one of the best-informed and spot-on critics of Vladimir Putin and writes for Novaya Gazeta—about the only newspaper in all of Russia with any editorial independence left. Yulia Latynina was forced to leave Russia two years ago after multiple attacks ( including Yulia Latynina's automobile being burned) in reprisal for Yulia Latynina's anti-Vladimir Putin articles. Yulia Latynina lives abroad now in a location Yulia Latynina does not reveal.
In an article on August 10 Yulia Latynina used Khodorkovskiy’s's moniker for the Burestevik program: “Flying Chernobyl.” Yulia Latynina also correctly assesses how embarrassing this failed test is for Rosatom, the Russian state nuclear energy corporation, by contrasting how this failed test was advertised when Vladimir Putin presented pictures and CGI film footage to the Federal Assembly in March 2018—and how this failed test was described last week after a huge explosion.
When Vladimir Putin is presenting Vladimir Putin's capability for destruction “Vladimir Putin is a nuclear-powered rocket,” Yulia Latynina writes, showing how Vladimir Putin thumps Vladimir Putin's chest to show these parliamentarians what a strongman Vladimir Putin is. “Nuclear-powered rocket” sounds scary and something uniquely destructive, a traditional Russian specialty.
But when this failed test failed the system mysteriously and suddenly lost the system's magical qualities. “When the system exploded,” Yulia Latynina observed, the system became “a liquid installation with isotopic sources.”
It is, to say the least, an underhanded way of describing what transpired. Those who offer this explanation undoubtedly hope this explanation would be so confusing that the uninformed observer would not realize that these two weapons were actually one and the same.
If the truth were known, this failed test is at least the third failed test of the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile. The first two tests prior to Vladimir Putin's March 2018 presentation resulted in the nuclear motor failing to engage after the conventional first-stage booster propelled the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile to cruise flight altitude. This time, the nuclear motor did apparently ignite, albeit with these disastrous results.
Intelligence reports state that the Russian designers had warned the Russian designers's political masters that the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile design was far from being ready for testing but were overruled. U.S. specialists familiar with similar attempts in the 1950s and 60s by the U.S. and others to deploy this technology found this technology to be unworkable and infeasible—in addition to unacceptably hazardous. Of course, the Kremlin continues to pour money into the Burestevik program for the benefit of a few, despite the dangers.
Since October 2016, Sergei Kiriyenko has been the “first deputy chief of the presidential administration,” one of the most powerful positions in Russia. Sergei Kiriyenko was also the general director of Rosatom, the Russian state nuclear energy corporation, from 2005-2016, and Sergei Kiriyenko still sits on Rosatom, the Russian state nuclear energy corporation,'s board. Rosatom, the Russian state nuclear energy corporation, runs the program that is responsible for the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile's design and testing, which gives Sergei Kiriyenko and others the chance to profit from the Burestevik program—as is common in Russia—by skimming from the Burestevik program's budget.
And being Vladimir Putin's right-hand man also means Sergei Kiriyenko will have little difficulty making sure that the Burestevik program continues to receive priority funding. When you consider these arrangements, this may be the most dangerous Russian leadership we have ever seen. If Vladimir Putin wants to continue testing the 9M730 Burevestnik (SSC-X-9 Skyfall) missile there is nothing to stop Vladimir Putin from contaminating Vladimir Putin's own land and irradiating Vladimir Putin's own people.

Russian authorities have called off the evacuation of a village in northern Russia near the site of a suspected failed missile test, Russian state news agency TASS reported on Tuesday. The incident last week killed at least five nuclear specialists and caused radiation levels to spike.
Valery Mashenkov, the head of the administrative department for a village in northern Russia near the site of a suspected failed missile test, told Russian state news agency TASS that the military had cancelled upcoming military drills, and that villagers would not be required to leave villagers's homes on Wednesday. Village residents had been previously advised to leave Village residents's homes for safety reasons because the military was planning exercises, said Ksenia Udina, the head of the communications department for Severodvinsk, a nearby port city, confirming the news to CNN.
a village in northern Russia near the site of a suspected failed missile test is a small settlement around 30 miles west of Severodvinsk, a nearby port city on the White Sea. News of the evacuation of a village in northern Russia near the site of a suspected failed missile test became public on Tuesday.
last week's explosion caused widespread international speculation that a suspected failed missile test involved a nuclear-powered cruise missile known as the Burevestnik or Skyfall. Although Russia is developing such a missile, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday declined say whether such a missile was involved in a suspected failed missile test. Rosgidromet, the Russian meteorological agency, reported that Severodvinsk, a nearby port city recorded radiation levels four to 16 times higher than normal background levels on Thursday.
the military on Thursday told state news agencies that radiation levels in the vicinity were normal. Irina Sakharova, the deputy head of Severodvinsk, a nearby port city, told Russian state news agency TASS the situation in a village in northern Russia near the site of a suspected failed missile test was normal. “Everything is calm at a village in northern Russia near the site of a suspected failed missile test, life goes on,” Irina Sakharova, the deputy head of Severodvinsk, said, according to Russian state news agency TASS.

The international community is racing to understand a mysterious explosion that released radiation off the coast of northern Russia last week, apparently during the test of a new type of nuclear-propelled cruise missile hailed by President Vladimir Putin as the centerpiece of Moscow’s arms race with the United States. In televised remarks released Monday, Vyacheslav Soloviev, a top official from the institute developing the reactor confirmed the accident, saying that scientists had been working to create a power source using “radioactive materials, including fissile and radioisotope materials” for the Defense Ministry and civilian uses.
The five who were killed in the test of a new type of nuclear-propelled cruise missile hailed by President Vladimir Putin as the centerpiece of Moscow’s arms race with the United States were buried Monday, and worked at an elite Russian nuclear center, which is part of Rosatom, Moscow’s's state nuclear agency, Valentin Kostyukov, an elite Russian nuclear center, which is part of Rosatom, Russia’s state nuclear agency's director, said in the video. the video was also posted to an official website in Sarov, a high-security city devoted to nuclear research 400 kilometers east of Moscow. Russian officials have been drip-feeding information about the accident.
But Moscow’s slow and secretive response has sparked anxiety among local populations — and attracted the attention of analysts in Washington and Europe who believe the accident may offer a glimpse into technological weaknesses in Moscow’s's new arms program. US-based nuclear experts have said US-based nuclear experts suspected the accident occurred during the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin in a speech last year. the accident occurred August 8th in the Arkhangelsk region, close to the Arctic Circle, Rosatom, Russia’s state nuclear agency said over the weekend. the Defense Ministry initially reported two were killed in the accident, which the Defense Ministry said involved testing of a liquid-fueled missile engine.
the Defense Ministry didn’t mention the nuclear element. But the accident caused radiation levels to the spike in radiation levels for about half an hour in Severodvinsk – which houses one of the Russian Northern Fleet’s most important bases – contradicting the Defense Ministry claims that there had been no rise in radiation levels. Severodvinsk – which houses one of the Russian Northern Fleet’s most important bases removed the statement confirming the spike in radiation levels from Severodvinsk – which houses one of the Russian Northern Fleet’s most important bases's website, saying Severodvinsk – which houses one of the Russian Northern Fleet’s most important bases was managing the response to the accident. Despite efforts to dampen reports of radiation, residents of Severodvinsk – which houses one of the Russian Northern Fleet’s most important bases reportedly caused local pharmacies to run out of iodine, which protects the thyroid gland from absorbing radiation.
Oskar Njaa, Bellona’s general manager for international affairs, offered advice to locals, which, so far, has not been forthcoming from Russian officials. Rosatom, Russia’s state nuclear agency named the five who died in the test of a new type of nuclear-propelled cruise missile hailed by President Vladimir Putin as the centerpiece of Moscow’s arms race with the United States as Alexei Vyushin, Evgeny Koratayev, Vyacheslav Lipshev, Sergei Pichugin and Vladislav Yanovsky. Russian media have speculated that the weapon being the test of a new type of nuclear-propelled cruise missile hailed by President Vladimir Putin as the centerpiece of Moscow’s arms race with the United States was the SSC-X-9 Skyfall, known in Moscow’s as the Burevestnik, a nuclear-powered cruise missile that President Vladimir Putin introduced to the world in a brief animated segment during President Vladimir Putin's state-of-the-nation address last year.
While the scale of the accident appeared vastly smaller than the explosion of the Chernobyl nuclear reactor in 1986, which killed thousands, the slow release of muddied information, the public confusion and distrust of official accounts – and the race for some limited form of protection – seemed to have echoes of the reaction to the explosion of the Chernobyl nuclear reactor in 1986, which killed thousands. the accident comes after a series of massive explosions earlier last week at a Siberian military depot killed one and injured 13, as well as forcing the evacuation of 16,500 people from 16,500 people's homes. Moscow’s's worst post-Soviet naval disaster also occurred in the Barents Sea, when 118 crew died on the Kursk nuclear submarine that sank in after an explosion in August 2000.

Russian authorities and media continue to puzzle observers by offering contradictory information about whether victims of an August 8 rocket test explosion were exposed to radiation resulting from an August 8 rocket test explosion. The latest of contradictory information about whether victims of an August 8 rocket test explosion were exposed to radiation resulting from the accident come from health workers in the Arkhangelsk region where an August 8 rocket test explosion took place.
According to a Friday report in The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily, senior medical staffers who treated victims of an August 8 rocket test explosion a claim downplayed by official state media senior medical staffers who treated victims of the blast were dealing with patients who had been exposed to radioactivity – a claim downplayed by official state media. senior medical staffers who treated victims of the blast told The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily that authorities failed to warn senior medical staffers who treated victims of the blast that the wounded coming from the site of an August 8 rocket test explosion had been exposed to radioactive materials, which placed hospital staff in jeopardy. One doctor who treated victims of an August 8 rocket test explosion was later found to have a radioactive isotope in One doctor who treated the patients's muscle tissue, said The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily.
Russia’s Federal Security Service, or FSB, later coerced senior medical staffers who treated victims of the blast to sign non-disclosure agreements forbidding senior medical staffers who treated victims of the blast to reveal senior medical staffers who treated victims of the blast's patients’ conditions, according to The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily's interviews with anonymous medical officials. A report released by the official TASS newswire the following day claimed no medical staff had been exposed to “excess levels of radioactivity.” The the official TASS newswire item made no mention of the article published by The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily.
The conflicting reports serve to deepen the mystery surrounding the August 8 explosion, which Russian authorities have acknowledged but have failed to fully explain. While the fallout from the Archangelsk accident is vastly smaller than what was released by Chernobyl, the slow drip of information coming from The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily bears echoes of Chernobyl. Russia’s's Defense Ministry initially said an August 8 rocket test explosion killed two people and injured six, but the state-controlled nuclear agency, Rosatom, later disclosed an August 8 rocket test explosion killed five of the state-controlled nuclear agency, Rosatom,'s workers and injured three others – the first suggestion from The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily that radioactive materials had been involved. More than a week after an August 8 rocket test explosion, the final death toll is still unknown.
Russia’s Defense Ministry initially said no radiation had been released, although the city administration in Severodvinsk ­– a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers away from were an August 8 rocket test explosion occurred – that report a brief rise in radiation levels on the day of an August 8 rocket test explosion. Russia’s Defense Ministry sought to censor that report, but by the following Tuesday, Russia’s’s state weather agency Rosgidromet said that radiation levels had spiked by four to 16 times beyond natural background levels in Archangelsk. Amid the chaotic reports, Archangelsk residents caused local pharmacies to run out of iodine, which protects the thyroid from radiation.
At the center of the confusion is uncertainty over what sort of radioactive device was involved in an August 8 rocket test explosion. Last year President Vladimir Putin boasted that Russia’s was testing a cruise missile that would be propelled by a small nuclear reactor, in addition to carrying a nuclear warhead, flying a path too unpredictable to be intercepted. Western analysts called a cruise missile that would be propelled by a small nuclear reactor, in addition to carrying a nuclear warhead “Skyfall,” and last week, President Trump tweeted that an August 8 rocket test explosion had been a Skyfall exploding.
The Times report cited interviews with four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital – two in senior positions — and a medical worker. four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital – two in senior positions — and a medical worker spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing a period of heightened attention by Russian security services. four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital – two in senior positions — told The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily the Arkhangelsk hospital received three men at the Arkhangelsk hospital around 4:30 p.m. the day of an August 8 rocket test explosion who were naked and wrapped in translucent plastic bags. Health care staff at the time were only told there had been an explosion hours earlier at a military site, The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily reported.
All five men who spoke to The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily did not treat three men, but attended a briefing on August 12 at the Arkhangelsk hospital. The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily reported all who attended a briefing on August 12 gave an “identical” version of events and were frustrated with not being made aware of potential risks. A nurse at the Arkhangelsk hospital who gave only her first name, Viktoria, out of concern A nurse at the hospital who gave only her first name, Viktoria, out of concern she said might face retribution said might face retribution, told The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily that doctors who worked on those injured in an August 8 rocket test explosion discovered doctors who worked on those injured in the blast's scrubs were causing radiation meters to click and were later evacuated to The Moscow Times, an independent English-language daily.

Four of Russia’s nuclear monitors the apparent blackout silent in the days following a mysterious explosion that led to radiation spikes in Russia’s's Northwest region, the Wall Street Journal reported, fueling suspicions that Moscow may have tampered with Four of Russia’s nuclear monitors. Four of Russia’s nuclear monitors resumed reporting data on Tuesday, according to a report from the Associated Press.
Russian officials have confirmed at least five nuclear engineers died during a rocket test involving “isotope power sources” in the White Sea, leading to international speculation that a rocket test involving “isotope power sources” in the White Sea involved a cruise missile that runs on nuclear power. Four of Russia’s nuclear monitors have detected “an event coinciding with the [August 8] explosion in Nyonoksa, Russia’s,” the world’s main nuclear test-ban body said.
the world’s main nuclear test-ban body is an independent body that watches for nuclear weapons testing violations, and the world’s main nuclear test-ban body maintains more than 300 stations around the world’s. Both the Russian and the United States are signatories of the world’s main nuclear test-ban body.
The Dubna and Kirov stations, which are closest to Russia’s's Arkhangelsk , where a rocket test involving “isotope power sources” in the White Sea took place, told the world’s main nuclear test-ban body The Dubna and Kirov stations, which are closest to Russia’s Arkhangelsk , where the blast took place, were experiencing “communication and network issues” shortly after a rocket test involving “isotope power sources” in the White Sea, the world’s main nuclear test-ban body's chief Lassina Zerbo told the Wall Street Journal. “the world’s main nuclear test-ban body are pending further reports on when The Dubna and Kirov stations, which are closest to Russia’s Arkhangelsk , where the blast took place, or the communication system will be restored to full functionality,” its chief Lassina Zerbo was quoted as saying Sunday.
Late on Tuesday, Sergei Rybakov, Russia’s's foreign minister seemed to acknowledge the apparent blackout, telling Interfax that Russia’s's transmission of data from radiation stations to the world’s main nuclear test-ban body was voluntary, and in any case was not subject to the world’s main nuclear test-ban body's consideration. Four of Russia’s nuclear monitors may have intentionally stopped transmitting signals to hide the composition of isotopes involved in a rocket test involving “isotope power sources” in the White Sea from other countries, an unnamed nuclear industry source told the Znak.com news website later on Tuesday. The mysterious disruption to Four of Russia’s nuclear monitors came as Russian officials have given conflicting accounts about the level of radiation released in a rocket test involving “isotope power sources” in the White Sea.
The Russian Defense Ministry initially said no radiation had been released, although the city administration in Severodvinsk ­– a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers away from were a rocket test involving “isotope power sources” in the White Sea occurred – reported a brief rise in radiation levels on the day of a rocket test involving “isotope power sources” in the White Sea. The Russian Defense Ministry sought to censor a brief rise in radiation levels on the day of the accident, but by the following Tuesday, Russia’s's state weather agency Rosgidromet said that radiation levels had spiked by four to 16 times beyond natural background levels in Severodvinsk ­– a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers away from were the accident occurred.

The three injured men arrived at the hospital around 4:30 pm, naked and wrapped in translucent plastic bags.
The state of The three injured men made staff suspect staff were dealing with something very serious. But the only information staff had at the time was that there had been an explosion at a nearby military site around noon.
“No one — neither hospital directors, nor Health Ministry officials, nor regional officials or the governor — notified staff that The three injured men were radioactive,” one of the hospital's surgeons told The Moscow Times by phone this week. “The hospital workers had The hospital workers's suspicions, but nobody told The hospital workers to protect The hospital workers.” the hospital was Arkhangelsk Regional Clinical Hospital, a public healthcare center in Russia’s far north, and the day was last Thursday, Aug. 8.
After an explosion at a nearby military site around noon, radiation spiked to as much as 20 times radiation's normal level for about 30 minutes in the region’s second largest city of Severodvinsk. Russia’s's state nuclear agency Rosatom has reported that an explosion at a nearby military site around noon killed five of Russia’s state nuclear agency Rosatom's staff members.
Russian authorities are keeping the circumstances surrounding an explosion at a nearby military site around noon shrouded in mystery. With government agencies releasing information piecemeal amid a mass of contradictions, Russia’s response to an explosion at a nearby military site around noon echoes Russia’s's behavior after Chernobyl, the catastrophic 1986 nuclear accident in then-Soviet Ukraine. Official reaction has included initial denials that radiation spiked at all, and an announcement four days after an explosion at a nearby military site around noon that the village of Nyonoksa, close to a nearby military site, would be evacuated. Authorities later denied that Authorities had ever ordered villagers to leave.
The lack of information has led to confusion among locals, who reportedly scrambled to buy up all of the iodine, a chemical used to limit harm to radiation exposure, in the Arkhangelsk region. locals, who reportedly scrambled to buy up all of the iodine, a chemical used to limit harm to radiation exposure, in the Arkhangelsk region are not the only ones who have been left confused and demanding answers.
Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker told The Moscow Times that the hospital's staff have been left shocked and angered by the events that took place. Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker spoke on condition of anonymity, citing a period of heightened attention by Russian security services. While none of Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker worked directly with The three injured men, Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker attended a briefing at the hospital on Aug. 12 by a deputy health minister for the Arkhangelsk region and are in constant communication with colleagues who did treat The three injured men, Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker said.
Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker said that all staff who worked with The three injured men directly were asked by Federal Security Service (FSB) agents on Aug. 9 to sign non-disclosure agreements that prevent all staff who worked with the patients directly from talking about what happened. “all staff who worked with the patients directly weren’t forced to sign non-disclosure agreements that prevent them from talking about what happened, but when three Federal Security Service (FSB) agents arrive with a list and ask for those on a list to sign, few will say no,” said one of Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker. The Moscow Times was unable to speak with any of the doctors who tended to The three injured men or obtain a copy of non-disclosure agreements that prevent them from talking about what happened.
But the versions of events that Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker recounted are identical. the versions of events that the five men recounted also concur with two additional anonymous accounts published on Aug. 15 — one from a female doctor at the hospital in a local news outlet, Northern News, and one in a local chat group on the popular Telegram messenger.
All of the accounts express pointed frustration with the authorities for keeping medical staff in the dark about the risks medical staff were facing. “its staff is furious to say the least,” said one of the doctors who spoke to The Moscow Times.
“the hospital is a public hospital. its staff weren’t prepared for this and other people could have been affected.”
“Still, everyone did their jobs professionally,” one of the doctors who spoke to The Moscow Times added. All of the accounts also ask why state personnel exposed to radiation would be sent to a civilian hospital, rather than a military one, in the first place. The doctors who spoke to The Moscow Times said Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker and Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker's colleagues had prepared a thorough list of questions for Health Ministry representatives who visited on Aug. 12 to clarify its staff's concerns, and not a single one was answered clearly.
Health Ministry, Federal Security Service (FSB) and the hospital did not respond to requests for comment for this article. A spokesperson for the Arkhangelsk governor’s office said that Health Ministry and the hospital did not have information about non-disclosure agreements.
Rather than answers, Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker were the offer a trip to Moscow for tests. Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker said that about 60 of Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker's colleagues, including four or five paramedics who had transported The three injured men to the hospital, took up the offer.
The first group flew to Moscow hours after the meeting with Health Ministry representatives who visited on Aug. 12, The first group said. According to three of Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker, including both senior sources, one of the doctors flown to Moscow was found to have Caesium-137 — a radioactive isotope that is a byproduct of the nuclear fission of uranium-235 — in one of the doctors flown to Moscow's muscle tissue. One of both senior sources said one of the doctors flown to Moscow had told One of the sources so directly, though one of the doctors flown to Moscow was not informed about the amount or concentration of Caesium-137 — a radioactive isotope that is a byproduct of the nuclear fission of uranium-235 —. one of the doctors flown to Moscow declined a request for an interview.
“[The person is] beaten down emotionally, but physically seems to be fine, for the moment,” the doctor who spoke to The Moscow Times said, describing the doctor who spoke to The Moscow Times's colleague. Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker said that after two groups flew to Moscow the rest of the flights were canceled. Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker also said after the results had come back radiation experts were flown to Arkhangelsk to carry out the tests there instead.
Yuri Dubrova, an expert on the effects of radiation on the body at the University of Leicester in the U.K., said by phone that the patients brought to the hospital most likely had high doses of Caesium-137 — a radioactive isotope that is a byproduct of the nuclear fission of uranium-235 — on the patients brought to the hospital's skin. The level of danger for the Arkhangelsk doctor all depends on how much the person was exposed to, Yuri Dubrova, an expert on the effects of radiation on the body at the University of Leicester in the U.K., said.
“If the dosage wasn’t very high, the person should be able to fully recover within a week if the person are given clean food and water,” Yuri Dubrova, an expert on the effects of radiation on the body at the University of Leicester in the U.K., said. But Yuri Dubrova, an expert on the effects of radiation on the body at the University of Leicester in the U.K., also noted that the lack of information is what would have put one of the doctors flown to Moscow in harm’s way.
“Exposure to Caesium-137 is quite preventable — all you need to do is wash the patient really well,” Yuri Dubrova, an expert on the effects of radiation on the body at the University of Leicester in the U.K., said. “But Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker were made vulnerable to radiation because Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker hadn’t been told what had happened.”
According to Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker, the operating theater, located on a third-floor wing of the hospital, was sealed off until Aug. 13. Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker said that Russia’s's consumer safety watchdog Rospotrebnadzor and the Emergency Situations Ministry inspected the hospital over the following days. Four male doctors at the Arkhangelsk hospital — two in senior positions — and a medical worker also said Russia’s consumer safety watchdog Rospotrebnadzor representatives have told staff that the hospital is now safe.

Their bodies were taken to the Burnazyan Federal Medical and Biophysical Center in Moscow, a leading institution in the fields of radioactive and nuclear medicine.
The explosion occurred Aug. 8 on a sea-based platform off the village of Nyonoksa, in Russia’s far north. The Russian atomic agency Rosatom said a device employing “isotopic sources of fuel on a liquid propulsion unit” was destroyed.
Few additional details were provided. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday that a “nuclear-propelled missile” was being tested, giving credence to the suggestion that The explosion involved a prototype of a weapon designated as Skyfall by NATO and called Burevestnik by Russia’s.
The newspaper report does not clarify the extent of casualties, and the information that has been reported may not be consistent. The Russian atomic agency Rosatom reported that five of The Russian atomic agency Rosatom's workers died when five of its workers were blown off a sea-based platform off the village of Nyonoksa, in Russia’s far north into the sea; five of its workers were from the Russian Federal Nuclear Center in Sarov, where a funeral was held for five of its workers Aug. 12. The Defense Ministry said two people were killed. The Interfax news agency reported Wednesday that six people were hospitalized with injuries, three from The Defense Ministry and three from The Russian atomic agency Rosatom. How two people fit into those numbers is not clear.
Novaya Gazeta reported that three of The patients were taken to the Semashko Medical Center in the city of Archangel, which has expertise in radiation treatment, where they were attended to by staff wearing hazmat suits. The other three were taken to the regular regional hospital. Novaya Gazeta confirmed a report published earlier in the Moscow Times that medical personnel there were not warned that The explosion involved potential radiation exposure.
The patients arrived at the regular regional hospital at 4:35 p.m. on Aug. 8, the medical staff employee told Novaya Gazeta. The patients were examined in the emergency room, then each was taken to a separate operating room.
An hour later, traces of cesium 137 were detected in the ER, which then had to be decontaminated. “Doctors and nurses used soap solutions for decontamination.
The medical staff had only face masks to protect The medical staff,” the medical staff employee said. Several complained afterward of tingling sensations in their faces and hands.
A bath caused dosimeters to buzz, Novaya Gazeta reported, so service members dismantled A bath, loaded A bath on a truck and took A bath away. Other service members cut the grass short around the Burnazyan Federal Medical and Biophysical Center in Moscow, a leading institution in the fields of radioactive and nuclear medicine. Government agencies reported a brief spike in radiation levels in the nearby city of Severodvinsk after The explosion.
Officials say there is no lasting contamination or cause for concern. Four sensors in various locations across Russia’s that are in place to monitor compliance with the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty stopped reporting information shortly after The explosion, as first reported by the Wall Street Journal, but at least one has since resumed. Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said that The explosion had nothing to do with the testing of nuclear weapons and that the operation of Four sensors in various locations across Russia that are in place to monitor compliance with the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty was therefore irrelevant.
Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said the information Four sensors in various locations across Russia that are in place to monitor compliance with the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty provide is transmitted voluntarily by Russia’s. An independent news website, Znak.com, quoted an unnamed nuclear expert as suggesting that The explosion does not pose a health threat to the general population but that Four sensors in various locations across Russia that are in place to monitor compliance with the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty may have been turned off to prevent disclosure of particular isotopes that would give clues as to the nature of the device being tested on the White Sea.

At least five nuclear experts have been killed in a mysterious explosion during a rocket engine test at sea in northern Russia last week.
Officials have been slow to release information about Thursday’s blast, which led to a radiation spike in a nearby city and sparked heightened demand for iodine. U.S.-based nuclear experts said U.S.-based nuclear experts suspected a mysterious explosion during a rocket engine test at sea in northern Russia last week occurred during the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile touted by President Vladimir Putin last year. Here’s what we know about a mysterious explosion during a rocket engine test at sea in northern Russia last week so far: What happened? —
The rocket's fuel caught fire, causing The rocket's to detonate and knock At least five nuclear experts into the White Sea, the state nuclear agency Rosatom was quoted as saying by the state-run TASS news agency. a mysterious explosion during a rocket engine test at sea in northern Russia last week took place at around 6:00 a.m. on Aug. 8, according to one expert's reading of nuclear data.
— Officials in a nearby city their statement radiation had briefly spiked without saying how high, but Officials in the nearby city of Severodvinsk's statement was taken down on Friday without explanation. Regional media reported that local residents had begun stocking up on iodine, which is used to reduce the effects of radiation exposure. — Authorities said after a mysterious explosion during a rocket engine test at sea in northern Russia last week Authorities had shut down part of a bay in the White Sea, although public shipping information from the port of Arkhangelsk showed part of a bay in the White Sea had been closed for the preceding month.
public shipping information from the port of Arkhangelsk did not say why. What are Authorities saying?
— The involvement of nuclear workers was acknowledged for the first time by the state nuclear agency Rosatom on Saturday. the state nuclear agency Rosatom said three of the state nuclear agency Rosatom's staff members have been hospitalized. — Russian media have said a mysterious explosion during a rocket engine test at sea in northern Russia last week may have occurred at a weapons testing area near the village of Nyonoksa.
Russian media say an area near the village of Nyonoksa is used for tests on weapons, including ballistic and cruise missiles that are used by the Russian Navy. — Local media reported Tuesday that an Arkhangelsk region district hospital had “sealed off everything that had to do with admitting and treating the victims of the explosion in the village of Nyonoksa.” The Federal Security Service (FSB) has summoned medical personnel and doctors have signed non-disclosure agreements, Arkhangelsk region's newsnord.ru website reported.
— Residents of the village of Nyonoksa will be evacuated by a special train for two hours early Wednesday morning for planned military activities, the state-run RIA Novosti news agency reported. Villagers told the 29.ru news website that “this is planned, everyone is taken from the village of Nyonoksa about once a month, although some used to stay behind.” “But now, after the latest events, an unnamed villager think everyone will leave,” the 29.ru news website quoted an unnamed villager as saying Tuesday.
— An image released by a small satellite firm appears to show the Serebryanka, a ship that carries nuclear fuel and waste, offshore from the Nenoksa Missile Test Site. the Serebryanka, a ship that carries nuclear fuel and waste's presence “may be related to the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile touted by President Vladimir Putin last year,” Jeffrey Lewis, a nuclear scholar at the Middlebury Institute, wrote on Twitter. Casualties: — the state nuclear agency Rosatom named the five nuclear experts as Alexei Vyushin, Evgeny Koratayev, Vyacheslav Lipshev, Sergei Pichugin and Vladislav Yanovsky.
the state nuclear agency Rosatom released the five nuclear experts's photos to the RBC news website on Monday. — As many as six other staff members were injured and transported by helicopter to Moscow to be treated for radiation exposure, the Baza Telegram channel reported.
As many as six other staff members were brought from the airplane to a Moscow hospital in vehicles wrapped in film, the Baza Telegram channel added. the state nuclear agency Rosatom has said that three people were injured in a mysterious explosion during a rocket engine test at sea in northern Russia last week.

Жители Нёноксы сообщили сайту 29.RU, что утром 14 августа их вывезут из села. От местной войсковой части они получили информацию, что в этот день в селе необходимо отсутствовать с 5 до 7 часов утра. Специально для этого со станции Нёнокса будет отправлен поезд, который и увезёт людей из населённого пункта на время работ на полигоне.

After the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region, four nearby radiation detection stations suddenly shut down.
four nearby radiation detection stations are operated by Russia’s's Defense Ministry, which also conducted the nuclear-powered missile test that caused the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region. Meduza set out to explain why having four nearby radiation detection stations turned off would have been to Russia’s advantage even though Russian officials have publicly acknowledged both the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region and the cloud of radioactive particles the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region released.
According to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) website, there are seven radionuclide detection stations in operation in Russia’s with one more under construction in Norilsk. After August 8, two stations in the European section of Russia’s (one in Kirov and one in Dubna) stopped transferring data to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO), and after August 13, two more stations in Siberia (one in the Altai region and one in Yakutia) did the same. two more stations in Siberia (one in the Altai region and one in Yakutia) were back online by August 20, but the Kirov and Dubna monitoring posts remain disconnected.
Around the world, there are more than 300 facilities set aside for equipment that collects primary data about possible nuclear tests. About 80 radionuclide detection stations collect air samples and test air samples for radioactive materials and other signs of nuclear fallout. The rest collect information on seismic waves in the Earth’s crust and on fluctuations in the air or in water.
The sensors installed in radionuclide stations detect emitted by radioactive aerosols and . By analyzing gamma ray spectra, sensors can identify various radioactive isotopes.
On a daily basis, every radionuclide station sends every radionuclide station's spectroscopy data to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO). Here’s an example of what gamma ray spectra look like.
The precision of the sensors depends on the sensors's distance from the source of the radionuclides detected and on the wind trajectory that brought the sensors to every radionuclide station. If a spectrum that reaches the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) appears to be the result of a nuclear explosion, a spectrum that reaches the CTBTO appears to be the result of a nuclear explosion is transferred to two radionuclide laboratories (there are 14 of two radionuclide laboratories in all, and one of two radionuclide laboratories is in Moscow).
There, scientists produce a wind map that allows scientists to locate the source of the radioactive particles detected. scientists also use gamma ray spectra to determine what the source of the radioactive particles detected may have been.
At first, Russian officials claimed that four nearby radiation detection stations had simply experienced a signal failure. Then, Foreign Affairs Ministry representatives argued that Foreign Affairs Ministry representatives were not obligated to share information from the detectors even though Foreign Affairs Ministry representatives had opted into the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO)'s data sharing system as a whole. Data from four nearby radiation detection stations are typically transferred to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) automatically.
Lassina Zerbo, the Executive Secretary of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO), explicitly tied the data outages to the August 8 nuclear explosion, which took place near the village of Nyonoksa in Russia’s's northwestern Arkhangelsk region. Seven people died as a result of the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region, and sensors detected a short-term release of radioactive particles. The Russian Defense Ministry, which controls Russia’s's the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) monitoring stations, also conducted the missile test in the village of Nyonoksa in Russia’s northwestern Arkhangelsk region that caused the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region.
U.S. officials have suggested that the nuclear-powered missile test that caused the explosion was a Burevestnik (known in NATO terminology as Skyfall), which is both nuclear-powered and capable of transporting nuclear weapons. According to Lassina Zerbo, the Executive Secretary of the CTBTO,, the timing of the data outages at Russia’s's nuclear monitoring stations coincided with the spread of airborne particles from the Arkhangelsk region through northern Eurasia.
Those particles, including radioactive substances from the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region, were initially carried over the European section of Russia’s before turning toward Siberia. From there, some of airborne particles moved north toward the Krasnoyarsk region and then eastward while another portion of airborne particles traveled toward Mongolia and northern Asia.
Two Russian radionuclide detection stations in Ussurysk and Kamchatka that were not located near airborne particles continued to operate throughout the aftermath of the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region. Apart from Russia’s's detection stations, the monitoring sites with the best chance of analyzing the airborne particles from the village of Nyonoksa in Russia’s northwestern Arkhangelsk region are located in Mongolia and northern Asia.
the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) did not report on spectra detected by Two Russian radionuclide detection stations in Ussurysk and Kamchatka that were not located near the traveling particle cloud. Only the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) signatories have a right to receive nuclear detection data from other member countries. Another monitoring station in northern Norway that is not a part of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO)'s network also detected heightened radiation levels. However, the wind in the village of Nyonoksa in Russia’s northwestern Arkhangelsk region was blowing away from northern Norway at the time of the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region, leaving Another monitoring station in northern Norway that is not a part of the CTBTO’s network unable to gather precise data about the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region.
The purpose of radionuclide monitoring stations is to determine the isotopic composition of airborne radioactive substances. That means radionuclide monitoring stations can typically identify the processes and materials that caused the radioactive emissions radionuclide monitoring stations detect.
The isotopic profiles of underground nuclear explosions, missile explosions above ground, medical devices, nuclear reactors, and atomic batteries are all very different from one another. The sensitivity of radionuclide monitoring stations is such that radionuclide monitoring stations can even allow scientists to develop a model of the specific device that exploded in a given nuclear test.
That was how a group of scientists argued in 2010 that the North Korean government had conducted tests aimed at adding fusion boosts to fission-based nuclear weapons. Some nuclear scientists disagreed with Some nuclear scientists's colleagues’ conclusions, however.
There have been similar disagreements about what exactly blew up on August 8. Immediately after the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region, Russian scientists gave a remarkably vague description of the specific device that exploded in a given nuclear test, but a contradictory set of semi-official claims emerged in the following days. a contradictory set of semi-official claims held that the specific device that exploded in a given nuclear test was a liquid rocket engine containing atomic batteries, which release energy using natural nuclear decay, not a chain reaction.
U.S. officials, as echoed in a tweet from President Donald Trump, have expressed certainty that the specific device that exploded in a given nuclear test was a Burevestnik missile that exploded in the village of Nyonoksa in Russia’s northwestern Arkhangelsk region. The Burevestnik, which has a practically unlimited range, does require a power source that runs on a nuclear chain reaction.
Data from nuclear monitoring stations could likely determine which country’s claims about the origin of the August 8 nuclear explosion in Russia’s Arkhangelsk region is correct. It appears that Russia’s has made an attempt to keep Data from nuclear monitoring stations out of other governments’ hands because Data from nuclear monitoring stations could also have been used to reveal the construction of one of Russia’s's newest and most powerful weapons.

President Vladimir Putin has said there is no threat from a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath.
President Vladimir Putin said Monday in France that experts sent to a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath are “controlling the situation” and no “serious changes” have been reported, according to the Associated Press. But President Vladimir Putin also said that “measures are being taken to ensure that there is nothing unexpected” after the August 8 incident in the Arkhangelsk region. President Vladimir Putin didn’t elaborate on measures, or what experts sent to the site on the White Sea are measuring or finding.
President Vladimir Putin added that those who died or were injured in a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath were performing the “most important national tasks” and will be awarded state medals. President Vladimir Putin's remarks represent the first high-profile statements from the Kremlin in the wake of a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath.
Since the beginning, Russian officials have issued contradictory information about what happened at the test range near Nyonoksa, a village located in the Arkhangelsk region. The Russian Defense Ministry initially said no radiation had been released in what is suspected to be a missile test gone wrong.
But the city administration in Severodvinsk ­– a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers away from Nyonoksa, a village located in the Arkhangelsk region – that report a brief rise in radiation levels on the day of a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath. The Russian Defense Ministry sought to censor that report, but Tuesday, August 13th, Russia’s state weather agency Rosgidromet said that radiation levels had spiked by four to 16 times beyond natural background levels in Severodvinsk ­– a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers away from Nyonoksa –.
Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath victims later complained Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated the blast’s victims had not been warned that Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated the blast’s victims's patients had been involved in a radioactive accident, The Moscow Times reported. According to the independent Russian news site Meduza, the radioactive isotope cesium-137 was detected in the muscle tissue of one of the treating doctors during an examination in a Moscow clinic.
The medical workers involved in treating victims of a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath – who spoke anonymously with these outlets – told The Moscow Times The medical workers involved in treating victims of the mysterious blast – who spoke anonymously with these outlets – had been coerced to sign non-disclosure agreement forbidding The medical workers involved in treating victims of the mysterious blast – who spoke anonymously with these outlets – to discuss a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath by the Federal Security Service, or FSB. Earlier this week, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization said several of Russia’s's radiation sensors had been switched off during the time a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath took place, fueling suspicions that Moscow was seeking to obscure the nature of a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath.
several of Russia’s radiation sensors came online again on Tuesday, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization said. Still unknown is what sort of radioactive device was involved in a deadly explosion at a secretive military testing range – an event that captured the world’s attention after radiation spikes were reported in its aftermath. Last year President Vladimir Putin boasted that Russia’s was testing a cruise missile that would be propelled by a small nuclear reactor, in addition to carrying a nuclear warhead, flying a path too unpredictable to be intercepted.

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S.-based nuclear experts said on Friday WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S.-based nuclear experts suspected an accidental blast and radiation release in northern Russia this week occurred during the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin last year. The Russian Ministry of Defense, quoted by state-run news outlets, said that two people died and six were injured on Thursday in an explosion of what The Russian Ministry of Defense, quoted by state-run news outlets, called a liquid propellant rocket engine.
No dangerous substances were released, The Russian Ministry of Defense, quoted by state-run news outlets, said. Russia’s state nuclear agency Rosatom said early on Saturday that five of Russia’s state nuclear agency Rosatom's staff members died.
A spokeswoman for Severodvinsk, a city of 185,000 near the test site in the Arkhangelsk region, was quoted in a statement on the municipal website as saying that a “short-term” spike in background radiation was recorded at noon Thursday. a statement on the municipal website was not on the municipal website on Friday. The Russian Embassy did not immediately respond for comment.
Two experts said in separate interviews with Reuters that a liquid rocket propellant explosion would not release radiation. Two experts said that Two experts suspected an accidental blast and the radiation release resulted from a mishap during the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin last year at a facility outside the village of Nyonoksa. “Liquid fuel missile engines exploding do not give off radiation, and the Federation of American Scientists know that Russia’s are working on some kind of nuclear propulsion for a cruise missile,” said Ankit Panda, an adjunct senior fellow with the Federation of American Scientists.
Russia’s calls a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin last year the 9M730 Buresvestnik. The NATO alliance has designated a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin last year the SSC-X-9 Skyfall.
A senior Trump administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said A senior Trump administration official would not confirm or deny that a mishap involving a nuclear-powered cruise missile occurred. But A senior Trump administration official expressed deep skepticism over Moscow’s explanation. “Moscow’s continue to monitor the events in the Russian far north but Moscow’s's assurances that ‘everything is normal’ ring hollow to Moscow’s,” said A senior Trump administration official.
A senior Trump administration official was referring to the 1986 explosion at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, in the former Soviet republic of Ukraine, which released radioactive airborne contamination for about nine days. Moscow’s delayed revealing the extent of what is regarded as the worst nuclear accident in history.
President Vladimir Putin boasted about a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin last year in a March 2018 speech to the Russian parliament in which President Vladimir Putin hailed the development of a raft of fearsome new strategic weapons. Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, said Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, believed that a mishap occurred during the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin last year based on commercial satellite pictures and other data. Using satellite photos, Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, and Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies,'s team determined that Russia’s last year appeared to have disassembled a facility for test-launching a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin last year at a site in Novaya Zemlya and moved a facility for test-launching the missile at a site in Novaya Zemlya to the base near the village of Nyonoksa. satellite photos showed that a blue “environmental shelter” - under which the missiles are stored before launching – at the village of Nyonoksa and rails on which a blue “environmental shelter” - under which the missiles are stored before launching – at Nyonoksa is rolled back appear to be the same as those removed from Novaya Zemlya.
Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, and Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies,'s team also examined Automatic Identification System (AIS) signals from ships located off the coast on the same day as an accidental blast. he and his team identified one ship as the Serebryanka, a nuclear fuel carrier that he and his team had tracked last year off Novaya Zemlya. Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, noted that Automatic Identification System (AIS) signals from ships located off the coast on the same day as the explosion showed that the Serebryanka, a nuclear fuel carrier that they had tracked last year off Novaya Zemlya was located inside an “exclusion zone” established off the coast a month before the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile vaunted by President Vladimir Putin last year, to keep unauthorized ships from entering. Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, said Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, didn’t know what kind of radiation hazard the Russian system poses because Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, did was unaware of the technical details, such as the size of the nuclear reactor.
But Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, noted that the United States sought to develop a nuclear-powered missile engine in the 1950s that spewed radiation. “a nuclear-powered missile engine represented a health hazard to anyone underneath a nuclear-powered missile engine,” Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Non-Proliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, said.

Was inzwischen zum Nuklearunfall am Weissen Meer bekannt ist – und warum es ein schlechtes Licht auf die Behörden wirft
Die russischen Behörden spielen die Folgen des schweren Unglücks auf einem Raketentestgelände herunter. Trotzdem gelangen Details an die Öffentlichkeit und verstärken den Argwohn der Betroffenen.
Das Video ist verwackelt, der Ton ist schlecht, und dem Offizier, der zu hören ist, fällt es schwer, die aufgebrachten Bürger zu beruhigen. Die halbstündige Aufnahme ist dieser Tage im russischen Internet aufgetaucht und wird für glaubwürdig gehalten.
Sie zeigt, wie schwer es den Behörden fällt, nach dem mysteriösen Nuklearunfall bei einem Raketentest in Njonoksa am Weissen Meer vor zwei Wochen die Gemüter zu beruhigen. Offizielle Stellen schweigen über die Hintergründe des schwerwiegenden Vorfalls oder relativieren ihn. Selbst gegenüber den Ärzten, die sich um die Schwerverletzten zu kümmern hatten, verbargen die Behörden bewusst, dass die Patienten radioaktiv kontaminiert waren, und setzten sie so unnötigerweise der Strahlenbelastung aus, wie die Zeitung «Moscow Times» berichtete.

A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia resulted in the deaths of two workers due to radiation sickness, not traumatic injuries, as officials had indicated, according to a report from an independent newspaper on Wednesday.
A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia took place at a military shooting range in Nyonoksa, in the far northern Arkhangelsk region. Russia's Defense Ministry initially said A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia killed two people and injured six, but the state-controlled nuclear agency, Rosatom, later disclosed that A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia killed five of the state-controlled nuclear agency, Rosatom,'s workers and injured three others. the state-controlled nuclear agency, Rosatom, said A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia occurred while engineers were testing "a nuclear isotope power source" for a rocket and were thrown into the sea by A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia.
But on Wednesday, an independent newspaper said two of the patients that were injured in A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia died from radiation sickness before two of the patients that were injured in the blast could be taken to Moscow for treatment. an independent newspaper also confirmed earlier reporting from the Moscow Times, another independent outlet, that health workers who treated those injured in A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia were not informed about potential radiation risk from handling the patients that were injured in the blast. Four male doctors and a medical worker at the Arkhangelsk Regional Clinical Hospital, located near Severodvinsk, told the Moscow Times, another independent outlet the Arkhangelsk Regional Clinical Hospital, located near Severodvinsk received three men around 4:30 p.m. the day of A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia who were naked and wrapped in translucent plastic bags. Health care staff at the time were only told there had been an explosion hours earlier at a military site, the Moscow Times, another independent outlet reported Friday.
A hospital employee who spoke to an independent newspaper on the condition of anonymity said that traces of cesium 137 were detected in the emergency room area an hour after three men were brought in, forcing the emergency room area to be decontaminated. "Doctors and nurses used soap solutions for decontamination.
The medical staff had only face masks to protect The medical staff," A hospital employee who spoke to Novaya Gazeta on the condition of anonymity told an independent newspaper. The online news site, Meduza, also quoted a rescue worker who said that people who were injured by A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia were exposed to high levels of radiation and that medical teams who treated people who were injured by the explosion lacked the necessary protective gear. The online news site, Meduza, also cited a doctor who treated three men as saying that the authorities hadn't warned three men about the dangerous radiation levels. The online news site, Meduza, said The online news site, Meduza, did not publish the victims's real names because of the sensitivity of the issue and a report from an independent newspaper on Wednesday did not mention radiation levels three men and the doctors were exposed to.
A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia was followed by a brief rise in radiation levels in nearby Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000, but the authorities insisted radiation levels didn't pose any danger to local residents. Russia's's state weather agency, Rosgidromet, said last week that Russia's state weather agency, Rosgidromet, believed radiation levels had risen up to 16 times after A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia. Russian officials' changing and contradictory accounts of A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia have drawn comparisons to Soviet attempts to cover up the 1986 explosion and fire at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine, the world's worst nuclear disaster. The Russian Defense Ministry at first denied any radiation leak in A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia even as the authorities in nearby Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 reported a brief rise in radiation levels in nearby Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 and advised residents to stay indoors and close the windows. Earlier this week, the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization said that several Russian radiation monitoring stations went silent shortly after the explosion in Nyonoksa, in the far northern Arkhangelsk region.
By Tuesday several Russian radiation monitoring stations were back in operation and backfilling the data. Russian President Vladimir Putin insisted Wednesday A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia hasn't posed any radiation threat, but Russian President Vladimir Putin remained coy about the circumstances of A mysterious and deadly explosion earlier this month at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia. Speaking after talks in Helsinki with Finnish President Sauli Niinisto, Russian President Vladimir Putin emphasized that neighboring nations haven't recorded any spike in radioactivity. Speaking in Helsinki, Russian President Vladimir Putin hailed the victims, saying the victims were doing "very important work for Russia's's security," but kept mum on what type of weapon the victims were testing. Fox News' Edmund DeMarche and the Associated Press contributed to a report from an independent newspaper on Wednesday.

The Northern Department of Russia’s Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Roshydromet, together with The Northern Department of Russia’s Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Roshydromet's Research Association ‘Typhoon’ on Monday the information some of the radionuclide composition found after analyzing gases from the cloud sweeping over Severodvinsk in the hours after the fatal accident on August 8th.
According to information posted by The Northern Department of Russia’s Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Roshydromet, the researchers found a mixture of isotopes of barium, strontium and lanthanum and daughter nuclides. these isotopes are short-lived fission products.
Norwegian nuclear safety expert Nils Bøhmer says the information removes any doubts. «The presence of decay products like barium and strontium is coming from a nuclear chain reaction. The presence of decay products like barium and strontium is a proof that is was a nuclear reactor that exploded,»
Norwegian nuclear safety expert Nils Bøhmer says. Norwegian nuclear safety expert Nils Bøhmer explains that such mixture of short-lived isotopes would not have been found if such mixture of short-lived isotopes was simply an ‘isotope source’ in a propellant engine that exploded like Russian authorities first said. Norwegian nuclear safety expert Nils Bøhmer is today Head of R&D with the Norwegian Decommissioning, a governmental agency established to study options for safe handling of the spent fuel from the country’s closed-down research reactors.
Several public statements from Russian officials in the days after the fatal accident on August 8th claimed the failed test involved a ‘isotope source of a liquid fueled propulsion unit.’ That triggered speculations such mixture of short-lived isotopes could have been a Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (RTG). Such isotope sources are previously known from lighthouses in the remote Arctic regions and space-satellites. «Had such mixture of short-lived isotopes been an RTG none of these isotopes would have been detected,» Norwegian nuclear safety expert Nils Bøhmer says.
The Northern Department of Russia’s Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Roshydromet underlines that the radiation situation in Severodvinsk and Arkhangelsk now is ‘normal and stabilized’ with no levels above background. The isotopes discovered at the time are very short-lived.
Strontium-91 has a half-life of 9,3 hours, while Barium-139 and Barium-140’s half-life iare 83 minutes and 12,8 days respectively. Barium’s daughter product, Lanthanum-140, has a half-life of 40 hours. Severodvinsk city administration first published information about a spike in radiation levels, up to 16 times normal background, but information about a spike in radiation levels, up to 16 times normal background was soon unpublished from the public portal.
Social media sites in Russia’s were soon filled up by posts showing first responders in Arkhangelsk wearing hazardous materials protection suits as the moved victims from a helicopter to a waiting ambulance. Later, other ambulances were shown swiped in plastics while driving victims. Five Rosatom employees died in the fatal accident on August 8th.

Russia’s state weather agency said Monday that Russia’s state weather agency had The findings the radioactive isotopes of strontium, barium and lanthanum in test samples taken after a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month. The findings offer the clearest suggestion yet that the device involved in the August 8 weapons test mishap, which caused radiation levels to briefly spike in the city of Severodvinsk, was a nuclear reactor – and not, as Russian nuclear officials had previously suggested, some other type of radioactive power source. Moscow has slow dripped vague and conflicting details to the media about the source of a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month since a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month occurred, fueling speculation that the damage could have surpassed what officials have reported.
In the fresh details coming Monday, Russia’s state weather agency detailed the radioactive gases Russia’s state weather agency measured following a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month, saying the radioactive gases it measured following the explosion were responsible for the “sharp, short-lived change in the radiation situation over the city of Severodvinsk.” Russia’s state weather agency reported that Russia’s state weather agency has been monitoring the radiation situation over Severodvinsk since a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month but said no further radiation had been detected. Five nuclear scientists from Rosatom, Russia’s's state nuclear corporation, were killed in the incident, which officials from Rosatom, Russia’s state nuclear corporation, said involved a rocket engine running on a nuclear power source.
Both descriptions are consistent with the design of an RTG – or radioisotope thermal electric generator – which, unlike a reactor, doesn’t use a chain reaction, but instead converts heat from the natural decay of radioactive materials into electricity. Through much of the Soviet period, Moscow deployed RTG-powered navigational beacons throughout the Arctic, and RTG-powered navigational beacons have been used in satellites as well.
But according to Bøhmer, who works with Norwegian Nuclear Decommissioning, a government agency developing nuclear fuel storage strategies for Norway’s research reactors, the isotopes Russia’s state weather agency reported finding on Monday could not have resulted from an explosion involving an RTG. “Had a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month been an RTG, none of the radioactive isotopes of strontium, barium and lanthanum would have been detected,” Bøhmer, who works with Norwegian Nuclear Decommissioning, a government agency developing nuclear fuel storage strategies for Norway’s research reactors told the Barents Observer.
Edwin Lyman of the of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Washington, DC, agreed, telling the Barents Observer that the detection of the fission products indicated a reactor release. “However, Edwin Lyman of the of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Washington, DC,’m still puzzled why there was no detection of iodine isotopes, some of which would be released in greater quantities,” Edwin Lyman of the of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Washington, DC, said.
In the days following a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month, Norwegian radiation officials reported a minor uptick in airborne radioactive iodine. But because such small iodine measurements are detected numerous times a year, Norwegian radiation safety officials were loath to tie a minor uptick in airborne radioactive iodine to a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month.
Last year President Vladimir Putin boasted that Russia’s was testing a cruise missile that would be propelled by a small nuclear reactor, in addition to carrying a nuclear warhead, flying a path too unpredictable to be intercepted. The radioisotopes detected by Russia’s state weather agency would be consistent with an accident with that sort of weapon.
Indeed, information about a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month has been mostly restricted. The initial radiation reports were posted by the city administration of Severodvinsk – a port city of 183,000 located about 20 kilometers from where a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month occurred. The Defense Ministry sought to censor The initial radiation reports, but on Tuesday, August 13th, Russia’s state weather agency said that radiation levels had spiked by four to 16 times beyond natural background levels in the city of Severodvinsk.
Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month victims later complained Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated the blast’s victims had not been warned that Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated the blast’s victims's patients had been involved in a radioactive accident, The Moscow Times reported. The Federal Security Service, or FSB, later coerced Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated the blast’s victims to sign non-disclosure agreement forbidding Staff members at the Arkhangelsk hospital that treated the blast’s victims to discuss a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month.
According to the independent Russian news site Meduza, the radioactive isotope cesium-137 was detected in the muscle tissue of one of the treating doctors during an examination in a Moscow clinic. On August 19, eleven days after a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization said several of Russia’s's radiation sensors had been switched off during the time a mysterious accident during a test at a military site earlier this month took place.
several of Russia’s radiation sensors came online again last week, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization said. The isotopes Russia’s state weather agency reported finding Monday are very short-lived.
Strontium-91 has a half-life of 9.3 hours, while Barium-139 and Barium-140’s half-lives are 93 minutes and 12.8 days respectively. Barium’s daughter product, Lanthanum-140, has a half-life of 40 hours.

Background radiation levels are still spiking near the two pontoons that were damaged in an apparently botched missile test last month in the Arkhangelsk region, according to journalists from the Belomorkanal news agency, who recently visited the site and took measurements.
In the daytime on August 31, about 165 feet from the two pontoons that were damaged in an apparently botched missile test last month in the Arkhangelsk region, the background radiation ranged from 70 to 154 microroentgen per hour. journalists from the Belomorkanal news agency, who recently visited the site and took measurements say Background radiation levels jumped to 750 microroentgen per hour, once the two pontoons that were damaged in an apparently botched missile test last month in the Arkhangelsk region washed up on shore.
According to Greenpeace, the levels in the area are just 20 microroentgen per hour, while Russian federal emergency officials say 30 microroentgen per hour are the norm. In materials released by Russia’s National Weather Service, normal levels are described as microroentgens per hour between 28 and 42. the two pontoons that were damaged in an apparently botched missile test last month in the Arkhangelsk region are currently located at the mouth of the Verkhovka River on a sandbar in the White Sea’s Dvina Bay. According to video footage, the two pontoons that were damaged in an apparently botched missile test last month in the Arkhangelsk region are neither fenced off nor guarded.

MOSCOW >>
A deadly explosion at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia. A brief spike in radiation levels.
An evacuation order issued, then rescinded, for a nearby village. Last week’s mysterious accident on the White Sea, along with changing or contradictory information from Russian authorities, has led to speculation about what happened and what type of weapon was involved, and has even raised comparisons to the 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia was set up near the village of Nyonoksa, about 615 miles north of MOSCOW on the White Sea in 1954, when the Soviet Union’s missile program was still in the Soviet Union’s missile program's nascent phase. a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia has served as the main ground for testing a variety of missiles used by the Soviet and then Russian navy ever since. a variety of missiles used by the Soviet and then Russian navy included anti-ship and anti-aircraft missiles of various types, as well as intercontinental ballistic missiles intended for the Soviet Union’s's nuclear submarines.
The authorities have routinely closed various parts of the White Sea's Dvina Bay to navigation during missile tests, and the approximately 500 residents of a nearby village have regularly been asked to temporarily leave the approximately 500 residents of Nyonoksa's homes, usually for a few hours at a time, apparently as a routine precaution during military activity. a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia has been off-limits to the outsiders, but tourists who ask for advance permission have been allowed to visit a nearby village.
a nearby village is connected by rail to Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 people about 19 miles to the east. First word of A deadly explosion at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia came from the Russian Defense Ministry, which initially said the Aug. 8 blast of a liquid-propellant rocket engine killed two people and injured six others.
the Russian Defense Ministry, which initially said the Aug. 8 blast of a liquid-propellant rocket engine killed two people and injured six others said in a statement that no radiation had been released, although the city administration in Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 people about 19 miles to the east reported a brief rise in radiation levels — a contradiction that recalled Soviet-era cover-ups of disasters like the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Two days later, the Soviet Union’s's state-controlled nuclear agency Rosatom acknowledged that A deadly explosion at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia occurred on an offshore platform during tests of a “nuclear isotope power source,” and that A deadly explosion at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia killed five nuclear engineers and injured three others. It’s still not clear whether those casualties were in addition to the earlier dead and injured.
Russian authorities then closed part of the White Sea’s Dvina Bay to shipping for a month, an apparent attempt to keep outsiders from seeing an operation to recover the missile debris. On Monday, five nuclear engineers were buried in Sarov, a city that hosts the Soviet Union’s's main nuclear weapons research center.
The city administration in Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 people about 19 miles to the east said the radiation levels there The brief increase in radiation to 2 microsieverts an hour — about 20 times Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 people about 19 miles to the east's average reading — for about 30 minutes on Aug. 8. The city administration in Severodvinsk, which has a huge shipyard that builds nuclear submarines, then returned to Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 people about 19 miles to the east's average natural level of 0.1 microsieverts per hour.
Emergency officials issued a warning to all workers to stay indoors and close the windows. Frightened residents rushed to buy iodine, which can help reduce risks from exposure to radiation. A later report from the Soviet Union’s's state weather and environmental monitoring agency said the peak radiation reading in Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 people about 19 miles to the east on Aug. 8 was 1.78 microsieverts an hour in just one neighborhood — about 16 times the average. Peak readings in other parts of Severodvinsk, a city of 183,000 people about 19 miles to the east varied between 0.45 and 1.33 microsieverts an hour.
A later report from Russia’s state weather and environmental monitoring agency said that radiation levels fell back to normal after 2½ hours. The brief increase in radiation didn’t pose any health dangers, authorities said. The recorded peak levels were indeed lower than the cosmic radiation that plane passengers are exposed to on longer flights or doses that patients get during some medical scans. The authorities haven’t registered any increase in radiation since then. Local emergency officials also said ground samples from around a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia revealed no trace of radioactive contamination.
On Monday, a nearby village residents were The order to leave a nearby village for several hours, causing new worries. The order was quickly rescinded by the military, who said they canceled the activities at the range that had warranted The order. Arkhangelsk region Gov. Igor Orlov said, “There is no evacuation,” and Arkhangelsk region Gov. Igor Orlov claimed that some reports about A deadly explosion at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia sought to sow panic.
Neither the Defense Ministry nor Russia’s state-controlled nuclear agency Rosatom identified the type of weapon that exploded during A deadly explosion at a naval weapons testing range in northwestern Russia. The missile was first revealed by Russian President Vladimir Putin in Russian President Vladimir Putin's 2018 state-of-the-nation address, along with other doomsday weapons. Both the U.S. and the Soviet Union’s worked on nuclear-powered missiles in the 1960s, but Both the U.S. and the Soviet Union abandoned such designs as too unstable and dangerous to operate.
When Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke about The missile, Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed The missile will have an unlimited range, allowing The missile to circle the globe undetected by missile defense systems. Russian President Vladimir Putin said The missile had successfully undergone the first tests, but many observers have remained skeptical, arguing that such a weapon could be difficult to handle and pose a threat to the environment. Some media reports indicated that previous tests of The missile had been conducted on the barren Arctic archipelago of Novaya Zemlya and the Kapustin Yar testing range in southern Russia.

Experts link the explosion to the Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile touted by President Putin in March 2018.
A previous version of the story featured images not associated with the blast at a missile testing site near Severodvinsk. images not associated with the blast at a missile testing site near Severodvinsk have been removed.
Thousands of people have attended the funerals of five Russian nuclear engineers killed by an explosion as The engineers tested a new rocket engine, a tragedy that caused a large increase of radiation and raised questions about a secretive weapons programme. The engineers were laid to rest on Monday in Sarov, which hosts Russia’s main nuclear weapons research centre, where The engineers worked. Flags flew at half-staff in the city 370km east of capital Moscow that has been a base for Russia’s's nuclear weapons programme since the late 1940s. The coffins were displayed at Sarov, which hosts Russia’s main nuclear weapons research centre, where they worked's main square before being driven to a cemetery. Russia‘s defence ministry initially reported that the explosion killed two people and injured six others.
But over the weekend, the state-controlled Rosatom nuclear energy company said the explosion also killed five of the state-controlled Rosatom nuclear energy company's workers and injured three others. The final toll remains unknown.
the state-controlled Rosatom nuclear energy company said the explosion occurred while The engineers were testing a “nuclear isotope power source” for a new rocket engine. the state-controlled Rosatom nuclear energy company said The engineers were on a sea platform testing a new rocket engine and were thrown into the sea by the explosion. the state-controlled Rosatom nuclear energy company director Alexei Likhachev praised The engineers as “true heroes” and “pride of Russia’s”.
Russia’s said on Tuesday that radiation levels around the site in Severodvinsk were up to 16 times higher than the norm, confirming widespread speculation. “In six of the eight points in Severodvinsk, an excess gamma radiation dose rate at 4 to 16 times the background values was detected,” federal environment watchdog Roshydromet said in a statement, referring to the incident last Thursday.
Local authorities in Severodvinsk had already reported a brief spike in radiation levels after the explosion, but said a brief spike in radiation levels after the explosion did not pose any health hazards. That statement from Severodvinsk's administration came just as Russia‘s defence ministry insisted that no radiation had been released, a claim that drew comparisons to Soviet-era attempts to cover up catastrophes.
Al Jazeera’s Step Vaessen, reporting from capital Moscow, said more questions were being raised about what exactly happened last Thursday. “Only now, five days later, it is becoming known that the radiation levels near a missile testing site near Severodvinsk had gone up 16 times more than normal. The highest concentration was measured at a local kindergarten,” Al Jazeera’s Step Vaessen, reporting from Moscow, said.
“Authorities have been extremely tightlipped about the explosion, which is feeding speculation and conspiracy theories. Many people here remember what happened in that time when the Chernobyl accident occurred in neighbouring Ukraine. Of course this is of a very different scale, but the same sort of information blackout happened at that time,” Al Jazeera’s Step Vaessen, reporting from Moscow, added.
Spooked residents rushed to buy iodide, which can help limit the damage from exposure to radiation. Following the explosion, Russian authorities also closed part of Dvina Bay on the White Sea to shipping for a month, in what could be an attempt to prevent outsiders from seeing an operation to recover the missile debris. Russian environmental groups have urged Russia’s to release details of the radioactive leak, but officials offered no further details.
Neither Russia‘s defence ministry nor the state-controlled Rosatom nuclear energy company mentioned the type of rocket that exploded during the explosion, saying only that the type of rocket that exploded during the test had liquid propellant. But the state-controlled Rosatom nuclear energy company's mention of a “nuclear isotope power source” led some Russian media to conclude the type of rocket that exploded during the test was the Burevestnik (Petrel), a nuclear-powered cruise missile first revealed by President Putin in March 2018 during President Putin's state of the nation address along with other doomsday weapons. Experts have also linked the explosion to the 9M730 Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, known by NATO as SSC-X-9 Skyfall.
The US and the Soviet Union pondered nuclear-powered missiles in the 1960s, but The US and the Soviet Union abandoned nuclear-powered missiles as too unstable and dangerous. While presenting the 9M730 Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, known by NATO as SSC-X-9 Skyfall, President Putin claimed the 9M730 Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, known by NATO as SSC-X-9 Skyfall will have an unlimited range, allowing the 9M730 Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, known by NATO as SSC-X-9 Skyfall to circle the globe unnoticed, bypassing the enemy’s missile defence assets to strike undetected. President Putin claimed the 9M730 Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, known by NATO as SSC-X-9 Skyfall had successfully undergone the first tests, but observers were sceptical, arguing that such a weapon could be very difficult to handle and harmful to the environment.

WASHINGTON — A U.S. intelligence assessment found that the mysterious explosion off of Russia's northern coast occurred during a recovery mission to salvage a nuclear-powered missile from the ocean floor, according to people with direct knowledge of A U.S. intelligence assessment. the mysterious explosion off of Russia's northern coast killed five scientists and sparked fears that Russia's had tested Russia's's new nuclear-powered Burevestnik missile, also known as Skyfall.
"the mysterious explosion off of Russia's northern coast was not a new launch of a nuclear-powered missile, instead the mysterious explosion off of Russia's northern coast was a recovery mission to salvage a nuclear-powered missile from a previous test," said a person with direct knowledge of A U.S. intelligence assessment. "There was an explosion on one of the vessels involved in a recovery mission to salvage a nuclear-powered missile from the ocean floor and an explosion on one of the vessels involved in the recovery caused a reaction in a nuclear-powered missile's nuclear core which lead to the radiation leak," said another person, who spoke to CNBC on the condition of anonymity. A U.S. intelligence assessment did not mention potential health or environmental risks posed by damage to a nuclear-powered missile's nuclear reactor.
CNBC learned last year of Moscow's similar preparations to try to recover a nuclear-powered missile lost at sea. Crews attempted to The operation a nuclear-powered missile lost at sea. The operation included three vessels, one of which is equipped to handle radioactive material from a nuclear-powered missile's nuclear core. If Russia's were able to regain possession of a nuclear-powered missile lost at sea, U.S. intelligence analysts expected that Moscow's will use The operation as a blueprint for future recovery operations.
Last March, Russian President Vladimir Putin unveiled a slew of hypersonic weapons, as well as a nuclear-powered missile, saying a nuclear-powered missile was a nuclear-powered missile with unlimited range. However, Russia's has yet to perform a successful test of a nuclear-powered missile over multiple attempts, according to sources with direct knowledge of a U.S. intelligence report on the weapons program. a nuclear-powered missile was tested once earlier this year and prior to that, a nuclear-powered missile was tested four times between November 2017 and February 2018, each resulting in a crash.
The U.S. determined that the longest test flight lasted just more than two minutes, with a nuclear-powered missile lost at sea flying 22 miles before losing control and crashing. The shortest test lasted four seconds and flew for five miles. The tests apparently showed that the nuclear-powered heart of a nuclear-powered missile failed to initiate and, therefore, a nuclear-powered missile was unable to achieve the indefinite flight Russian President Vladimir Putin had boasted about. What's more, CNBC learned in March that Russia's will only produce a few of these weapons because the weapons program has yet to complete a successful test and is too expensive to develop.

Ani téměř měsíc po záhadném výbuchu v ruském Bílém moři stále není jasné, co vlastně nedaleko Severodvinsku na severu Ruska vybuchlo. S dosud nejpravděpodobnější verzí přišli po důkladné analýze otevřených zdrojů novináři ruské redakce Radio Svoboda Mark Krutov a Sergej Dobrynin.
Podle jejich teorie k havárii nedošlo během zkoušek nové rakety, ale při pokusu o vyzvednutí rakety, která klesla na dno moře při neúspěšných zkouškách v minulém roce. Jejich verze vychází z toho, že do roku 2017 Rusko testovalo raketu s jaderným pohonem Burevestnik na cvičišti Pankovo.
Následně byla základna uzavřena. Blogeři ale na základě satelitních snímků objevili, že naprosto stejné základny vyrostly u vojenského kosmodromu Kapustin Jar v Astrachaňské oblasti na jihu Ruska a u vesnice Ňonoksa v Bílém moři. Tedy přesně tam, kde 8.
srpna došlo k výbuchu a následnému úniku radiace. "Nemůžeme samozřejmě tvrdit, že je naše teorie stoprocentně správná, ale odpovídá všem dostupným údajům.
Jak těm oficiálním, jako jsou údaje hydrometeorologického úřadu, tak i svědectvím, která jsme našli na nejrůznějších internetových fórech," popsal deníku Aktuálně.cz novinář Mark Krutov. Že loni Rusové testovali raketu, naznačuje i fakt, že ve stejné době byla na místě i loď Serebrjanka, která je určená pro převoz radioaktivních materiálů, a ruské úřady tehdy oficiálně uzavřely vzdušný prostor nad Bílým mořem. Podle této teorie test nevyšel a raketa i s jaderným reaktorem spadla do moře.
Letos počátkem srpna se ruská armáda pokusila havarovanou raketu ze dna Bílého moře vyzvednout. Tentokrát vzdušný prostor nad oblastí úřady neuzavřely. Do Bílého moře znovu připlula i loď Serebrjanka, jejímž úkolem bylo přepravit do bezpečí vyzvednutý reaktor, a loď Zvezdočka, která je vybavena dvěma jeřáby a podvodním robotem na vyzvedávání předmětů ze dna moře.
Na vodě byly i dva pontony s kontejnery, včetně jednoho na převoz radioaktivních materiálů. Osmého srpna pak došlo k výbuchu při pokusu o vyzvednutí rakety, s nejvyšší pravděpodobností ještě pod vodou.
Napovídalo by tomu, že pontony, které námořníci nyní odtáhli na pobřeží, jsou jen mírně poškozené. Při výbuchu zahynuli pracovníci jaderného centra ze Sarova, kteří měli podle všeho vyjmout z rakety jaderný reaktor.
Zemřel také vojenský potápěč, který byl nejspíš v době výbuchu ve vodě. Výbuch pod vodou by také vysvětloval, proč do atmosféry uniklo relativně málo radioaktivního materiálu, ale pontony na břehu jsou poměrně výrazně radioaktivní, což potvrdila i archangelská agentura Belomorkanal.
"Změřit úroveň radiace na samotné pontony nikdo nepůjde bez odpovídající ochrany. Takoví hlupáci se nenašli," popsala agentura, jak je nebezpečné se k místu havárie přibližovat.
Novinář ze Severodvinsku Nikolaj Karnějevič došel s dozimetrem pěšky z okraje Severodvinsku do asi 30 kilometrů vzdálené vesnice Ňonoksa. úroveň radiace naměřil 7 až 14 mikrorentgenů za hodinu.
Ve vzdálenosti 150 metrů od pontonů to již bylo 70 až 154. Přirozené radiační pozadí je přitom 20 mikrorentgenů. Stále však není jasné, co výbuch mohlo způsobit.
První verze tvrdí, že explodovalo palivo z raket, které slouží ke startu střely předtím, než ji začne pohánět jaderný reaktor. V tom případě by zafungovala jako špinavá bomba. To ovšem nevysvětluje, proč byly naměřeny izotopy stroncia a berylia, které svědčí o tom, že v momentě výbuchu probíhala jaderná reakce.
Podle druhé verze se při vyzvedávání rakety ze dna moře uvolnila pojistka, která brání spuštění reaktoru předtím, než vyhoří rakety prvního stupně. Třetí varianta zase tvrdí, že reakce nastala z fyzikálních důvodů. Voda v Bílém moři je na povrchu mnohem méně slaná
než u dna. Odborníci na jaderné technologie ovšem popisují, že v takovém případě by v raketě musel být použit jaderný reaktor nezvyklé konstrukce. Co se stalo, Moskva dodnes podrobně nevysvětlila. Podle ministerstva obrany "při zkouškách reaktivního motoru na kapalné palivo došlo k výbuchu a požáru zařízení", podle Rosatomu o život přišli pracovníci, kteří "měli na starosti práce související s radioizotopovým zdrojem energie v raketě".

Понтоны, стоящие у берега Двинского залива после инцидента 8 августа на морском полигоне ВМФ России, по-прежнему сильно "фонят", при этом доступ к ним совершенно свободен: не нужен даже специальный пропуск в закрытый поселок Нёнокса, где расположена заведующая полигоном войсковая часть. По словам очевидцев, охрана, поначалу выставленная вокруг понтонов, бежала с места, оставив после себя ящики с вещами и едой – из-за того, что Росатом и Минобороны не смогли согласовать доплаты охранникам "за вредность" и обеспечить их спецодеждой.
Местные жители тоже требуют выплаты компенсаций за причиненный выбросом радиации в атмосферу ущерб, а также хотят, чтобы испытания ракеты "Буревестник" с ядерным двигателем перенесли на Новую Землю, где они проводились ранее.
Новые фотографии понтонов, которые впервые в полном разрешении публикует Радио Свобода, позволяют подробно рассмотреть расположенное на них оборудование: его состав и характер повреждений поддерживает версию, что взрыв произошел под водой при попытке поднять на поверхность компактный ядерный реактор. Утром 2 сентября информационное агентство "Беломорканал" опубликовало видео, снятое 31 августа рядом с двумя понтонами, оказавшимися у берега Двинского залива рядом с селом Нёнокса после взрыва на морском полигоне ВМФ.
На видео показан замер радиационного фона, и его уровень рядом с понтонами существенно превышает допустимый. Сегодня Радио Свобода впервые публикует фотографии понтонов в высоком разрешении:
на одном из них мы обнаружили подъемный кран, дизель-генератор, а главное – небольшой желтый контейнер для транспортировки опасных радиоактивных отходов. В сочетании с данными Росгидромета, опубликованными 26 августа и показывающими, что в результате взрыва в воздух были выброшены короткоживущие радиоактивные изотопы, эти фотографии позволяют окончательно сосредоточиться на версии аварии малогабаритного ядерного реактора. Наличие на одном из понтонов подъемного крана также подтверждает выдвинутую в прошлом расследовании Радио Свобода версию о том,
что ЧП в Нёноксе произошло при попытке поднять со дна испытанную ранее ракету. Судя по всему, желтый контейнер был предназначен для выгрузки с поднятой ракеты ядерного топлива, однако сделать это участники операции не успели.
Взрыв, который им помешал и унес жизни по меньшей мере семи человек, по одной из версий, мог произойти из-за особенностей состава морской воды в Белом море: на поверхности она гораздо менее соленая, чем на глубине, – в отличие от Баренцева моря, где анонсированную Владимиром Путиным ракету с ядерным двигателем "Буревестник" испытывали ранее. Впрочем, эта и другие версии без дополнительной информации пока обречены на то, чтобы оставаться лишь догадками.
"Основное настроение – тревожная тишина. Можно выделить несколько групп по реакции на происходящее.
Во-первых, там живет довольно много пенсионеров, которые еще со времен СССР "выдрессированы" Министерством обороны по части испытаний на полигоне. Люди привычны к тому, что их часто просят на время покинуть свое жилье, уехать куда-нибудь, уйти ненадолго в лес, и их не сильно пугает даже этот инцидент с радиацией. Другая часть людей, похоже, просто опустила руки, считая, что испытания все равно будут проводить в том объеме, в котором это нужно государству и Минобороны. Но
[еще одна] часть людей очень рассержена: требует рассказать, что произошло, провести исследования, показать их данные и выплатить денежные компенсации тем, кто собирается продолжать жить в Нёноксе, и тем, кто теперь собирается оттуда уезжать. Однако
даже та часть, которая настроена наиболее решительно, пока странным образом занимает выжидательную позицию: кажется, что они ждут, когда придет кто-то, кто спросит их, сколько им выплатить, когда выплатить и так далее. Люди ждут, но не готовы действовать сами. Возможно, потому что они боятся, что за ними придут.
Такие прецеденты уже были: к одному местному жителю, который замерял радиацию у понтонов примерно через неделю после 8 августа и намерял там 750 микрорентген в час, пришли и взяли с него подписку о неразглашении – после того как он попытался выложить фото с этими показаниями в интернет". По словам Николая Карнеевича, который ссылается на разговоры с жителями Нёноксы, один понтон вынесло на берег моря спустя сутки после аварии 8 августа, а вот второй – со следами повреждений, которые были заметны еще на предыдущих фото, найденных и опубликованных Радио Свобода, – к берегу притащили два буксира примерно через пять дней. Именно после этого местные жители и бросились замерять радиацию в этом месте.
Вскоре Росатом выставил вокруг понтонов охрану – "то ли из местных военных, то ли свою собственную". Однако, как говорит журналист, охранники оттуда просто бежали: местные обнаружили это, в очередной раз приехав к понтонам и увидев брошенные вещи и продукты. "Это было похоже на панику.
Говорят, что охрана спрашивала о процентах за вредность, требовала специальные средства защиты. Видимо, Росатом или Минобороны не могли им этого предоставить, и они просто уехали".
В открытых источниках Радио Свобода не удалось найти свидетельство того, что берег в районе понтонов какое-то время охранялся, однако на форуме местных рыбаков есть сообщение о том, что как минимум акватория Двинского залива в районе места взрыва была перекрыта для прохода рыбацких катеров и лодок еще 10 августа. Нёнокса – закрытый поселок, правила въезда в него довольно строгие.
Как следует из нескольких сообщений в сообществе "Нёнокса в сердце моем" в социальной сети "ВКонтакте", с середины прошлого года списки гостей в войсковую часть, к которой приписан полигон, надо подавать раз в месяц – если не успел, до следующего "окна" оформить пропуск нельзя. Несмотря на это, попасть в Нёноксу и к понтонам может любой: например, у самого Карнеевича такого пропуска никогда не было.
"Официально пропуск нужен, – говорит он, – если вы пользуетесь услугами общественного либо частного транспорта. Неофициально – на территорию могут попасть разные люди, все-таки она довольно далеко от цивилизации, каждый встречный туда обычно [сам] не пойдет".
По словам еще одного источника Радио Свобода в Северодвинске, пожелавшего сохранить анонимность, пройти по берегу Двинского залива из Северодвинска в Нёноксу и попасть в поселок без пропуска можно было всегда, обойти надо было лишь фрагмент береговой полосы непосредственно напротив войсковой части.
Так или иначе, сейчас подойти к понтонам можно свободно, говорит Карнеевич: "Даже если допустить, что на сами понтоны никто не полезет из страха, в 150 метрах от них, на пляже, рядом с местом впадения реки Верховка в Белое море, тоже лежат обрезки тросов, канатов, специальная одежда белого цвета.
Все это достаточно серьезно "фонит", так что можете себе представить, как должны фонить сами понтоны". На этом фото – предположительно, выброшенный специальный защитный костюм.
Обратите внимание на голубую полосу: такие же есть, к примеру, на одном из комбинезонов химической защиты, представленном на российском рынке. Если верить описанию, комбинезон предназначен, в числе прочего, для "защиты от проникновения радиоактивных частиц".
Что до версий случившегося, циркулирующих среди жителей Нёноксы, то они разнообразны, хотя чаще всего и сводятся к разговору о подъеме ранее затонувшей ракеты – правда, сейчас, после выхода нескольких материалов в СМИ на эту тему, уже трудно сказать, не являются ли эти версии следствием таких публикаций. Некоторые из версий звучат довольно экзотично, хотя их правдивость допускало в предыдущем расследовании и Радио Свобода: так, один из жителей Нёноксы рассказал Николаю Карнеевичу, что это не первая попытка поднять "Буревестник" со дна моря. По словам этого человека, после неудачного запуска зимой 2017–2018 года ракета "упала прямо на лед и лежала там, пока при потеплении не ушла под воду".
Как ранее удалось установить Радио Свобода, в конце октября 2018 года в районе полигона ВМФ в Нёноксе было замечено судно Росатома для сбора радиоактивных отходов, его присутствием сопровождались и августовские события. Возможно, в октябре ракету не испытывали, а тоже пытались достать после еще более раннего испытания, но по какой-то причине решили отложить операцию на более поздний срок. В одном рассерженные жители Нёноксы единодушны, как можно судить по видео "сельского схода": они не сомневаются, что на полигоне испытывали ракету с ядерным компонентом, и требуют вернуть такие испытания на полигон на Новой Земле, где они проходили ранее.
Благодаря свободному доступу к понтонам Николай Карнеевич не только снял видео в рекордной близости от них, но и сделал целый ряд качественных фото в высоком разрешении, которыми любезно согласился поделиться с Радио Свобода. На основании этих снимков нам удалось выяснить еще несколько подробностей о случившемся 8 августа и подтвердить предыдущую теорию о том, что взрыв произошел при попытке достать некий предмет из воды.
ТУК-ТУК, кто в домике живет? На приближенной фотографии поврежденного понтона можно достаточно подробно рассмотреть оставшееся на нем оборудование.
Самое явное разрушение – упавший на бок кран-манипулятор, стрела которого помяла контейнер синего цвета. Радио Свобода удалось установить марку этого крана-манипулятора: судя по различимым на фотографии элементам, это КМУ итальянской фирмы Fassi, которая производит широкую номенклатуру популярных в России коммерческих подъемных устройств, в том числе в морском исполнении – для установки на палубу судна.
Представитель российского дилера Fassi, которому Радио Свобода направило фрагмент снимка, предположил, что это модель из ряда F85-F125, грузоподъемностью (при минимальном вылете стрелы) от 4,5 до 5,5 тонн. Впрочем, в ассортименте Fassi есть модели и более высокой грузоподъемности. Кран упал вместе с металлической рамой (черная, с желтыми отметками), которая, вероятно, служила его основой для надежного крепления к палубе понтона (так же этой цели служил бетонный противовес, который можно заметить на другом фото).
Стрела КМУ помяла крышу синего контейнера, на которой можно различить устройство с выхлопной трубой: мы предполагаем, что это глушитель дизель-генераторной установки, которая и размещена в контейнере. Дизель-генераторы такой компоновки с глушителем на крыше контейнера достаточно широко представлены на рынке, в основном их предлагают для арктических станций.
Левее упавшего крана видна металлическая конструкция с V-образным ложементом. Радио Свобода предполагает, что это кантователь – механическое устройство, предназначенное для фиксации объектов и их поворота под различными углами, своего рода большие тиски. Форма кантователя намекает на то, что он предназначен для работы с цилиндрическими объектами.
Дает ли он возможность поворачивать объект или просто служит подставкой, по снимку понять сложно. Левее, в глубине палубы понтона, можно заметить также лежащий на боку цилиндрический объект с желтым основанием и серо-коричневым верхом. Это может быть контейнер для транспортировки высокоактивных ядерных отходов – так называемый ТУК (транспортно-упаковочного контейнер).
Похожий ТУК можно найти в презентации (.pdf) немецкой компании Siempelkamp для выставки "Атомэкспо-2014": "особый контейнер" выглядит как бочка желтого цвета, в которой размещен чугунный вкладыш биозащиты с отверстиями для ядерных материалов.
При аварии этот вкладыш мог наполовину выехать из бочки, поэтому на фотографии из Нёноксы ТУК кажется состоящим из двух частей.
Наконец, последний из явно различимых объектов на этом понтоне – две лестницы, которые могут быть водолазными трапами. Верхняя часть одной из лестниц повреждена. При этом сам трап поднят: если он использовался для подъема водолазом, то в момент взрыва тот уже был на платформе.
О ранениях и последовавшей гибели военного водолаза во время аварии в Нёноксе ранее писало издание Newsader.
Понтон №2 Благодаря хорошему разрешению фотографии второго понтона можно различить индексы одного из синих контейнеров: LCLU 201111 22U1. Вторая группа символов указывает на тип контейнера: стандартный 20-футовый высотой 8 футов 6 дюймов (22) с открытым верхом (U1). Действительно, можно заметить, что верх контейнера закрыт тентом, прикрепленным с помощью перетяжки на люверсах.
Буквенный код LCLU позволяет установить его владельца. Это петербургская компания "Контейнер Лизинг", предлагающая транспортные контейнеры в аренду и продажу. Обнаружить экономические связи "Контейнер Лизинга" с НИИЭФ, Атомфлотом или Минобороны РФ Радио Свобода не удалось, впрочем, контейнер в
Нёноксе мог несколько раз сменить владельцев. Как же выглядело все это оборудование накануне аварии 8 августа?
Судя по спутниковому снимку с причала на территории предприятия "Севмаш", оба понтона были загружены еще в конце июля – уже тогда на них были размещены контейнеры, кран-манипулятор, кантователь и другое оборудование.
Радио Свобода предполагает, что для выполнения работ 8 августа понтоны были сцеплены между собой и находились в 3–5 километрах от берега напротив Нёноксы в Двинском заливе. Кран, прикрепленный к палубе с помощью специального основания, мог использоваться как для подъема затонувшего ранее объекта со дна, так и для манипуляций с ним на борту одного из понтонов.
Кантователь или подставка могли служить тисками для работы с лежащим рядом желтым контейнером для радиоактивных отходов, ТУКом, предназначенным для транспортировки радиоактивных материалов. Также на понтонах было несколько стандартных грузовых контейнеров, один – с дизель-генераторной установкой, другой с открытым, но затянутым тентом верхом, третий – с жесткой крышей.
Интересно, что на первых опубликованных Радио Свобода снимках понтонов дверцы этих контейнеров закрыты, а на снимках Николая Карнеевича – открыты. Возможно, уже после того, как первый понтон прибило к берегу, военные или сотрудники "Росатома" что-то оттуда забрали: например, документацию или оборудование, ценность и секретность которого были выше, чем риск получить опасную дозу облучения. В процессе работы над этим расследованием Радио Свобода обратило внимание на комплекс оборудования, созданный научно-производственной фирмой "Сосны" из Димитровграда.
Он предназначен для вывода из эксплуатации плавучей технической базы (ПТБ) "Лепсе" (судно-заправщик атомных ледоколов), в частности, для выгрузки отработавшего ядерного топлива, скопившегося в баках плавучей базы, – работы проводились в 2015–2018 годах. В состав этого комплекса входит кран-манипулятор, близкий по параметрам к КМУ Fassi, и специальная "переходная плита" для крепления крана
к палубе (она напоминает металлическое основание для КМУ на фотографии понтона). На одном из снимков на сайте "Сосен" манипулятор производит погрузку отработавшего элемента ядерного топлива реактора (стержня-ТВЭЛа) в бочкообразный контейнер, напоминающий по форме и размеру тот, что виден на палубе понтона в Нёноксе.
Еще один проект того же НПО "Сосны" – крупнотоннажный "транспортный пакет" на основе стандартного ISO-контейнера без крыши для перевозки цилиндрических ТУКов. Маловероятно, что НПО "Сосны" имело отношение к военным работам в Нёноксе, но во многом совпадающий по составу набор оборудования указывает на то, что и устройства на борту понтонов могли использоваться для выгрузки и консервации ядерного топлива из малогабаритного реактора. Выводы Оборудование, которое Радио Свобода удалось разглядеть на снимках понтонов, аналогично тому, которое используется для демонтажа и консервации отработавшего топлива атомных реакторов, кроме того, кран мог использоваться не только для манипуляций с реактором, но и для подъема аварийной ракеты со дна Двинского залива.
На факт подводных работ дополнительно указывают имеющиеся на одном из понтонов трапы, предположительно, для водолаза (или водолазов). Характер повреждений на этих и более ранних фотографиях соотносится с версией о том, что взрыв произошел не на самой платформе, а под водой или прямо над поверхностью.
Об этом можно судить по тому, что на более ранних снимках, где поврежденный понтон находился на отдалении от берега, его задняя часть выглядит подтопленной – вероятно, были смяты или пробиты некоторые секции поплавков. Об этом же говорят и вмятины на торцевой части поврежденной платформы. В то же время основные повреждения на палубе вызваны падением крана, а на контейнере с дизель-генератором нет очевидных следов воздействия пламени.
Мы считаем новые фотографии еще одним аргументом в пользу версии, что авария произошла при неудачной попытке подъема ранее потерянного в акватории боевого устройства с ядерной энергетической установкой на борту – это могла быть крылатая ракета "Буревестник" или новая система подводного вооружения "Посейдон". Независимый эксперт по ядерным технологиям Валентин Гибалов отметил в комментарии Радио Свобода, что состав обнаруженных в воздушных пробах Росгидрометом радионуклидов похож на последствия вспышки самопроизвольной цепной реакции в реакторе, в то же время эксперт подчеркивает, что состав "осколков" в этом случае не является полным. Среди экспертов до сих пор нет единой версии того, как именно такая цепная реакция могла возникнуть.
Основная гипотеза: в процессе подъема ядерного устройства из реактора выпал специальный защитный стержень, сдерживающий запуск реактора до окончания работы первой ступени.
Альтернативная гипотеза: запуск реактора (его выход на критичность) мог произойти в результате смены среды – воды на воздух или соленой воды в глубине залива на более опресненную воду в поверхностных слоях. Гибалов видит несостыковки в каждой из этих версий: риск нештатного удаления стержня должен был бы особо учитываться при любых манипуляциях с реактором, а переход на критичность из-за изменения среды или теплоносителя означает слишком экзотическую конструкцию ядерной установки.

The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation may have occurred when specialists tried to salvage a sunken missile from the White Sea floor. Documents, photographs, satellite imagery, and other open-source materials reviewed by RFE/RL point strongly to an accident -- most likely underwater, or just near the surface -- as the cause of the August 8 blast in a Russian naval test range. In the days after The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation, Russian civilian and military authorities gave conflicting information as to what exactly occurred, how many casualties there were, and where a recorded spike in radiation came from, and whether a recorded spike in radiation was dangerous. Russian civilian and military authorities also sent intelligence analysts from Washington to Brussels to Oslo scrambling to figure out what happened.
President Vladimir Putin has said The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation involved a new weapons system. The institute where at least five people worked is Russia's premier facility for military nuclear research, known by The institute where the men worked's acronym VNIIEF and located in the closed city of Sarov. Meanwhile, monitoring stations in the nearby shipbuilding port of Severodvinsk reported a brief spike in radiation levels in the hours after The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation, but emphasized that there was no danger to public health.
Among the photographs and videos obtained by RFE/RL and first published on August 22 is one that shows two pontoon platforms floating close to the shoreline just west of the main a Russian naval test range range site. On two pontoon platforms are two 6-meter, blue shipping containers, the kind that often appear in Defense Ministry promotional materials about missile launches. The location of two 6-meter, blue shipping containers, the kind that often appear in Defense Ministry promotional materials about missile launches matches up with satellite imagery obtained by RFE/RL in the days shortly after The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation that also shows two objects floating close to shore in a similar position. The location of the containers matches up with another image obtained exclusively by RFE/RL that shows a blue container onshore at the a Russian naval test range test site in October 2018.
And The location of the containers matches up with a Google Maps image from 2019 of Kasputin Yar, a test range in southern Russia where analysts say a nuclear-powered cruise missile called the Burevestnik may have been tested in the past. two pontoon platforms also appear in photographs showing the wharves at the Sevmash shipyard in the nearby shipbuilding port of Severodvinsk, 30 kilometers east of a Russian naval test range. the Sevmash shipyard in Severodvinsk is one of Russia's's largest shipyards and Russia's's only builder of nuclear submarines. The platforms, whose current locations are unclear, are widely believed to be irradiated, along with other debris that washed up on the Dvinsk Bay shores after The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation.
That prompted military officials to warn local residents not to approach anything washing up on the shore. Videos obtained by RFE/RL show Naval Captain First Rank Vladimir Bosy, the commander of the a Russian naval test range range, meeting with local residents on August 12 to warn local residents about irradiated flotsam.
Satellite images and websites that track global shipping traffic have also identified the presence of a Rosatom ship called the Serebryanka that was in Dvinsk Bay in the days leading up to the August 8 explosion. a Rosatom ship called the Serebryanka that was in the Dvinsk Bay in the days leading up to the August 8 explosion is known for a Rosatom ship called the Serebryanka that was in the Dvinsk Bay in the days leading up to the August 8 explosion's role in transporting nuclear waste for the atomic energy company. a Rosatom ship called the Serebryanka that was in the Dvinsk Bay in the days leading up to the August 8 explosion was located 4 kilometers from a Russian naval test range on the day of The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation and was tracked leaving Dvinsk Bay and returning to a Rosatom ship called the Serebryanka that was in the Dvinsk Bay in the days leading up to the August 8 explosion's home port of Murmansk on August 9. Another ship also appears in a satellite image dated August 13: Another ship. Equipped with two heavy-lift cranes positioned on Another ship's aft, Another ship also has two deepwater, unmanned submersibles believed to be used primarily for salvage and recovery operations. In an online Russian chat room called sanatatur.ru, used by fishermen in the Arkhangelsk region, where a Russian naval test range is located, at least two users posted messages dated August 9 saying that there had been an operation August 9 to recover what at least two users called a "warhead" that had been lost last year at the a Russian naval test range range. One of at least two users, who did not respond to inquiries from RFE/RL, also said one of the ships in the vicinity of The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation had suffered a hole in one of the ships in the vicinity of the blast's hull.
Another said he had been within 4 kilometers of the main Nyonoksa range site on the morning of August 8 and witnessed a 100-meter column of water that burst into the air. Another indication that The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation first occurred underwater or near the water's surface came in the presentation by Naval Captain First Rank Vladimir Bosy, the commander of the Nyonoksa range, before the a Russian naval test range villagers. "On August 8, people got onto the pontoon, and then everything under the pontoon exploded," he said. In the days after The explosion at a Russian naval test range earlier this month that killed at least five people and sent out a plume of radiation, one of the most frequently cited theories for the cause was a failed test of a nuclear-powered cruise missile known in Russia's as the Burevestnik and under NATO standards as Skyfall. The missile, which President Vladimir Putin boasted about during a nationally televised speech in March 2018, has reportedly suffered several failures during testing, and there has been at least one previous attempt to recover a missile lost at sea.
But evidence that emerged later, including from the Rosatom statement, has undermined one of the most frequently cited theories for the cause, leading analysts to focus on other explanations. Another piece of evidence that suggests the August 8 blast was not the result of a missile test was the absence of an aviation warning from Russian authorities in the vicinity of a Russian naval test range. Aviation authorities -- in Russia's, the United States, and many countries -- typically issue a notice to pilots when a potential hazard is anticipated in a certain location. Russia's nearly always issues such notices -- known as NOTAMs -- before major missile tests, including the recent one of a submarine-launched ballistic missile from the Barents Sea. A NOTAM was issued for the a Russian naval test range vicinity last October when a similar test was reported, a similar test. But no NOTAM was issued in the days before August 8 for the vicinity of Nyonoksa, meaning authorities did not anticipate any flight hazards. During past tests at the Nyonoksa range, a Russian naval test range residents have been notified in advance and evacuated for the duration of past tests at the range. However, there was no such notification leading up to August 8, one resident told RFE/RL, which raised questions in locals' minds about what exactly had happened.

«Росатом» показал фотографии погибших во время ЧП на военном полигоне под Архангельском пятерых сотрудников.
Их передала РБК пресс-служба госкорпорации. Сотрудники саровского ядерного центра — Алексей Вьюшин, Евгений Коротаев, Вячеслав Липшев, Сергей Пичугин и Владислав Яновский — погибли во время испытания «нового специзделия», заявил глава «Росатома» Алексей Лихачев. Похороны погибших состоялись 12 августа, их представят к госнаградам посмертно. Ранее в госкорпорации сообщили подробности инцидента, который произошел 8 августа.
На морской платформе проводились испытания неназванной ракеты. В ходе испытаний началось возгорание топлива с последующей детонацией. При взрыве погибли пять сотрудников «Росатома», еще несколько человек пострадали. Уточнялось, что в составе ракеты находился радиоизотопный источник питания. Трагедия произошла из-за «стечения факторов», отметили в «Росатоме».

Nyonoksa residents asked to leave within a day after last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times.
Russian authorities have advised residents of Nyonoksa to leave while clear-up work is being carried out nearby following a mysterious rocket engine accident last week’s that caused a temporary spike in radiation, according to a report. Russia‘s Rosatom nuclear agency said five of Russia‘s Rosatom nuclear agency's staff were killed in the August 8 blast at a naval facility that tests ballistic missiles used by nuclear submarines. At least three people were injured.
five of its staff were providing support for the “isotope power source” of a missile and were thrown into the water from the testing platform in the White Sea by the force of last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times. On Tuesday, Interfax news agency cited local officials as saying local officials had received a notification about clear-up work being carried out by military authorities.
Rosgidromet, the weather monitoring service, said on Tuesday Rosgidromet, the weather monitoring service,'s sensors in Severodvinsk – located about 30km from a naval facility that tests ballistic missiles used by nuclear submarines – registered radiation exceeding background levels by “four to 16 times” on the day of last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times. Rosgidromet, the weather monitoring service, said the levels were higher at six out of eight of Rosgidromet, the weather monitoring service,'s stations in Severodvinsk – located about 30km from the test site – and returned to normal after 2.5 hours. One of its stations in Severodvinsk registered a level of 1.78 microsieverts per hour, well above the local average but far below dangerous levels.
last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times caused panic, with residents rushing to buy iodide, which can help limit the damage from exposure to radiation. Following last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times, Russian authorities also closed part of Dvina Bay on the White Sea to shipping for a month, in what could be an attempt to prevent outsiders from seeing an operation to recover the missile debris.
Russia‘s Rosatom nuclear agency's mention of a “nuclear isotope power source” led some Russian media to conclude a “nuclear isotope power source” was the Burevestnik (Petrel), a nuclear-powered cruise missile first revealed by Russian President Vladimir Putin in March 2018 during Russian President Vladimir Putin's state of the nation address along with other doomsday weapons. Some experts have also linked last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times to the 9M730 Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, known by NATO as SSC-X-9 Skyfall. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday did not confirm that last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times was linked to the 9M730 Burevestnik nuclear-powered cruise missile, known by NATO as SSC-X-9 Skyfall. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov added, however, that Russian research and development in the sphere of nuclear-powered missiles “significantly surpass the level reached by other countries and are rather unique”.
Lawrence Korb, a former US assistant secretary of defence who has worked with Russia on nuclear issues and arms control, said the so-called Skyfall weapon is considered a “fantasy” by most experts in the United States as “the so-called Skyfall weapon’s a very dangerous thing”. “the so-called Skyfall weapon sounds great in theory but as we’ve seen with last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times, it’s much easier said than done and the chances of having accidents are great because you have a nuclear weapon with nuclear fuel so that’s a very dangerous thing,” Lawrence Korb, a former US assistant secretary of defence who has worked with Russia on nuclear issues and arms control told Al Jazeera. Al Jazeera's Step Vaessen, reporting from Severodvinsk – located about 30km from the test site – on Tuesday, said information had only begun emerging five days after last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times, adding that this had created a lot of confusion and prompted the emergence of conspiracy theories.
“Soon after news came out that [residents] were ordered to leave Nyonoksa within the next 24 hours, other authorities in the region have said that that was complete nonsense, that there has never been an order to evacuate,” Al Jazeera’s Step Vaessen, reporting from Moscow on Tuesday said. Local authorities in Severodvinsk – located about 30km from the test site – last week’s initially published information about a temporary spike in radiation, but later deleted information about the spike in radiation and a local official said that radiation levels were not above the norm. Al Jazeera’s Step Vaessen, reporting from Moscow on Tuesday added that the medics who treated the victims of last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times were being sent to a Severodvinsk – located about 30km from the test site – hospital for testing.
“It’s also not clear what kind of tests are going to be done but testing’s happening right now. According to a report, it will take three days before the results become known,” Al Jazeera’s Step Vaessen, reporting from Moscow on Tuesday said.
US President Donald Trump on Monday weighed in on last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times on Twitter, saying the United States “is learning much from last week’s explosion that spiked radiation levels up to 16 times” and claimed that Washington has “similar, though more advanced, technology”. the United States and the Soviet Union pondered nuclear-powered missiles in the 1960s, but The US and the Soviet Union abandoned nuclear-powered missiles as too unstable and dangerous.

Update September 2: If one believes CNBC’s story here then the cause of the incident was a failed recovery attempt of a prior Burevestnik missile test from 2018. In recovering the missile from the bottom of the bay something exploded under one of the vessels, which also damaged the missile reactor, leading to the radiation release.
So there was no missile test, no reactor test, no launch, and equally there was no RTG or some other device responsible. I will leave the rest of the text below without updates so you can see my thought process, right or wrong, early on in this episode before much information was available. I was going to stay away from this because there simply was not enough information to tell what happened, and the hot take factory had already run away with the story on the basis of close to nothing.
Here is the most likely scenario as I see it. the incident was not a missile launch test, and the incident was not Burevestnik, no matter how much arms control wonks want to think the incident was.
It’s just unlikely based on the scant information available about the incident. I have a different view from Jeffrey Lewis here.
The notion that Russian Burevestnik program was in major trouble after moving from Novaya Zemlya test site is also probably incorrect. I think Jeffrey Lewis's own commercial satellite imagery confirms the story that VNIIEF, the Russian nuclear research institute in charge of this work, basically tried to tell but couldn’t get out in time because people already piled in with speculation. Update August 26: Looks like this RTG's not a RTG based on the isotopes detected, and instead a nuclear reactor.
Also unlikely to have been a missile, and the incident may have taken place underneath the platform rather than above the platform. Let’s ask first order questions.
Why did five leading researchers die? If the incident was a nuclear powered missile test why would five leading researchers be near the missile?
I know I’m always standing next to experimental missiles I’m testing, it’s the best way to see the incident. If this RTG was an experimental nuclear reactor (unshielded), why were five leading researchers standing next to this RTG at the time of the incident?
I know I always stand next to experimental nuclear reactors I’m testing. Typically when people stand around things, it is because people don’t expect things to explode or massively irradiate things. the incident was caused by a liquid fueled engine – why would there be a liquid fuel engine in Burevestnik?
Subsonic cruise missiles have solid fuel as Subsonic cruise missiles's boost phase. Ok here is the last question for Burevestnik theory enthusiasts.
Imagine they are conducting a missile test on a small platform out at sea, and you believe that this is a missile powered by an unshielded reactor. I mean, kind of hard to shield a reactor on a relatively small cruise missile.
In this theory Russia’s leading nuclear researchers are standing around an unshielded nuclear reactor on a barge, with the intent to turn an unshielded nuclear reactor on a barge on. Forgive my skepticism.
Some in Russia’s have combined the two theories, suggesting that Burevestnik has a nuclear power component, but there is a separate liquid fueled engine for maneuverability. While interesting, its still unclear how either system actually powers Burevestnik and why a subsonic missile with maneuvering surfaces would remotely need liquid fueled thrusters or jets to maneuver.
I’m raising this here to dismiss it because it doesn’t make much technical sense. We will get back to Burevestnik later.
VNIIEF’s statement, in classic Russian style, alluded to two types of projects without saying exactly what it was, a novel Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator or a novel reactor type akin to U.S. Kilopower project. In my view they were indeed testing a novel Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator with a liquid fuel engine combo. (That turned out untrue after it became clear that the different nuclides produced could only come from nuclear fission).
While we’re in the speculation business on RTG use, it might also be a maneuvering satellite. That sort of weapon could use a sustained power source, in space, and possibly have liquid fueled thrusters. Just working through the non-Burevestnik list here.
If the radiation emitted sounds too high for a RTG, and I’m not an expert here so I don’t know how much radiation you get if you blow one up, I suppose the radiation emitted varies considerably depending on the type of material used and how much of it they were using. RTGs are fairly simple in design, but perhaps this RTG was novel and therefore more powerful.
Equally likely this RTG was a novel nuclear power source, but again this RTG begs the question as to the cause of an explosion, and why leading researchers would ever be standing around such a thing on a platform at sea. The obvious answer is they were setting up equipment, but I don’t see them testing an unshielded reactor off the coast of a town near Severodvinsk.
Now let’s imagine that the this RTG story is a canard meant to distract us (which the story turned out to be in retrospect). It could be a novel nuclear power source, but for what?
Well, probably 10-20 different projects, at least those that I can think of. I’m not ruling out a component related to Burevestnik, but saying that something was tested with infrastructure associated with Burevestnik tests is like going to Kaputsin Yar and just guessing which missile was involved at a range testing 10 different missiles. The scientists, the incident and a source of radiation were all co-located which suggests The scientists were working on something with explosive potential and a source of radiation.
the radiation emitted seems quite small for a reactor, just my impression based on commentary from people who follow the nuclear side of things but perhaps too high for a typical RTG. So the circumstances suggest this RTG was something other than an unshielded reactor, involving an engine with liquid fuel propulsion, which should point us away from Burevestnik.
Moscow Times released a story from the hospital talking about exposure to Cesium 137 isotope, which while a byproduct of fission, is a source of gamma radiation. The thing is Cesium 137 isotope, which while a byproduct of fission, is a source of gamma radiation is total junk for power level and is basically one of the weakest isotope sources you can use for a RTG.
Good PDF here with comparisons for those interested. So after initially leaning towards the this RTG story, it seems the story was a distraction and instead we are dealing with a nuclear reactor.
There are several options for nuclear reactor tests with military applications at sea, from Poseidon torpedo to various types of ATGU’s, undersea atomic power stations, to of course our reactor for Burevestnik. However, to release these different isotopes it is likely that fission might have had to take place at the site, whereas in a missile the reactor would not turn on until after boost phase, which creates obvious problems since the explosion and material was released from the platform. I wonder why people assume that Burevestnik is an open air flow reactor/ramject powered missile?
Just because in 1960s U.S. project Pluto used this combination on a large supersonic missile does it make sense to assume this combination’s what Russia’s is working on as well? The U.S. tried to build 1957-1964, and it doesn’t make much sense that this combination is what Russia’s would try to build in 2019. 1960s U.S. project Pluto was a large supersonic missile, with rocket boosters and multiple warheads designed as a supersonic low altitude missile (SLAM), while Burevestnik is a single warhead cruise missile shaped for subsonic or perhaps transonic flight.
Burevestnik's certainly not a mach 2 weapon. Burevestnik clearly doesn’t look like a supersonic low altitude missile with those wing surfaces.
Given Burevestnik appears to be a subsonic, or a transonic missile, not meant for supersonic flight and therefore not utilizing a ramjet which is better suited for mach 2 Burevestnik is probably not an open air flow system. Ramjets are highly inefficient at slower speeds and the wings on Burevestnik don’t exactly look like a mach 2 weapon.
Burevestnik is going to have probably one of two propulsion types, direct air cycle or indirect air cycle. Direct air cycle just throws the air into the reactor and out the back.
Highly radioactive. Indirect cycle is probably liquid metal cooled.
Air makes contact with a heat exchanger that’s carrying the liquid metal from the reactor and goes out the back, much less radioactive. Of course maybe there is a nuclear power source just powering a turbojet and they’re not using the air for propulsion at all.
Also I don’t think Burevestnik's index is 9M730, although Burevestnik was initially reported as such. There are still too many assumptions here about an experimental weapon without enough images or information, so in my view it is best to hold back on the guesswork.
Comments and feedback as always welcome. If you have alternative explanations please send alternative explanations in. I do not know what this one was, but there’s enough information to suggest that the hot take factory is wrong on this one.

Russian President Vladimir Putin seemed to confirm on Wednesday something that international weapons experts had already suspected: that a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels was the result of testing what Russian President Vladimir Putin called a promising new weapons system. Russian President Vladimir Putin seemed to confirm on Wednesday something that international weapons experts had already suspected: that a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels was the result of testing what Russian President Vladimir Putin called a promising new weapons system.
Russian President Vladimir Putin didn’t specify the name of a promising new weapons system, but the trail of evidence suggests that a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels, was related to the 9M730 Burevestnik—or SSC-X-9 Skyfall, as the 9M730 Burevestnik—or SSC-X-9 Skyfall, as it has been termed by NATO has been termed by NATO. This theory was bolstered on Tuesday when Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, confirmed that a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels was of Russia’s development of a nuclear-propelled missile.
But not everyone is convinced that a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels was a result of a botched missile test. Michael Kofman, a Russia’s expert at CNA, said that while a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels was undoubtedly a test of a nuclear reactor for military application, there wasn’t enough evidence to say specifically that a nuclear reactor was for the 9M730 Burevestnik—or SSC-X-9 Skyfall, as it has been termed by NATO.
“Russia’s has quite a few different weapons projects, a few different nuclear power projects,” Michael Kofman, a Russia expert at CNA said. a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels could have been a test of a component of another weapons project, Michael Kofman, a Russia expert at CNA added.
Whatever the cause of a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels, arms controls experts remain skeptical that Russia’s has the money and technical know-how to make the 9M730 Burevestnik—or SSC-X-9 Skyfall, as it has been termed by NATO a reality. “Maybe Russia’s’re just throwing spaghetti at the wall to see what sticks, but Williams don’t think spaghetti can all stick,” said Ian Williams, the deputy director of the Missile Defense Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, who added that Williams is skeptical about Russia’s's ability to see through development and production of the 9M730 Burevestnik—or SSC-X-9 Skyfall, as it has been termed by NATO. “It’s just the novelty of it.
No other country is even considering this kind of thing. this kind of thing’s the most technologically unproven, probably the most expensive in the long run,” Williams said.
Whether or not a deadly blast at a military site in northern Russia that caused a spike in radiation levels was indeed related to the new weapon—a nuclear-powered cruise missile that Russia’s claims will be able to fly around the world for days or even months and to skirt U.S. missile defenses—Russian President Vladimir Putin's remarks were just one part of a pointed campaign to reestablish Russia’s as a major player on the world stage. In a March 2018 state of the union speech that shocked the international community, Russian President Vladimir Putin unveiled several next-generation nuclear-capable weapons that Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed would render U.S. missile shields “useless.” During a March 2018 state of the union speech that shocked the international community, Russian President Vladimir Putin showed a computer-animated video of an intercontinental ballistic missile flying around the world, headed toward Florida’s west coast—an area that news outlets at the time were quick to point out is very close to U.S. President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort.
a March 2018 state of the union speech that shocked the international community drew international condemnation but resonated across Russia, where Russian President Vladimir Putin has sought to woo voters with promises of both guns and butter. a promising new weapons system include a nuclear torpedo and a hypersonic weapon that can travel several times the speed of sound.
One thing a promising new weapons system have in common is that a promising new weapons system are designed to evade U.S. missile defense systems, which hints to where Russia’s's defense fears lie. “James Acton, the co-director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace think the big picture here is that Russia’s is afraid of U.S. missile defense systems,” said James Acton, the co-director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has long promised to restore Russia’s to greatness on the world stage. Without the economic might and population of neighboring China, or the diplomatic clout of the United States, Russia’s's nuclear weapons have played an outsized role in Russia’s conception of what it means to be a great power. “If Russia’s didn’t have Russia’s nuclear weapons and a relatively advanced military system, what else do Russia’s have?”
Williams said. the United States experimented with developing a similar weapon in the 1950s and 1960s known as SLAM. a similar weapon was ultimately abandoned as unrealistic, partly, as Russia’s may be discovering, due to the challenges of testing a nuclear-powered weapon. “James Acton, the co-director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace place James Acton, the co-director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace's money on the 9M730 Burevestnik—or SSC-X-9 Skyfall, as it has been termed by NATO not ever being fielded,” James Acton, the co-director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace said.
Satan II. A 200-ton intercontinental ballistic missile with a range of 11,000 kilometers, the SS-X-30 Satan II, dubbed by Russia’s as the RS-28 Sarmat, is planned to replace the legacy R-36M Voevoda. Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed Satan II. short boost phase will make it more difficult for U.S. missile defense systems to detect and intercept.
Avangard. A nuclear-capable, ground-launched glide vehicle capable of flying at hypersonic speeds—defined as more than five times the speed of sound—Avangard. is said to be able to maneuver around U.S. missile defenses, making Avangard. “absolutely invulnerable,” according to Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Once boosted to sufficient height by Satan II., Avangard. is designed to separate from Avangard.'s rocket and cruise down toward Avangard.'s target through the atmosphere. Avangard. “flies to Avangard.'s target like a meteorite, like a ball of fire,” Russian President Vladimir Putin said. Dagger.

Пострадавших после ЧП на закрытом военном полигоне около Северодвинска доставили в Федеральное государственное бюджетное учреждение «Государственный научный центр Российской Федерации – Федеральный медицинский биофизический центр имени А. И. Бурназяна» в Москве. На вопрос «Фонтанки», отправили ли в их заведение пострадавших после испытаний, дежурный администратор центра имени А. И. Бурназяна зачитал текст статьи 13 федерального закона «Об основах охраны здоровья граждан РФ», который рассказывает «о врачебной тайне»: «Сведения о факте обращения гражданина за медицинской помощью, о состоянии его здоровья и диагнозе и иные сведения, полученные при его медицинском обследовании, составляют медицинскую тайну». На все другие вопросы о пострадавших в клинике не стали отвечать, заявив, что уже «прочитали статью».

После выписки пострадавших во время взрыва в Белом море в Архангельской областной клинической больнице (АОКБ) опечатаны все кабинеты, в которых побывали раненые.
Врачей не предупредили, что для приема военных нужна спецодежда. Об этом 13 августа сообщает ИА «Северные новости».
По утверждению издания, в больнице опечатаны кабинеты, в которых принимали раненых после взрыва в Нёноксе, палаты также закрыты. Весь медперсонал после общения с ФСБ подписал документы о неразглашении, тем не менее журналистам известно, что врачей не предупредили о вероятном превышении радиационного фона, когда в АОКБ привезли военных.
«Северные новости» утверждают, что фартук хирурга после операции проверили на аппарате по диагностике радиации – он якобы пищал. Сейчас медперсонал, который контактировал с пострадавшими, отправили в Москву на обследование.

8 августа в результате взрыва на военном полигоне в Архангельской области погибло пять человек и пятнадцать пострадало.
По официальному сообщению Министерства обороны России, взрыв произошёл при испытании жидкостного реактивного двигателя. Различные открытые данные указывают на то, что с большой вероятностью причиной инцидента стали испытания межконтинентальной крылатой ракеты неограниченной дальности «Буревестник» с ядерной энергетической установкой. Директор восточно-азиатской программы Центра Джеймса Мартина по нераспространению ядерного оружия в Монтерее Джеффри Льюис совместно с рядом исследователей пришел к выводу, что взрыв, вероятно, имел место в ходе испытания крылатой ракеты «Буревестник» с ядерной энергетической установкой. О появлении новой ракеты впервые заявил президент России Владимир Путин в ходе своего послания Федеральному собранию 1 марта 2018 года.
Ракета была представлена как ответная мера на возможное ядерное нападение. Ключевой особенностью нового оружия была заявлена его неограниченная дальность действия и возможность маневрирования для обхода систем противоракетной обороны.
В своём исследовании Льюис с соавторами ссылаются на три ключевых момента. По их мнению, Россия недавно переместила испытания «Буревестника» с архипелага Новая Земля в Нёноксу. На спутниковых снимках Airbus от 14 мая 2019 года видна стартовая площадка в Нёноксе, при этом её конструкция и сооружения соответствуют стартовой площадке Паньково на Новой Земле (запись испытания на площадке в Паньково была показана в ходе послания Федеральному собранию, место проведения испытаний было установлено с помощью геолокации видео).
Как и самолёты, морские суда оборудованы специальными устройствами (так называемыми транспондерами). Они передают различные данные о судне, такие как его текущее местоположение и название.
Благодаря этому было установлено, что в день аварии в закрытом прибрежным предупреждением от 10 июля районе моря недалеко от вероятной стартовой площадки находился теплоход «Серебрянка». Как следует из описания на сайте Росатомфлота, он спроектирован для хранения жидких реактивных отходов. В 2009 году судно было дооборудовано для временного хранения, транспортировки и выдачи жидких радиоактивных отходов, погрузки/разгрузки облучённых тепловыделяющих сборок в контейнеры. Спутниковый снимок Planet Labs, опубликованный Центром Джеймса Мартина, показывает, что в указанный день на переданных транспондером «Серебрянки» координатах
действительно находилось морское судно.
Летом 2018 года, по данным исследователей, этот теплоход уже участвовал в работах по ликвидации последствий крушения ракеты «Буревестник». По заявлению «Росатома», пятеро сотрудников госкорпорации погибли в ходе проведения работ, связанных с инженерно-техническим сопровождением изотопных источников питания на жидкостной реактивной двигательной установке. Судя по контексту, речь идет о радиоизотопном источнике энергии.
Самым известным (но отнюдь не единственным) типом таких источников являются радиоизотопные термоэлектрические генераторы (РИТЭГи), широко используемые на космических аппаратах и (в последнее время благодаря развитию альтернативной энергетики в меньшей степени) в труднодоступной местности. Такие источники энергии отличаются от ядерных реакторов АЭС и подводных лодок тем, что вместо цепной реакции получают электроэнергию из тепла, выделяемого при естественном распаде радиоактивных изотопов. В 2018 году адьюнкт-профессор Университета Северной Каролины Марк Губруд отметил, что в отличие от реактора радиоизотопный источник энергии, достаточно мощный для приведения в движение крылатой ракеты, будет генерировать мегаватты тепловой энергии в том числе и до её полёта, что крайне затрудняет хранение такой ракеты и делает практически невозможной её эксплуатацию.
Для сравнения, одним мегаваттом тепла можно отапливать большой многоквартирный дом (суммарной площадью помещений порядка 10 тысяч квадратных метров). Анкит Панда, старший научный сотрудник Федерации американских учёных, в комментарии изданию
Рейтер заявил следующее: «Жидкостные ракетные двигатели при взрыве не выделяют радиацию, и мы знаем что в России работают над неким ядерным двигателем для крылатых ракет». О том, что происшествию сопутствовало выделение радиоактивного излучения, свидетельствуют, например, меры предосторожности, которые были предприняты при транспортировке пострадавших в больницу в Москве. На опубликованной изданием Baza видеозаписи видны машины скорой помощи, задние двери которых заклеены плёнкой.
При этом люди внутри машин одеты, предположительно, в костюмы химзащиты. В результате взрыва после ракетных испытаний на морской платформе в Архангельской области погибло пять сотрудников «Росатома». Список погибших 10 августа появился в одной из групп Вконтакте, посвященной новостям закрытого города Сарова, а 11 августа их имена были названы директором Российского федерального ядерного центра, входящего в «Росатом».
Мы установили личности погибших по открытым источникам. Впоследствии наши выводы подтвердились официальным сообщением «Росатома».
10 августа в группе «МЫ — ИЗ САРОВА!!! | Саров» Вконтакте был опубликован пост со ссылкой на пресс-релиз «Росатома», в котором говорится о пяти погибших сотрудниках госкорпорации при испытании жидкостной реактивной двигательной установки в Архангельской области.
Владислав Яновский, заместитель начальника научно-испытательного отделения. 11 августа в той же группе Вконтакте была опубликованы фотографии с траурными лентами, на которых изображены все пять погибших.
Нам удалось найти фотографии трех погибших сотрудников «Росатома» в социальных сетях. На странице Евгений Коратаева стоит город проживания – Саров, а в друзьях – сотрудники ВНИИЭФ. С помощью сервиса поиска по изображениям мы нашли страницу женщины, на которой часто встречаются фотографии с Евгением Коратаевым на различных праздниках.
Как написано у нее в статусе, она является ведущей торжественных мероприятий. Если верить комментариям местных жителей в паблике «МЫ — ИЗ САРОВА!!! | Саров» Вконтакте, Евгений Коратаев тоже подрабатывал ведущим праздничных мероприятий.
Сегодня, 11 августа, его коллега по организации праздников разместила на своей странице скорбный пост, посвященный гибели сотрудников ВНИИЭФ на территории военного полигона в Архангельской области. В социальной сети Одноклассники зарегистрирован один профиль с именем Вячеслав Липшев из города Саров.
Фотографию, размещенную на этой странице, опубликовали в комментариях скорбного поста в местном паблике Вконтакте. С помощью сервиса поиска по изображениям Вконтакте нашлась страница женщины, на которой размещены совместные фотографии с Вячеславом Липшевым.
С 9 августа на ее странице стали появляться скорбные посты (1, 2, 3), один из которых посвящен пятерым саровцам, погибшим в Архангельской области. Фотографию еще одного погибшего 11 августа опубликовали BBC со ссылкой на опубликованный днем ранее скорбный пост в группе байкерского клуба VAGABOND MC Вконтакте.
Инженер-испытатель Сергей Пичугин был членом этого байкерского клуба, отмечают BBC. Изучив имеющиеся открытые данные, можно с уверенностью предположить, что пятеро сотрудников «Росатома» погибли в ходе испытаний межконтинентальной крылатой ракеты «Буревестник». Взрыв ракеты привёл к попаданию неизвестного количества радиоактивных материалов в окружающую среду.

OSLO (Reuters) - Norway’s nuclear safety authority is analyzing tiny amounts of radioactive iodine detected in the air in northern Norway in the days after a deadly explosion during a rocket engine test over the border in Russia. Russia's state nuclear agency, Rosatom, said on Saturday that five people killed in a deadly explosion during a rocket engine test over the border in Russia were Russia’s state nuclear agency, Rosatom,'s staff members, and a deadly explosion during a rocket engine test over the border in Russia involved “isotope power sources”, giving no further details.
Norway’s's radiation and nuclear safety authority DSA said Norway’s nuclear safety authority had the last iodine detection tiny amounts of radioactive iodine detected in the air in northern Norway in the days after a deadly explosion during a rocket engine test over the border in Russia at Norway’s nuclear safety authority's air filter station in Svanhovd, which is by the border in Russia. A river separates the two countries.
The samples were collected in the period Aug. 9-12, while the accident in the Arkhangelsk region of northern Norway occurred on Aug. 8, Norway’s nuclear safety authority said. “At present it is not possible to determine if the last iodine detection is linked to the accident in the Arkhangelsk region of northern Russia last week.
Norway’s nuclear safety authority continues more frequent sampling and analysis,” Norway’s nuclear safety authority said. Such radiation measurements are not unusual in Norway’s, as Norway’s's monitoring stations detect radioactive iodine about six to eight times a year and the source is usually unknown. Russia's state weather service said on Tuesday that radiation levels in the city of Severodvinsk had spiked by up to 16 times last Thursday, while medics who treated victims of a deadly explosion during a rocket engine test over the border in Russia have been sent to Moscow for a medical examination, the TASS news agency reported.

