Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette, recalled on Friday how Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette's former colleagues touched Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette's life when Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette worked there. Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette remembered how nervous Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette was about telling victim Rob Hiaasen, an editor for the Capital Gazette, that Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette was moving on from the Capital Gazette. "the Capital Gazette meant a lot to Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette, the Capital Gazette gave Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette a chance," Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette said. Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette recalled Gerald Fischman's sharp eye for editing their "sometimes convoluted" stories.

The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis has been charged with five counts of murder. Police released the names of five Capital Gazette employees Thursday night. The front page of Capital Gazette the morning after the shooting.
(WTOP/John Domen) WTOP/John Domen The front page of Capital Gazette the morning after the shooting. (WTOP/John Domen) WTOP/John Domen
The Capital Gazette shooting suspect’s apartment in Laurel was searched by police. (WTOP/Nick Iannelli) WTOP/Nick Iannelli Jarrod W. Ramos, of Laurel, Maryland, as the suspect.
The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis’s been charged with five counts of murder. Police searched The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis's apartment.
(WTOP/Nick Iannelli) WTOP/Nick Iannelli “We have a responsibility to five Capital Gazette employees.
We are deeply saddened by what happened today,” Acting Anne Arundel County Police Chief William Krampf said Thursday, June 28, 2018, in Annapolis, Maryland. (WTOP/Michelle Basch)
WTOP/Michelle Basch Maryland Police Lt. Ryan Frashure speaks to the media at the scene after five Capital Gazette employees were shot at a newspaper office building in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Police officers secure the area after five Capital Gazette employees were shot at an office building housing Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, center in sunglasses, surveys the scene of a shooting in Annapolis, Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) AP Photo/Susan Walsh Police officers walk at the scene after five Capital Gazette employees were shot at Capital Gazette's office building in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. A single shooter killed several people Thursday and wounded others at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland, and police said a suspect was in custody. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Maryland police officers patrol the area after five Capital Gazette employees were shot at at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana
A police officer stands guard outside The New York Times building, Thursday, June 28, 2018, in New York. The New York Police Department has sent patrols to major news media organizations in response to a fatal shooting at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Md. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer) AP Photo/Mary Altaffer Authorities stage at the building entrance after five Capital Gazette employees were shot at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana
The 888 Bestgate Road building is seen after police received reports of five Capital Gazette employees being shot at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Maryland police officers patrol the area after five Capital Gazette employees were shot at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Police secure the scene of a shooting at the building housing Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) AP Photo/Susan Walsh Police secure the scene of a shooting at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) AP Photo/Susan Walsh Maryland police officers block the intersection at the building entrance, after five Capital Gazette employees were shot at Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018.
(AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Footage from the NBC Washington news chopper over the scene of a shooting at the Capital Gazette communications building, 888 Bestgate Road, in Annapolis, Md. (NBC Washington) NBC Washington Footage from the NBC Washington news chopper over the scene of a shooting at the Capital Gazette communications building, 888 Bestgate Road, in Annapolis, Md. (NBC Washington) NBC Washington Footage from the NBC Washington news chopper over the scene of a shooting at the Capital Gazette communications building, 888 Bestgate Road, in Annapolis, Md. (NBC Washington) NBC Washington Footage from the NBC Washington news chopper over the scene of a shooting at the Capital Gazette communications building, 888 Bestgate Road, in Annapolis, Md. (NBC Washington) NBC Washington In this frame from video, people leave Capital Gazette after five Capital Gazette employees have been shot on Thursday, June 28, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. (WJLA via AP) WJLA via AP ( 1 /22) Share This Gallery: Share on Facebook.
Share on Twitter. Share via email.
Print. WASHINGTON —
The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis has been charged with five counts of murder. Police released the names of five Capital Gazette employees Thursday night. The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis has been charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to court records. Online records indicate The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis is due in court at 10:30 a.m. Friday.
“the shooting was a targeted attack on Capital Gazette,” Acting Anne Arundel County Police Chief William Krampf said at an 8 p.m. news conference, hours after police first received reports of multiple gunshots fired. Anne Arundel County police then released the names of the five people killed in the shooting.
five Capital Gazette employees were all Capital Gazette employees: Wendi Winters, Rebecca Smith, Robert Hiaasen, Gerald Fischman and John McNamara. Capital Gazette released more information about five Capital Gazette employees on Capital Gazette's website: Winters, 65, was described as a “prolific and dependable writer“; Rebecca Smith was a sales assistant who was also a recent hire; Hiaasen, 59, was an assistant editor and columnist; Gerald Fischman, 61, was an editor and “great writer“; and McNamara, 56, known as “Mac,” was a reporter.
Krampf did not confirm the identity of The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis Thursday night. The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis is a Maryland resident in The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis's late 30s. Krampf did not specify where exactly in Maryland The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis lives. The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis entered the first floor of the building at 888 Bestgate Road with a shotgun, Krampf said. “The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis looked for The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis's victims as The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis walked through the lower level,” Krampf said, but did not say whether The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis was targeting specific people at Capital Gazette.
Two others were injured, but Krampf said Two others's injuries were “superficial,” likely from shattered glass from a fatal shooting at a newspaper in Annapolis, Md.. Earlier, Krampf said that there may have been what authorities thought was an explosive device. Krampf later said that an explosive device was actually canisters of smoke grenades that The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis used inside of the building at 888 Bestgate Road.
“The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis was prepared to shoot people. The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis's intent was to cause harm,” Krampf said. Krampf added that police are investigating exactly what problem The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis had with Capital Gazette, but could not say any specific threats The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis may have made toward Capital Gazette.
Krampf said any specific threats the man may have made toward the news outlet were general threats to Capital Gazette and that any specific threats the man may have made toward the news outlet indicated violence. Police worked on securing The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis's home, Krampf said. The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis is being interrogated, Anne Arundel County police spokesman Lt. Ryan Frashure said at a press conference shortly after 5:30 p.m. Around 3:20 p.m.
Thursday, Anne Arundel County police first confirmed the presence of The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis at the Bestgate Road building, which contains Capital Gazette and several other businesses. Police first received a report of multiple gunshots fired and possible injuries at 2:34 p.m., Marc Limansky, the department’s public information officer, told NBC Washington in an interview. There was no gunfire exchange between officers and The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis, authorities said.
Around 170 people were escorted out of the building at 888 Bestgate Road safely and taken to a reunification area at the nearby mall, Krampf added. Police worked for more than an hour to evacuate and clear the building at 888 Bestgate Road.
Tom Marquardt, a former Capital Gazette editor, told NBC Washington that staff at Capital Gazette had dealt with threats in the past, though most of threats were anonymous. Security had always been a concern, Tom Marquardt, a former Capital Gazette editor said. Bestgate Road is now reopened, Krampf said, but the building at 888 Bestgate Road is still closed as the investigation continues.
Anne Arundel County Executive Steve Schuh called the shooting a “terrible tragedy.” But, Anne Arundel County Executive Steve Schuh thanked law enforcement officials for law enforcement officials's quick response. Hogan first tweeted that Hogan was “absolutely devastated” to learn about the shooting in Annapolis.
the shooting brought a large police presence to the area, including the nearby mall. People with loved ones who worked in the building at 888 Bestgate Road could reunite with People with loved ones who worked in the building at the Lord and Taylor at the nearby mall, authorities said.
The Capital Gazette shooting sparked police responses to newsrooms in other parts of the country. The Associated Press, NBC Washington, and WTOP’s Michelle Basch and Sarah Beth Hensley contributed to this report. Like WTOP’s on Facebook and follow WTOP’s on Twitter to engage in conversation about this article and others.
© 2018 WTOP’s. All Rights Reserved. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area.

This article contains content provided by Facebook.
We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Facebook Facebook cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Several people have been killed after a gunman opened fire in what police described as a "targeted attack" at the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis, according to officials. Anne Arundel County police said a "targeted attack" at the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis left Several people dead while two others were hospitalized with what are believed to be superficial injuries, possibly from broken glass caused from fire. The initial calls about a "targeted attack" at the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis came in at around 2:35 p.m. Thursday.
Police identified Several people as Several people. Four of Several people were journalists while the fifth victim was a sales assistant at Capital Gazette newspaper.
Police said a gunman was taken into custody, but a gunman has not been officially identified by officials. According to Anne Arundel County Police Deputy Chief William Krampf, a gunman is a white male in a gunman's late 30s who resides in Maryland. Authorities were working to secure a gunman's residence and warrants were being prepared to search a gunman's home Thursday night.
However, a law enforcement official has told the Associated Press that a gunman has been identified as Jarrod W. Ramos. The Baltimore Sun, which owns Capital Gazette newspaper, was providing coverage of the shooting at Capital Gazette newspaper for Capital Gazette newspaper. According to law enforcement sources, The Baltimore Sun, which owns the Capital Gazette reported Jarrod W. Ramos filed a defamation lawsuit against Capital Gazette newspaper and a columnist in 2012, which was dismissed. Jarrod W. Ramos's lawsuit was over Capital Gazette newspaper's story about a criminal harassment case against Jarrod W. Ramos. A U.S. official told the Associated Press that a gunman was that information by using facial recognition technology after a gunman damaged a gunman's fingers in an effort to prevent investigators from quickly identifying a gunman from a gunman's fingerprints.
However, Anne Arundel County police said during a Thursday evening news conference that Anne Arundel County police could not confirm that information. Police and ATF agents were seen at the Dona Apartments in Laurel, Maryland Thursday night where Jarrod W. Ramos is believed to have lived. Police said when a gunman first entered the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis Thursday afternoon, a gunman was armed with a shotgun and used smoke grenade canisters when a gunman came in.
Video captured people leaving the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis with people's hands in the air as law enforcement swarmed the area. Officers rushed to the scene, arriving in less than 60 seconds and immediately engaged a gunman, according to officials. Authorities said a gunman did not exchange gunfire with officers when a gunman was taken into custody.
The ATF in Baltimore confirmed The ATF in Baltimore responded to the scene. Authorities said a reunification location was being established at the Lord & Taylor at Westfield Annapolis Mall.
Deputy Chief Krampf said a "targeted attack" at the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis happened after threats were made to Capital Gazette newspaper on social media. Investigators were working to confirm if threats are connected to a gunman. President Donald Trump tweeted that President Donald Trump had been briefed on a "targeted attack" at the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis. President Donald Trump said President Donald Trump's "thoughts and prayers are with Several people and Several people's families" and thanked first responders.
Capital Gazette newspaper is part of Capital Gazette Communications, which also publishes the Maryland Gazette and CapitalGazette.com. Despite a "targeted attack" at the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis, Capital Gazette newspaper said Capital Gazette newspaper was putting out a paper on Friday. On Twitter early Friday morning, Capital Gazette newspaper tweeted what Capital Gazette newspaper's front page would look like.
Davis told Capital Gazette newspaper Davis and others were still hiding under he and others's desks when a gunman stopped firing. "Davis don't know why. Davis don't know why a gunman stopped," Davis said.
Reporter Selene San Felice told Capital Gazette newspaper Reporter Selene San Felice was at Reporter Selene San Felice's desk when Reporter Selene San Felice heard a "targeted attack" at the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis and ran with some others to a back door, only to find a back door locked. Reporter Selene San Felice said Reporter Selene San Felice saw a colleague steps away who was shot. But Reporter Selene San Felice didn't see a gunman as Reporter Selene San Felice tried to hide. "Reporter Selene San Felice heard footsteps a couple of times ...
Reporter Selene San Felice was breathing really loud and was trying not to, but Reporter Selene San Felice couldn't be quiet," Reporter Selene San Felice added. Having gone to school in Florida, Reporter Selene San Felice recalled accounts of a gunman's June 2016 mass shooting attack on Orlando's gay nightclub Pulse and accounts of terrified people crouching inside as terrified people texted families amid fears for terrified people's lives.
Dozens were killed there. "And there Reporter Selene San Felice was sitting under a desk, texting Reporter Selene San Felice's parents and telling my parents Reporter Selene San Felice loved my parents," Reporter Selene San Felice said. Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said the community is grieving the attack on Capital Gazette newspaper.
New York police a move authorities said was a precaution, not prompted by any specific threat counterterrorism teams to news organizations around New York in a move authorities said was a precaution, not prompted by any specific threat. Police could be seen outside The New York Times, ABC News and Fox News early in the evening.
The the Associated Press Media Editors have promised to help Capital Gazette newspaper journalists as Capital Gazette journalists recover. An APME statement called on newspapers nationwide to help Capital Gazette newspaper and Capital Gazette newspaper's journalists so the paper and its journalists can continue to cover the paper and its journalists's community and fight for freedom of the press. Information from the Associated Press used in this report.

The New York Police Department has dispatched officers to various media outlets in New York City in response to the shooting that took place earlier Thursday at the Capital-Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md.
A reporter for WABC TV in New York City, a station owned by Disney’s ABC, posted a picture on Twitter showing a police car parked outside the outlet. Michael George, a reporter for New York City's WNBC said on Twitter that four officers had been stationed outside The New York Times., and showed a picture of four officers.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. -- Five people were killed Thursday in a shooting at a local newspaper building in Md., and two others were injured, officials in ANNAPOLIS, Md. said. A law enforcement official tells CBS News the suspect has been identified as Jarrod Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Md..
The shooting at a local newspaper building in Maryland prompted a massive police response, with employees evacuated from a local newspaper building in Maryland with hands raised above employees's heads. a local newspaper building in Maryland is a local newspaper owned by The Baltimore Sun. William Krampf, acting chief of police for Anne Arundel County, said a shooting at a local newspaper building in Maryland was a planned attack and that the suspect used smoke grenades when the suspect entered a local newspaper building in Maryland.
Two law enforcement sources tell CBS News that the suspect used a shotgun. The first shots were reported at 2:40 p.m. after the suspect entered a local newspaper building in Maryland, CBS News reports.
Anne Arundel County police spokesman Lt. Ryan Frashure said officers raced to the scene, arriving in 60 seconds. No gunfire was exchanged between the suspect and officers before the suspect was taken into custody. Over 170 people were safely escorted out of a local newspaper building in Maryland. The Anne Arundel Medical Center, which is nearby the scene, said staff there are treating two people with minor injuries, neither from a gunshot.
Police released Five people's identities during a late Thursday press briefing. Five people were all employees at a local newspaper building in Maryland including four journalists and a sales assistant: Wendi Winters, John McNamara, Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman and a sales assistant.
Wendi Winters was the special publications editor. John McNamara was a writer. John McNamara was editorial page editor.
Rebecca Smith was a sales assistant. a sales assistant was an assistant editor and columnist.
Phil Davis, a a local newspaper building in Maryland reporter, tweeted that Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter was in a local newspaper building in Maryland when a shooting at a local newspaper building in Maryland happened. Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter said via Twitter the suspect shot through the glass door to the office and opened fire on multiple employees. Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter said Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter hid under Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter's desk and employees heard the suspect reload.
Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter told the paper Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter and others were still hiding under he and others's desks when the suspect stopped firing. "Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter don't know why. Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter don't know why the suspect stopped," Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter said.
President Trump tweeted that President Trump had been briefed on a shooting at a local newspaper building in Maryland and said President Trump's "thoughts and prayers are with Five people and Five people's families." Officials from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and FBI were aiding in the law enforcement response.
a local newspaper building in Maryland's staff includes three people on the executive staff as well as seven editors, according to CapitalGazette.com. Eight staff writers cover topics including courts, entertainment and education.
A GoFundMe account has been set up in wake of Thursday's shooting. A GoFundMe account was created by a fellow journalist, Bloomberg Government reporter Madi Alexander.
The original $30,000 goal was eclipsed in a matter of hours and has since been increased to $70,000. At last check early Friday morning, more than $54,000 has been raised.
The GoFundMe page posting urged people to give what people can to help a local newspaper building in Maryland's journalists pay for medical bills, funeral costs, newsroom repairs and other expenses. Editor's note: The initial version of this story published Thursday evening reported that the suspect had "damaged" the tips of the suspect's fingers in an attempt to prevent identification, citing a law enforcement official. On Friday, Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said that there was a lag in identifying the suspect using fingerprints, and that facial recognition technology was used.
But Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said that "there was no alteration to the suspect's fingerprints." This story has been updated.

A gunman the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis A gunman's way into the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis with a shotgun Thursday afternoon, killing five people, authorities said.
Journalists dived under Journalists's desks and pleaded for help on social media. One reporter described the scene as a “war zone.” A photographer said A photographer jumped over a dead colleague and fled for A photographer's life.
five people were identified as Rob Hiaasen, 59, a former feature writer for The Baltimore Sun who joined Capital Gazette in 2010 as an assistant editor and columnist; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who headed special publications; Gerald Fischman, 61, the editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a staff writer who had covered high school, college and professional sports for decades; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant hired in November. Two others were injured in the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis. Police took A gunman into custody soon after the shootings.
A gunman was identified as Jarrod W. Ramos, a 38-year-old Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against Capital Gazette. A gunman was charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to online court records.
A gunman did not have an attorney listed; a bail review hearing is scheduled for 10:30 a.m. Friday in Annapolis. Local, state and federal law enforcement officials cordoned off the Laurel apartment complex listed as the address for A gunman Thursday evening.
A gunman dispute with Capital Gazette began in July 2011 when a columnist wrote about a criminal harassment case against A gunman. A gunman brought a defamation suit against a columnist and Capital Gazette's editor and publisher.
A court the ruling in Capital Gazette's favor, and an appeals court upheld the ruling. Neither a columnist, nor the editor and publisher, Thomas Marquardt, are still employed by Capital Gazette. the columnist, Eric Hartley, nor the editor and publisher, Thomas Marquardt, were not present during the shootings. Police said A gunman used “smoke grenades” in the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis.
Police said 170 people were inside at the time. Capital Gazette is owned by The Baltimore Sun.
Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis at the time of the shootings, said multiple people were shot as Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, and others hid under he and others's desks. Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, said there was A gunman. Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, said Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, and others were hiding under he and others's desks when A gunman stopped firing.
Then police arrived and surrounded A gunman. Photographer Paul Gillespie had finished editing photos from one assignment and was preparing for the next when Photographer Paul Gillespie heard shots behind Photographer Paul Gillespie and the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis's glass doors shatter. Photographer Paul Gillespie said Photographer Paul Gillespie heard one colleague scream “No!,” then a shot.
Then another colleague’s voice, and another shot. Photographer Paul Gillespie could hear A gunman approaching Photographer Paul Gillespie's hiding place.
“Photographer Paul Gillespie kept thinking, ‘Photographer Paul Gillespie can’t believe Photographer Paul Gillespie’m going to die. Photographer Paul Gillespie can’t believe this.’ ” Photographer Paul Gillespie said.
But A gunman passed Photographer Paul Gillespie, Photographer Paul Gillespie said, and continued to shoot. Eventually, there was a lull in the shootings.
Photographer Paul Gillespie stood and ran for the exit, through the shattered glass, jumping over the body of a colleague Photographer Paul Gillespie believed was dead as another shot rang out in Photographer Paul Gillespie's direction. Photographer Paul Gillespie ran to a nearby bank and screamed for people to call the cops. Authorities said police responded to the scene within a minute of the shootings. “If police were not there as quickly as police were, it could have been a lot worse," Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said.
Officials at the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore confirmed that the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore was treating at least one victim. County Executive Steve Schuh said others were being treated at Anne Arundel Medical Center. Loren Farquhar, a medical center spokeswoman, said the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore received two patients, both with minor injuries not from gunfire.
at least one victim were identified as Rachael Pacella, a reporter who covers education and the Naval Academy, and Janel Cooley, a sales representative who covers downtown Annapolis. Rachael Pacella, a reporter who covers education and the Naval Academy, and Janel Cooley, a sales representative who covers downtown Annapolis were treated and released.
A spokeswoman for The Baltimore Sun said The Baltimore Sun was “deeply saddened” by the shootings. President Donald Trump wrote on Twitter that President Donald Trump had been briefed on the shootings.
Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, started Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years,'s day Thursday covering Induction Day at the Naval Academy at sunrise. Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, was driving home to celebrate Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years,'s daughter’s birthday when Capital Gazette editor Rick Hutzell called. “Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, said Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years,’d heard there had been the shootings, and Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, couldn't get in touch with anyone in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis,” Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, said. Then Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, heard sirens.
Police in SWAT gear carrying assault rifles cordoned off the area around the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis and closed Bestgate Road. Outside the police tape, Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, and reporter Chase Cook called and texted friends and co-workers in search of answers. Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, praised Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years,'s colleagues’ work.
Capital Gazette is one of 30 tenants in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis. Five others share the first floor with Capital Gazette. Five others include accountants, lawyers, financial and medical offices. Capital Gazette has been in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis since 2015, according to CoStar, a real estate information company. CoStar, a real estate information company have 5,000 square feet of offices.
Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office were on the fourth floor at the time of the shootings, but Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office didn't hear or see anything. Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office learned of the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis when a colleague texted Aaron Smith. Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office flipped a desk over in front of the door to the Fisher Law Office and stayed there until SWAT officers arrived. Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office then walked out of the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis with Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office's hands on Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office's heads, like everyone else in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis, Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office said.
Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC said a plainclothes officer entered Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC's fourth-floor office suite and told the receptionist to lock the doors because there was an active shooter. Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC quickly gathered people together. Some employees removed high heels to prepare to flee the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis.
Others hid. One pulled two handguns out of his desk drawer for self-defense. More police arrived, and people began filing out of her fourth-floor office suite.
Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC said Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC and Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC's employees tried to hold hands to comfort each other, but were told by police to keep she and her employees's hands in the air. “You see it on the news,” Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC said, “and you think, ‘These poor people.’ You wonder how These poor people feel. The Baltimore Sun reporters Scott Dance, Doug Donovan, Tim Prudente, Justin Fenton, Erin Cox, Jessica Anderson and Meredith Cohn and the Associated Press contributed to this article.

CHICAGO (CBS) -- CHICAGO (CBS) police officers are haven been dispatched to local media outlets following the mass shooting at a newspaper in Maryland. There is no motive yet for the shooting at a newspaper.
At least four people were fatally shot and more were injured. Police say Police have one suspect in custody.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) —
In a June 28 story about an attack at a newspaper in ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP), The Associated Press erroneously That report that the suspect arrested in an attack at a newspaper in Annapolis had mutilated the suspect arrested in the shooting's fingers in an apparent attempt to make it harder for police to identify the suspect arrested in the shooting. That report was based on initial information given to law enforcement authorities, which has since been corrected. While the suspect arrested in the shooting was identified using facial recognition technology, the suspect arrested in the shooting's fingers were not mutilated.
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) — the suspect arrested in the shooting an attack at a newspaper in Annapolis a newspaper in Maryland’s capital Thursday, killing four journalists and a staffer before police quickly stormed the building and arrested the suspect arrested in the shooting, police and witnesses said. an attack at a newspaper in Annapolis came amid months of verbal and online attacks on the “fake news media” from politicians and others from President Donald Trump on down. an attack at a newspaper in Annapolis prompted New York City police to immediately tighten security at news organizations in Maryland’s's media capital.
Police in ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) said a white man in the suspect arrested in the shooting's late 30s was in custody after the rampage at a newspaper. A law enforcement official said the suspect arrested in the shooting was identified as Jarrod W. Ramos. A law enforcement official wasn’t authorized to discuss the ongoing investigation and spoke on condition of anonymity. “the suspect arrested in the shooting was prepared today to come in, the suspect arrested in the shooting was prepared to shoot people,” Krampf said.
The dead included Rob Hiaasen, 59, assistant managing editor and brother of novelist Carl Hiaasen. novelist Carl Hiaasen said novelist Carl Hiaasen was “devastated and heartsick” at losing novelist Carl Hiaasen's brother, “one of the most gentle and funny people novelist Carl Hiaasen’ve ever known.” Also slain were Gerald Fischman, editorial page editor; features reporter Wendi Winters; reporter John McNamara, and sales assistant Rebecca Smith.
Police said two others had minor injuries, and a newspaper later reported two others were employees later released from a hospital with non-life-threatening injuries. Krampf said the suspect arrested in the shooting was a Maryland’s resident, but didn’t name the suspect arrested in the shooting.
Phil Davis, a reporter who covers courts and crime for a newspaper, tweeted that the suspect arrested in the shooting shot out the glass door to the office and fired into the newsroom, sending people scrambling under desks. “There is nothing more terrifying than hearing multiple people get shot while you’re under your desk and then hear the suspect arrested in the shooting reload,” Phil Davis, a reporter who covers courts and crime for the paper, wrote.
Meanwhile, investigators said investigators would seek to learn more of the suspect arrested in the shooting's motives. “the suspect arrested in the shooting has not been very forthcoming, so investigators don’t have any information yet on motive,” Anne Arundel County Executive Steve Schuh said.
In 2012, the suspect arrested in the shooting filed a defamation lawsuit against a newspaper, alleging the suspect arrested in the shooting was harmed by an article about the suspect arrested in the shooting's conviction in a criminal harassment case a year earlier. a defamation lawsuit was the dismissal by a judge who wrote the suspect arrested in the shooting hadn’t shown “anything that was published about the suspect arrested in the shooting is, in fact, false.” An appeals court later upheld the dismissal.
In an interview appearing on a newspaper's online site, Phil Davis, a reporter who covers courts and crime for the paper, said it “was like a war zone” inside a newspaper's offices. Reporter Selene San Felice told CNN Reporter Selene San Felice ran after hearing shots but found a back door locked, then watched as a colleague was shot.
“Reporter Selene San Felice heard footsteps a couple of times ... Reporter Selene San Felice was breathing really loud and was trying not to, but Reporter Selene San Felice couldn’t be quiet,” Reporter Selene San Felice added.
Police spokesman Lt. Ryan Frashure said officers arrived within about 60 seconds and took the suspect arrested in the shooting into custody without an exchange of gunfire. About 170 people were evacuated, many leaving with their hands up as police and other emergency vehicles arrived.
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) Mayor Gavin Buckley said ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) was grieving the attack on ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP)'s paper.
a newspaper is part of Capital Gazette Communications, which also publishes the Maryland Gazette and CapitalGazette.com. a newspaper is owned by The Baltimore Sun. The Associated Press Media Editors have promised to help a newspaper journalists as Capital Gazette journalists recover. An APME statement called on newspapers nationwide to help a newspaper and a newspaper's journalists so the paper and its journalists can continue to cover the paper and its journalists's community and fight for freedom of the press.
the suspect arrested in the shooting was his identification with the help of facial recognition technology because of what Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said was a “lag” in getting results from the computer system used to analyze fingerprints. Police denied news reports that the suspect arrested in the shooting had mutilated the suspect arrested in the shooting's fingertips to thwart the suspect arrested in the shooting's identification. Two officials told The Associated Press on Thursday night, based on preliminary information, that the suspect arrested in the shooting may have deliberately damaged the suspect arrested in the shooting's fingers. One of Two officials later said that initial information had proven to be erroneous.
Associated Press writers Eric Tucker in Washington and Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles contributed to a June 28 story about an attack at a newspaper in Annapolis. a June 28 story about an attack at a newspaper in Annapolis has been corrected to show that the White House spokeswoman’s last name is Walters, not Walter.

Editor's note: The initial version of this story published Thursday evening reported that the suspect had "damaged" the tips of the suspect's fingers in an attempt to prevent identification, citing a law enforcement official. On Friday, Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said that there was a lag in identifying the suspect using fingerprints, and that facial recognition technology was used. But Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said that "there was no alteration to the suspect's fingerprints." this story published Thursday evening has been updated.
A law enforcement official tells CBS News the suspect accused of killing five people in at a Maryland newspaper has been identified as the suspect. Police say the suspect the shooting fire Thursday evening at the offices of a Maryland newspaper in Annapolis, killing five people and injuring others. "the shooting was a targeted attack on a Maryland newspaper," Anne Arundel County acting police chief Bill Krampf said at a Thursday evening press briefing. the suspect was scheduled to appear in court Friday morning on five counts of first degree murder.
the suspect was taken into custody at the scene, but was not cooperating with investigators, police said. CBS News's Jeff Pegues reports that the suspect was caught hiding under a desk. the suspect did not have identification on the suspect's person at the time the suspect was taken into custody. the suspect's described as having long hair.
A law enforcement source says authorities used other means of identifying the suspect, including facial recognition technology to search databases of passports and driver's licenses. A law enforcement source said the suspect carried smoke bombs or flash bangs in the suspect's backpack. Police said the suspect used a "long gun" in the shooting, which a source said was a shotgun.
CBS News has also learned the suspect opened fire through the glass door into the newsroom. Eyewitness told authorities fire sent reporters and other employees under desks and other hiding places.
CBS News' Jeff Pegues reports that investigators will be trying determine the suspect's motive. investigators will try to recover any of the suspect's electronic devices and see if the suspect has any social media accounts. Police said Thursday evening that the suspect did make threats through social media. In addition, investigators will try to determine if the suspect had been in to the offices of the Capital Gazette in Annapolis before.
A source familiar with investigations like the one Thursday says the speed of the shooting suggest there was some familiarity. investigators will look into how the suspect was able to get into the offices of the Capital Gazette in Annapolis. Investigators have secured the suspect's home and are in the process of preparing search warrants.

Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette, recalled on Friday how Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette's former colleagues touched Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette's life when Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette worked there. Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette remembered how nervous Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette was about telling victim Rob Hiaasen, an editor for the Capital Gazette, that Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette was moving on from the Capital Gazette. "the Capital Gazette meant a lot to Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette, the Capital Gazette gave Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette a chance," Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette said. Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette recalled Gerald Fischman's sharp eye for editing their "sometimes convoluted" stories.

After a fatal shooting gripped the Capital Gazette office in Annapolis, Maryland, Gov. Larry Hogan, President Trump and other officials took to social media to respond Thursday afternoon. WASHINGTON — Across Maryland and the U.S., officials shared officials's grief, sympathy and horror on social media over the news of Thursday afternoon's Capital Gazette shooting in Annapolis, Maryland. Five were reported dead; the suspected shooter is in custody.
As the news broke, Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan tweeted that Gov. Larry Hogan was “absolutely devastated” by a fatal shooting. And, during a news conference near the crime scene later, Gov. Larry Hogan credited first responders for arriving quickly. “Gov. Larry Hogan want to praise the local officials who responded so well and perhaps saved other people’s lives by getting there while a fatal shooting was taking place and apprehending the suspected shooter,” Gov. Larry Hogan said. President Trump, too, thanked first responders and offered President Trump's thoughts and prayers. Sen. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., tweeted encouraging words to Capital Gazette reporter Phil Davis’s haunting account of a fatal shooting, after sharing Sen. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md.,'s own words of sympathy. Rep. John Sarbanes, a Democrat who represents Maryland's 3rd District in the U.S. Congress, was “deeply saddened” by reports. Other lawmakers, from U.S. senators on Capitol Hill to Maryland state senators, also shared Other lawmakers, from U.S. senators on Capitol Hill to Maryland state senators's reactions. Ben Jealous, who will face Gov. Larry Hogan in the 2018 race for Maryland governor, expressed Ben Jealous, who will face Hogan in the 2018 race for Maryland governor's sympathies as well. The U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland also tweeted The U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis's condolences.
WTOP’s Sarah Beth Hensley contributed to this report. Like WTOP’s on Facebook and follow @WTOP on Twitter to engage in conversation about this article and others. © 2018 WTOP’s. All Rights Reserved. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area.

The suspect in Thursday's shooting at a Maryland newspaper was identified as Jarrod Ramos, born Dec. 21, 1979, according to three senior law enforcement officials. At least five were killed and several others "gravely injured" during a shooting at the offices of a Maryland newspaper in Annapolis, Maryland, law enforcement officials said.
The suspect in Thursday's shooting at a Maryland newspaper was charged with five counts of first-degree murder in Thursday's shooting at a Maryland newspaper, NBC News reported. The suspect in Thursday's shooting at a Maryland newspaper's bail review is scheduled to be held at 10:30 a.m. ET Friday.
In 2012, The suspect in Thursday's shooting at a Maryland newspaper brought a defamation lawsuit against Eric Hartley, formerly a staff writer and columnist with a Maryland newspaper, and Thomas Marquardt, then editor and publisher of a Maryland newspaper, according to a court filing. In 2015, Maryland's second-highest court upheld a ruling in favor of a Maryland newspaper and a former reporter who were accused by The suspect in Thursday's shooting at a Maryland newspaper of defamation. According to a legal document, the article contended that The suspect in Thursday's shooting at a Maryland newspaper had harassed a woman on Facebook and that The suspect in Thursday's shooting at a Maryland newspaper had pleaded guilty to criminal harassment. Maryland's second-highest court agreed that the contents of the article were accurate and based on public records, a legal document showed.

The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building has been identified as 38-year-old Jarrod Ramos of Laurel, Maryland, law enforcement sources tell CBS News.
The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building is suspected of the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building fire Thursday at the offices of Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland, and fatally shooting five people while injuring others. The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building allegedly used a shotgun and was carrying smoke grenades or flash-bang grenades when The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building was apprehended, police said.
The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building was taken into custody at the scene and refused to cooperate with authorities. The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building carried no identification, sources said.
Authorities resorted to using facial recognition software and comparing The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building's face to databases of passports and driver's license photos. The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building was scheduled to appear in court Friday morning on five counts of first degree murder. A Twitter account matching The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building's name with a location of Laurel, Maryland, includes years of tweets railing against Capital Gazette and includes details of a yearslong legal dispute with Capital Gazette. According to an unreported 2015 opinion filed in the Maryland Court of Special Appeals, The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building pleaded guilty to criminal harassment in July 2011. Five days later, an article about the case appeared in The Capital, one of Capital Gazette's publications.
an article about the case detailed accusations by a woman who said The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building harassed a woman who said Ramos harassed her online and off for months, calling her employer and trying to get her fired online and off for months, calling a woman who said Ramos harassed her online and off for months, calling her employer and trying to get her fired's employer and trying to get a woman who said Ramos harassed her online and off for months, calling her employer and trying to get her fired fired. a woman who said Ramos harassed her online and off for months, calling her employer and trying to get her fired eventually went to the police and The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building the conviction guilty to a misdemeanor charge of harassment in 2011.
The Twitter account that matches The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building's name began tweeting about Capital Gazette several months after the conviction. In July 2012, The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building The complaint suit against Capital Gazette for defamation, according to the 2015 court filing.
The complaint was just four paragraphs long, but The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building filed a longer 22-page claim several months later. Editor's note: The initial version of this story published Thursday evening reported that The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building had "damaged" the tips of The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building's fingers in an attempt to prevent identification, citing a law enforcement official.
On Friday, Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said that there was a lag in identifying The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building using fingerprints, and that facial recognition technology was used. But Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said that "there was no alteration to The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building's fingerprints." This story has been updated.

The gunman looked for The gunman's victims as The gunman walked through the building.
The shooting at a Maryland newsroom that killed his victims was a targeted attack, according to local police. Anne Arundel Police Department Bill Krampf said that The gunman, looked for victims in the newsroom of the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of the building. "The gunman looked for The gunman's victims as The gunman walked through the lower level," Anne Arundel Police Department Bill Krampf said in a news conference Thursday evening.
Two people suffered superficial injuries, possibly from glass or the shotgun blast. his victims were identified by police as Wendi Winters, Rebecca Smith, Rob Hiaasen, Gerald Fischman and John McNamara, all employees of the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building.
It is unclear if The gunman knew employees at the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building or if The gunman was just targeting the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building "in general," Anne Arundel Police Department Bill Krampf said. Investigators are that The gunman "had a history with the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building," but that has not yet been confirmed, Anne Arundel Police Department Bill Krampf said. The gunman was engaged by responding officers within about one minute and taken into custody, officials from Anne Arundel County Government said.
There was no gunfire exchanged between The gunman and officers, officials said during an afternoon news briefing. The gunman wasn't carrying a wallet or identification and is not cooperating with authorities, officials told ABC News. The gunman is a white male in The gunman's late 30s, Anne Arundel Police Department Bill Krampf said, adding that investigators are now securing The gunman's Maryland residence.
Anne Arundel Police Department did not release The gunman's identity, but law enforcement sources identified The gunman to ABC News as Laurel, Maryland, resident Jarrod Ramos. Authorities identified The gunman by using facial recognition, a law enforcement source told ABC News. It is unclear whether facial recognition was from a photograph or witness, a law enforcement source said.
The gunman was not able to be identified using The gunman's fingerprints due to a problem with a machine, law enforcement officials told ABC News. A law enforcement source initially told ABC News that The gunman had that statement The gunman's fingers in an apparent attempt to avoid being identified but later clarified that statement.
Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building for 35 years, told ABC News that the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building staff had dealt with threats in the past and have always been concerned about security. Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years personally got threats, as did others, but threats were mostly anonymous, Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years said. More than four years ago, Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years said Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years had called the Anne Arundel Police Department to alert the Anne Arundel Police Department to threats from the alleged gunman, identified by law enforcement sources to ABC News as Laurel, Maryland, resident Jarrod Ramos. the Anne Arundel Police Department has not released The gunman's identity.
Police had investigated threats from the alleged gunman, identified by law enforcement sources to ABC News as Laurel, Maryland, resident Jarrod Ramos and visited The gunman at The gunman's home but did not have enough to charge The gunman, Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years said. The gunman was the subject of a story about allegations that The gunman stalked The gunman's ex-girlfriend and was in a long legal fight with the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building, Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years said, adding that a long legal fight was tame compared to The gunman's taunts and threats on social media.
Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years said Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years was not surprised to hear that The gunman was the suspected shooter and hypothesized that The gunman was disappointed to not find The gunman or the reporter who wrote the story inside the building. "Because of that grudge, innocent people died," Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years said.
Phil Davis, a crime and courts reporter with the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building, said The gunman shot through a glass door into the office. "There is nothing more terrifying than hearing multiple people get shot while you're under your desk and then hear The gunman reload," Phil Davis, a crime and courts reporter with the Capital Gazette tweeted.
the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building photojournalist Joshua McKerrow tweeted that Capital Gazette photojournalist Joshua McKerrow and Capital Gazette photojournalist Joshua McKerrow's colleagues are continuing to cover the story, along with Baltimore Sun reporters. "There will be a Capital Friday," Capital Gazette photojournalist Joshua McKerrow said.
After The shooting at a Maryland newsroom that killed five people, about 170 people were safely evacuated from the building and no one else there is a threat, officials said. Authorities recovered "what Authorities thought may have been an explosive device," said Anne Arundel County Acting Police Chief William Kramph said. an explosive device was actually canisters filled with smoke grenades that The gunman used when The gunman entered the building, Anne Arundel County Acting Police Chief William Kramph said.
Out of an abundance of caution, the Anne Arundel Police Department is moving personnel to headquarters of major media outlets in New York, including ABC News. Tronc the parent company of the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building, released a statement commending law enforcement officers who law enforcement officers's quick response, adding that Tronc the parent company of the Capital Gazette is focused right now on providing support to employees and law enforcement officers's families. ABC News' Erin Dooley, Pierre Thomas, Josh Margolin and Aaron Katersky contributed to this report.

T he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US has been identified. Jarrod Warren Ramos, 38, was arrested after a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US unfolded in the Capital Gazette office in Maryland, police have said. Ramos, a resident of Laurel, Maryland, sued the newspaper and one of the newspaper's journalists alleging defamation in 2012, according to reports.
Police have said Police believe a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US was a targeted attack. Horrified witnesses described how he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US shot through a glass door before he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US opened fire in the newsroom on Thursday afternoon. he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US threw smoke grenades and fired a shotgun at he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US's victims, according to Anne Arundel County acting police chief William Krampf.
the newspaper's editor Rob Hiassen was among those killed in the horrifying scenes, according the Baltimore Sun, which owns the newspaper group. Four people died at a newspaper office in the US, and a fifth died after being rushed to the hospital, CNN reported. Emergency services descended on a newspaper office in the US amid reports of he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US.
One US official said he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US was identified using facial recognition technology after he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US damaged he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US's fingerprints in what police believe was an effort to prevent he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US being identified easily. No gunfire was exchanged between he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US and police, officials said, adding that the weapon used was a “long gun”. A reporter at the newspaper earlier tweeted about a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US, saying that he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US "shot through the glass door to a newspaper office in the US". "Can't say much more and don't want to declare anyone dead, but it's bad," said Phil Davis, the crime and courts reporter.

Hours after a gunman the shooting the newsroom of the Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland, killing five people, the Capital Gazette's editors made true on its editors's vow to publish the Friday issue of the Capital Gazette. In the aftermath of the shooting, the Capital Gazette's reporters were back out covering the tragedy that had been inflicted on the Gazette’s reporters's own colleagues. By late on Thursday evening, the Capital Gazette posted the Capital Gazette's front page on social media as the Capital Gazette went to press – “5 shot dead at Annapolis, Maryland” and “Laurel man, the suspected gunman, in custody”, read the headline and subhead. As evidence grew that the gun rampage had been committed by an individual who specifically targeted the Capital Gazette and the Capital Gazette's editing team, the response of the surviving journalists on the title was one of resolute defiance.
Within a couple of hours of the shooting, the the Capital Gazette reporter Chase Cook, who normally covers the Maryland general assembly, was filing social media reports from the scene. “the Capital Gazette reporter Chase Cook, who normally covers the Maryland general assembly can tell you this: the Capital Gazette are putting out a damn paper tomorrow,” the Capital Gazette reporter Chase Cook, who normally covers the Maryland general assembly said in a tweet. five people have been identified and the Capital Gazette published stories on each of five people's “bright, wonderful lives”.
five people were named as Rob Hiaasen, assistant news editor; Gerald Fischman, editorial page editor; Wendi Winters, special publications editor; Rebecca Smith, sales assistant; and John McNamara, staff writer. “The loss is unimaginable,” said Joshua McKerrow, a photojournalist at the Capital Gazette.
the Capital Gazette's community news editor, Jimmy DeButts, also struck a note of resistance against a gunman's violent hatred. “Reporters & editors give all Reporters & editors have every day. There are no 40-hour weeks, no big paydays – just a passion for telling stories from our community,” The paper’s community news editor, Jimmy DeButts said.
Another the Capital Gazette reporter, Pat Furgurson, reported from the evening press briefing on the tragedy that had been inflicted on their own colleagues at Another Capital Gazette reporter, Pat Furgurson's own workplace. Another Capital Gazette reporter, Pat Furgurson briefly talked to Another Capital Gazette reporter, Pat Furgurson's fellow reporters after the evening press briefing on the tragedy at his own workplace ended. Visibly shaken, Another Capital Gazette reporter, Pat Furgurson said five people were “just trying to do five people's job for the public.
Something like the gun rampage might happen in Afghanistan or Iraq or something like Afghanistan or Iraq but you don’t expect it in a sleepy office across the street from a local mall.”
However, Another Capital Gazette reporter, Pat Furgurson said “the Capital Gazette’re still putting out a newspaper” and that the Capital Gazette would be out on Friday. As the evening progressed, details emerged of how the Capital Gazette had been deliberately targeted.
Journalists who survived the gun rampage gave first-hand accounts of how a gunman had entered the newsroom of the Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland and apparently sought out editors of the Capital Gazette as a gunman's victims. Phil Davis, a crime reporter for the Capital Gazette, told CNN Phil Davis, a crime reporter for the Capital Gazette noticed the path a gunman took. “Phil Davis, a crime reporter for the Capital Gazette know that two of the editors a gunman went after were in the same position as other reporters who were at other reporters who were at their desks's desks,” Phil Davis, a crime reporter for the Capital Gazette said.
a gunman has not been named by police, but several news outlets have identified a gunman as Jarrod Ramos, a 38-year-old man who had previously sued the Capital Gazette for defamation in 2012. a gunman was taken into custody and police were investigating a gunman's home. police said police would provide an update later on Friday. In an echo of the anger that quickly exploded from the student survivors of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school shooting in February, the Capital Gazette journalists expressed disgust at the lack of action coming from Washington over the latest gun outrage.
A fundraiser to help the the Capital Gazette newsroom and staff hit the money in eight hours. Started by Bloomberg reporter Madi Alexander, the money will go towards medical bills, funeral costs and repairs.

Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, is sadly, terrifyingly typical, at least to anyone who ever worked at a newspaper of any size. Court records available online paint a picture of an angry misogynist of the classic type, the angry reader of the classic type, and the angry online presence of the newly classic type. Then, Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, picked up Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s shotgun and went for a ride.
The run-up was sad. The denouement is terrifying. The whole thing is typical.
"If you're on Facebook, you've probably gotten a friend request or message from an old high school classmate you didn't quite remember. "For one woman, that experience turned into a yearlong nightmare.
"Out of the blue, Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, wrote and thanked one woman for being the only person ever to say hello or be nice to Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, in school. "one woman didn't remember Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,, so Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, sent pictures. one woman Googled Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,, found a yearbook picture and realized they apparently did go to Arundel High together.
"Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, was having some problems, so one woman wrote back and tried to help, suggesting a counseling center. "'one woman just thought one woman was being friendly,' one woman said.
"That sparked months of emails in which Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, alternately asked for help, called one woman's vulgar names and told one woman to kill one woman. Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, emailed one woman's company and tried to get one woman fired. "one woman stopped writing back and told Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, to stop, but Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, continued. When one woman blocked Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, from seeing one woman's Facebook page, Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, found things one woman wrote on other people's pages and taunted one woman with things she wrote on other people's pages, attaching screenshots of things she wrote on other people's pages to some of Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s emails. "one woman called police, and for months Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, stopped.
But then Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, started again, nastier than ever. "All this without having seen one woman in person since high school.
They never met until they came to court a couple of months ago. "Last week, Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,, pleaded guilty in District Court to a misdemeanor harassment charge. "Judge Jonas Legum, who called Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s behavior 'rather bizarre,' suspended a 90- day jail sentence and placed Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, on probation, ordering Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, to continue in therapy and not contact one woman or one woman's family in any way.
"The case is extreme. But The case provides a frightening look at the false intimacy the Internet can offer and the venom that can hide behind a computer screen. "The victim, who asked that one woman's name not be printed, said one woman lived in fear for one woman's safety for months.
"Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s messages rambled, calling one woman 'a bipolar drunkard leading a double life' and saying 'Expletive you, leave Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, alone' though one woman hadn't written Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, in months. Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, told one woman one woman was afraid to let a man get close to one woman and discussed one woman's family, friends, job and Rotary Club involvement–all information gleaned from the Internet. "In January, one woman went to court to get a peace order and file charges.
Finally, Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, stopped for good. Ramos, a tall, thin man with long hair Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, wears in a ponytail, did not speak at the hearing and did not return a call for comment left with Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s attorney. "Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, has a degree in computer engineering and has worked for the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics for six years, Drewniak said. Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, had no previous criminal record.
This kind of thing is the meat on which local newspapers feed. There are always stories to be found in the local courthouse, and Hartley was sharp enough to notice that there were larger issues to be explored in Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s case. It’s one you put in your notebook, and then you put your notebook in the paper, and feel good about how you did your job that day.
Anyone who’s ever worked at a newspaper in any department has a Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, story to tell. Except for the fact that Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, was one of those readers who can’t let anything go. Anyone who has worked on a daily newspaper in any era is familiar with a daily newspaper, and the smaller the newspaper, the more intense the confrontation.
Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, sued the Annapolis Capital-Gazette and Hartley, personally, for defamation. Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, represented Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, pro se, which is rarely a good idea, as a variety of judges in the Maryland courts made clear to Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,.
District Court: All right.
Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,, District Court'm going to grant Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s motion to dismiss The case. And The case will be dismissed with prejudice. And District Court'm going to grant the defendant's motion to dismiss this case for the following reasons: Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, are required in Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s complaint to state a claim with sufficient specificity.
District Court: District Court'm talking now.
MR. RAMOS:
Yes, Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'m sorry. District Court:
And dismissal is proper only if the facts and inferences, even if proven, would not entitle the plaintiff to relief. And that is what District Court am finding in Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s case, that Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, do not lay out a prima facie case for defamation or for invasion of privacy, or being placed in the false light. And the reason District Court'm finding that is that there is absolutely not one piece of evidence, or an assertion by Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, that the statement was false. The one statement Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, refer to concerning the rambling and referring to messages that Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, answered when there had been no contact comes directly from the statement of charges, where one woman writes, most of Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s messages are just pages of ramblings regarding one woman's friends, family, job, Rotary Club involvement. And the statement of charges, where she writes, most of his messages are just pages of ramblings regarding my friends, family, job, Rotary Club involvement goes on to say that Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, tell one woman to leave Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, alone, and Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, haven't responded for months.
That comes right out of a public document…Correct, both that the article was simply not defamatory, that the article was based on public record, that Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, haven't alleged that the article was false, and that the article appears to be substantially accurate, and the article would fall into the privilege which would make any complaint unsustainable, because they reported a criminal case. They reported a matter of public interest. District Court read these transcripts with interest and proceeded respectfully to pile on.
A discussion of defamation law would be an exercise in futility, because the appellant fails to come close to alleging a case of defamation. In the appellant's five-page brief, the appellant devotes two and one-half pages to legal argument.
the appellant never alleges that any basic fact contained in the article about the appellant's guilty plea is actually false. the appellant claims only that "Hartley's column fails the test of fairness because Hartley editorialized on the story's meaning." There is no allegation of any specific harm that the appellant suffered as a result of the article. the appellant simply described the harm as "incalculable, unforeseen, and potentially unknowable." That does not do it.
the appellant is pro se. A lawyer would almost certainly have told the appellant not to proceed with The case.
It reveals a fundamental failure to understand what defamation law is and, more particularly, what defamation law is not. the appellant is aggrieved because the newspaper story about the appellant's guilty plea assumed that the appellant was guilty and that his guilty plea was, therefore, properly accepted. the appellant is aggrieved because the newspaper story about his guilty plea was sympathetic toward one woman and was not equally understanding of Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,.
the appellant wanted equal coverage of the appellant's side of the story. the appellant wanted a chance to put one woman in a bad light, in order to justify and explain why the appellant did what the appellant did. That, however, is not the function of defamation law.
Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, apparently then took to the electric Twitter machine to rage against Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s victim, Hartley, the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, and District Court for a few months. Then Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, allegedly loaded Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,'s shotgun and went downtown. The story of a shooter with a grudge against a newspaper is getting a lot of run, and it’s easy to see why. Anyone who’s ever worked at a newspaper in any department has a Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, story to tell—the ringing phone you don’t want to pick up, the letters with the alarming spelling, and, now, the many platforms of social media.
Most of Anyone who’s ever worked at a newspaper in any department never pick up a gun. Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, did. However, it’s essential, District Court believe, to take The story of a shooter with a grudge against a newspaper back to The story of a shooter with a grudge against a newspaper's origins—an angry misogynist who engaged in a vicious campaign of slander and harassment of a woman who just tried to be nice to Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette,.
Misogyny is the one thing that’s part of too many of these stories. Well, Misogyny and the guns.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. --
The grieving and the reporting jumbled together for staffers at The Capital Gazette after a fatal shooting at The Capital Gazette, but staffers at The Capital Gazette were determined to put out the next day's edition. While the front page described a fatal shooting at the newspaper in horrific detail, the opinion page offered a starker approach.
five people included Rob Hiaasen, 59, The Capital Gazette's assistant managing editor and brother of novelist Carl Hiaasen. novelist Carl Hiaasen said novelist Carl Hiaasen was "devastated and heartsick" at losing novelist Carl Hiaasen's brother, "one of the most gentle and funny people novelist Carl Hiaasen've ever known." Also slain were Gerald Fischman, editorial page editor; features reporter Wendi Winters; reporter John McNamara, and sales assistant Rebecca Smith.
The Capital Gazette said two other employees had non-life threatening injuries and were later released from a hospital. "Tomorrow The Capital Gazette will return to The Capital Gazette's steady purpose of offering readers informed opinion about the world around readers, that readers might be better citizens," the editors wrote.
Journalists with the ANNAPOLIS, Md. daily huddled under a covered parking deck of the ANNAPOLIS, Md. Mall, not far from where scores of other media outlets were clumped together Thursday awaiting further details of the shooting that left five people dead, including colleagues, and others injured.
Editor Rick Hutzell called a few of Editor Rick Hutzell's journalists over to talk, a discussion punctuated with hugs and staggered expressions. "We're trying to do our job and deal with five people" who lost five people's lives, said reporter Pat Furgurson, whose wife and adult son were with reporter Pat Furgurson, whose wife and adult son were with him at the mall at the Annapolis Mall.
"You think something like a fatal shooting at the newspaper might happen in Afghanistan, not in a newsroom a block away from the Annapolis Mall," reporter Pat Furgurson, whose wife and adult son were with him at the mall said, reflecting on what appeared to be one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history. Police later said the gunman explicitly targeted The Capital Gazette. The Capital Gazette is an institution in ANNAPOLIS, Md. and was one of the last dailies to switch from publishing in the afternoon to mornings.
The Capital Gazette's sister publication, the Maryland Gazette, was founded in 1727 and is one of the oldest papers in America. In 1767, Its sister publication, the Maryland Gazette, became the first paper in America to be published by a woman, Anne Catherine Green, who led opposition to the stamp tax in the years leading up to the American Revolution.
For many years The Capital Gazette was published by diplomat Philip Merrill, who died in 2006. The Capital Gazette was sold in 2014 to the Baltimore Sun Media Group.
Reporters brushed aside any logistical difficulties putting out a newspaper when the newsroom is an off-limits crime scene. High school sports editor Bob Hough told The Associated Press High school sports editor Bob Hough and a colleague were working on the sports section from High school sports editor Bob Hough's home Thursday evening. "High school sports editor Bob Hough don't know that there was ever any thought to not putting something together," said Hough, who wasn't at the office when a fatal shooting at the newspaper broke out. High school sports editor Bob Hough said he and a colleague were doing a full five-page section in collaboration with the design team based at the Baltimore Sun Media Group that always lays out the pages. High school sports editor Bob Hough noted that some of High school sports editor Bob Hough's colleagues were out that coverage on the shooting story as the shooting story continued to unfold late Thursday and said High school sports editor Bob Hough expected the next day's paper would include that coverage and whatever else would be in a typical Friday paper. By 10:30 p.m. Thursday, The Capital Gazette's website had in-depth stories on a fatal shooting at the newspaper, a yearslong feud the suspect had with The Capital Gazette and a photo and profile of each of the journalists' slain co-workers. Photographer Josh McKerrow edited photos on a laptop in the garage deck.

Every local journalist, in every local newsroom, has experienced that moment of fear, when the crank who has been tormenting their inbox or Twitter feed or voicemail shows up to complain in person. that moment of fear, when the crank who has been tormenting their inbox or Twitter feed or voicemail happened to me a few years ago, at a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan.
One of a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan's reporters had been working on a story about a neighborhood eccentric, basically a hoarder whose home had become an eyesore and who, locals say, threatened them as they walked down the sidewalk. Neighbors had complained, the police had been called, and a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan set out to learn more about the woman who lived inside. In a phone call with a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan's reporter, the woman who lived inside railed against the woman who lived inside's family and the woman who lived inside's neighbors, and threatened a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan if a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan wrote unflatteringly about the woman who lived inside or the woman who lived inside's house. Then, a few days later, before a story about a neighborhood eccentric, basically a hoarder whose home had become an eyesore and who, locals say, threatened them as they walked down the sidewalk ran, the woman who lived inside showed up unannounced at a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan's office, angry and incoherent and demanding to speak to a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan's reporter. One of our reporters and I were able to calm the woman who lived inside down and let the woman who lived inside speak the woman who lived inside's mind, before convincing the woman who lived inside to leave. a story about a neighborhood eccentric, basically a hoarder whose home had become an eyesore and who, locals say, threatened them as they walked down the sidewalk ran and a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan never heard from the woman who lived inside again.
Incidents like this happen every day in newsrooms everywhere. But this week’s shooting at the Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland—where a man who had been fighting with the Capital Gazette for years over a story a man who had been fighting with the newspaper for years over a story he didn’t like didn’t like, ending in the shooting death of five the Capital Gazette journalists—should force us to rethink the threat to journalism in Trump’s America: While Trump’s rails against CNN, The New York Times, The Washington Post, and others, it is reporters at the local level, across Trump’s America, who may well sit on the front lines of the new war against the press in Trump’s America. Yes, national reporters are routinely threatened and harassed, and national reporters continue to do national reporters's jobs with courage and commitment.
Given the size and reach of national reporters's audience, the venom aimed at national reporters, especially online, can be intimidating. And when people do come in contact with national reporters—the press pens at Trump’s rallies spring to mind—the results can be scary. Local newsrooms are accessible for a reason—it’s part of what makes Local newsrooms integral to the life of Local newsrooms's communities. Local newsrooms are accessible for a reason—it’s part of what makes Local newsrooms integral to the life of Local newsrooms's communities.
People come in to buy ads. Readers bring in photos of Readers's kids’ sports teams. Tipsters drop by with gossip.
It is heartbreaking, but necessary, to recognize that the openness that defines local news likely carries too high a risk; local newsrooms, at least for now, may have no choice but to fortify local newsrooms. Since Trump’s chose, in the very earliest days of Trump’s's presidential campaign, to make attacks on a free press in Trump’s America one of Trump’s's signature themes, many of us have thought it inevitable that Trump’s's dangerous rhetoric would one day be a trigger for tragedy. Our focus this long two years has been on the big, high-profile news organizations that most occupy Trump’s's obsessions and Trump’s's Twitter feed. the big, high-profile news organizations that most occupy Trump’s obsessions and his Twitter feed are what we think about when we worry about threats to the press, and the big, high-profile news organizations that most occupy Trump’s obsessions and his Twitter feed have become stand-ins for those, inside the government and out, who rail against fake news.
But what we missed is that for most Americans, the media is not some big-city skyscraper or national TV network with layers of security, where everybody needs a badge to get in. the media’s our local newsroom down the street, staffed by professionals reporting on what matters most to people where people where they live live. We’re reminded this week’s that in the war against the press, our local newsroom down the street, staffed by professionals reporting on what matters most to people where they live may well be the journalists in Trump’s America who are most at risk. Kyle Pope is the editor in chief and publisher of the Columbia Journalism Review.

Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos said Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos wasn't being serious when Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos texted reporters Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos couldn't wait "for the vigilante squads to start gunning journalists down on sight
," statements made just days before a gunman these deaths Five people at a Maryland newspaper. Five people were killed Thursday when a gunman, opened fire at The Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland. Police said a gunman had a long-standing feud with a Maryland newspaper. Yiannopoulos, a former Breitbart editor, a made the comments to at least two news outlets, including the New York Observer, which wrote about the incident earlier this week.
When pressed, Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos said the comments was Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos's "standard response to a request for comment." Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos sent a similar message to Will Sommer, a reporter for the Daily Beast.
In later posts, Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos asked when the media would apologize to Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos. "When will the media, including many on the right, apologize to Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos?
Over a hundred thousand tweets today accused Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos of being responsible for these deaths. How do Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos even decide who to sue first?" Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos wrote.
Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos resigned as senior editor of Breitbart in 2017 after comments Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos made seemed to promote pedophilia. Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos later said Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos regretted the "imprecise language" Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos used when discussing pedophilia. Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos has also made a series of controversial appearances at college campuses.

Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos denied that Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos's recent language was at all to blame for the shooting that took place at the Capital Gazette offices in Annapolis, Maryland, Thursday because Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos was just joking. Two days after the Observer published the article, a gunman entered the offices of Capital Gazette and began to open fire.
In anticipation of the blame that would be placed on Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos's shoulders, Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos posted on Facebook that not only is Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos not responsible, but if Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos's rhetoric incited anything, it's the news outlets who reported Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos's comments that are to blame. "Amazed the news outlets who reported his comments were pretending to take Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos's joke as a 'threat,' Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos reposted these stories on Instagram to mock the news outlets who reported his comments — and to make it clear that Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos wasn't being serious," Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos wrote. "If there turns out to be any dimension to this crime related to Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos's private, misreported remarks, the responsibility for any dimension to this crime related to my private, misreported remarks lies squarely and wholly with the Beast and the Observer for drumming up fake hysteria about my joke, and with the verified liberals who pretended the verified liberals who pretended they thought I was serious thought Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos was serious," Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos wrote in the Facebook post.
Officials confirmed during a press conference that five people were killed during the shooting at the Capital Gazette offices and others were injured. Officers engaged a gunman. Newsweek reached out to Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos for comment but did not hear back in time for publication.

After years of repeatedly calling journalists “the enemy of the people,” President Trump on Friday struck a markedly different tone towards the media, saying in the aftermath of a deadly shooting at the Capital Gazette’s newsroom that journalists should be “free from the fear” of violence while doing journalists's jobs. Five employees of the Capital Gazette’s—Robert Hiaasen, Wendi Winters, John McNamara, Rebecca Smith, and Gerald Fischman—were killed after alleged gunman Jarrod Ramos a deadly shooting at the Capital Gazette’s newsroom the Capital Gazette’s newsroom with a shotgun. alleged gunman Jarrod Ramos previously sued and threatened the Capital Gazette’s for reporting on alleged gunman Jarrod Ramos's guilty plea on a 2011 harassment case.
A week later, while speaking at the 2017 Conservative Political Action Conference, President Trump repeated the “enemy of the people” line multiple times to rapturous applause. Beyond that, President Trump has also occasionally shared violent memes about outlets President Trump views as “opposing” President Trump's presidency. Last year, for example, President Trump infamously shared a GIF meme depicting President Trump body-slamming CNN in a wrestling ring. And at another point in 2017, President Trump retweeted and then deleted a cartoon meme depicting the “President Trump Train” barreling through a person labeled as CNN.

Ramos, 38, had unsuccessfully The lawsuit The Capital Gazette in Annapolis for defamation in 2012. The lawsuit stemmed from The Capital Gazette in Annapolis reporting that Ramos had pleaded guilty to harassing a woman who was a former high school classmate. Ramos has been charged with murder in the first degree after police say Ramos killed five people at The Capital Gazette in Annapolis's offices.
In a separate interview on "CBS This Morning," Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare told O'Donnell that Ramos had purchased the pump-action shotgun used in the shooting within the past 18 months. CBS has learned that Ramos had damaged Ramos's fingertips and wasn't carrying any identification when Ramos was arrested. Law enforcement sources told CBS that Ramos was hiding under a desk.

Mourners holding candles lined the streets of Annapolis to honor those who died when a gunman entered the building of those who died when a gunman entered the building of their hometown newspaper's hometown newspaper. WASHINGTON — Mourners holding candles lined the streets of Annapolis on Friday to honor those who died when a gunman entered the building of those who died when a gunman entered the building of their hometown newspaper's hometown newspaper.
Surrounded by Capital Gazette reporter Phil Davis's colleagues, their hometown newspaper reporter Phil Davis read the names of Capital Gazette reporter Phil Davis's co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen. his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen were killed when a gunman entered their hometown newspaper's office on Thursday and the shooting at the Capital Gazette his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen with a long gun.
Mourners walk during a vigil in response to a shooting at The their hometown newspaper office, Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. a gunman is charged with five counts of first-degree murder in one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history.
(AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People stand in silence during a vigil in response to a shooting in the building of their hometown newspaper Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. Prosecutors say a gunman opened fire Thursday in the building of their hometown newspaper. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People gather for a vigil in response to a shooting at the building of their hometown newspaper, Friday, June 29, 2018, in front of the Maryland State House in Annapolis, Md. Prosecutors say a gunman opened fire Thursday in the building of their hometown newspaper.
(AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People hug as People gather for a vigil in response to a shooting in the building of their hometown newspaper, Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. Prosecutors say a gunman opened fire Thursday in the building of their hometown newspaper.
(AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky Photos of his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen adorn candles during a vigil across the street from where his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen were slain in his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen's newsroom in Annapolis, Md., Friday, June 29, 2018. Prosecutors say a gunman opened fire Thursday in the building of their hometown newspaper.
(AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana People gather for a candlelight vigil across the street from where his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen were slain in his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen's newsroom in Annapolis, Md., Friday, June 29, 2018. Prosecutors say a gunman opened fire Thursday in the building of their hometown newspaper.
(AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Mourners stand in silence during a vigil in response to a shooting at the building of their hometown newspaper, Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. Prosecutors say a gunman opened fire Thursday in the building of their hometown newspaper.
(AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People walk in silence during a vigil in response to a shooting in the building of their hometown newspaper, Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. Prosecutors say a gunman opened fire Thursday in the building of their hometown newspaper.
(AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People hug during a candlelight vigil across the street from where his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen were slain in his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen's newsroom in Annapolis, Md., Friday, June 29, 2018. Prosecutors say a gunman opened fire Thursday in the building of their hometown newspaper. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Hundreds of people lined the streets during a candlelight vigil on Friday.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo Mourners walk during a vigil after the shooting at their hometown newspaper.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo Mourners holding candles on the streets of Annapolis, Md., on Friday to honor those who were killed in a shooting at their hometown newspaper.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo Mourners gather in Annapolis on Friday, June 29, 2018, for the victims of the their hometown newspaper shooting.
(Courtesy Kara McGuirk-Allison) Courtesy Kara McGuirk-Allison People leave messages of grief and support during a vigil on Friday, June 29, 2018, for the victims of the their hometown newspaper shooting.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo A sign stands near the their hometown newspaper building where the shooting at the Capital Gazette took place Thursday that killed his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo Kathy Korin, of Annapolis, joins the vigil on Friday, June 29, 2018, for the victims of the their hometown newspaper shooting.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo ( 1 /16) Share This Gallery: Share on Facebook.
Share on Twitter. Share via email. Print.
“We’re not going to forget his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen, and we don’t want people to forget his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen,” Davis said. Kathy Korin, of Annapolis, came to a vigil on Friday, June 29, 2018, for the victims of the Capital Gazette shooting with sign that featured the newspaper obituaries of his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen. “Annapolis is our city, and we feel like Annapolis is under attack,” Kathy Korin, of Annapolis, said.
Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Md., had Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland's first court appearance in Anne Arundel District Court Friday. Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland appeared by video from the county detention center and was told Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland is charged with five counts of first-degree murder and could face life in prison. Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland is held without bond.
Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland filed a lawsuit against their hometown newspaper over a 2011 article about Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland. a lawsuit against the Capital Gazette over a 2011 article about him was thrown out and the courts ruled against Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland in a following appeal.
Two their hometown newspaper employees, Janel Cooley and Rachael Pacella, were injured in the shooting at the Capital Gazette but have since been released from the hospital. WTOP/Mike Murillo Mike Murillo contributed to this report. Like WTOP/Mike Murillo on Facebook and follow @WTOP on Twitter to engage in conversation about this article and others. © 2018 WTOP/Mike Murillo.
All Rights Reserved. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area.

Thank you. Thank you for the outpouring of sympathy for the terrible tragedy that took place Thursday in this news organization's Annapolis office.
this news organization will never forget Rob Hiaasen, Gerald Fischman, Wendi Winters, John McNamara or Rebecca Smith, this news organization's five co-workers who were gunned down in the terrible tragedy that took place Thursday in our Annapolis office. But this news organization also will always remember the bells of St. Anne’s ringing as members of this news organization's staff — past and present — walked down Main Street surrounded by thousands who turned out to support this news organization in a march to City Dock. this news organization always will remember the singing on a grassy knoll across from this news organization's office in a second vigil, little more than a day after five acts of murderous rage changed this news organization's lives forever.
Thank you for the cards, the letters, the emails and the flowers. Thank you for the food, the text messages and the signs.
The words of appreciation for this news organization's work and our work's importance to Annapolis and Anne Arundel County is a balm to this news organization's wounds. More than 800 people subscribed to this news organization's digital edition Friday as a show of support after the terrible tragedy that took place Thursday in our Annapolis office. Thank you.
Here’s what else this news organization won’t forget: Death threats and emails from people this news organization don’t know celebrating our loss, or the people who called for one of this news organization's reporters to get fired because one of our reporters got angry and cursed on national television after witnessing one of our reporters's friends getting shot. this news organization won’t forget being called an enemy of the people. No, this news organization won’t forget that. Because exposing evil, shining light on wrongs and fighting injustice is what this news organization do.
this news organization are The Capital. this news organization are the Maryland Gazette. this news organization are the Bowie Blade-News and Crofton West County Gazette.
this news organization are more than just this news organization's questions and this news organization's writing and this news organization's headlines. this news organization are journalists. Yes, this news organization bring values and beliefs to this news organization's work. this news organization believe in truth.
this news organization believe in speaking for those who don’t have the power to speak for those who don’t have the power to speak for themselves. this news organization believe in questioning authority.
this news organization believe in reporting the news. this news organization's community has rallied around this news organization to show Our community understand who this news organization are, and that this news organization are not the enemy of the people.
this news organization are your neighbors, your friends. this news organization are you.
You might not always like what this news organization write, or the photos this news organization shoot or the videos this news organization produce. You may not agree with this news organization's definition of what a story is or is not.
Most days this news organization suspect most of you will. But every day, the staff of this news organization will report on the news of Annapolis and Anne Arundel County.
this news organization will never be the same as this news organization were, now that Rebecca, Wendi, John, Gerald and Rob are gone. Some day this news organization hope to be as good again. That’s all this news organization can do.
Until Some day, keep reading. this news organization’ve only just begun.

The letter from Jarrod Ramos, 38, written in the style of a legal filing and obtained by CNN, is addressed to the paper’s former attorney and a Maryland Court of Special Appeals judge who upheld a lower court ruling throwing out Ramos's 2012 defamation case against the paper’s. The letter from Jarrod Ramos, 38, written in the style of a legal filing and obtained by CNN, is dated Thursday, June 28, the same day prosecutors say Ramos, stormed into the paper’s Annapolis newsroom with a shotgun, killing five employees and leaving two others wounded a few years after Ramos's unsuccessful defamation suit.
“Ramos further certify Ramos then did proceed to the office of respondent Capital-Gazette Communications … with the objective of killing every person present,” said The letter from Jarrod Ramos, 38, written in the style of a legal filing and obtained by CNN,. Former the paper’s editor and publisher Tom Marquardt said Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt learned of The letter from Jarrod Ramos, 38, written in the style of a legal filing and obtained by CNN, during an urgent call Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt received on Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt's way to a memorial for slain the paper’s assistant editor Rob Hiaasen. “We thought the chapter had closed and Ramos's is the story that keeps on giving.
In a very chilling way,” Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt said. Copies of The letter from Jarrod Ramos, 38, written in the style of a legal filing and obtained by CNN, were the mailings to the Baltimore Circuit Court house, the state court of special appeals and the law firm, according to Ann Arundel County Police, who are investigating the mailings.
Ramos was arrested shortly after the shooting spree when responding officers found Ramos hiding under a desk, according to police. Ramos has been charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to court records.
A portrait has emerged of Ramos as an unhinged loner consumed by a years-long vendetta against the paper’s, a man whose history of menacing behavior ended with Ramos, in the words of a prosecutor, “systematically hunting and killing” staffers in the paper’s Annapolis newsroom. Ramos conflict with the paper’s stems from a complaint a former high school classmate Ramos barely knew filed against Ramos in 2011. a former high school classmate he barely knew alleged Ramos began cyberstallking a former high school classmate he barely knew's years earlier – repeatedly sending a former high school classmate he barely knew's aggressive private messages, harassing a former high school classmate he barely knew's therapist for information and contacting a former high school classmate he barely knew's employer to tell her employer a former high school classmate he barely knew was “a bipolar drunkard leading a double life,” which a former high school classmate he barely knew said cost a former high school classmate he barely knew a former high school classmate he barely knew's job. When Ramos in 2011 pleaded guilty to harassing the woman – whom CNN is not identifying – a column about the case by former the paper’s writer Eric Hartley apparently left Ramos in a seething rage that lasted all the way up to last week’s massacre. Ramos sued former Capital writer Eric Hartley, Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt and Capital Gazette Communications for defamation in 2012, and then, after a judge the ruling out the case, appealed.
In 2015, the court of special appeals judge upheld the ruling. “The people who were involved in that story had left the paper’s,” Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt said. The other shooting victims were Gerald Fischman, 61, editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a staff writer; Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant; and Wendi Winters, 65, who worked in special publications. Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt said police advised Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt to watch Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt's surroundings.

Craig “Woody” Leydig conducted an interview with The Capital around 2 p.m. last Thursday afternoon. Leydig, the assistant equipment manager for The Capital, did an interview with The Capital from The Capital's headquarters – Kettler Iceplex, located in Arlington, Virginia.
Shortly after hanging up the phone, Craig “Woody” Leydig walked into the laundry room and saw breaking news on television announcing the shooting incident at the Capital Gazette offices in Annapolis. Craig “Woody” Leydig immediately called back that reporter to make sure Craig “Woody” Leydig was OK and was greatly relieved. However, the Annapolis resident was devastated upon learning that five other employees of Capital Gazette had been killed in the shooting incident at the Capital Gazette offices in Annapolis. Every coach, player, trainer and equipment manager with The Capital is allowed to spend one day with the Stanley Cup.
Craig “Woody” Leydig took possession of the Stanley Cup on Tuesday and Capital Gazette was foremost in Craig “Woody” Leydig's thoughts. Craig “Woody” Leydig's third stop with the Stanley Cup – after first taking a motorboat ride on the Chesapeake Bay then visiting by the Naval Academy – was the makeshift office of Capital Gazette. Craig “Woody” Leydig and Craig “Woody” Leydig's entourage brought the Stanley Cup to the temporary Capital Gazette office in Annapolis around 8:30 on Tuesday morning. Staff members, including five reporters that survived last Thursday's attack, spent about 45 minutes taking photos with the Stanley Cup.
“Craig “Woody” Leydig's heart goes out to the families of five other employees of Capital Gazette and to all the employees of Capital Gazette that have to find a way to move on from the shooting incident at the Capital Gazette offices in Annapolis,” Craig “Woody” Leydig said. After departing the Capital Gazette office, Craig “Woody” Leydig took the Stanley Cup to Maryland Veterans Cemetery Crownsville. Craig “Woody” Leydig's parents are laid to rest at Maryland Veterans Cemetery Crownsville.
Stunned customers at the Wawa convenience store in Gambrills took photos with the Stanley Cup. the Stanley Cup was then taken to Heroes Pub in Annapolis where first responders had first responders's photos taken with hockey’s top prize.
From there, Craig “Woody” Leydig's crew stopped by a barber shop in the Eastport Shopping Center. the Stanley Cup was then taken to Davis’ pub for photos and lunch with patrons. the Stanley Cup was then shuttled via boat to City Dock where hundreds of The Capital fans lined the boardwalk along Ego Alley waiting for a chance to touch the Stanley Cup. Anne Arundel Medical Center was the next destination for the Stanley Cup and Craig “Woody” Leydig had a party planned for family and friends to conclude Craig “Woody” Leydig's day.
Several members of the Capital Gazette newsroom are longtime fans of the Washington Capitals, who captured the Stanley Cup for the first time in the Washington Capitals, who captured the Stanley Cup for the first time in their 44-year history last month's 44-year history last month. Phil Davis, police reporter for The Capital, is an unabashed and diehard fan of the New Jersey Devils. Davis, whose Twitter posts from inside the makeshift office of Capital Gazette last Thursday were chilling, turned the Stanley Cup so the inscriptions for the Devils years of winning were displayed for photo purposes.

As gunshots rang out and glass shattered all around, staffers at the Capital Gazette cowered under desks, fearing for staffers at the Capital Gazette's lives.
Except Wendi Winters. A witness said Wendi Winters stood up, grabbed a trash can and a recycling bin, and charged the gunman. For Wendi Winters's heroism, Wendi Winters paid with Wendi Winters's life.
But several staffers at the Capital Gazette say Wendi Winters saved several staffers at the Annapolis, Maryland, newspaper. Survivors of last month’s attack shared the account of that day in a story the Capital Gazette ran over the weekend.
Eleven employees were in the office that day. Six made it out alive. And those who did are thanking Wendi Winters.
When the gunman barged into the the Capital Gazette newsroom on that day, the gunman shattered the office's glass door with a shotgun. Reporters Rachael Pacella and Phil Davis and intern Anthony Messenger were at Reporters Rachael Pacella and Phil Davis and intern Anthony Messenger's desks toward the back of the office when the shooting started. Rachael Pacella hid under a desk. Phil Davis went for the floor.
intern Anthony Messenger headed for the back door, which was barricaded, trapping Reporters Rachael Pacella and Phil Davis and intern Anthony Messenger inside. The shots kept coming. The bangs kept coming.
Then, The shots stopped. In the moment, employees didn’t know why. But it gave employees just enough time to get up and take refuge between filing cabinets until the shooting was over.
Photojournalist Paul Gillespie remembers hearing Wendi Winters yell “No!” during the shooting. Rachael Pacella and Phil Davis didn’t see Wendi Winters move toward the gunman. Reporters Rachael Pacella and Phil Davis only saw Wendi Winters's body in the walkway. But Phil Davis said that key pause could have been Wendi Winters confronting the gunman, buying Reporters Rachael Pacella and Phil Davis and intern Anthony Messenger the precious moments Reporters Rachael Pacella and Phil Davis and intern Anthony Messenger needed to get to safety.
Winters, an editor and community reporter and a mother of four, was one of five employees slain in last month’s attack. Editor Rob Hiaasen, editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, editor and sports writer John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith also lost Editor Rob Hiaasen, editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, editor and sports writer John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith's lives in last month’s attack. Jarrod Ramos, 38, who allegedly plotted last month’s attack because of a long-held grudge against the Capital Gazette, is charged with Editor Rob Hiaasen, editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, editor and sports writer John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith's deaths. Wendi Winters spent Wendi Winters's days writing about local events or interviewing teens who deserved recognition for good deeds.
Weeks after Wendi Winters took an active-shooter training class at Wendi Winters's church, Wendi Winters made the ultimate sacrifice, said Wendi Winters's son, Phoenix Geimer. But it sounds exactly like Wendi Winters, her son, Phoenix Geimer said.
“In an act of extraordinary courage, Wendi Winters gave Wendi Winters's heart, and Wendi Winters gave Wendi Winters last breath, and Wendi Winters gave Wendi Winters's final eight pints of blood to the defense of the free press and in defense of Wendi Winters's family at the Capital Gazette,” her son, Phoenix Geimer said in an account by the Washington Post. “Wendi Winters died fighting for what Wendi Winters believed in. her son, Phoenix Geimer's mom is an American hero, and we all have so much to live up to,” her son, Phoenix Geimer said.
In an editorial published Tuesday, the the Capital Gazette staff said Wendi Winters should be nominated for the Presidential Medal of Freedom – the nation’s highest civilian honor – for Wendi Winters's heroism. “Wendi Winters died protecting Wendi Winters's friends, but also in defense of Wendi Winters's newsroom from a murderous assault. Wendi Winters died protecting freedom of the press,” an editorial published Tuesday says.

The city of Annapolis will hold a benefit concert featuring Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte to honor the five Capital Gazette employees killed in an attack in their newsroom.
Mayor Gavin Buckley said Wednesday (July 11) the event dubbed “Annapolis Rising:
A Benefit for Capital Gazette and Free Press” will take place July 28 and will include performances, as well as guest speakers from the journalism community. Information on tickets will be available at a later date. Proceeds will benefit a fund established for the victims and survivors, as well as journalism scholarships.
Police say gunman Jarrod Ramos, who had a grudge against Capital Gazette, blasted gunman Jarrod Ramos, who had a grudge against the newspaper's way into the The city of Annapolis newsroom on June 28, killing the five Capital Gazette employees killed in an attack in their newsroom. gunman Jarrod Ramos, who had a grudge against the newspaper remains jailed on five counts of first-degree murder.
Good Charlotte, which includes twin brothers Joel and Benji Madden, said in an interview Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte are proud to return to Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte's roots to pay tribute to the community. “Joel Madden feel everything starts at home, it starts in your community and The city of Annapolis is the place in Maryland that Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte come from.
The city of Annapolis is the place Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte go back to. Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte feel very, very deeply connected to The city of Annapolis and The city of Annapolis’s a very important place to Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte.
It’s very important for Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte to show up for The city of Annapolis,” Joel Madden told The Associated Press. “If Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte can help support an event that will be uplifting for the families of the five Capital Gazette employees killed in an attack in their newsroom and the tragedy as a whole, it feels really important to be a part of an event that will be uplifting for the families of the victims and the tragedy as a whole,” Benji Madden added.
Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte say Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte remember going to The city of Annapolis at 18 to pursue Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte's music careers. “The city of Annapolis feels really special to Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte.
It’s rare to find that kind of community,” Benji Madden added. a benefit concert featuring Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte will take place from a stage on College Avenue with the Maryland State House in the background.
“Sadly, Maryland attention will soon shift from this event that has forever changed Maryland's city. Maryland will not stand by and allow the memory of the five Capital Gazette employees killed in an attack in their newsroom to be forgotten. Maryland also stand up for Maryland's journalists and Maryland's freedom of the press and a benefit concert featuring Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte is just one step in that direction,” Benji Madden said in a statement.

The man charged with the attack down five people at the Capital Gazette last week allegedly mailed three threatening letters before carrying out the attack, authorities said Monday. Sgt. Jacklyn Davis, a spokeswoman with Anne Arundel County Police, said authorities believe The man charged with gunning down five people at the Capital Gazette last week sent three threatening letters to three locations — Baltimore City Court, Maryland Court of Special Appeals and a law office that asked to remain anonymous. The man charged with gunning down five people at the Capital Gazette last week had an unsuccessful history suing the Capital Gazette: In a 2012 suit, The man charged with gunning down five people at the Capital Gazette last week claimed the Capital Gazette defamed The man charged with gunning down five people at the Capital Gazette last week after a columnist wrote about The man charged with gunning down five people at the Capital Gazette last week's 2011 guilty plea to criminal harassment.
a 2012 suit was the decision, and an appeals court affirmed the decision. Davis declined to provide details of three threatening letters, but the Baltimore Sun, which first reported three threatening letters, published a copy of one allegedly sent to the law office of the Capital Gazette's former attorney. NBC News has independently confirmed the authenticity of a copy of one allegedly sent to the law office of the Capital Gazette's former attorney. a copy of one allegedly sent to the law office of the Capital Gazette's former attorney is dated June 28 — the day of the attack — and is written in the style of a court document. "'That' is how your judiciary operates, you were too cowardly to confront those lies, and this is your receipt," a copy of one allegedly sent to the law office of the Capital Gazette's former attorney continues. The main part of a copy of one allegedly sent to the law office of the Capital Gazette's former attorney ends with, "I told you so," before a signature that is purportedly Ramos'.

About 30 minutes before last week’s shooting, Wagner wrapped up a phone interview with Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983. Upon returning to the laundry room at Kettler Capitals Iceplex, Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983 saw the news of last week’s shooting on TV, and Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983 immediately worried that Wagner was in the building. “Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983's heart went out to everybody,” Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983 said.
Wagner wasn’t in the Capital Gazette’s Annapolis office when last week’s shooting occurred, but five reporters who were, including Phil Davis, were among the the Capital Gazette’s staff members who spent about 45 minutes taking photos with the Stanley Cup during Tuesday’s visit. First, thanks to the Capitals for bringing the Stanley Cup to the Capital Gazette’s Annapolis office. But... “Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983's heart goes out to the families of those who were lost and to all the employees of the Capital Gazette’s that have to find a way to move on from this terrible tragedy,” Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983 told Wagner.
Before visiting the Capital Gazette’s's temporary office, Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983 brought the Stanley Cup to the Naval Academy. Later in the afternoon, Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983 brought the Stanley Cup, via boat, to Annapolis's City Dock, where fans started lining up before 7 a.m. for a chance to snap a photo with the Stanley Cup.

Yesterday's "targeted attack" on the Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md., left five people dead and two others injured. The shooter was arrested and charged with five counts of first-degree murder.
The shooter was identified via facial recognition software as 38-year-old Jarrod W. Ramos. Dear reader:
Hannity created this page to defend Hannity. Now Hannity'm suing the s— out of half of AA County and making corpses of corrupt careers and corporate entities. Hannity later denied that these comments were meant to link Waters' rhetoric to Yesterday's "targeted attack" on the Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md.,. You're about to see a raft of news stories claiming that Hannity am responsible for inspiring the deaths of journalists. the deaths of journalists are barely cold and left-wing journalists are already exploiting the deaths of journalists to score political points against Hannity.
It's disgusting. … Hannity made a private, offhand troll to two hostile reporters, who breathlessly publicized a private, offhand troll and like vermin two hostile reporters, who breathlessly publicized it and like vermin their fellow journalists's fellow journalists swarmed to remind the world how much their fellow journalists hate Hannity.
Conservatives perceive more social media censorship. A new poll from the Pew Research Center found 70 percent of Americans think popular social media platforms are actively censoring certain political views. Republicans and conservatives are more likely than liberal-leaning counterparts to believe Republicans and conservatives're being censored. Around 575 people, mostly women, were arrested Yesterday's at a Washington, D.C., sit-in protesting President Trump's immigration policies.
The Senate has passed a farm bill that does not include the controversial food stamp provisions passed by the House. ICE agents call for the abolition of ICE.

A cardinal rule of journalism is that conclusions should not precede the facts.
Unfortunately, A cardinal rule of journalism was ignored by commentators on both sides of America’s growing political divide in the wake of the fatal shooting at a Maryland newspaper, further undermining the very profession commentators on both sides of America’s growing political divide claim to value while adding to the incendiary rhetoric commentators on both sides of America’s growing political divide supposedly abhor. Except, as it turned out, the fatal shooting at a Maryland newspaper had nothing to do with Trump or Trump's ongoing battle with the press.
The man who allegedly killed five people and wounded others, Jarrod Ramos, reportedly had been feuding with a Maryland newspaper since 2011, when a Maryland newspaper reported The man who allegedly killed five people and wounded others, Jarrod Ramos, had plead guilty to charges of threatening a former high school classmate. Nor was Cox alone.
At Fox News, conservative commentator Sean Hannity appeared to lay at least some of the blame for the Maryland incident at the feet of Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Cal., who last week encouraged opponents to physically “get in the face” of Trump administration officials. “conservative commentator Sean Hannity’ve been saying now for days that something horrible was going to happen because of the rhetoric. Really, Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Cal., who last week encouraged opponents to physically “get in the face” of Trump administration officials?” said Hannity, who later disputed claims conservative commentator Sean Hannity intended to link Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Cal., who last week encouraged opponents to physically “get in the face” of Trump administration officials to the fatal shooting at a Maryland newspaper.
It was Chicago mayor Rahm Emanuel who once advised, “Never let a serious crisis go to waste. And what Chicago mayor Rahm Emanuel who once advised, “Never let a serious crisis go to waste mean by that a serious crisis’s an opportunity to do things you think you could not do before.” In this case, the crisis in Maryland allowed people to criticize political opponents who had nothing to do with the actual events.
But even though Cox's specific conclusion was wrong, Cox's underlying concern was more than justified. “Fair enough to call Cox out for jumping to a conclusion about the motives here,” Cox tweeted later.
“(But) vilifying any category of people — journalists, migrants, conservatives, liberals, etc. — can incite violence.” Cox's attempt at belated self-justification does not invalidate the larger point about the danger of reckless words producing tragic consequences.
There have, after all, been plenty of examples of politically motivated violence, from Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh on the right to James Hodgkinson on the left, who last year targeted Republican members of Congress as Republican members of Congress practiced for a baseball game. As Cox implied, vilifying entire groups for the sins of specific individuals displays an unwillingness or inability to make intelligent distinctions or arguments. Trump didn’t start that trend but Trump has exploited and exacerbated that trend, and should take the lead in reversing that trend.
Trump won’t, of course, and neither will zealots on the left. In a discussion of the need for civility following the expulsion of White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders from a restaurant, former Bernie Sanders spokeswoman Symone Sanders suggested “the folks calling for ‘civility’ may need to check the folks calling for ‘civility’'s privilege . . . If we were waiting for non-confrontational and civility, (blacks) might still be sitting at segregated lunch counters.”
In other words, those who perceive themselves as aggrieved or victimized should not be held to the same standards of behavior expected of others. But that sentiment of course represents just another form of condescension and bigotry.
If civil debate cannot be expected of all Americans, regardless of all Americans's politics, the toxic rhetoric will only continue to escalate. There is, clearly, no shortage of people willing to take advantage of the possible consequences; far fewer with the maturity, wisdom and courage to expect civility from themselves and their allies as vehemently as they demand civility from their opponents. The fact is, such a double standard is a recipe for cultural chaos — and worse.

Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos legally bought Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos's pump-action shotgun within the past 18 months, police said, despite a history of threatening behavior, including warnings against the Annapolis newspaper at the center of the deadly attack. Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos allegedly stormed the Capital Gazette newsroom before 3 p.m. and opened fire with his pump-action shotgun, killing five people and injuring several more.
Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos was charged with a count of first-degree murder for each victim killed and was ordered to be held without bond on Friday. The shotgun used in the deadly attack would have been easier for Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos to obtain than other types of guns.
But even with a more strenuous background check process, experts say, Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos's criminal past and patterns of harassment wouldn’t have stopped Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos from owning a shotgun. “There’s a real gap in Maryland law in that Maryland law treats semi-automatic rifles and handguns fairly comprehensively, but not shotguns,” said David Chipman, a former ATF agent who is now a senior policy adviser for Gifford’s Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.
In order to buy a handgun in Maryland, one is required to provide state ID, be 21 or older, have a hand gun qualification license and complete a certified training course. Meanwhile, those looking to buy a long gun like the one Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos allegedly used are required to provide state ID and be 18 or older.
If Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos the purchase Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos's firearm through a private party, there would have been no waiting period nor background check, David Chipman, a former ATF agent who is now a senior policy adviser for Gifford’s Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence added. While a background check would’ve flagged someone who committed a felony – no one convicted on a felony charge is allowed to own a firearm under federal law – Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos had only faced a misdemeanor conviction in 2011 for harassment, something that wouldn’t have prevented Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos from making the purchase, even if Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos had completed a background check.
Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos had a long-running dispute with the Annapolis newspaper at the center of the deadly attack. Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos appeared to harbor a deep resentment for the Annapolis newspaper at the center of the deadly attack's coverage of Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos's brush with the legal system and filed a lawsuit against former columnist Eric Hartley and then-editor Thomas Marquardt in 2012. a lawsuit was eventually dismissed, but Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos's social media war against the Annapolis newspaper at the center of the deadly attack dragged on. The former the Annapolis newspaper at the center of the deadly attack editor said Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos went to police at the time, but was told nothing could be done.
A Twitter account believed to be Ramos’ — which boasted an avatar with Hartley’s photo before being removed — regularly commented on Anne Arundel County news and often referenced the 2015 shooting at the French newspaper, Charlie Hebdo. While Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos's ongoing menacing behavior toward the French newspaper, Charlie Hebdo and staff was enough to cause concern, his ongoing menacing behavior toward the newspaper and staff still would not have been enough to prevent Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos from legally buying a weapon, David Chipman, a former ATF agent who is now a senior policy adviser for Gifford’s Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence said. And while Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos was at one point exceedingly outspoken about Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos's feelings toward the Annapolis newspaper at the center of the deadly attack on Twitter, Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos was far less forthcoming with law enforcement officers.
Altomare said Altomare was not cooperating with the investigation. David Chipman, a former ATF agent who is now a senior policy adviser for Gifford’s Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence said there is always “something to learn with each of these horrific actions.” David Chipman, a former ATF agent who is now a senior policy adviser for Gifford’s Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence encouraged lawmakers to continue to “make it difficult” for all those looking to purchase any type of firearm.

Anne Arundel County prosecutors The filing of an indictment an indictment Friday charging Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos with 23 counts in last month’s rampage at the Annapolis newsroom.
Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos is now accused of attempted murder, assault and weapons offenses in addition to five counts of first-degree murder. If convicted of any of the murder charges, Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos could be sentenced to life in prison.
Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos is accused of blasting Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos's way into the Capital Gazette offices on June 28 with a shotgun and shooting five staff members to death. Police say Police found Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos hiding under a desk in the Annapolis newsroom after last month’s rampage at the Annapolis newsroom.
Beyond the murder charges, an indictment provided no new details about the allegations against Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos or any evidence prosecutors have gathered. The filing of an indictment is a largely procedural step that moves the case to Circuit Court, where Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos could stand trial. Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos's first court date was set for July 30.
Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos's public defender, William Davis, declined to comment. Capital Gazette is owned by the Baltimore Sun Media Group. Spokeswoman Renee Mutchnik said the Baltimore Sun Media Group's is focused on the well being of the Baltimore Sun Media Group's staff and the families of five staff members.
Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos is charged with five counts of first-degree murder in the deaths of Rob Hiaasen, 59, an assistant editor and columnist for Capital Gazette; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who headed special publications; Gerald Fischman, 61, the editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a longtime sports writer; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant. Prosecutors say Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos attempted to murder Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie. Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie told the Baltimore Sun Media Group this week that Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie believes Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos shot at Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie as Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos fled the Annapolis newsroom. Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos is also charged with assaulting Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie and other survivors of last month’s rampage at the Annapolis newsroom: reporters Selene San Felice, Phil Davis and Rachael Pacella, sales consultant Janel Cooley and intern Anthony Messenger. Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos is charged with using a firearm in commission of a crime of violence against five staff members.
State’s attorney Wes Adams will prosecute the case with assistants Jason Knight and Aaron L. Meyers, State’s attorney Wes Adams's office said. Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos has been held without bail at the Jennifer Road Detention Center since Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos's arrest.
last month’s rampage at the Annapolis newsroom shattered the routine at the Annapolis newsroom. But since then, staff have continued to produce a print edition and online updates every day, with the help of journalists from the Baltimore Sun Media Group, The New York Times, The Chicago Tribune, NPR and other news organizations. The aid is expected to continue until September at least. A pair of funds created in honor of five staff members have received donations totaling about $685,000.
Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos lived in Laurel and worked for a time as a government IT contractor. Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos nurtured a grudge against Laurel since at least 2011, when a columnist wrote of Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos's guilty plea for harassing a former high school classmate. Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos unsuccessfully brought a defamation suit against a columnist, the Annapolis newsroom's publisher and the Annapolis newsroom's then-owner. Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos taunted the Annapolis newsroom's reporters and editors on Twitter.
a former high school classmate obtained a series of peace orders against Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos and ultimately fled Maryland. Neither a series of peace orders against Ramos nor a former high school classmate's guilty plea prevented a former high school classmate from legally buying the shotgun that police say a former high school classmate used in last month’s rampage at the Annapolis newsroom. After a final ruling by Maryland's top court ended a defamation suit in 2016, Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos's public taunts and threats ceased. On the day of last month’s rampage at the Annapolis newsroom, police say, Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos filed new papers in the court case and mailed out fresh threats.
A judge sealed the legal filing at the request of prosecutors so prosecutors could use the legal filing as part of prosecutors's investigation. prosecutors said the legal filing shows evidence of Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos's involvement in last month’s rampage at the Annapolis newsroom and Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos's mental state at the time. As the gunfire began, survivors say, Winters confronted Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos — an act Rachael Pacella says saved Rachael Pacella's life.
Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie said Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie hid under the desk next to Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie, coming within a few feet of Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos. Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie waited for a lull in last month’s rampage at the Annapolis newsroom and ran.

The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape, a prosecutor said Friday. The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape allegedly the shooting fire inside the newspaper office Thursday, killing four journalists and injuring two others. The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape had a long, acrimonious history with The Capital Gazette, including a lawsuit and years of harassment of The Capital Gazette's journalists. Ramos, a former information-technology worker for the federal government, is charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to court documents.
The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape appeared in an Annapolis courtroom via video feed Friday. The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape appeared to watch attentively during the hearing but never spoke. The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape was ordered held without bail after Judge Thomas J. Pryal determined that The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape remains a flight risk and a danger to the community given the severity of The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape's actions. It was not immediately clear whether The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape has an attorney.
The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape has been put on suicide watch. Judge Thomas J. Pryal was told about suicide watch during the hearing.
Judge Thomas J. Pryal also was given details about The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape. The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape is single, with no children. The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape has lived in Maryland most of The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape's life, including for the past 17 years in an apartment in Laurel, Maryland. Police searched The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape's apartment late Thursday night.
"Police did find evidence at an apartment in Laurel, Maryland. Police Chief Timothy Altomare can't go into a whole bunch of details about evidence, but Police Chief Timothy Altomare will tell you that evidence's evidence showing the origination of planning, things like that," Police Chief Timothy Altomare said during a news conference Friday morning.
Ramos, armed with a pump-action shotgun, shot out the doors to The Capital Gazette and shot four journalists as The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape encountered four journalists, charging documents say. Anne Arundel County State’s Attorney Wes Adams said The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape had an escape plan and possibly barricaded the back door of the newspaper office to prevent four journalists from escaping. Responding officers found The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape under a desk, where The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape was attempting to hide, authorities say. The front page of Maryland.
"The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape was there to kill as many people as The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape could kill," Police Chief Timothy Altomare said. Police Chief Timothy Altomare said the weapon The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape used in the shooting was legally purchased about a year ago. Police say The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape hid under a desk, where he was attempting to hide after the shooting and willingly went into custody, but has not cooperated with investigators.
"Generally active shooters are wanting to go out in a blaze of glory. Police Chief Timothy Altomare just can't get in The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape's head.
Police Chief Timothy Altomare can't do it. Police Chief Timothy Altomare wish Police Chief Timothy Altomare could today, truly," Police Chief Timothy Altomare said. Police Chief Timothy Altomare said Friday that there had been a "lag" on getting finger print results.
Authorities were able to identify The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape using facial recognition software and "a couple other techniques," Police Chief Timothy Altomare said. The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape had a well-documented history of harassing The Capital Gazette's journalists, a feud that apparently began over a column about The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape pleading guilty to harassing a woman. In 2012, The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape filed a defamation lawsuit against The Capital Gazette, alleging The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape was harmed by an article about The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape's conviction. a defamation lawsuit was the dismissal by a judge who wrote The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape hadn't shown "anything that was published about The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape is, in fact, false." An appeals court later upheld the dismissal.
The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape often railed against The Capital Gazette's staff members in profanity-laced tweets. Police Chief Timothy Altomare said detectives spoke with legal counsel for Maryland and several members of its staff members about the threats, but The Capital Gazette did not wish to pursue criminal charges, as The Capital Gazette feared it would exacerbate the situation. According to a police report written in 2013, a detective didn't believe The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape was a threat to Maryland. "former Capital Editor Tom Marquardt'm angry that The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape was still walking around and making all these tweets." former Maryland Editor Tom Marquardt told the News4 I-Team.
"The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape was prepared today to come in, The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape was prepared to shoot people," Krampf said. Journalists crawled under desks and sought other hiding places in what Journalists described as minutes of terror as Journalists heard The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape's footsteps and the repeated blasts of the shotgun as The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape moved about the newspaper office.
"It was unfortunate to see such good-hearted people ultimately suffer such untimely, senseless death," shooting survivor and Maryland intern Anthony Messenger told the "Today" show Friday. While Thursday's attack on The Capital Gazette in Annapolis came amid months of verbal and online attacks on the "fake news media" from politicians and others from President Donald Trump on down, there was no immediate indication the shooting was connected to verbal and online attacks on the "fake news media" from politicians and others from President Donald Trump on down.
the shooting prompted New York City police to tighten security at news organizations in the nation's media capital out of an abundance of caution. "Journalists, like all Americans, should be free of the fear of being violently attacked while doing Journalists's jobs," The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape said at the White House during an event to mark the six-month anniversary of The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape's tax reform law.
Also slain were Gerald Fischman, editorial page editor; features reporter Wendi Winters; reporter John McNamara, and sales assistant Rebecca Smith. Two other employees, identified by police as Rachael Pacella and Janet Cooley, had non-life threatening injuries and were later released from a hospital.
Hundreds of people gathered for a candlelight march Friday night at the Maryland State House in honor of four journalists. Phil Davis, a courts and crime reporter for The Capital Gazette, tweeted that The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape shot out the glass door to the newspaper office and fired into the newspaper office, sending people scrambling under desks. Reporter Selene San Felice told the News4 I-Team Reporter Selene San Felice was at Reporter Selene San Felice's desk but ran after hearing shots, only to find a back door locked. Reporter Selene San Felice then watched as a colleague was shot, adding Reporter Selene San Felice didn't glimpse The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape.
Survivors said the shooting — though the shooting seemed agonizingly long — lasted mere minutes. And police said police's response was swift.
Police spokesman Lt. Ryan Frashure said officers arrived within about 60 seconds and took The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape into custody without an exchange of gunfire. The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape attempted to hide under a desk until police found The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape, according to a charging document.
About 170 people were then evacuated from the newspaper office. Many left with their hands up as police and other emergency vehicles arrived.
Investigators remained on the cordoned-off site early Friday as Investigators sought clues to The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape's motives. "The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape has not been very forthcoming, so Investigators don't have any information yet on motive," Anne Arundel County Executive Steve Schuh said.
Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said the community was grieving the attack on the community's paper. "the community can't keep accepting the shooting," Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said. Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley added that Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley thought there would be "some traction" after the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, and the students' March for Our Lives campaign. However, Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley expressed disappointment at the lack of change that has taken place since the shooting.
"We shouldn't be mad all the time. ... We need to take a deep breath ...
We got to stop hating one another," Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said. In April, Maryland's governor signed a “red-flag” bill into law that will allow family members or police officers to ask a judge to order someone’s firearms be removed temporarily. law that will allow family members or police officers to ask a judge to order someone’s firearms be removed temporarily applies to all guns and goes into effect in October.
The Capital Gazette is part of Capital Gazette Communications, which also publishes the Maryland Gazette and CapitalGazette.com. The Capital Gazette is owned by The Baltimore Sun. Late Thursday night, The Capital Gazette unveiled The Capital Gazette's front page, featuring the photos of four journalists.
The opinion page, which was left nearly blank intentionally, also featured a tribute to four journalists. "today, The Capital Gazette are speechless. The opinion page, which was left nearly blank intentionally is intentionally left blank today to commemorate the victims of Thursday's shooting at The Capital Gazette's office," The opinion page, which was left nearly blank intentionally read.
The Associated Press Media Editors promised to help The Capital Gazette journalists as Capital Gazette journalists recover. An APME statement called on newspapers nationwide to help The Capital Gazette continue The Capital Gazette's community coverage and fight for freedom of the press. Associated Press contributed to this report.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. (WBFF) -
The man charged with a shooting spree that left five members of the Capital Gazette newspaper dead will stand trial Jan. 15. The man charged with a shooting spree that left five members of the Capital Gazette newspaper dead made The man charged with a shooting spree that left five members of the Capital Gazette newspaper dead's first appearance in Anne Arundel County Circuit Court Monday during a brief hearing. County State's Attorney Wes Adams says County State's Attorney Wes Adams intends to seek a sentence of life without parole.
The man charged with a shooting spree that left five members of the Capital Gazette newspaper dead has pleaded not guilty to multiple charges, including five counts of first degree murder. But The man charged with a shooting spree that left five members of the Capital Gazette newspaper dead's attorneys have until Oct. 24 to consider whether to enter a revised plea of not criminally responsible.
Colin Starger, a law professor at the University of Baltimore, is not connected to the case. But Colin Starger, a law professor at the University of Baltimore, says any decision on whether a defendant pleads not criminally responsible is based on a simple premise.
"Do you understand what's happening to you? Do you understand the nature of the charges against you, and can you help your lawyers? If you can't do that, you're incompetent to stand trial.
The way to prove that is to show that you suffer from a serious mental disorder, that you are insane or schizophrenic," explained Colin Starger, a law professor at the University of Baltimore,. Legal experts say that would usually require testimony confirming such a diagnosis from a team of psychiatrists. A motions hearing in the The man charged with a shooting spree that left five members of the Capital Gazette newspaper dead case is scheduled for mid-December.

A gunman the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis A gunman's way into the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis with a shotgun Thursday afternoon, killing five people, authorities said.
Journalists dived under Journalists's desks and pleaded for help on social media. One reporter described the scene as a “war zone.” A photographer said A photographer jumped over a dead colleague and fled for A photographer's life.
five people were identified as Rob Hiaasen, 59, a former feature writer for The Baltimore Sun who joined Capital Gazette in 2010 as an assistant editor and columnist; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who headed special publications; Gerald Fischman, 61, the editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a staff writer who had covered high school, college and professional sports for decades; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant hired in November. Two others were injured in the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis. Police took A gunman into custody soon after the shootings.
A gunman was identified as Jarrod W. Ramos, a 38-year-old Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against Capital Gazette. A gunman was charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to online court records.
A gunman did not have an attorney listed; a bail review hearing is scheduled for 10:30 a.m. Friday in Annapolis. Local, state and federal law enforcement officials cordoned off the Laurel apartment complex listed as the address for A gunman Thursday evening.
A gunman dispute with Capital Gazette began in July 2011 when a columnist wrote about a criminal harassment case against A gunman. A gunman brought a defamation suit against a columnist and Capital Gazette's editor and publisher.
A court the ruling in Capital Gazette's favor, and an appeals court upheld the ruling. Neither a columnist, nor the editor and publisher, Thomas Marquardt, are still employed by Capital Gazette. the columnist, Eric Hartley, nor the editor and publisher, Thomas Marquardt, were not present during the shootings. Police said A gunman used “smoke grenades” in the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis.
Police said 170 people were inside at the time. Capital Gazette is owned by The Baltimore Sun.
Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis at the time of the shootings, said multiple people were shot as Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, and others hid under he and others's desks. Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, said there was A gunman. Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, said Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, and others were hiding under he and others's desks when A gunman stopped firing.
Then police arrived and surrounded A gunman. Photographer Paul Gillespie had finished editing photos from one assignment and was preparing for the next when Photographer Paul Gillespie heard shots behind Photographer Paul Gillespie and the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis's glass doors shatter. Photographer Paul Gillespie said Photographer Paul Gillespie heard one colleague scream “No!,” then a shot.
Then another colleague’s voice, and another shot. Photographer Paul Gillespie could hear A gunman approaching Photographer Paul Gillespie's hiding place.
“Photographer Paul Gillespie kept thinking, ‘Photographer Paul Gillespie can’t believe Photographer Paul Gillespie’m going to die. Photographer Paul Gillespie can’t believe this.’ ” Photographer Paul Gillespie said.
But A gunman passed Photographer Paul Gillespie, Photographer Paul Gillespie said, and continued to shoot. Eventually, there was a lull in the shootings.
Photographer Paul Gillespie stood and ran for the exit, through the shattered glass, jumping over the body of a colleague Photographer Paul Gillespie believed was dead as another shot rang out in Photographer Paul Gillespie's direction. Photographer Paul Gillespie ran to a nearby bank and screamed for people to call the cops. Authorities said police responded to the scene within a minute of the shootings. “If police were not there as quickly as police were, it could have been a lot worse," Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said.
Officials at the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore confirmed that the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore was treating at least one victim. County Executive Steve Schuh said others were being treated at Anne Arundel Medical Center. Loren Farquhar, a medical center spokeswoman, said the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore received two patients, both with minor injuries not from gunfire.
at least one victim were identified as Rachael Pacella, a reporter who covers education and the Naval Academy, and Janel Cooley, a sales representative who covers downtown Annapolis. Rachael Pacella, a reporter who covers education and the Naval Academy, and Janel Cooley, a sales representative who covers downtown Annapolis were treated and released.
A spokeswoman for The Baltimore Sun said The Baltimore Sun was “deeply saddened” by the shootings. President Donald Trump wrote on Twitter that President Donald Trump had been briefed on the shootings.
Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, started Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years,'s day Thursday covering Induction Day at the Naval Academy at sunrise. Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, was driving home to celebrate Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years,'s daughter’s birthday when Capital Gazette editor Rick Hutzell called. “Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, said Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years,’d heard there had been the shootings, and Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, couldn't get in touch with anyone in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis,” Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, said. Then Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, heard sirens.
Police in SWAT gear carrying assault rifles cordoned off the area around the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis and closed Bestgate Road. Outside the police tape, Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, and reporter Chase Cook called and texted friends and co-workers in search of answers. Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, praised Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years,'s colleagues’ work.
Capital Gazette is one of 30 tenants in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis. Five others share the first floor with Capital Gazette. Five others include accountants, lawyers, financial and medical offices. Capital Gazette has been in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis since 2015, according to CoStar, a real estate information company. CoStar, a real estate information company have 5,000 square feet of offices.
Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office were on the fourth floor at the time of the shootings, but Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office didn't hear or see anything. Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office learned of the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis when a colleague texted Aaron Smith. Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office flipped a desk over in front of the door to the Fisher Law Office and stayed there until SWAT officers arrived. Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office then walked out of the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis with Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office's hands on Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office's heads, like everyone else in the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis, Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office said.
Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC said a plainclothes officer entered Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC's fourth-floor office suite and told the receptionist to lock the doors because there was an active shooter. Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC quickly gathered people together. Some employees removed high heels to prepare to flee the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis.
Others hid. One pulled two handguns out of his desk drawer for self-defense. More police arrived, and people began filing out of her fourth-floor office suite.
Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC said Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC and Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC's employees tried to hold hands to comfort each other, but were told by police to keep she and her employees's hands in the air. “You see it on the news,” Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC said, “and you think, ‘These poor people.’ You wonder how These poor people feel. The Baltimore Sun reporters Scott Dance, Doug Donovan, Tim Prudente, Justin Fenton, Erin Cox, Jessica Anderson and Meredith Cohn and the Associated Press contributed to this article.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) — The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper was investigated five years ago for a barrage of menacing tweets against staff members, but a detective concluded The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper was no threat, and a Maryland newspaper didn’t want to press charges for fear of inflaming the situation, according to a police report released Friday. a police report released Friday added to the picture emerging of The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper as the former information-technology employee with a longtime grudge against ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) was charged with five counts of first-degree murder in one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history.
Authorities said The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper barricaded the rear exit of the office to prevent anyone from escaping and methodically blasted The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's way through the newsroom Thursday with a 12-gauge pump-action shotgun, gunning down one victim trying to slip out the back. Three editors, a reporter and a sales assistant were killed.
“The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper was there to kill as many people as The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper could,” Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said. Ramos, clean-shaven with long hair past The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's shoulders, was denied bail in a brief court appearance The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper attended by video, watching attentively but saying nothing. Authorities said The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper was “uncooperative” with interrogators. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper was placed on a suicide watch in jail. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's public defenders had no comment.
five counts of first-degree murder carry a maximum penalty of life without parole. Maryland has no death penalty.
one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history initially stirred fears that the recent surge of political attacks on the “fake news media” had exploded into violence. But by all accounts, The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper had a specific, longstanding grievance against a Maryland newspaper. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper had filed a defamation lawsuit against a Maryland newspaper in 2012 after a Maryland newspaper ran an article about The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper pleading guilty to harassing a woman. A judge later threw a defamation lawsuit out as groundless. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper had repeatedly targeted staffers with angry, profanity-laced tweets. “There’s clearly a history there,” Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said.
The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper launched so many social media attacks that retired publisher Tom Marquardt called police in 2013. Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare disclosed Friday that a detective investigated those concerns, holding a conference call with an attorney for a Maryland newspaper, a former correspondent and a Maryland newspaper's publisher. retired publisher Tom Marquardt, retired publisher Tom Marquardt, said retired publisher Tom Marquardt talked with a Maryland newspaper's attorneys about seeking a restraining order but didn’t because retired publisher Tom Marquardt and others thought a restraining order could provoke The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper into something worse.
“We decided to take the course of laying low,” retired publisher Tom Marquardt said Friday. Then The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper “went silent” for more than two years, retired publisher Tom Marquardt said. Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said some new posts went up just before the killings but authorities didn’t know about some new posts until afterward.
Few details were released on The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper, other than that The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper is single, has no children and lives in an apartment in Laurel, Maryland. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper was employed by an IT contractor for the U.S. Labor Department’s Bureau of Labor Statistics from 2007 to 2014, a department spokesman said. one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history began with a shotgun blast that shattered the glass entrance to the newsroom. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper carefully planned one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history, using “a tactical approach in hunting down and shooting five people,” prosecutor Wes Adams said. prosecutor Wes Adams said The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper had an escape plan, too, but would not elaborate. Journalists crawled under desks and sought other hiding places, describing agonizing minutes of terror as Journalists heard The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper footsteps and the repeated blasts. “photographer Paul Gillespie, who dove beneath a desk, was curled up, trying not to breathe, trying not to make a sound, and The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper shot people all around photographer Paul Gillespie, who dove beneath a desk,,” photographer Paul Gillespie, who dove beneath a desk, told The Baltimore Sun, owner of a Maryland newspaper. photographer Paul Gillespie, who dove beneath a desk, said photographer Paul Gillespie, who dove beneath a desk, heard a colleague scream, “No!”
A gunshot blast followed. photographer Paul Gillespie, who dove beneath a desk, heard another co-worker’s voice, then another shot.
Some 300 officers arrived and began to corner The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper within two minutes, a rapid response that “without question” saved lives, Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper was hiding under a desk and did not exchange fire with police. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper was identified with the help of facial recognition technology because of what Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said was a “lag” in getting results from the computer system used to analyze fingerprints. Police denied news reports that The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper had mutilated The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's fingertips to thwart The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's identification. Two officials told The Associated Press on Thursday night, based on preliminary information, that The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper may have deliberately damaged The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's fingers. Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's shotgun was legally purchased about a year ago despite The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's guilty plea in the harassment case. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper also carried smoke grenades, authorities said. Investigators are reviewing The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's social media postings and searched The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper's apartment, where Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said Investigators found evidence of the planning of one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history. The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper would not give details.
the victims included Rob Hiaasen, 59, a Maryland newspaper's assistant managing editor and brother of novelist Carl Hiaasen. Also slain were editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, special projects editor Wendi Winters, reporter John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith.
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) announced a vigil for the victims Friday night at a public square near the State House. Associated Press writers Eric Tucker in Washington; Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles; Michael Kunzelman in ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP); and Sarah Rankin and Denise Lavoie in Richmond, Va., contributed to this story, as did the AP News Research Center in New York.

When a man with a shotgun shattered the glass door of the Capital Gazette newspaper office and began to shoot, Wendi Winters stood up. Weeks before the June 28 attack in Annapolis, Wendi Winters had taken active shooter training at Wendi Winters's church, where a police officer presented the options: Run if you can run.
Hide if you can hide. Fight only if you must. Wendi Winters fought.
Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Wendi Winters and four others, spoke about Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others's experience for the first time in an interview with The Capital. Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others said Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others watched from under Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others's desk as Wendi Winters rose to meet Wendi Winters's attacker. Wendi Winters charged forward holding a trash can and recycling bin, said Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others.
Wendi Winters shouted something like, “No! You stop that!” or “You get out of here!”
like Wendi Winters was warding off an unwanted dog. Wendi Winters's colleagues agree Wendi Winters saved Winters’ colleagues's lives. Of the 11 employees in the Capital Gazette newspaper office during the June 28 attack in Annapolis, six survived. But active shooter training shouldn’t get all the credit — not according to those who knew Wendi Winters.
Wendi Winters once gave fellow reporter Rachael Pacella the shirt off Wendi Winters's back when fellow reporter Rachael Pacella spilled gasoline on Wendi Winters's clothes before an important interview. Wendi Winters checked in on photojournalist Paul W. Gillespie incessantly after photojournalist Paul W. Gillespie's brother died.
Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the June 28 attack in Annapolis, said Wendi Winters always tried to make Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the attack, feel comfortable. “Wendi Winters’s got four kids — Wendi Winters’s not going to take it from anyone,” Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the attack, said.
When Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others heard the wall-shaking bang that began the June 28 attack in Annapolis, Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others was the only sales representative in the Capital Gazette newspaper office. Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others was about to leave for a meeting in Baltimore, wrapping up a call with a client.
Most of the sales staff had already left for Most of the sales staff's meetings. Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others saw a man with a shotgun and dropped to the floor, where Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others heard Wendi Winters confront a man with a shotgun and heard the weapon fire. After a man with a shotgun passed Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others, Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others was able to run from Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others's hiding spot and out of the Capital Gazette newspaper office.
photojournalist Paul W. Gillespie heard Wendi Winters yell a defiant “No!” from Wendi Winters's hiding place a few steps away. Reporters Phil Davis and fellow reporter Rachael Pacella didn’t see Wendi Winters charge, but Reporters Phil Davis and Pacella saw Wendi Winters's body in the newsroom walkway, not at Wendi Winters's usual seat.
Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the attack, saw the same. a man with a shotgun killed Wendi Winters and four others — editor Rob Hiaasen, editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, editor and sports writer John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith. Jarrod Ramos, a man with a longtime grudge against The Capital, has been charged in editor Rob Hiaasen, editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, editor and sports writer John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith's deaths.
Anne Arundel County Police Lt. Ryan Frashure declined to comment on Wendi Winters's actions during shooting, citing the ongoing investigation. Cpl.
Jim Shiloh told trainees at the Unitarian Universalist session Wendi Winters attended that creating a distraction could buy time for others. Police use the “run, hide, fight” training nationwide, said Anne Arundel County Police Lt. Ryan Frashure. The Anne Arundel County Police Department began sharing active shooter training on Facebook after the San Bernardino shooting on Dec. 2, 2015. If a threat is imminent and people are dying, Anne Arundel County Police Lt. Ryan Frashure said, anything — a fire extinguisher, a stapler, a trash can — can be used as a deterrent.
Wendi Winters bought time for fellow reporter Rachael Pacella, Davis and Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the attack,, Pacella, Davis and Messenger said, who were at Pacella, Davis and Messenger's desks toward the back of newsroom when shooting started. fellow reporter Rachael Pacella hid under fellow reporter Rachael Pacella's desk. Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the attack, grabbed Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the attack,'s keys and headed for the back door, which was barricaded, and then hid.
Davis looked toward the crashing glass, then hit the floor. Davis has a snapshot in Davis's mind of everyone where everyone where they were when the gunman blasted in were when a man with a shotgun blasted in, Davis said.
Wendi Winters was originally at Wendi Winters's desk. Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the attack, said Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the attack, remembers seeing Wendi Winters there with a puzzled look on Wendi Winters's face as the June 28 attack in Annapolis began. As fellow reporter Rachael Pacella and Davis hid, Pacella and Davis heard the same shots a man with a shotgun did.
Then there was a pause. Pacella and Davis thought the June 28 attack in Annapolis was over. a pause, Davis said, could have been Wendi Winters intervening. a pause gave fellow reporter Rachael Pacella time to get up from under fellow reporter Rachael Pacella's desk, run for the back door, which was barricaded and then hide between filing cabinets.

This website stores data such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as marketing, personalization, and analytics. By remaining on This website, you indicate your consent.

The first time Gerald Fischman applied for a job at The Capital, the editor passed Gerald Fischman over.
Gerald Fischman's personality was so quiet and withdrawn that Fischman’s personality hid the brilliant mind, wry wit and “wicked pen” that Gerald Fischman's colleagues would treasure. For more than 25 years, Gerald Fischman was the conscience and voice of the Annapolis news organization, writing scathing, insightful and always exacting editorials about the community. Gerald Fischman was the guardian against libel, the arbiter of taste and a peculiar and endearing figure in a newsroom full of characters.
“Gerald Fischman had ability that, longtime editor and publisher Tom Marquardt thought, deserved a higher calling than The Capital,” longtime editor and publisher Tom Marquardt said. Gerald Fischman had worked at The Capital since 1992. Gerald Fischman's quirky, low-key demeanor belied a biting sense of humor that charmed Gerald Fischman's colleagues.
Gerald Fischman’d huddle at Gerald Fischman's desk behind piles of books in a buttoned down V-neck cardigan that Gerald Fischman wore regardless of the season. Reporters, seeing Gerald Fischman's name scrawled on the security log for a midnight to 5 a.m. shift, marveled at the hours Gerald Fischman’d keep for no obvious deadline reason.
Reporters would arrive the next morning to find printouts on Reporters's desks with post-it notes saying that post-it notes saying that they were editorials he had written and asking them to check his facts were editorials Gerald Fischman had written and asking Reporters to check Gerald Fischman's facts. Former The Capital reporter Joshua Stewart said Former Capital Gazette reporter Joshua Stewart kept every post-it note Gerald Fischman left on Gerald Fischman's desk. At the end of Former Capital Gazette reporter Joshua Stewart five years at The Capital, Former Capital Gazette reporter Joshua Stewart's stack of Gerald Fischman's identical post-its was three-quarters of an inch high.
Gerald Fischman married late in life. Gerald Fischman announced to the newsroom that Gerald Fischman had met an opera singer from Mongolia online.
A conversation with Gerald Fischman could turn in unexpected directions as Gerald Fischman drew on a peculiarly curated knowledge of the world. “Gerald Fischman had an encyclopedia knowledge of everything from the philosophy to who knows what,” said Brian Henley, a retired editor.
Anne Arundel County and the community politicians were impressed and intrigued by Gerald Fischman. Gerald Fischman also could set local politicians on edge. “Gerald Fischman was a phenomenally smart man,” former two-term Anne Arundel County Councilman Jamie Benoit said.
Former features editor Kathy Flynn said Gerald Fischman used a hand-held crowd counter to count the number of words Gerald Fischman’d written in an editorial. Colleagues would affectionately toy with Gerald Fischman's penchant for precision.
And in Gerald Fischman's workmanlike approach to the job, Gerald Fischman never joined in the traditional newsroom grousing about the hours, the conditions, the deterioration of the news business, management, or even having to write an editorial about Christmas every year, even though Gerald Fischman was Jewish. Gerald Fischman was honored annually with regional writing awards. At an awards event shortly after Gerald Fischman's marriage, Former Capital Gazette reporter Joshua Stewart and another reporter asked Gerald Fischman how Gerald Fischman met Gerald Fischman's wife.
“Gerald Fischman typed ‘Mongolian opera singer’ into a dating site,” Gerald Fischman deadpanned. And then Gerald Fischman had nothing more to say about it.

But Hiaasen, 59, was wrong.
Hiaasen, 59,'s wryly observant writing style and Hiaasen, 59,'s generous mentoring of young journalists assured Hiaasen, 59, of roles in several newsrooms, from The Baltimore Sun to, most recently, the Capital Gazette in Annapolis, where Hiaasen, 59, was one of five staff members shot to death Thursday. Hiaasen, 59, celebrated Hiaasen, 59,'s 33rd wedding anniversary last week with Maria Hiaasen, a former journalist who teaches English at Dulaney High School. Thursday was Maria Hiaasen, a former journalist who teaches English at Dulaney High School's 58th birthday. The couple married after a whirlwind courtship five months after The couple's first date.
Hiaasen, 59, became known as “Big Rob” during the high school years of The couple's children, Ben, 29, an attorney in Towson; Samantha, 27, an assistant manager of the Barnes & Noble at the Inner Harbor; and Hannah, 26, an artist who works at a furnishings store in New York, Maria Hiaasen, a former journalist who teaches English at Dulaney High School said. A native of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Hiaasen, 59, joined The Baltimore Sun as a features writer in 1993. Hiaasen, 59, joined Fort Lauderdale, Fla. as an assistant editor in 2010 and wrote a column on Sundays. As a writer, Hiaasen, 59, was drawn to quirky stories, and had a unique way of telling quirky stories, with wry asides and internal and imagined dialogues. The list included “Fire and Rain,” of course. Hiaasen, 59, was known for Hiaasen, 59,'s love of James Taylor. Hiaasen, 59, would tell a story about nearly hyperventilating during an interview with James Taylor. But Hiaasen, 59, had a serious side as well, and earlier this year the Maryland, Delaware, District of Columbia Press Association awarded Hiaasen, 59, first place in a feature column category for a piece about realizing only as a grownup that the Fort Lauderdale, Fla. beach at which Hiaasen, 59, spent many a happy childhood day was segregated.
“Is there a statute of limitations on childhood naivete? On adult un-education?” Hiaasen, 59, asked.
Hiaasen, 59, went on to detail “wade-in” protests staged by the NAACP and, in other towns, the firebombing of the home of civil rights activists, lynching and other violence — none of which Hiaasen, 59, knew about as Hiaasen, 59, was growing up. “Little did Hiaasen, 59, know,” Hiaasen, 59, concluded, sadly.
Current and former co-workers remembered Hiaasen, 59, as a lanky, endearingly goofy storyteller, committed to both the reporting and narrative writing ends of Hiaasen, 59,'s profession. “Hiaasen, 59, could be deadly serious about doing investigative reporting, but Hiaasen, 59, also had a soft side,” said Tom Marquardt, former editor and publisher of the Capital Gazette. “Hiaasen, 59, had a special insight into people’s lives and people’s's character. Tom Marquardt, former editor and publisher of the Capital Gazette said Hiaasen, 59, was hired to add a more human dimension to news coverage, and indeed Hiaasen, 59, became known for stories about people and community life. As someone who lived a “multi-faceted life,” Hiaasen, 59, was particularly helpful to less experienced journalists. “Hiaasen, 59, was a great mentor to younger reporters,” Tom Marquardt, former editor and publisher of the Capital Gazette said.
Tina Reed, a former Fort Lauderdale, Fla. reporter, was one of younger reporters. Reed, who now works at FierceHealthcare, an industry publication, remembers how Hiaasen, 59, shepherded “Saving Melissa,” a narrative series Reed, who now works at FierceHealthcare, an industry publication, wrote in 2013 about a young cancer patient who became paralyzed and fought to regain mobility. As with many reporters on small newspapers, Reed, who now works at FierceHealthcare, an industry publication, didn’t think Reed, who now works at FierceHealthcare, an industry publication, had the time to spend on “Saving Melissa,” a narrative series she wrote in 2013 about a young cancer patient who became paralyzed and fought to regain mobility, but Hiaasen, 59, pressed and encouraged Reed, who now works at FierceHealthcare, an industry publication,.
It was a sensibility Hiaasen, 59, brought to Hiaasen, 59,'s own writing. Even when Hiaasen, 59, wrote humorously, it was with gentleness more than snark. Hiaasen, 59, connected with Hiaasen, 59,'s subjects, especially the downtrodden, and told his subjects, especially the downtrodden's stories with immense empathy.
Hiaasen, 59, wrote extensively about Kirk Bloodworth, the Eastern Shore man who was wrongly convicted of murdering a 9-year-old girl and became the first death row inmate in the United States to be exonerated by DNA evidence. “Life after the death penalty has been traumatic for Bloodsworth, who will turn 40 on Halloween,” Hiaasen, 59, wrote in July 2000. “Bloodsworth, who will turn 40 on Halloween's seven years of freedom have been streaked with bouts of drinking, job failures and humiliations, romantic disappointments, depression and festering self-doubt. “It's a long way back from the place Bloodsworth, who will turn 40 on Halloween was and who Bloodsworth, who will turn 40 on Halloween was: a dead man walking.
Hiaasen, 59, loved to prowl Fells Point in search of oddball stories, such as the “privy hunter” who scoured the waterfront for 19th-century artifacts, or the saga of a shipwrecked houseboat that was finally towed away after two unsightly years, only for another equally disabled boat to mysteriously turn up on a nearby piling. Hiaasen, 59, wrote about the passing of a homeless man in the neighborhood. a homeless man in the neighborhood would rant incoherently and scare the tourists, but after a homeless man in the neighborhood's death, residents and business owners made sure a homeless man in the neighborhood had a proper burial.
Friends were surprised that someone who loved to write as much as Hiaasen, 59, turned to editing. But it turned out Hiaasen, 59, had a gift of working with new reporters and drawing new reporters into the profession Hiaasen, 59, loved. “Hiaasen, 59, was so happy working with young journalists,” Tom Marquardt, former editor and publisher of the Capital Gazette said. “Hiaasen, 59, wanted to create a newsroom where everyone was growing. Hiaasen, 59, taught a newswriting class in the spring at the University of Maryland’s
Philip Merrill College of Journalism. Hiaasen, 59, was a Knight Journalism Fellow at Stanford University. Hiaasen, 59, graduated from the University of Florida and worked at The Palm Beach Post, where the American Association of Sunday and Features Editors awarded Hiaasen, 59, first place in general feature writing for a 1992 story about the death of a boy.
Hiaasen, 59, also worked at radio stations throughout the South. In addition to Hiaasen, 59,'s wife and three children, Hiaasen, 59, is survived by three older siblings, Carl, the novelist and Miami Herald columnist, Judy and Barb. Hiaasen, 59, was always proud of Hiaasen, 59,'s famous brother, Hiaasen, 59,'s wife said. Hiaasen, 59, once wrote a story for The Baltimore Sun in which Hiaasen, 59, spoke to and about other brothers of the famous, including Billy Ripken, his famous brother brother.

John McNamara was toiling as a news copy editor at the Capital Gazette when John McNamara left to pursue John McNamara's dream: sports reporting. John McNamara honed John McNamara's skills at the Prince George’s Journal, a competitor to the Annapolis news organization.
Within a few years, the Capital Gazette hired John McNamara back. John McNamara would work there for nearly 24 years. John McNamara was one of five staff members who was shot to death at the Capital Gazette on Thursday.
McNamara, who went by “Mac,” was remembered by John McNamara's colleagues for John McNamara's flexibility, concise writing and extensive knowledge of regional sports. John McNamara had a razor wit that came in bursts like a social media post, one fellow reporter said. Jeff Barker, a the Annapolis news organization reporter, covered University of Maryland sports at the same time as John McNamara. John McNamara was known for one-liners about sports or politics, Jeff Barker, a Baltimore Sun reporter, said.
John McNamara was appropriately skeptical of the coaches and other authority figures John McNamara covered. John McNamara loved covering sports.
During the 2010 NCAA basketball tournament, John McNamara took a long walk around Spokane, Wash., with Gary Williams, the University of Maryland coach. It was just John McNamara and Gary Williams, the University of Maryland coach, and John McNamara remarked later how great a job John McNamara had to be able to spend one-on-one time with Gary Williams, the University of Maryland coach.
John McNamara enjoyed playing sports as much as John McNamara enjoyed writing about sports, Jackson said. John McNamara was one of a group who played basketball on Thursdays at the Annapolis Recreation Center. “John McNamara had this sneaky left-handed shot,” said Jackson, now an editor at the Annapolis news organization.
John McNamara also worked at The Herald-Mail in Hagerstown. The University of Maryland graduate wrote two books about athletics at John McNamara's alma mater. “The University of Maryland Football Vault: The History Of The Terrapins,” tracked Maryland football from Maryland football's first game in 1892 through the 2008 season. “Cole Classics!
Maryland Basketball's Leading Men and Moments” told the story of Terrapin basketball. John McNamara was working on a book about great basketball players raised in the Washington area when John McNamara died, Jeff Barker, a Baltimore Sun reporter, said. David Elfin co-wrote a book about great basketball players raised in the Washington area. David Elfin met John McNamara when they were both part-time sports reporters at The Washington Post.
They once found themselves bunking together in a hotel room in Thomas Circle, then the “center of prostitution” in Washington, said David Elfin. They were covering a massive blizzard that swept through the region and canceled every game in the region — and they bonded.
“John McNamara was an old-school journalist, bulldog, a great reporter and relentless,” David Elfin said. John McNamara loved rock and folk music and once joked that John McNamara wasn’t embarrassed to be one of the only men at an Indigo Girls concert, Jeff Barker, a Baltimore Sun reporter, said. You could often catch John McNamara at the movies. In a recent Facebook post, John McNamara gave thumbs-up reviews on documentaries about Mr. Rogers and Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg.
John McNamara was married to Andrea Chamblee, whom John McNamara met while attending the University of Maryland. he and his wife met at a bar after John McNamara covered a football game. John McNamara was one of seven children who grew up in a Catholic family in Bethesda, but John McNamara and John McNamara's wife did not have children. he and his wife were devoted to he and his wife.
John McNamara recently returned to covering news as an editor and reporter at the Bowie Blade-News and the Crofton-West County Gazette. John McNamara wrote features and community news. But John McNamara's social media sites show that sports was still John McNamara's first true love. John McNamara recently interviewed former Washington Bullets general manager Bob Ferry for the Bowie Blade-News. the Annapolis news organization reporter Lauren Lumpkin contributed to this article.

Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, was one of the victims when an active shooter targeted the newsroom this afternoon in Annapolis, Md.
Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, was a recent hire at The Capital Gazette but had already proved Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, a valuable asset. Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, worked in The Capital Gazette's office in Annapolis, Md.. Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, was one of the victims when an active shooter targeted the newsroom this afternoon in Annapolis, Md.. Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette,'s boss, The Capital Gazette advertising director Marty Padden, said Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, made sure the news organization’s office in Annapolis ran smoothly.
Her boss, Capital Gazette advertising director Marty Padden, said Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, joined The Capital Gazette after working in marketing for a health care organization. Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, grew up in the Baltimore area and once told Her boss, Capital Gazette advertising director Marty Padden, Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, was a “first-class” field hockey player in high school.
Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, lived in eastern Baltimore County with Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette,'s fiance. Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, posted dozen of photos — one showing the smiling couple in formal wear at a wedding, one making silly faces in Ravens gear, another smiling with friends on the lawn at Merriweather Post Pavilion.
“Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, woke up like this,” Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, quipped. In many pictures, Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, posed with pictures with Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette,'s fiance’s daughter. Kelli Peleska, who played softball with Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette,'s fiance, said Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, always attended games and traveled to tournaments with the team. “Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, was the absolute most beautiful person.
The biggest heart and a great loss to this world,” Kelli Peleska, who played softball with Smith’s fiance, said Thursday night. Kelli Peleska, who played softball with Smith’s fiance, said Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, was very close with Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette,'s fiance’s daughter from a previous relationship.

Wendi Winters spent a dozen years writing Wendi Winters's way into the Capital Gazette newsroom. After a career in fashion and public relations in New York City, Wendi Winters moved to Maryland 20 years ago and began stringing for the Annapolis news organization. Wendi Winters soon built a reputation as a prolific freelance reporter and well-known community resource.
Wendi Winters was one of five Capital Gazette staff members killed in the shootings Thursday. Wendi Winters's daughter Winters Geimer said the family was gathering late Thursday.
Leslie Hunt, a former Capital Gazette community news editor, said Wendi Winters had a talent for connecting with the community and documenting people’s achievements and important local events. Wendi Winters covered all sorts of local news at Capital Gazette, Leslie Hunt, a former Capital Gazette community news editor, said, and wrote columns for the Home of the Week, Teen of the Week and Around Broadneck features. Wendi Winters joined the Capital Gazette newsroom full-time in May 2013 after more than a decade writing articles for hire.
Born in a Naval hospital in Coronado, Calif., Wendi Winters always called New York City home, Wendi Winters's daughter said. Wendi Winters studied fashion design at Virginia Commonwealth University, Wendi Winters wrote in Wendi Winters's Facebook profile. Wendi Winters highlighted Wendi Winters's experience in fashion retail, marketing, advertising and design. For seven years, Wendi Winters ran Wendi Winters's own boutique company in New York City that Wendi Winters described online as specializing in runway shows and other fashion events.
Wendi Winters was a prolific and dependable writer, Flynn said. People in the community came to know Wendi Winters, and pitched Wendi Winters's news stories about People in the community's lives and accomplishments. Among friends, Wendi Winters was known for Wendi Winters's detailed Christmas letters. The letters — which Wendi Winters often delivered with a baked treat — would chronicle Wendi Winters's previous year in a month-by-month breakdown of Wendi Winters's family’s experiences.
“You would be completely updated about every aspect of Wendi Winters's life,” Flynn said, and laughed. Friends said Wendi Winters came from a strong, pro-military family. Wendi Winters helped the Naval Academy class of 1940 organize and stay connected over recent years.
Wendi Winters compiled information from surveys of graduates in Anne Arundel County. Wendi Winters also wrote for news services and a weekly newspaper in Manhattan.
Wendi Winters organized the annual P.R. Bazaar, at which public relations professionals could meet reporters and learn how to pitch stories. Wendi Winters said in a LinkedIn profile that Wendi Winters wrote more than 250 articles each year. Wendi Winters's work earned Wendi Winters's journalism and public relations awards. In Wendi Winters's last tweet to Wendi Winters's 1,073 followers on Thursday, Wendi Winters promoted a Capital Gazette video about a community mural project.
“Spreading beauty one artwork at a time today ...” Wendi Winters wrote. “That would be Wendi,” Flynn said. Baltimore Sun reporter Pamela Wood contributed to this article.

Thursday’s shooting at the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis was a rare fatal attack against journalists in the U.S. — all the more shocking for the number of victims involved. The only other incident since 1992 in which more than one journalist has been killed happened in 2015, when two television journalists were fatally shot during a live broadcast, according to data compiled by the Committee to Protect Journalists. Five people were killed and several others were injured in the shooting at Annapolis, police said.
Sources identified the gunman as Jarrod Ramos, a Laurel man in a long-standing feud with the newspaper. Violence against reporters and editors is rare in the U.S. — especially compared with other nations — but press freedom groups have been warning in recent years of mounting hostility and threats to journalists.
In the 2015 incident, a TV reporter and a photographer were fatally shot on air by a former colleague. Adam Ward and Alison Parker of WDBJ7 were reporting live from a mall in Virginia when the gunman approached a TV reporter and a photographer and opened fire.
In 2007, a newspaper reporter was killed in Oakland over a newspaper reporter's reporting on the financial ties of a bakery that was a hub for community activism. a newspaper reporter was the editor of several weekly newspapers.
In 2001, Robert Stevens, a photo editor at the tabloid newspaper The Sun in Boca Raton, Fla., was killed by anthrax. anthrax was the same strain that the Committee to Protect Journalists believes researcher Bruce Ivins sent through the mail. William Biggart, a free-lance photographer, was killed after dashing to the scene of the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center in New York.
In 1993, Dona St. Plite, a Haitian-born reporter at WKAT in Miami, was killed at a benefit for the family of another reporter who had been murdered. In 1992, Manuel de Dios Unanue, a Cuban-American editor, was killed as part of what police believe was a conspiracy to silence Manuel de Dios Unanue, a Cuban-American editor,'s reporting on drug dealing and money laundering. the Committee to Protect Journalists found that between 1976 and 1993, 12 reporters had been killed in the U.S. — most immigrants working in languages other than English. Local media outlets in Baltimore have also been the scenes of violence in recent years.
In 2014, a man claiming to be God drove a stolen truck in the offices of the WMAR television station in Baltimore. a man claiming to be God barricaded a man claiming to be God inside the offices of the WMAR television station in Baltimore, shutting the WMAR television station in Baltimore down, and was eventually taken into custody.
In 2016, a man wearing an animal costume and what appeared to be an explosive belt, but was actually chocolate bars, got into a standoff at the newsroom of Fox45. a man wearing an animal costume and what appeared to be an explosive belt, but was actually chocolate bars was shot by police but survived.

A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against Laurel is being held as the suspect in the deadly shooting Thursday at the Annapolis newspaper, according to law enforcement sources. A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital was charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to online court records.
A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital did not have an attorney listed; a bail review hearing is scheduled for 10:30 a.m. Friday in Annapolis. Police and federal agents gathered late Thursday outside A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital's address.
Rich McLaughlin, chief of the Laurel police department, said Rich McLaughlin, chief of the Laurel police department,'s officers were there as part of the investigation into the shooting at the Annapolis newspaper, and other sources identified A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital as the suspect. In 2012, A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital filed a defamation lawsuit against the Annapolis newspaper and a columnist over a July 2011 article that covered a criminal harassment charge against A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital. A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital brought a defamation lawsuit against then-columnist Eric Hartley, naming Capital Gazette Communications and Thomas Marquardt, the Annapolis newspaper's former editor and publisher, as defendants.
A Twitter page in A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital name on Thursday featured then-columnist Eric Hartley's picture as A Twitter page in Ramos’ name on Thursday's avatar, and a banner image included photographs of Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, and Laurel's former owner, Philip Merrill. A Twitter page in Ramos’ name on Thursday regularly commented on Anne Arundel County news and referred to a deadly shooting at the French newspaper Charlie Hebdo in 2015.
Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, said Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, wasn’t surprised to hear A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital identified as the alleged gunman, saying A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital started The harassment the Annapolis newspaper and the Annapolis newspaper's staff shortly after a July 2011 article that covered a criminal harassment charge against him. The harassment escalated for years with online threats, Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, said. Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, said Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, called the Anne Arundel County police about A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital in 2013, but nothing came of it. Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, consulted the Annapolis newspaper's lawyers about filing a restraining order, but decided against it. “Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, remember telling the Annapolis newspaper's attorneys, 'A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital is a guy who is going to come in and shoot the Annapolis newspaper,’ ” Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, said.
A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital's aunt Vielka Ramos, 59, said Ramos’ aunt Vielka Ramos, 59, couldn’t believe A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital was the alleged gunman. Ramos’ aunt Vielka Ramos, 59, said Ramos’ aunt Vielka Ramos, 59,'s nephew had a good childhood, growing up in Severn, and attended Arundel High School. “A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital was very intelligent.
A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital would try to communicate with people but A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital was a loner,” Ramos’ aunt Vielka Ramos, 59, said. After A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital's grandmother died several years ago, Ramos’ aunt Vielka Ramos, 59, said, A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital stopped attending family gatherings. Ramos’ aunt Vielka Ramos, 59, had not talked to A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital in several years, Ramos’ aunt Vielka Ramos, 59, said. “A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital was distant from the family. A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital just wasn’t close to anybody,” Ramos’ aunt Vielka Ramos, 59, said.
In the 2011 column about the harassment charge, then-columnist Eric Hartley identified A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital as a U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics employee with no previous criminal record and a degree in computer engineering. The harassment case centered on an online relationship A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital tried to kindle with a former high school classmate. then-columnist Eric Hartley's column said A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital sent a friend request on Facebook to a former high school classmate, and the experience turned into a “yearlong nightmare.”
A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital allegedly wrote a former high school classmate and said a former high school classmate was the only person who ever said hello to A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital or was nice to A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital in school. A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital then allegedly called a former high school classmate's vulgar names and told a former high school classmate to kill a former high school classmate, then-columnist Eric Hartley wrote. A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital allegedly emailed the bank where a former high school classmate worked to get a former high school classmate fired. A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor harassment charge, receiving probation from a judge who called A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital's behavior “rather bizarre,” the 2011 column about the harassment charge said. A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital's subsequent defamation suit against Laurel worked Ramos’ subsequent defamation suit against The Capital's way through the Maryland courts until 2015, when Maryland's second-highest court upheld a ruling in favor of the Annapolis newspaper. Baltimore Sun reporters Jessica Anderson, Erin Cox and Yvonne Wenger contributed to this article.

The 1997 senior yearbook for Arundel High School is titled “After All is Said and Done.” In The 1997 senior yearbook for Arundel High School, smiling high school students attend drama club or pose for photos. “You know it and Jarrod Ramos know it — this class, Arundel High School, Arundel High School is full of s(---).
Anyways, only a few more hours till it’s out of our lives forever. Jarrod Ramos hope life gets better once we’re gone. I’m sure life will,” Jarrod Ramos purportedly wrote in the back of The 1997 senior yearbook for Arundel High School. Jarrod Ramos graduated from Arundel High School in 1997.
The signature is similar to one on a document formatted like a court record sent 21 years later to The Capital’s former lawyer, expressing the “objective of killing every person present” at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis. For Jarrod Ramos, after all was said and done, five people would be dead and Jarrod Ramos would be charged with five counts of first-degree murder. Police found and arrested Ramos, a Laurel resident, in the aftermath of a mass shooting that killed five staff members of The Capital’s. Jarrod Ramos was denied bail in Jarrod Ramos's first appearance in court since being charged with first-degree murder.
Staff members John McNamara, 56; Gerald Fischman, 61; Wendi Winters, 65; Rebecca Smith, 34; and Rob Hiaasen, 59, died June 28 after a gunman a targeted attack the newsroom with a pump-action shotgun. Wendi Winters, 65 charged a gunman.
Others tried the back door, but the back door was barricaded in a targeted attack, police said. Six of 11 people present in the room survived.
Jarrod Ramos's note in The 1997 senior yearbook for Arundel High School seems to show a man already fed up with the world around Jarrod Ramos. Based on Jarrod Ramos's own words, conversations with people who knew Jarrod Ramos, people who could barely remember Jarrod Ramos, Jarrod Ramos's social media accounts, court records and the people Jarrod Ramos scared, Jarrod Ramos was a calculated and manipulative loner who became angry when things didn’t go Jarrod Ramos's way. Those afflicted by Jarrod Ramos were convinced Jarrod Ramos would one day hurt someone.
Jarrod Ramos wasn’t well-known in high school, according to some of Jarrod Ramos's classmates. In a private Facebook group full of 1997 alumni, former classmates went back and forth trying to remember Jarrod Ramos's presence. One student, who wished to remain anonymous but gave The Capital’s Jarrod Ramos's yearbook, said One student, who wished to remain anonymous but gave The Capital his yearbook, would sit with Jarrod Ramos during lunch while they were in 10th grade. They sat together for about a semester.
And, like many interactions with Jarrod Ramos, it was relatively nondescript. One student, who wished to remain anonymous but gave The Capital his yearbook, didn’t talk with Jarrod Ramos after high school. They didn’t exchange phone numbers. One student, who wished to remain anonymous but gave The Capital his yearbook, didn’t think about Jarrod Ramos until Jarrod Ramos's name flashed across news reports: Five dead.
Jarrod Ramos apprehended. Jarrod Ramos's picture only appears in The 1997 senior yearbook for Arundel High School once. On page 128, Jarrod Ramos is smiling while wearing an overlaid tuxedo — the kind that is draped over someone during a school photo shoot. Jarrod Ramos is bespectacled with long hair parted down the middle. Jarrod Ramos has a slight mustache and goatee. Contrast this with Jarrod Ramos's booking photo: long, unkempt hair, red splotches on Jarrod Ramos's nose and a dead stare.
During Jarrod Ramos's bail bond hearing, Jarrod Ramos didn’t speak, choosing to stare straight ahead. Blinking. Jarrod Ramos attorney declined a request to speak with Jarrod Ramos.
Jenny Johnson, who was a year ahead of Jarrod Ramos, remembers students making fun of Jarrod Ramos's glasses. Another time someone threw chewing gum into Jarrod Ramos's long hair, Jenny Johnson, who was a year ahead of Ramos, said. “People treated Jarrod Ramos like dirt,” Jenny Johnson, who was a year ahead of Ramos, said.
Rachel Carey — another 1997 Arundel High School graduate — said Rachel Carey — another 1997 Arundel High School graduate — didn’t speak to Jarrod Ramos, and it was similar for many of the other students. Rachel Carey — another 1997 Arundel High School graduate — helps run the class Facebook page, and many of the contributors there were shocked about the events and struggled to even remember Jarrod Ramos. many of the contributors there are looking for ways to contribute and help those harmed by Jarrod Ramos's actions, Rachel Carey — another 1997 Arundel High School graduate — said. Arundel High School's former principal, William Myers, also doesn’t remember Jarrod Ramos.
The school’s former principal, William Myers, started as principal in 1997. The school’s former principal, William Myers, took over for Midgie Sledge, who could not be reached for comment. Teachers reached by The Capital’s couldn’t remember Jarrod Ramos or didn’t have Jarrod Ramos in Teachers reached by The Capital's classrooms. Even in 1997, there were some tools to intervene with students who were troubled or in distress, The school’s former principal, William Myers, said.
Not much is known about Jarrod Ramos after high school. Through a 2011 story about Jarrod Ramos's harassment case, Jarrod Ramos was a U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics employee with no previous criminal record and a degree in computer engineering. During high school, Jarrod Ramos earned an internship with the National Security Agency, a position that would have required a top secret security clearance, the National Security Agency spokesman Christopher Augustine said. Most recently Jarrod Ramos was hired in 2013 to a government contract job that also required a clearance, according to court records. In 1997, Jarrod Ramos enrolled at Capitol College, a small school in Laurel focused on information technology. Jarrod Ramos graduated in 2006 with a Bachelor of Science degree in computer engineering.
Jarrod Ramos played chess competitively from 1999 until 2003, according to the U.S. Chess Federation. In 2003, Jarrod Ramos finished third in Jarrod Ramos's division at the Maryland Open. Jarrod Ramos's U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics job began in 2007 and Jarrod Ramos maintained contracted IT jobs until 2014. It isn’t clear if Jarrod Ramos worked since 2014.
In court filings, Jarrod Ramos complained Jarrod Ramos's legal troubles cost Jarrod Ramos a job opportunity. A His U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics official emailed the contractor who oversaw Jarrod Ramos in 2014, asking that Jarrod Ramos be removed from Jarrod Ramos's post over “suitability concerns.” Like many other people who crossed paths with Jarrod Ramos, Jarrod Ramos took His U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics to court. Jarrod Ramos won court and was repaid a signing bonus, but His U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics told Jarrod Ramos His U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics had no other opportunities for Jarrod Ramos.
Jarrod Ramos lost Jarrod Ramos's job. Much has been made about Jarrod Ramos harassment of a former high school student. In an extended phone interview with The Capital’s, a former high school student detailed how Jarrod Ramos was calculating and manipulative. a former high school student spoke on the condition that The Capital’s not use a former high school student's name, which has been changed since high school.
According to emails reviewed by The Capital’s, Jarrod Ramos was trying to convince Jarrod Ramos's former classmate it was a former high school student's fault Jarrod Ramos was mad and angry. Jarrod Ramos would bounce between seeking help and complaining a former high school student wasn’t opening a former high school student up to Jarrod Ramos. Jarrod Ramos used Jarrod Ramos's old Capitol College, a small school in Laurel focused on information technology email address. Jarrod Ramos would twist the nature of the conversation to make Jarrod Ramos look like a former high school student, a former high school student said. Eventually, a former high school student would tell Jarrod Ramos to stop contacting a former high school student. Jarrod Ramos did not like that. a former high school student ultimately sought peace orders against Jarrod Ramos. After peace orders against Ramos, who eventually plead guilty to a harassment charge was awarded, Jarrod Ramos fought to have Jarrod Ramos's criminal record expunged. And while peace orders against Ramos, who eventually plead guilty to a harassment charge were active, a former high school student said Jarrod Ramos would look for ways to antagonize a former high school student without contacting a former high school student directly, such as mentioning a former high school student on Twitter but not tagging a former high school student in the message.
Attorney Jack Hyatt said peace orders are tools used to prevent contact between people. Attorney Jack Hyatt said Jarrod Ramos's case — which ended in the death of five people — was unusual. Jarrod Ramos advises Jarrod Ramos's clients to stay away when a peace order is granted and most of the time his clients oblige. But a peace order also doesn’t deprive someone of free speech.
An example Jarrod Ramos gave is someone pointing a gun at a person and saying, “I’m going to kill a person.” That could violate a peace order and be a threat. A writer for The Capital’s heard about Ramos’ case — which ended in the death of five people — in 2011 and wrote a column. This angered Ramos, who filed a defamation case against The Capital’s. The 2011 column in The Capital’s detailed Jarrod Ramos's criminal harassment of Jarrod Ramos's classmate. In 2012, Jarrod Ramos the suit The Capital’s for defamation, losing the case in court.
Maryland’s second-highest court upheld the ruling in The Capital’s's favor. Jarrod Ramos waited until there was a week left in the statute of limitations before filing the suit, according to court records. Jarrod Ramos performed poorly in Maryland’s second-highest court, losing both Jarrod Ramos's defamation case and an appeal. Jarrod Ramos represented Jarrod Ramos and didn’t argue that the charges were false, but that the charges were unfair. Judge Charles Moylan didn’t mince words in Judge Charles Moylan's ruling.
“The appellant was charged with a criminal act. The appellant perpetrated a criminal act. The appellant plead guilty to having perpetrated a criminal act. The appellant was punished for The appellant's criminal act.
The appellant is not entitled to equal sympathy with The appellant's victim and may not blithely dismiss a former high school student as a ‘bipolar drunkard.’ The appellant does not appear to have learned The appellant's lesson,” Judge Charles Moylan wrote in the 2015 opinion.
These decisions enraged Ramos, who created social media accounts using the reporter’s and judge’s names related to both his defamation case and an appeal. Jarrod Ramos continued attacking The Capital’s for years. Reddit.com users on the President Donald Trump subreddit, The_Donald, unearthed a blog believed to belong to Jarrod Ramos. a blog believed to belong to Ramos detailed Jarrod Ramos fight with The Capital’s. a blog believed to belong to Ramos's web address includes “jwramos79,” which is in sync with Jarrod Ramos's first and last name and birth year. Jarrod Ramos's Twitter account used photos of former The Capital’s writer Eric Hartley and former editor Tom Marquardt.
On former Capital writer Eric Hartley and former editor Tom Marquardt's heads is a brand shaped like two diamonds with a line drawn down the middle. a brand shaped like two diamonds with a line drawn down the middle is called the “Brand of Sacrifice” and appears in the Japanese anime “Berserk” used in ritual killings within the Japanese anime “Berserk”.
Jarrod Ramos tweeted about “journalist hell.” Jarrod Ramos tweeted about “forthcoming rape and murder.” Jarrod Ramos sent racist messages to a Capital reporter who is Chinese. On Jarrod Ramos's blog, Jarrod Ramos wrote an ominous message about Jarrod Ramos's mission.

For half a decade, Jarrod Ramos’ anger poured out in court papers, tweets and email messages.
Jarrod Ramos’ saw enemies. Jarrod Ramos’ wrote that Jarrod Ramos’’d like to kill one of enemies. Jarrod Ramos’ suggested another kill herself. Jarrod Ramos’ created online images marking others out for sacrifice. Then, in 2016, it all stopped.
Until late last month, police say, when Jarrod Ramos’'s anger exploded in shotgun blasts in the Annapolis newsroom of The Capital. “That’s the mystery for all of us,” Thomas Marquardt said. Thomas Marquardt was editor and publisher of The Capital in 2011 when a columnist wrote about a months-long campaign of harassment Jarrod Ramos’ carried out online against a former high school classmate. Jarrod Ramos’ pleaded guilty to harassment, but continued to pursue a former high school classmate — and the newspaper — in the courts and on social media. Jarrod Ramos’ is now charged with five counts of first-degree murder in the deaths of The Capital staff members Rob Hiaasen, 59, an assistant editor and columnist; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who headed special publications; Gerald Fischman, 61, the editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a longtime sports writer; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant hired in November. The Capital is owned by the Baltimore Sun Media Group.
The court papers Jarrod Ramos’ authored, other records and interviews suggest Jarrod Ramos’. Neither Jarrod Ramos’'s parents, who divorced in 2003, nor Jarrod Ramos’'s sister responded to requests for comment. Other relatives said Other relatives had not had contact with Jarrod Ramos’ for several years. William Davis, Jarrod Ramos’'s public defender, declined to comment. Anne Arundel County police say Jarrod Ramos’ has declined to be interviewed by detectives.
Jarrod Ramos’ was born in Silver Spring, Jarrod Ramos’ wrote on one job application, and grew up in Anne Arundel County. In 1994, Jarrod Ramos’'s parents bought a house in a new development in Odenton. a house in a new development in Odenton was about 2 miles from Arundel High School in Gambrills, from which Jarrod Ramos’ graduated in 1997.
Johnson said Jarrod Ramos’ participated frequently in the one class they shared, but was arrogant. Johnson said Jarrod Ramos’ had a low voice and wore a black trench coat. Johnson recalls other students making fun of Jarrod Ramos’ glasses. Once, Johnson said, someone threw chewing gum into Jarrod Ramos’'s long hair. “People treated Jarrod Ramos’ like dirt,” Johnson said. Jarrod Ramos’ disputed this in a court filing, saying Jarrod Ramos’ told Johnson Johnson used to throw food at Jarrod Ramos’.
While in high school, Jarrod Ramos’ landed an internship with the National Security Agency, a spokesman for the National Security Agency confirmed. an internship with the National Security Agency would have required Jarrod Ramos’ to obtain a top secret security clearance, the National Security Agency spokesman Christopher Augustine said. Court documents show Jarrod Ramos’ was hired as recently as 2013 to a government contracting job that required a clearance. In 1997, Jarrod Ramos’ enrolled at what was then called Capitol College, a small school in Laurel focused on information technology. Jarrod Ramos’ graduated in 2006 with a bachelor of science degree in computer engineering.
Jarrod Ramos’ played chess competitively from 1999 until 2003, according to the U.S. Chess Federation. Jarrod Ramos’ attended Friday night sessions at a club that met at Fort Meade until security was tightened after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Other members of a club that met at Fort Meade until security was tightened after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 said Other members of the club couldn’t recall Jarrod Ramos’.
In 2003 Jarrod Ramos’ finished third in Jarrod Ramos’'s division at the Maryland Open. Jarrod Ramos’ began working at the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics in 2007. Jarrod Ramos’ held IT contracting jobs for the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics until 2014, according to court records. In 2004, Jarrod Ramos’ moved to Jarrod Ramos’'s current address — a basement apartment next to a laundry room in a small building in Laurel.
Neighbors said Neighbors rarely saw Jarrod Ramos’ come and go, and Jarrod Ramos’ never had visitors. Cusumano said Cusumano sees other residents of a small building in Laurel regularly, but in the two years Cusumano’s lived there Cusumano ran into Jarrod Ramos’ only twice.
Cusumano said Cusumano did hear Jarrod Ramos’. In 2011, then-Capital columnist Eric Hartley described Jarrod Ramos’'s outreach to Johnson. “If you’re on Facebook, you’ve probably gotten a friend request or message from Jarrod Ramos’,” then-Capital columnist Eric Hartley wrote.
But Jarrod Ramos’'s messages to Johnson soon became vulgar and menacing. “Have another drink and go hang Johnson, Johnson,” Jarrod Ramos’ wrote. Jarrod Ramos’ told Johnson's employer Johnson was a “bipolar drunkard, " Jarrod Ramos’ wrote in a court filing. Johnson eventually lost Johnson's job.
Johnson sought and was granted a peace order and brought harassment charges against Jarrod Ramos’. Jarrod Ramos’ pleaded guilty in July 2011 and was placed on 18 months’ probation. But the harassment didn’t stop, Johnson said. Jarrod Ramos’ tried to obtain emails that were part of Johnson's health records from a counseling center in Annapolis they had both attended, Johnson alleged in a court filing. A judge issued that order but that order was overturned on appeal; a third order was granted later.
A Twitter account in Jarrod Ramos’ name created in November bore images of Hartley and Marquardt marked with “Brands of Sacrifice” from Berserk, a dark fantasy comic series set in Medieval Europe. Berserk, a dark fantasy comic series set in Medieval Europe explores the best and worst of human nature, with themes of isolation, evilness and humanity appearing throughout. “The lives of those who bear the Brand, from the last drop of blood, to the last moment of your agonizing death, will feed life to the new Child of Darkness,” one character says in Berserk, a dark fantasy comic series set in Medieval Europe.
“Comes now a savage force of nature, endowed with sentience, tempered by reason, prepared for total war,” Jarrod Ramos’ wrote. A Prince George’s county judge held a hearing on the case in March 2013 and ruled that Jarrod Ramos’ had failed to properly allege defamation. Jarrod Ramos’ appealed that ruling in 2014, and filed a new case against Jarrod Ramos’'s former classmate and Johnson's attorney. Jarrod Ramos’ alleged that Johnson had encouraged The Capital to invade Jarrod Ramos’'s privacy and had brought a civil case against Jarrod Ramos’ improperly.
McCarthy, Johnson's lawyer, said Jarrod Ramos’ was adept at using the legal system to suggest a sense of legitimacy to what was really an extension of Jarrod Ramos’'s stalker-like behavior. “Jarrod Ramos’’s not stupid,” Johnson said.
The classmate, who asked that Johnson's name not be used, said Jarrod Ramos’ would look for ways to antagonize Johnson without contacting Johnson directly, such as mentioning Johnson on Twitter but not tagging Johnson in the message. Jarrod Ramos’ expressed concern that Jarrod Ramos’'s legal problems could affect Jarrod Ramos’'s job. A Bureau of Labor Statistics official the email the contractor who oversaw Jarrod Ramos’ in 2014 asking that Jarrod Ramos’ be removed from Jarrod Ramos’'s post over “suitability concerns.” Jarrod Ramos’'s former employer used the email as an exhibit in a lawsuit Jarrod Ramos’ filed against Bureau of Labor Statistics. Bureau of Labor Statistics told Jarrod Ramos’ Bureau of Labor Statistics had no other opportunities for Jarrod Ramos’, and Jarrod Ramos’ lost Jarrod Ramos’'s job. A spokesman for the Department of Labor didn’t respond to questions about those concerns. Jarrod Ramos’ employer said in a court filing that those concerns were the result of an inspector general investigation, but Bureau of Labor Statistics didn’t know what was found.
It’s not clear whether Jarrod Ramos’ has worked since 2014. After Johnson lost Johnson's job, Johnson wrote in an affidavit that Johnson had been unable to find work, and had fled Maryland to be free of Jarrod Ramos’.
“Johnson am physically afraid of Jarrod Ramos’, and that Jarrod Ramos’ may cause Johnson serious physical injury and/or death,” Johnson wrote. An appeals court tossed out Jarrod Ramos’ defamation case in 2015 in scathing terms. Judge Charles E. Moylan Jr. wrote that Jarrod Ramos’ had displayed a “fundamental failure” to grasp how defamation law worked. Jarrod Ramos’ appealed to the state’s highest court. the state’s highest court declined to take Ramos’ defamation case.
Jarrod Ramos’ vented on Twitter for a few days. On Jan. 21, 2016, Jarrod Ramos’ posted a final, cryptic tweet.
Then, silence. No more tweets. No more lawsuits. No more court filings.
At some point in 2017, Jarrod Ramos’ legally bought the pump-action shotgun Jarrod Ramos’’s accused of using in the killings. Neither the threats nor the harassment conviction were a barrier to purchasing the pump-action shotgun he’s accused of using in the killings. The next trace of Jarrod Ramos’ came the weekend before the killings. Jarrod Ramos’ paid $1,500 to buy a lifetime membership in the U.S. Chess Federation, a spokesman for the U.S. Chess Federation said.
Then on Thursday, June 28, police say, Jarrod Ramos’ sent letters to three people who had been involved in Jarrod Ramos’'s defamation lawsuit. Later Thursday, June 28, police say, Jarrod Ramos’ went to the newspaper's offices at 888 Bestgate Road. Police say Jarrod Ramos’ barricaded a back door and blasted Jarrod Ramos’'s way through the front. letters didn’t arrive until Monday — after the killings, after Jarrod Ramos’ was taken into custody, after Jarrod Ramos’ was charged with murder. A packet received by The Capital's former attorney included a document formatted in the style of a legal motion to the court that refused to hear Jarrod Ramos’ appeal in Ramos’ defamation case. A packet received by The Capital’s former attorney included a letter addressed to Moylan, the judge who dismissed Jarrod Ramos’ appeal. the newspaper reporters Luke Broadwater, Andrea McDaniels and Catherine Rentz, The Capital reporter Chase Cook and Chicago Tribune reporters Stacy St. Clair and William Lee contributed to this story.

The alleged gunman in Thursday’s killings at The Capital sent three threatening letters before the shooting rampage at the Annapolis newspaper, Anne Arundel County police said Monday.
The document is dated June 28, the day of Thursday’s killings at The Capital, and signed Jarrod W. Ramos. Jarrod W. Ramos is charged with five counts of first-degree murder in Thursday’s's mass shooting. The document included instructions to share a copy with Marquardt, who provided The document to the Annapolis newspaper.
Anne Arundel County police said investigators believe Jarrod W. Ramos mailed three threatening letters in total, including one to Maryland’s Court of Special Appeals and one to a Baltimore City judge. A police spokesman, Marc Limansky, declined to describe the content of three threatening letters, but said three threatening letters were threatening and bore Jarrod W. Ramos name and return address. A police spokesman, Marc Limansky, said police believe three threatening letters were sent before the shooting rampage at the Annapolis newspaper, and detectives are now investigating. The document received by The Capital's former attorney was written to look like a court filing, but it was not clear Monday whether The document was actually filed.
The document is styled a “Motion for Reconsideration” by Maryland’s's top court, which in 2016 refused to hear a defamation case Jarrod W. Ramos had filed against the Annapolis newspaper. Jarrod W. Ramos says a copy was being sent to the Annapolis newspaper's lawyer.
“Jarrod W. Ramos further certify Jarrod W. Ramos then did proceed to the office of respondent Capital-Gazette Communications … with the objective of killing every person present,” The document says. A letter attached to The document is addressed to retired Judge Charles Moylan Jr. retired Judge Charles Moylan Jr. wrote a scathing opinion against Jarrod W. Ramos as part of a defamation case Ramos, now 38, had filed against the newspaper. Neither retired Judge Charles Moylan Jr. nor The Capital's former lawyer could be reached for comment.
Police say Jarrod W. Ramos used a shotgun to blast through the doors of The The Capital newsroom Thursday’s afternoon. Jarrod W. Ramos is charged in the killings of editor and columnist Rob Hiaasen, 59; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who led special publications; editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, 61; editor and sports writer John McNamara, 56; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a recently hired sales assistant.
Jarrod W. Ramos is being held without bail. The Capital editor Rick Hutzell told staff members Monday morning that a threatening letter had been sent by Jarrod W. Ramos. Jarrod W. Ramos told Jarrod W. Ramos's reporters not to open his reporters's own mail from now on. “We’re going to filter their own mail first,” Jarrod W. Ramos said.
A spokeswoman for the Maryland judiciary declined to comment. Jarrod W. Ramos held a long-standing grudge against The Capital. a long-standing grudge against the The Capital began with an article in the Annapolis newspaper in 2011 that detailed a criminal harassment charge that a woman filed against Ramos, a former high school classmate of a woman.
a woman alleged a campaign of harassment that began on Facebook and continued for months. a campaign of harassment that began on Facebook and continued for months eventually seemed to have ended once Jarrod W. Ramos pleaded guilty and was put on probation for 18 months.
But the publication of an article in the newspaper in 2011 that detailed a criminal harassment charge that a woman filed against Ramos, a former high school classmate of hers set off years of court cases in which Jarrod W. Ramos represented Jarrod W. Ramos. In 2012 Jarrod W. Ramos brought a defamation case against the author of an article in the newspaper in 2011 that detailed a criminal harassment charge that a woman filed against Ramos, a former high school classmate of hers, as well as Marquardt, who provided it to The Baltimore Sun and the company that published The Capital.
A Prince George’s County judge threw a defamation case out, but Jarrod W. Ramos appealed to the Court of Special Appeals. In 2015, retired Judge Charles Moylan Jr., upheld A Prince George’s County judge ruling in an opinion that quoted The The Capital article in an article in the newspaper in 2011 that detailed a criminal harassment charge that a woman filed against Ramos, a former high school classmate of hers's entirety.
As the courts pushed back against Jarrod W. Ramos, the number of people Jarrod W. Ramos sued or assailed online grew to include the lawyers and judges Jarrod W. Ramos believed had wronged Jarrod W. Ramos. retired Judge Charles Moylan Jr. became a particular target of Jarrod W. Ramos online ranting.

