KYOTO (TR) – The number of persons feared dead now exceeds 20 following a suspected arson attack at Kyoto Animation Co. in Kyoto City on Thursday, authorities said, reports NHK (July 18). Police and fire officials have confirmed 13 persons dead following the blaze, which started in Studio 1 of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi Ward at around 10:30 a.m. Most of the persons were found on the first and second floors of the structure. An additional 10 more people have been found in a state of cardiopulmonary arrest — meaning they are showing no vital signs — on the third floor of the building and on the stairs that lead to the rooftop, which brings the total confirmed or presumed dead to more than 20. Another 36 persons are injured, with 10 of them in serious condition, the officials said. After receiving a distress call about “an explosion on the first floor” of the studio, thirty fire trucks from the Kyoto City Fire Department arrived at the scene to battle the blaze, which spread over the roughly 700 square meters of space in the three-floor reinforced concrete structure. A witness told police that they saw an adult male spraying around a liquid that seemed to be gasoline inside the building and setting it ablaze. “Die!” he reportedly screamed as he carried out the act. Police apprehended a 41-year-old man at the scene. He is currently receiving medical attention. Multiple knives and at least one hammer were found dropped at the scene, but it is not known if they belong to the man in custody, police said. NHK also reported that a male customer at a gasoline station purchased 40 liters of gasoline at a station located about 500 meters from the studio around 30 minutes before the incident. The customer told a station attendant that he was going to use the gasoline in “a power generator.” Police are attempting to confirm if that customer, who hauled the fuel away in a cart, is the same man who is in custody. Kyoto Animation president Hideaki Hatta said that the company has received several threatening emails that said “people will die” in the past. The president said that the company contacted a lawyer after receiving each one. At the time the fire broke out, there were more than 70 employees present inside the studio. The whereabouts of more than 10 of those employees remain unknown, the authorities said.
An arson attack at a well-known animation studio in Kyoto that left at least 33 people dead Thursday sent shock waves among avid fans of Japanese anime both at home and abroad. Expressions of sympathy and prayers poured in from devotees of works produced by Kyoto Animation Co., known as "KyoAni," after one of its studios in the western city was torched by a man in the morning. "I hope the damage will be as little as possible," said the 23-year-old student, who was also visiting the area where countless anime shops are located. About 70 people are believed to have been working when a 41-year-old man allegedly burst into the three-story studio in the city's Fushimi Ward, setting the place ablaze around 10:35 a.m. The man, who is now in the hospital, has admitted to setting fire to the studio, according to the police. Kyoto Animation has produced popular TV animation series including "K-On!" and "The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya" (Suzumiya Haruhi no Yuutsu), which depict the daily lives of high school girls. Fans visiting sites that inspired anime and manga comic works have helped boost tourism by going on "pilgrimages," so officials of local governments have also offered condolences. "Fans still visit (our city) although a dozen years or so has passed since (the anime) went on air," said Atsushi Sakata, an official of a commerce association in Kuki, north of Tokyo. The city was featured in "Lucky Star" (Raki Suta), another KyoAni animation. "We're very surprised and worried," Sakata said. Naoki Okawa, an official of Toyosato, which was featured in "K-On!," said the anime helped the town gain visibility. "The work has had a big influence on the town," Okawa said. About 100,000 people visited Toyosato per year during the peak period, he said. Texas-based animation distributor Sentai Filmworks, which licenses several Kyoto Animation works including "K-On!" on its official Twitter account called for crowdfunding donations to support the studio. The distributor aims to raise $500,000, according to the GoFundMe website. In just seven hours, more than 10,000 people have already donated nearly $400,000.
At least 33 people have died in a fire at an animation studio in the Japanese city of Kyoto. Fire department official Satoshi Fujiwara said a further 36 people were injured in the blaze, some of them critically with many of them suffering from burns. The blaze broke out at 10:30am local time after a man burst into Kyoto Animation and reportedly shouted "die!" as he poured what appeared to be petrol around the studio. More than 70 people were in the three-storey building at the time, with many fleeing the premises when the alarm was raised. "There was an explosion, then I heard people shouting, some asking for help," a witness told TBS TV. A 41-year-old suspect is in custody and is being investigated on suspicion of arson. He was also injured and taken to hospital for treatment. Police said he was not a company employee and gave no other details. A witness who saw the suspect being approached by police told public broadcaster NHK that he had burns on his arms and legs and that he was angrily complaining that something of his had been "stolen". Footage showed smoke billowing from the fire-ravaged building, and emergency services at the scene battling the blaze and tending to the injured. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe described the fire as "too appalling for words" on Twitter and offered his condolences to the families of the victims. Hideaki Hatta, president of Kyoto Animation, said the company had received anonymous death threats by email in the past, but he did not link them to Thursday's attack. "My heart is in extreme pain. Why on earth did such violence have to be used?" he said. Kyoto Animation, known as KyoAni, was founded in 1981 as an animation and comic book production studio. It is known for stories featuring high school girls including Lucky Star, K-On! and Haruhi Suzumiya. The studio also produces the Sound! Euphonium series and its Free! Road to the World - The Dream movie is due for release this month. The company does not have a major presence outside Japan, though it was hired to do secondary animation work on a 1998 Pokemon feature that appeared in US cinemas and a Winnie the Pooh video.
Kyoto Animation was the victim of a suspected arson attack today that left at least 26 people dead. Around 70 people were in the Kyoto Animation building when the fire started, with 36 people taken to hospital afterwards, some in a critical condition. Kyoto Animation is the studio behind beloved animes such as A Silent Voice, Violet Evergarden, Clanad, Sound! Euphonium, K-On! and Full Metal Panic! Kyoto Animation also have produced video game cinematics for Konami’s popular baseball series Jikkyo Powerful Pro Yakyu (or Power Pros as it's known in the west). The fire at Kyoto Animation broke out around 10.30am local time with rescue operations still ongoing. Knives were also found at the scene in Kyoto while broadcaster NHK reported the suspect had been heard saying “drop dead” as he set fire to the building. Police say the 41-year-old broke into the Kyoto Animation studio, sprayed petrol and then ignited it. It's unclear whether the suspect had any relationship with Kyoto Animation.
Investigators are searching for clues to the motive of an arsonist who killed at least 34 people in an attack on a popular Japanese anime studio that has plunged country into a state of shock. Thirty-six others were injured, some of them critically, in Thursday’s blaze at Kyoto Animation, which is Japan’s deadliest fire in nearly two decades. Everyone from Anime fans to prime minister Shinzo Abe expressed anger, prayed and mourned the Kyoto victims on social media and a crowdfunding appeal set up to support the company and victims – who remain unidentified – has also gathered more than $1m in pledges. The suspect, named by police as Shinji Aoba, did not work for the studio but shouted that he had been plagiarised and appeared to have planned the attack, Japanese media reports said on Friday. A woman who saw the suspect being detained told reporters he “seemed to be discontented, he seemed to get angry, shouting something about how he had been plagiarised”. Survivors said he was screaming “you die!” as he sprayed what emergency services officials called an unidentified liquid accelerant. They said some of the survivors were splashed with the liquid. The suspect was injured in the attack and is being treated in hospital. NHK footage also showed sharp knives police had collected from the scene, though it was not clear if they belonged to the attacker. The fire appeared to have been set near the front door with some kind of flammable liquid, police said, forcing people to scramble up the stairs to the roof. Of the 34 bodies found by firefighters, 20 were on the third floor and some on the stairs to the roof, where they had apparently collapsed, Kyoto fire official Kazuhiro Hayashi said. Two were found dead on the first floor, 11 others on the second floor, he said. The building has a spiral staircase that might have allowed flames and smoke to rise quickly to the top floor, broadcaster NHK noted. Yuji Hasemi, a fire expert at Waseda University, told NHK that paper drawings and other documents in the studio also might have contributed to the fire’s rapid spread. The suspected arsonist started the fire in Japan’s ancient capital on Thursday morning when about 70 people had gathered for their day’s work at the three-storey building. Most of the victims were employees of Kyoto Animation, which does work on movies and TV productions but is best known for its mega-hit stories featuring high school girls. The tales are so popular that fans make pilgrimages to some of the places depicted. Kyoto Animation, better known as KyoAni, was founded in 1981 as an animation and comic book production studio, and its hits include Lucky Star in 2008, K-On! in 2011 and Haruhi Suzumiya in 2009. The company does not have a major presence outside Japan, though it was hired to do secondary animation work on a 1998 Pokemon feature that appeared in US cinemas and a Winnie the Pooh video. Violent crime is rare in Japan, though it is not unknown. In July 2016, a mass stabbing at a care home by a former employee killed 16 and injured more. In September 2001, a fire at a building in the Kabukicho entertainment district of central Tokyo killed 44. Arson was suspected, but nobody was ever charged, meaning the Kyoto Animation attack is the worst confirmed mass murder in Japan’s post-war history.
Details of the victims were not immediately released but Kyoto police said 20 women and 12 men were among the dead. One person has not yet been identified. KyoAni is known for employing more women, particularly younger women, than is usual in the profession, industry lawyer Daisuke Okeda told the New York Times.
Animation fans and Kyoto residents gathered at the site of Japan's worst mass killing in 18 years on Friday, offering flowers and prayers for the 33 people who died in an arson attack on an animation studio in the city. A number of people gathered near the charred three-story studio of Kyoto Animation in the western Japanese city, where a day earlier a suspected arsonist shouted "Die!" and that he had been plagiarized before dousing the building with what appeared to be petrol and setting it ablaze. On Friday morning people gathered in the rain at the edge of the cordon set up by police and fire officials. "It's hard to put into words how I feel," said 27-year-old Yuichi Kumami, a self-described animation fan, who had taken time off work at his company in nearby Osaka to lay flowers at the site. "They may not be able to produce the same kind of works again and it was my hope that there would be more memorable works in the future, but that may be impossible now and that is very saddening," he said, his voice cracking with emotion. A pillar of Japanese popular culture, animation has become a major cultural export, winning fans around the world. Kyoto Animation has an outsized role in the industry, with its influence outstripping the list of works it has produced. Local resident Kazuko Yoshida, 78, said she lived close to the site and had smelt smoke on Thursday. From her second-floor window, she saw smoke and helicopters. "I wonder why the company was targeted, why those people had to be caught up in this. It sounds like the man who did it wanted to die," she said. One 23-year-old university student paid his respects before going to his lessons. He said he was a fan of "anime", as Japanese animation is known. One local man, 82, passing by on his bicycle said he previously lived in the neighborhood. "There was no fire escape on the outside of the building and I think that was a big reason why so many people died," he said.
KYOTO -- The man suspected of carrying out an arson attack on a prominent animation studio in Kyoto, killing 33 people, has told police that he started the fire because the company stole his novel, investigative sources have told the Mainichi Shimbun. Investigators, however, have been unable to confirm the alleged theft, and Kyoto Prefectural Police suspect that the man held a grudge against the company as a result of his one-sided view. Apart from the 33 people who died, the fire left 35 injured besides the suspected arsonist himself. Police are waiting for him to recover in hospital and plan to question him to pinpoint the motives behind the attack. The fire that raged through the No. 1 studio of Kyoto Animation in Kyoto's Fushimi Ward in western Japan was extinguished at about 6:20 a.m. on July 19, about 20 hours after it started. Kyoto Prefectural Police launched an inspection at the scene at 9:30 a.m. the same day on suspicion of crimes including arson of an inhabited structure and murder. They also began conducting autopsies on the victims. Police planned to set up an investigation headquarters in the afternoon. Investigative sources said the man suspected of carrying out the attack is aged 41 and is believed to live in an apartment in Saitama's Minuma Ward north of Tokyo. He reportedly had gotten involved in an incident in the past that resulted in him going into a private rehabilitation facility in Saitama Prefecture. He had never worked at Kyoto Animation, and no clear point of connection between him and the animation studio has been found. The suspected arsonist has been anesthetized. When he recovers, police plan to arrest him and probe his relationship with the company and the gist of his statements. Investigators said that two 20-liter gasoline containers, a trolley, a bag containing several knives, and a hammer were found at the scene of the arson attack. The fact that multiple containers of gasoline and weapons were prepared in advance has led police to suspect that the man carried out a calculated attack. Meanwhile, it has emerged that there had been trouble on July 14 over noise at the apartment where the suspect apparently lives, and he had threatened a neighbor, telling him, "I'll kill you." The neighbor said the man had banged on the wall over the sound, but the noise was actually coming from another apartment. The neighbor called the man over his intercom system and told him, "The sound's not coming from my place," to which the man responded, "Shut up. I'll kill you. I've got enough on my own plate." The man then suddenly grabbed the neighbor by the collar and pulled his hair. After complaining for about 10 minutes, the man returned to his apartment. The neighbor immediately phoned police to report the incident. "It made me scared because thought I was actually going to be killed," he said.
Copyright © The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.
On Thursday morning, a suspected arsonist set fire to Kyoto Animation, an anime studio in Japan, killing at least 33 people, according to the New York Times. Heartbroken fans of the lesser-known anime studio are sharing their grief online with the hashtag #PrayforKyoAni, leading the hashtag to trend globally. Before setting the studio on fire, the attacker was allegedly heard yelling “Die!” If the fire is confirmed as arson, it would be the second-largest massacre in the country’s history. Woke up and the news is even worse. Seeing the death toll, mainstream outlets covering this and #PrayForKyoani trending worldwide the shock is over and crushing reality is settling in. Sentai Filmworks, the Houston licensing company which has licensed many Kyoto Animation productions, created a GoFundMe page titled “Help KyoAni heal,” which raised more than $949,000 in 15 hours. However, redditors are debating the legal issues surrounding this kind of donation, as it would be heavily taxed. They are instead urging fans to buy high-resolution digital images from its website so that the proceeds will go directly to the studio, without it having to produce any new work. Sentai Filmworks told the Daily Dot that it is supporting Kyoto Animation through the GoFundMe because it was supported in a similar way following Hurricane Harvey in 2017. “Our company’s staff was helped thru a funding campaign during Hurricane Harvey and we imagine we can have a positive impact in helping others. 100% of proceeds will be given to Kyoto Animation when the campaign comes to conclusion. At this point, Kyoto Animation will have complete discretion on how these funds may be used to best support their staff,” Sentai Filmworks wrote in an email statement. Many grief-stricken fans are now sharing screen grabs or short videos of their favorite anime produced by Kyoto Animation. Got five minutes? We’d love to hear from you. Help shape our journalism and be entered to win an Amazon gift card by filling out our 2019 reader survey.
Jun is just one of the fans of Kyoto Animation, affectionally abbreviated as “KyoAni”, to visit the Studio #1 building in Fushimi, Kyoto, after Thursday’s arson attack in which at least 33 people died, the country’s worst mass-casualty event in decades. “It’s hard to put into words how I feel,” said 27-year-old Yuichi Kumami, who had taken time off work in nearby Osaka to lay flowers at the site as firefighters and police officers continued their investigations. “They may not be able to produce the same kind of works again and it was my hope that there would be more memorable works in the future, but that may be impossible now and that is very saddening,” he said, his voice cracking with emotion. The sense of loss and mourning spread beyond the world of anime, with a mix of world leaders and industry figures voicing their shock and horror at the scale of the disaster. Colleagues in Japan’s creative industries offered prayers as well, including Makoto Shinkai, director of the international hit anime movie Your Name. He said: “We make anime in the hope that the world will be a little bit richer or a little bit better … but this event is too cruel.” In a sign of how cherished the Kyoto studio was, he wrote when news of the fire broke: “Everyone at Kyoto Animation, please, please be safe”. Masuhiro Sakurai, director of Nintendo’s Super Smash Brothers series, said: “It’s too painful … there are no words”. Reaction across the internet at large was swift and overwhelming, with fans sharing condolences and celebrating the studio’s many achievements. The hashtag #prayForKyoAni trended worldwide, with hundreds of thousands of tweets posted across multiple languages, a tribute to the studio’s broad appeal. “Will those unfamiliar with anime know that this is also a loss of culture, similar to as if an museum had burnt down in an instant?” asked one user. Others reflected on the more personal influences of Kyoto Animation’s often emotionally resonant works. When I was lost in a changing world, a KyoAni work helped ground me. When I wanted a new direction, a KyoAni work helped me improve as a translator. When I needed passion in my life, a KyoAni work inspired me to become better. A fundraiser set up by North American distributor Sentai Filmworks has passed over $1m in donations, though the money will remain on hold until Kyoto Animation can determine how best to receive it.
He was taken to hospital in Kyoto and, on Saturday, transferred to a hospital in Osaka. He has not yet been formally interviewed about his motive as police are waiting for him to recover from his injuries.
UPDATED: Revenge for allegedly stolen ideas is emerging as a possible motive for the devastating arson attack on Kyoto Animation in Japan, which killed 33 people. On Friday afternoon the police named the suspected attacker as Shinji Aoba, of no known occupation, who is in custody. Earlier, public broadcaster NHK, citing unnamed sources, described the man, 41, as having had mental health issues and a recent criminal record, including a convenience-store robbery in 2012, for which he received a three-and-a-half-year prison sentence. Investigative sources quoted by Japan’s Jiji Press said Friday that the suspected arsonist held a grudge against the studio. “Since [the studio] stole my novel, I poured out the liquid and set it ablaze,” the man is reported to have said. Police have not yet formally begun questioning Aoba, who was arrested barely 100 yards from the studio and who was burned in the fire. The injuries to his limbs and chest are too severe, reports said. Police plan to question him once he sufficiently recovers. Multiple local sources said the alleged attacker never worked for Kyoto Animation. Since its founding in 1981, Kyoto Animation has regularly adapted novels into anime series. In 2006, the studio produced the 14-episode series “The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya,” which was based on light novels by Nagaru Tanigawa. Earlier this year, “Tsurune” concluded its 13-episode run on public broadcaster NHK. The series was adapted from a novel series by Kotoko Ayano. Japanese news reports say that a man is known to have bought 40 liters (about 10.5 U.S. gallons) of gasoline at a nearby filling station 30 minutes prior to the fire. At the crime scene, authorities found two 20-liter fuel cans, five knives and a hammer, but have not yet definitively determined that they belonged to the Aoba. Local authorities said two bodies were found on the first floor of the burned-out building and eleven others on the second floor. Another body was discovered in a stairwell leading from the first to second floors. The remaining 19 bodies were found in a stairwell leading from the third floor to the roof, whose door was closed but which could have been opened from the roof. An additional 35 people, some of them in serious condition, are presently receiving hospital care, authorities said. Police and fire departments in Kyoto said that, 20 hours after the attack, the blaze is fully extinguished and no more bodies remain to be found.
This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.
At least 33 people have died after a man burst into a Japanese animation studio and shouted ”you die” before starting a fire, according to officials. Police say the blaze broke out at the three-storey Kyoto Animation Company studio after a man sprayed an unidentified liquid accelerant around the building at about 10.30 local time [GMT 02.30] on Thursday. Japanese media reported the fire might have been set near the front door, forcing people to find other ways out. Survivors said the suspect screamed “you die” as he dumped the liquid, which some people were splashed with, according to Japanese media. Thirty-three people have now been confirmed dead, and a fire official said no one else was believed to be missing. Firefighters found 20 bodies on the third floor, two were found dead on the first floor, and 11 others on the second floor. Some survivors were found on the stairs to the roof, where they had collapsed. A further 36 people were injured, including the suspect who was taken to hospital. Police identified him only as a 41-year-old man who was not a company employee. Most of the victims were said to be employees of Kyoto Animation, also known as KyoAni. The incident is believed to be Japan’s worst mass killing since a suspected arson attack on a Tokyo building in 2001 which killed 44 people. Offering his condolences to the victims, Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe said the fire was “too appalling for words”. A witness who saw the attacker being approached by police told Japanese networks that the man admitted spreading petrol and starting the fire with a lighter. She told NHK national television that the man had burns on his arms and legs and was angrily complaining that something of his had been “stolen”, possibly by the company. NHK footage also showed sharp knives police had collected from the scene, although it was not clear if they belonged to the attacker. An online fundraiser launched by Sentai Filmworks, which distributes KyoAni productions around the world, has already raised more than £190,000 for the company. Footage on NHK showed grey smoke billowing from the charred building. Residents in the area reported hearing what sounded like an explosion before they saw the smoke, according to the broadcaster. Fire department officials said more than 70 people were in the building at the time of the arson attack, but most of them ran outside. Kyoto Animation was founded in 1981 as an animation and comic book production studio. The company does work on films and TV productions, but is best known for its mega-hit stories featuring high school girls. The tales are so popular that fans make pilgrimages to some of the places depicted. Associated Press contributed to this report.
TOKYO (REUTERS) - The fire that tore through a building in Japan killing 33 people may have spread so fast not only because it was fuelled by petrol but because it was funnelled up a spiral staircase and there were no sprinklers to douse it, experts said on Friday (July 19). A man - identified as Shinji Aoba by public broadcaster NHK - shouting "die" and screaming accusations of plagiarism sloshed what appeared to be petrol in the three-storey Kyoto Animation building on Thursday before setting it ablaze. That alone could have been enough to make it impossible for victims to escape, architects said. But an open, three-storey spiral staircase inside the building created an especially deadly environment for fire. "The structure of the building was that it had one spiral staircase penetrating through three floors acting as a chimney, the most effective way of starting a fire," said Ms Momoko Higuchi, a Tokyo-based architect. The building did not have sprinklers, nor indoor fire hydrants, but it did not have to have them under Japan's fire code, a Kyoto Fire Department official said. An inspection of the building in October had found no fire safety problems, he said.
An arson attack on an anime studio in Japan has left at least 33 people dead and dozens injured in Japan’s worst mass murder in nearly two decades. The perpetrator, who was also injured and has been taken into police custody, walked into the 1st Studio building of Kyoto Animation in Fushimi ward, Kyoto, at about 10.30am. He poured what is suspected to be petrol in multiple areas of the building before igniting it. The prime minister, Shinzo Abe, called the attack “too appalling for words” and offered condolences. There were more than 70 people in the building, which is Kyoto Animation’s main studio. About 30 fire engines and ambulances went to the three-storey building after an explosion. Victims were taken to various hospitals in Kyoto. The suspect, identified only as a 41-year-old male, was reportedly taken to hospital before being arrested by police, who said he had admitted starting the fire. No motive for the arson attack has been reported, but Japan’s public broadcaster said he had shouted “drop dead” as he set the petrol alight. Preliminary investigations by the police have uncovered no links between the subject, who has yet to be named, and the animation studio. “A man threw liquid and set fire to it,” said a Kyoto prefectural police spokesman. Images shot from a helicopter for NHK showed smoke billowing from the top floor and fire crews still battling the blaze of the badly damaged building hours after it had started. Fire crews said there might be more people left in the building. The fire department said the three floors of the building covered a total of 700 sq metres and that every storey had been damaged by the fire. Professor Yuji Hasemi, an expert in fire safety and materials at Tokyo’s Waseda University, told NHK that a combination of poor ventilation, an abundance of paper used by artists and the large amount of petrol likely caused the fire to spread too quickly for people to escape. No fire escape stairs were visible in images of the building. Violent crime is rare in Japan, though it is not unknown. In July 2016, a mass stabbing at a care home by a former employee killed 16 and injured more. In September 2001, a fire at a building in the Kabukicho entertainment district of central Tokyo killed 44. Arson was suspected, but nobody was ever charged, meaning the Kyoto Animation attack is the worst confirmed mass murder in Japan’s post-war history. Kyoto Animation, known as KyoAni, was founded in 1981 by Yoko Hatta, an anime producer. Her husband, Hideaki, serves as the company’s president. KyoAni has produced popular anime TV series and feature films, as well as publishing illustrated novels and manga. It is well known among anime aficionados around the world for its dedication to high-quality production techniques, with a catalogue that includes A Silent Voice: The Movie, K-On!, The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya and Lucky Star. Its company headquarters are in Uji city. Kyoto Animation has a reputation for treating its employees well in an industry infamous for harsh working conditions, long hours and, for junior animators, very low pay. The growth of the genre’s popularity worldwide and increased demand for content from streaming platforms such as Netflix has put even more pressure on the studios at a time when Japan is experiencing a severe labour shortage. Most studios are booked out with projects up to two years ahead. Many anime artists are paid on a per-frame basis and tight deadlines make the work gruelling and long hours inevitable. Kyoto Animation bucks the trend by making its animators full-time employees. This allows them to spend more time on each image and create high-quality anime. One of its best-known franchises is K-On!, a comedy about a band formed by high-school girls. It started life as a manga comic book, before Kyoto Animation created two TV anime series that aired between 2009 and 2010. It was also broadcast overseas and released on DVD in the UK. Kyoto also produced a film directed by Naoko Yamada – which followed the girls’ graduation trip to London – that was released at the end of 2011 and grossed ¥1.64bn (£12.2m) in Japan. The film featured a cafe based on the Troubadour in Earl’s Court, south-west London, which has become a popular destination for fans. A Silent Voice, also by Yamada, which dealt with childhood suicide, was hailed by critics and fans when it was released in 2016. Although overshadowed at the time by Your Name, whose director Makoto Shinkai lavished praise on it, it still took £29.4m ($33m) globally. This article was amended on 23 July 2019 to correct the location of the fire. It was at the company’s studio in Kyoto’s Fushimi ward, not at the headquarters in Uji as an earlier version said. A misspelling of Fushimi ward has also been corrected.
TOKYO (AP) — The man suspected of setting ablaze a beloved Japanese animation studio, killing 34 people, was raging about theft and witnesses and media reported he had a grudge against the company, as questions arose why such mass killings keep happening in the country. Police only have said the suspect Shinji Aoba, 41, who is hospitalized with severe burns and unable to talk, is from near Tokyo and did not work for the studio, Kyoto Animation. Japanese broadcaster NHK said the death toll rose to 34 on Saturday after one of the injured died in a hospital. Aoba was meanwhile transferred to another hospital specializing in treating burns. Footage showed medics carrying Aoba on a stretcher, connected to multiple tubes and part of his exposed skin swollen and pink. NHK and other media, quoting an unnamed source, said that Aoba spent 3 ½ years in prison for robbing a convenience store in 2012 and lived on government support. The man told police that he set the fire because he thought "(Kyoto Animation) stole novels,” according to Japanese media. It was unclear if he had contacted the studio earlier. The company founded in 1981 and better known as KyoAni made a mega-hit anime series about high school girls and trained aspirants to the craft. The shocking attack left another 34 people injured, some critically. It drew an outpouring of grief for the dead and injured, most of them workers at the studio. While shooting deaths are rare in Japan, the country has had a series of high-profile killings in recent years. Less than two months ago, a man described as a social recluse, or “hikikomori,” stabbed a number of private school children at a bus stop outside Tokyo, killing two people and wounding 17 before killing himself. In 2016, a former employee at a home for the disabled allegedly killed 19 people and injured more than 20. Nobuo Komiya, a Rissho University criminology professor, calls the attacks “suicidal terrorism,” in which attackers typically see themselves as losers and target their anger on the society, often those who seem happy and successful. About 70 people were working inside the three-story Kyoto Animation No. 1 studio in southern Kyoto, Japan’s ancient capital, at the time of the attack. The arsonist arrived carrying two containers of flammable liquid. He shouted, “You die!” as he entered the studio’s unlocked front door, dumped the liquid using a bucket, and set it afire with a lighter, police said, quoting witnesses. Police at the scene confiscated the gasoline tanks, a knapsack and knives, but have not confirmed they belonged to the attacker. A Kyoto police official declined to speculate how Aoba prepared the attack, saying he wanted the man to explain himself, as well as his motives. The blaze blocked the front door and quickly engulfed the workspace, rising up the stairs to the third floor, sending panicked employees fleeing. Some were able to escape by crawling out of windows, with the help of neighbors. Many tried but failed to escape to the roof, fire officials said. Most of the victims are believed to have died of carbon monoxide poisoning, experts say. The suspect fled but was chased by studio employees who eventually caught him. He collapsed to the ground outside a house and was quickly surrounded by police. “They are always stealing. It’s their fault,” he told policemen bending over and asking him why he set the fire, according to a witness who described the scene outside her house. The man complained bitterly that something had been stolen from him, the witness told NHK and other networks. Neighbors interviewed by Japanese media said the suspect had troubles with other residents in the apartment building in Saitama, north of Tokyo, where he lived. One man told the broadcaster TBS that he had knocked on Aoba’s door to ask him to stop banging on the walls. He said Aoba shouted “I will kill you!” and “Shut up!” then grabbed him by the hair and shirt. Studio president Hideaki Hatta was stunned as he entered the site for the first time since the attack Friday and joined police investigators. “I can hardly bear to see this,” Hatta said. Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23, was a fan of KyoAni works. “I am shocked and I’m sure for their families it must be very difficult. So with those feelings in my mind, I brought flowers,” Yoshida said. Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki traveled from nearby Hyogo prefecture to pay her respects. “After properly recovering while taking their time, I hope Kyoto Animation can once again share their power and energy with us,” she said. Kyoto Animation’s hits include “Lucky Star” of 2008, “K-On!” in 2011 and “Haruhi Suzumiya” in 2009. It has an upcoming feature film, “Violet Evergarden,” about a woman who professionally writes letters for clients. It’s also done secondary animation work on a 1998 “Pokemon” feature that appeared in U.S. theaters and a “Winnie the Pooh” video. It is Japan’s deadliest fire since 2001, when a blaze in Tokyo’s congested Kabukicho entertainment district killed 44 people in the country’s worst known case of arson in modern times. Police called the cause arson, but never announced an arrest in the setting of the blaze, though five people were convicted of negligence. Associated Press journalist Haruka Nuga contributed to this report.
Ordinarily “self-reliant” company wants to accept the kindness of others following tragic attack that has left 34 dead. Last Thursday, an arsonist attacked the Fushimi Ward studio of Kyoto Animation. At the time the attacker ignited the two canisters of gasoline he’d brought with him, 76 workers were inside the three-story building (which has since been confirmed as having been compliant with Kyoto fire codes), and 34 of them have lost their lives. The incident is emotionally devastating no matter what your perspective is, but it’s uniquely painful for the company’s many fans from around the world. Kyoto Animation has built a reputation for lovingly crafting anime that’re extremely emotionally affecting, with themes of friendship, self-worth, and personal redemption all regular elements in its works. Many fans who’ve received so much mental and emotional benefit from watching Kyoto Animation anime find themselves searching for some way to return that favor now, in the company’s darkest days. Unlike many anime studios, which employ the majority of their staff on a per-project contract basis, Kyoto Animation’s animators were salaried employees, which suggests they were likely better off financially than their counterparts at other anime production companies. However, the tragic circumstances that have befallen the company and its employees falls far outside normal financial planning and budgeting. Kyoto Animation says the donations will be used to help victims of the arson attack, though it has yet to specify whether it’s referring to injured survivors, the families of the deceased, or both. The wording implies, however, that donations would not be used to fund the memorial park that Kyoto Animation president Hideaki Hatta wants to build on the site of the studio after the building is demolished and cleared away. Kyoto Animation has already received donations from multiple organization both inside Japan and abroad, and a donation campaign organized by U.S. anime distributor Sentai Filmworks on GoFundMe remains active. The donation account, however, looks to be a way for individuals to directly contribute to the victim’s physical and emotional recovery, and the company says it will be posting the account/donation method specifics on its website in the near future. ● Want to hear about SoraNews24’s latest articles as soon as they’re published? Follow us on Facebook and Twitter.
The suspect of last week's deadly arson attack on a Kyoto Animation Co. studio, who is hospitalized for severe burns, remains in serious medical condition, investigative sources said Friday. While some vital signs of 41-year-old Shinji Aoba such as blood pressure are improving, he is still unable to verbally communicate, they said, adding his severe burns raise the risk of infection complications. Having obtained an arrest warrant for murder, police earlier Friday searched Aoba's home in Saitama, near Tokyo. Around 10 investigators entered his apartment looking for any clues that might point to a motive, and hoping to piece together the sequence of events leading up to the crime. The police left with several cardboard boxes and speakers. Aoba was known to play loud music in his apartment, frequently creating problems with his neighbors. On one occasion, the police became involved. The police obtained a fresh warrant Thursday as they wait for him to recover before formally arresting him on suspicion of arson and the murder of 33 people. The cause of death of one other victim remains unknown. The police obtained an arrest warrant shortly after the arson attack, but the charge only related to the murder of five people. They asked a court to issue a second warrant, without serving the first one, after confirming the cause of death for 33 people. Aoba is suspected of entering Kyoto Animation's three-story building on July 18 screaming "Die!" and igniting about 10 liters of gasoline. He had pushed a cart to the studio loaded with 40 liters of gasoline in two cans, along with two buckets into which he transferred a portion of the gasoline before he entered the studio. Police say that he made multiple trips to the same hardware store to purchase the containers and the cart the day before the crime. Aoba bought the gasoline at a filling station on the morning of the fire, which lasted almost 20 hours and is considered one of the deadliest arson attack in several decades. Japan's Fire and Disaster Management Agency asked all gasoline businesses on Thursday to voluntarily do an ID check and ask customers who bring their own containers to buy fuel the reason for their purchase. Sellers who suspect a customer's motive may contact the local authorities. The agency believes that having a record of such details, including the time and amount of fuel sold, may help police prevent or quickly investigate arson incidents.
모두에게 보여주고 싶은 기사라면?beta 이 기사를 추천합니다 버튼을 눌러주세요.
The suspect in the Kyoto Animation arson attack visited locations featured in one of the company’s anime series in the days before the attack, according to investigators. Security cameras caught Shinji Aoba, 41, near sites that appear in Kyoto Animation’s Sound! Euphonium, a TV series about a high school music club, set in Uji, the city south of Kyoto in which the company’s headquarters are located. After arriving in Kyoto on 15 July, the suspect walked around a bridge and a road junction featured in the series, both popular spots for fans of the anime to visit, investigators told Kyodo News. The suspect, who is still too badly burned to talk to police, was also caught on camera near the Uji headquarters, a short train ride from the studio he allegedly set fire to on 18 July. The revelations came as the toll from the attack rose to 35 with the death in hospital in Osaka of a man in his 20s who was on the ground floor of the studio when the attacker struck. None of the victims have yet been officially named, but the man is understood to have been an employee of the studio. Fourteen men and 21 women died as a result of the arson attack, with 10 more still hospitalised, making it the worst confirmed mass murder in Japan in the post-war era. Police on Friday searched Aoba’s apartment in Saitama, north of Tokyo, finding Kyoto Animation DVDs and a smartphone. The suspect was not carrying a phone when taken into custody and had used an internet cafe to search for information about the company’s locations after he arrived in Kyoto. The suspect shouted about plagiarism of his novel when apprehended by police, though no evidence has been found of him having written or submitted anything to Kyoto Animation, which runs an annual competition for writers. A fund in Japan for victims of the arson raised more than ￥630 million (£4.6m) in less than 48 hours after it was set up late last week. A GoFundMe page established by a US anime distributor Sentai Filmworks has also raised more than $2.2m (£1.8m). A lawyer representing Kyoto Animation has said that a server on the ground floor of the studio may have stored data related to the company’s productions. The server survived the arson attack, though a significant amount of work from the company’s animators is understood to have been destroyed in the fire.
The suspect in the Kyoto Animation (KyoAni) fire on July 18 had sent in a novel to the company, but it was rejected in its initial screening, KyoAni’s lawyer Daisuke Okeda said Tuesday. When Shinji Aoba, 41, was apprehended by police immediately after the blaze, which killed 35, he was overheard by witnesses shouting that he had set fire to the company because it had stolen his novel. The company initially said it had found no record of a submission by the suspect, but further investigation has found a novel sent by Aoba from an address which appears to be the same one that police searched Friday. Since 2009, KyoAni has held its annual Kyoto Animation Awards to find new stories, from which it has gone on to publish some and make anime from them. “We’re confident that none of the company’s products so far has any similarity,” Okeda told local media without revealing the plot or other details. Some of the studio’s best-loved works began life as submissions to the contest, including Violet Evergarden, which won the top prizes in the novel, scenario and manga categories in 2014. It went on to become an anime series in 2016 and was licensed by Netflix in 2018. The world premiere of a spinoff feature, Violet Evergarden Gaiden, is set to go ahead at Germany’s AnimagiC convention on Aug. 3-4. Before the fire, a sequel was set for release next year; its status is currently unknown. The suspect appears to have spent days in Kyoto planning the attack, before he spread 11 gallons of gasoline around the anime studio and igniting it on the morning of July 18. About 10 employees remain hospitalized with burns, as well as the suspect, who has not yet been able to talk to police or be arrested.
Over 50,000 donors have contributed, but recovery costs could still be several times the amount. Two weeks have passed since an arson attack on Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi anime studio which killed 35 employees who were in the building and injured 33. The reason for the pre-meditated attack seems to stem from the suspect’s belief that the contents of a novel he submitted to an open contest organized by Kyoto Animation were used without compensation, though the company has denied doing so. The tragically meaningless loss of life has deeply saddened people around the world, as Kyoto Animation’s works were loved not just in their home country, but internationally as well. In response to an overwhelming outpouring of sympathy from fans expressing a desire to help in some way, on July 24 Kyoto Animation announced that it had set up a dedicated bank account to accept donations, and in just a week, industry groups, other companies, and individual fans have responded in a tremendous way. As of the afternoon of July 31, a total of 56,835 donors have contributed to the fund, and the account’s balance has grown to approximately 1,166,540,000 yen (US$10,801,296). In addition, a crowdfunding campaign organized by U.S.-based anime distributor Sentai Filmworks has raised an amount equivalent to around 255 million yen, a combined effort from Yahoo! and the Japan Animation Creators Association approximately 33 million yen, and reward card company T Point Japan some 11 million yen. Combined with the dedicated bank account figure, the total would come to roughly 1.465 billion yen, and anime specialty shop chain Animate and The Association of Japan Animations are also planning to contribute currently undisclosed amounts. However, even this incredible generosity will not make Kyoto Animation’s recovery an easy one. The company’s attorney, Daisuke Okeda, estimates that between financial support for surviving family members, medical support for injured survivors, and company-related business operation recovery expenses, the total cost could be as high as 10 billion yen, nearly seven times the estimated amount of donations so far. There are also a number of regulatory issues to deal with in handling such large sums of money, and Okeda says that Kyoto Animation may establish a special foundation to oversee the administration of the funds, in order to navigate Japan’s laws regarding compensation to victims of crimes and work-related deaths and injuries.
Introducing Yoshiki is no quick and simple process. Yes, his biggest claim to fame is as front man for legendary rock band X Japan, but he’s also got a successful solo music career, and also an occasional fashion model, kimono designer, weather announcer, and royal elbow-rubbing, scarf-slapping polo fan. Now we can add “philanthropist” to Yoshiki’s description as well. Following the horrific arson attack on Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi anime studio last month, which killed 35 employees, the company set up an official bank account to accept donations, and Yoshiki has contributed 10 million yen to help the companies, injured victims, and families of the deceased cope with the tragedy. The donation was contributed via Yoshiki’s U.S.-based Yoshiki Foundation America. Read more stories from SoraNews24.
Top animation directors Yasuhiro Takemoto and Futoshi Nishiya were among the talent killed by last month’s arson attack on Kyoto Animation, city police have confirmed. Revealing the names of 10 of the 35 victims of the fire that ravaged the three-story studio, police also said that veteran animator Yoshiji Kigami was killed. Takemoto was the top director at the studio, familiarly known as KyoAni, with credits that include the feature animation “Lucky Star.” Nishiya was animation director on the “Free!” TV series, among many other credits. Kigami worked as key animator on the “Free!” series as well as last year’s “Violet Evergarden” series. All 35 killed have been identified by DNA analysis, but the police are releasing their names in consultation with the bereaved families as they make funeral and other arrangements. A further 33 people were injured in the blaze. The suspected arsonist, Shinji Aoba, is recovering in the hospital from severe burns. Police plan to officially arrest him after he recovers sufficiently.
Sentai Filmworks, one of North America’s premier anime distributors, is set to expand, after receiving an investment of $30 million. The cash injection comes from Cool Japan Fund, a public-private initiative set up to promote Japanese culture overseas. The fund has put the money toward shares in Sentai Holdings, LLC, the parent company of Sentai Filmworks and its subsidiaries. The group licenses anime titles for theatrical distribution and home release, subscription-based streaming (HIDIVE), cable tv SVOD (Anime Network), merchandising, and more. It is also home to Sentai Studios, which oversees localization, subtitling, and dubbing. Sentai sub-licenses films and series to other companies outside North America. The Houston, Texas-based firm has picked up more than 700 titles since its founding in 2008. Its catalogue includes plenty of classics and commercial hits, including Ninja Scroll, Made in Abyss, Food Wars!, Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies, and K-On! (pictured above) by Kyoto Animation, the studio that was devastated by a recent arson attack. In the wake of the incident, Sentai set up a Gofundme fundraiser for the company, which raised $2.37 million before closing this week. Given the anime industry’s limited opportunities for domestic expansion, the current growth in the overseas content streaming market has become of increased importance. Through this investment, the Cool Japan Fund aims to provide support at the copyright level. In turn, this effort will increase the overall presence of Japanese anime in the North American market and help expand the scope of associated/exported merchandising. This will be done by Cool Japan Fund’s two-pronged approach to not only sell streaming platform rights via niche-market copyright acquisition, but also to bolster the marketplace by fostering relationships with and making important investments in overseas partners. In recent years, the fund, which mostly comes from Japanese taxpayers’ pockets, has been dogged by allegations of mismanagement. According to Nikkei Asian Review, the majority of its projects have failed to meet earnings or other targets.
Aoba, who also suffered burns in the incident, has been hospitalized, and is yet to be formally arraigned. The circumstances under which he was taken into custody, though, as well as security footage of him pushing a cart with two canisters of gasoline in the vicinity of Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio prior to the attack, leave little room in which he could plausibly deny being the arsonist. However, his culpability, in a legal sense, could be limited. The exact nature of the purported illness has yet to be disclosed, but Japanese news organization Daily Shincho spoke with several psychological and legal experts as to how Aoba’s mental health could affect what legal repercussions he could face. Masaru Wakasa, a lawyer who previously served as vice-director of the Public Prosecutors Office’s Tokyo’s Special Investigation Department, says that if Aoba is found t have been acting under a diminished mental capacity while carrying out the attack, there’s a chance he could be found not guilty, in accordance of Article 39 of the Japanese penal code. Prominent psychiatrist Tamami Katada said that Aoba exhibited signs of what could be schizophrenia or castrophrenia, also known as “thought withdrawal,” in which a person believes that ideas are being forcefully taken from the their mind by outside forces. Katada goes on to say that such a delusion could have fed into a persecution complex and fueled a desire for violent revenge, culminating in the attack. It’s not clear, though, if Katada’s comments were made before or after Kyoto Animation confirmed that it had received a submission from Aoba in one of its regularly held novel-writing competitions. Wakasa is inclined to agree with Watanabe, pointing to how Aoba verbally admitted to setting the fire while he was being apprehended, though the possibility remains that even if Aoba is found guilty, a psychiatric evaluation could make the maximum enforceable punishment life in prison. Read more stories from SoraNews24.
Anime industry veteran Yoshiji Kigami, who worked on films including Akira and Studio Ghibli’s Grave of the Fireflies before moving to Kyoto Animation (KyoAni), is believed to be among the 34 dead in the July 18 arson attack on the studio. Names of the dead have not been released yet, as requested by the studio, but Kigami has been unreachable since the fire. Police have announced that the oldest victim of the fire was 61, Kigami’s age. Kigami was key animator on Katsuhiro Otomo’s seminal Akira (1988), of which a new series and live-action Hollywood remake are in the works, as well as on Isao Takahata’s Grave of the Fireflies from the same year. He joined KyoAni in the early 1990s at the request of its president, Hideaki Hatta, going on to work on many of the studio’s best-loved productions, including Lucky Star, A Silent Voice, K-On! and Tamako Market. The versatile Kigami used different names depending on whether he was working as a director, animator or storyboard writer. He also was an instructor for the studio’s teaching course and was said to be a mentor to the many young animators at the studio, who often turned to him for advice. The studio was sent around 200 threats over the last year, believed to be from the same person, according to investigators working on the case. They are searching the home and belongings of the 41-year-old suspect, who is badly burned and hospitalized, for proof they were sent by him. The online messages — which were sent using encryption technology to disguise their origin — escalated from insults and threatening language to death threats on individual workers at KyoAni, investigators told the Mainichi newspaper. The company reported the threats in October and police temporarily patrolled its head office in Uji, Kyoto, a short distance from the former studio, and around the homes of those named in the threats. The suspect was captured on security camera footage near the studio in the days before the attack and also at an internet cafe, where he is believed to have stayed on July 16 and is reported to have searched for the location of the company. Donations collected for the victims of KyoAni through GoFundMe have exceeded $2 million. July 25, 1:00 a.m. Updated to correct the period when Yoshiji Kigami entered Kyoto Animation. THR regrets the error.
Kyoto Animation Co. said Thursday all of the victims of the July arson attack on one of its animation studios will be named in the end credits of its new film to be released the following day. The fire killed 35 of the 70 employees working at the studio at the time. Their names will be shown as a "testament" to all those who worked on the new film, which was completed on July 17, the day before the attack, according to the company's lawyer. The movie, "Violet Evergarden Gaiden: Eien to Jido Shuki Ningyo" (Violet Evergarden Story: Eternity and the Auto Memories Doll), will be the first work released since the fire. It will be screened nationwide until Sept. 26. The end credits of Kyoto Animation films usually include the names of staff with more than a year's experience, but the studio will include all staff members who worked on the latest movie. "We will be happy if the film is enjoyed for many years to come," the company said. The new movie is a spinoff from popular anime series "Violet Evergarden," based on a novel of the same title that won an award in a writing contest held by the company in 2014. The story revolves around a girl named Violet Evergarden, a former soldier and an "auto memory doll" or ghostwriter who learns how to love and acquires emotions by writing letters for others. The fire at the studio in Kyoto's Fushimi Ward, the center of the company's anime production, occurred on July 18 after 41-year-old Shinji Aoba allegedly splashed and ignited gasoline inside the three-story building.
A man screamed "You die!" after bursting into an animation studio, then dousing the floor with petrol and setting it alight in Kyoto on Thursday. At least 33 people are dead, including some who were trapped in a stairwell in a desperate bid to seek refuge on the building's roof. Scores more were injured, some critically, in an attack the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has called "too appalling for words". Shocked bystanders watched as smoke billowed from the torched three-storey complex of Kyoto Animation, also known as KyoAni, and workers emerged bleeding, blackened and barefoot. A 41-year-old man has been arrested in the suspected arson attack in the heart of Japan's ancient capital. It is believed to be the country's deadliest fire in nearly two decades. Kyoto police say the man did not work at the anime studio and they have not indicated what his motive might have been. A witness who saw the attacker being arrested by police told Japanese media the man, who had burns on his arms and legs, admitted dousing the building with petrol and setting it on fire with a cigarette lighter. She said his hair was singed and his legs exposed because his jeans were burned below the knees, and he was claiming something had been stolen from him. "He sounded (like) he had a grudge against the society, and he was talking angrily to the policemen, too, though he was struggling with pain," she said. Another witness told TBS TV there was an explosion before the fire. "There was an explosion, then I heard people shouting, some asking for help," they said. "Black smoke was rising from windows on upper floors. Fire expert Yuji Hasemi at Waseda University told NHK that paper drawings and other documents in the studio also may have contributed to the fire's rapid spread. Firefighters found 33 bodies, 20 of them on the third floor and some on the stairs to the roof, where they had apparently collapsed, Kyoto fire official Kazuhiro Hayashi said. Two were found dead on the first floor, 11 others on the second floor, he said. Most of the victims were employees of Kyoto Animation, a company that has been producing films and graphic novels for more than 35 years and has a massive fan following. The company's president Hideaki Hatta admitted it had received anonymous death threats by email in the past, but he did not link them to Thursday's attack. "My heart is in extreme pain," he said. Anime fans took to social media to express their shock and pay homage to their favourite KyoAni shows. A GoFundMe campaign called "Help KyoAni Heal" has already surpassed its $US750,000 target, with almost $US1 million raised in just 17 hours.
Says “We were friends, and we were a family,” in remembrance of fallen coworkers. It’s now been three weeks since anime production company Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio was the target of an arson attack that’s resulted in the deaths of 35 employees, 10 whose names have been released. The building itself was heavily damaged, and Kyoto Animation CEO Hideaki Hatta says he would rather clear the structure away and create a memorial park on the site rather than attempt to repair or rebuild it. But while Kyoto Animation’s Fushimi studio is out of commission, the company does have a second studio elsewhere in Kyoto, which is still operating. Among those currently working at the second studio is a 52-year-old veteran background artist, who’s been working at Kyoto Animation since the 1980s, but the artist (who wishes to remain anonymous) was at the Fushimi studio on the morning of July 18, when the fire started. When the arsonist entered the building, the artist was on the second floor of the three-story building, drawing background art. He heard screams coming from below as the building’s interior quickly filled with smoke, meaning that he could neither escape via the interior stairs nor stay where he was. In desperation, he decided to jump from a second-floor balcony, and though he suffered a contusion from the resulting impact, he managed to escape with his life. The contusion is yet to fully heal, but the man is already back at work. This isn’t a manifestation of Japan’s high-pressure professional environment, however. “I feel better when I’m working,” the artist says of his coping process. As a Kyoto Animation employee for three decades, the artist is obviously working through an immense amount of grief. In remembering his fallen coworkers, the man says “We were friends, and we were a family.” While coworkers grabbing a bite to eat or a few drinks after work isn’t unusual in Japan, it’s far less common to invite professional colleagues to your home, but the artist says that fellow Kyoto Animation staff members would often stop by his place, including 61-year-old Yoshiji Kigami, who lost his life in the arson attack. Though the background artist loves drawing, he admits the life of an anime creator isn’t always an easy one. “There were many times during my career that I wanted to quit,” he recalls, especially when he couldn’t get visuals to look just as he wanted them to when a deadline was fast approaching. But he says he was always able to keep going because of the supportive workplace atmosphere of Kyoto Animation and the respect he felt for the company’s employees. Still, after such a tragedy, no one could blame the man if he felt like he needed to step away from the business of making anime for a while. But, as mentioned above, the artist says he feels best when he’s working, and intends for that work to become a tribute to the deceased. “I want to keep doing my best, so that people won’t feel like the quality of Kyoto Animation’s anime has dropped at all,” he boldly promises. “Continuing to create anime, in the same way we always have, is the greatest counterattack to what the arsonist did,” he adds, because to him, the best way to deal with such unimaginably senseless destruction is to reaffirm his commitment to creating. ● Want to hear about SoraNews24’s latest articles as soon as they’re published? Follow us on Facebook and Twitter.
UPDATE, SAT. JULY 20: Shinji Aoba has been identified by police as the suspect who set a blaze at Kyoto Animation Studio in Kyoto, Japan, resulting in the deaths of 33 people and injuring scores more. Aoba was captured and held by studio workers and was himself badly burned by his arson. “I did it because they stole my novel,” he allegedly told police, according to a report from NHK, the public broadcaster. “They plagiarized my work. Call the president. I have something to tell him.” Aoba, who has not formally been arrested because of his medical condition, is being described by reports citing unnamed police source as a mentally troubled 41-year-old man who had served prison time for robbery. He was undergoing treatment for mental illness at the time of the incident and is now in a burn unit in Osaka, Japan. Although Kyoto Animation runs an annual novel competition, the company claims Aoba had never submitted anything to the competition. UPDATE, 6:30 PM PST: The man who set the fire that has now claimed 33 lives at a Kyoto, Japan animation studio claimed that the company had stolen something from him, according to an Associated Press report. Police have yet to confirm any motive in the arson attack. The 41-year-old man, who is still unidentified but is not a company employee, allegedly screamed “You die!” when he ran into the Kyoto studio, doused it with a flammable liquid, and set it on fire. Police have confirmed 33 deaths, with 36 others injured, some in critical condition. It is believed 70 people were in the building when the fire started. The victims were all employees at Kyoto Animation, which specializes in stories featuring high school girls. The blaze started near the front door of the building, blocking an easy escape for many. Firefighters reportedly found 20 bodies on the third floor of the building and some of the stairs to the roof. Two were found dead on the first floor, 11 others on the second floor. Associated Press reported that an unidentified witness said the man who set the fire had burns on his arms and legs, and was complaining about something being stolen. Kyoto Animation, better known as KyoAni, was founded in 1981 as an animation and comic book production studio. “My heart is in extreme pain. Why on earth did such violence have to be used?” company president Hideaki Hatta said. He added that the company had received anonymous death threats by email in the past, but did not say they were linked to the arson. UPDATE 07:22 AM PST: According to local emergency services, the death toll has now risen to 33 in today’s tragic attack on animation studio Kyoto Animation in Japan. Dozens have been injured and the number of fatalities is expected to rise. No details have been released about the motive behind the atrocity. More as we have it. UPDATE 00:57 AM PST July 18: According to local broadcaster NHK, and the BBC, at least 23 people are dead and dozens injured after a suspected arson attack on Thursday morning at animation studio Kyoto Animation in Kyoto, Japan. Local authorities have said that a man broke into the prolific studio and sprayed an unidentified liquid around before igniting it. Dozens of people still remain unaccounted for. The suspect, an unidentified man, has been detained and was taken to hospital with injuries. No motive for the attack has been reported, but Japan’s public broadcaster said the perpetrator had shouted “drop dead” as he set the fires. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called the incident “horrifying” and said he was “at a loss for words” while offering condolences to the victims. According to the New York Times, the fire is one of the worst in recent memory in Japan. In 2008, 16 people were killed when a video store burned down in Osaka. Prior to that, in 2001, 44 people died after a fire broke out at a crowded gambling club in Tokyo’s busiest entertainment district. EARLIER STORY, 21.08 PST July 17: A man entered a major Japanese animation studio and poured gasoline on the floor, sparking a fire that has led to an undetermined number of deaths and at least 30 injuries. The fire at Kyoto Animation, a company known for producing shows and movies including “Full Metal Panic,” “K-On,” Violet Evergarden: The Movie, A Silent Voice: The Movie and “Clannad,” among other works, is being treated as an arson, Japanese news media are reporting. The man, believed to be in his 40s, entered the building at 10 AM Japan time. Police have arrested the suspect but have not said how many people have died in the attack, or established a motive.
A suspected arson attack on Japanese anime studio Kyoto Animation has left at least 33 dead and dozens injured. The Japan Times reports that a 41-year-old suspect has been arrested following the fire, which is the deadliest mass murder incident in Japan since the 2001 Myojo 56 building fire. People at the scene told police that they witnessed a man screaming "Die!" and "Drop dead" as he poured gasoline around the building. It is believed that around 70 people were in the building when the fire started at around 10:30 a.m. local time on Thursday. The suspect is currently being treated for injuries at a hospital in Kyoto. As of right now, his motive for the suspected attack is unclear. Bodies of 11 victims were found across the second floor of the building, while four were found on the stairs. In an interview with NHK, Kyoto Animation president Hideaki Hatta said the company had received anonymous death threats for a number of years prior to the attack. "This has just broken our hearts. What’s the use of resorting to violence?" Hatta added. Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said in a statement that the incident was "too appalling for words." At least 36 others were injured in the attack, with some in critical condition. Kyoto Animation is best known for their work on K-ON!, Violet Evergarden, and the critically acclaimed A Silent Voice: The Movie. Fans launched a GoFundMe page in hopes of helping the independent company recover, raising nearly $625,000 in just nine hours, some contributions as high as $3,000.
TOKYO -- Police on Friday were investigating at the blackened, gutted building in Kyoto where a man raging about theft set a fire that killed 33 people in a beloved animation studio, crushing the hearts of comic fans in Japan and beyond. Some were questioning why mass killings like this are now repeated in the country. Witness accounts and reports suggested the man had a grudge against Kyoto Animation, but police only have said the suspect Shinji Aoba, 41, who is hospitalized with severe burns and unable to talk, is from near Tokyo and did not work for the studio. Japanese broadcaster NHK and other media, quoting an unnamed source, said Aoba spent three and half years in prison for robbing a convenience store in 2012 and lived on government support. The man told police that he set the fire because he thought "(Kyoto Animation) stole novels," according to Japanese media. It was unclear if he had contacted the studio earlier. The company founded in 1981 and better known as KyoAni made a mega-hit anime series about high school girls and trained aspirants to the craft. The shocking attack left another 35 people injured, some critically. It drew an outpouring of grief for the dead and injured, most of them workers at the studio. While shooting deaths are rare in Japan, the country has had a series of high-profile killings in recent years. Less than two months ago, a man described as a social recluse, or "hikikomori," stabbed a number of private school children at a bus stop outside Tokyo, killing two people and wounding 17 before killing himself. In 2016, a former employee at a home for the disabled allegedly killed 19 people and injured more than 20. Nobuo Komiya, a Rissho University criminology professor, calls the attacks "suicidal terrorism," in which attackers typically see themselves as losers and target their anger to the society, often those who seem happy and successful. About 70 people were working inside the 3-story Kyoto Animation No. 1 studio in southern Kyoto, Japan's ancient capital, Thursday at the time of the attack. The arsonist arrived carrying two containers of flammable liquid. He shouted, "You die!" as he entered the studio's unlocked front door, dumped the liquid using a bucket, and set it afire with a lighter, police said, quoting witnesses. Police at the scene confiscated the gasoline tanks, a knapsack and knives, but have not confirmed they belonged to the attacker. A Kyoto police official declined to speculate how Aoba prepared the attack, saying he wanted the man to explain himself, as well as his motives. The blaze blocked the front door and quickly engulfed the workspace, rising up the stairs to the third floor, sending panicked employees fleeing. Some were able to escape by crawling out of windows, with the help of neighbours. Many tried but failed to escape to the roof, fire officials said. Most of the victims are believed to have died of carbon monoxide poisoning, experts say. The suspect fled but was chased by studio employees who eventually caught him. He collapsed to the ground outside a house and was quickly surrounded by police. "They are always stealing. It's their fault," he told policemen bending over and asking him why he set the fire, according to a witness who described the scene outside her house. The man complained bitterly that something had been stolen from him, the witness told NHK and other networks. Neighbours interviewed by Japanese media said the suspect had troubles with other residents in the apartment building in Saitama, north of Tokyo, where he lived. One man told the broadcaster TBS that he had knocked on Aoba's door to ask him to stop banging on the walls. He said Aoba shouted "I will kill you!" and "Shut up!" then grabbed him by the hair and shirt. Studio president Hideaki Hatta was stunned as he entered the site for the first time since the attack Friday, as he joined police investigators searching for more clues to the attack. "I can hardly bear to see this," Hatta said. Construction worker Takumi Yoshida, 23, was a fan of KyoAni works. "I am shocked and I'm sure for their families it must be very difficult. So with those feelings in my mind, I brought flowers," Yoshida said. Anime fan and university student Yuki Seki travelled from nearby Hyogo prefecture to pay her respects. "After properly recovering while taking their time, I hope Kyoto Animation can once again share their power and energy with us," she said. Kyoto Animation's hits include "Lucky Star" of 2008, "K-On!" in 2011 and "Haruhi Suzumiya" in 2009. It has an upcoming feature film, "Violet Evergarden," about a woman who professionally writes letters for clients. It's also done secondary animation work on a 1998 "Pokemon" feature that appeared in U.S. theatres and a "Winnie the Pooh" video. It is Japan's deadliest fire since 2001, when a blaze in Tokyo's congested Kabukicho entertainment district killed 44 people in the country's worst known case of arson in modern times. Police called the cause arson, but never announced an arrest in the setting of the blaze, though five people were convicted of negligence.
Kyoto Animation Co. has successfully retrieved data from a computer server that survived the deadly arson attack at one of its studios earlier this month, its lawyer said Monday. While personal computers and materials on paper in the studio were nearly all lost in the July 18 fire that killed 35 people and injured dozens, some original drawings and storyboards may have been digitalized prior to the attack. "The data are the products of people who were killed or injured," lawyer Daisuke Okeda said. He said the recovered data are materials relating to the Uji-based company's animation productions, without giving further details. Kyoto Animation, often referred to as "KyoAni" by fans, is known for works such as "K-On!" and "The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya," which depict the everyday lives of high school girls. The server is believed to have been spared from damage as it was located in a room with concrete walls on the first floor of the three-story studio building and was distant from the staircase close to where Shinji Aoba is suspected to have spread and ignited gasoline. Also, it did not get wet while the fire was being extinguished. Investigative sources said Monday that Aoba had likely withdrawn between 50,000 yen ($460) and 100,000 yen in cash from an automated teller machine before the incident. Police believe he used the cash to pay for his traveling expenses and gasoline used in the arson attack, the sources said. Aoba arrived in Kyoto on July 15 and stayed at a hotel in the city for two days. He registered with his actual name and phone number, paying for his accommodation in cash, the sources said. He bought cans to carry the gasoline and other items at a hardware store in Uji on July 17 and purchased gasoline just before the incident on July 18, the sources said. Investigations have revealed that Aoba, who is still being treated in hospital for severe burns, had a strong interest in Kyoto Animation, with police confiscating books and DVDs of its works from his home in Saitama, near Tokyo. The police also found a smartphone and a tablet device during a search of the house. Aoba did not have a mobile phone on him when he was apprehended near the burned studio shortly after the attack. He is believed to have spent three days visiting the neighborhood of Kyoto Animation's headquarters and locations associated with its television anime series "Sound! Euphonium," a story about a high school music club in Uji, after arriving in Kyoto on July 15. The police have obtained an arrest warrant for murder and are expected to officially serve it on Aoba once he recovers. Also on Monday, the government said it will support the rebuilding of the animation company. "We'd like to have related ministries and agencies deal with the issue after thoroughly hearing about the situation regarding compensation for injured employees and rebuilding of the management," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a press conference in Tokyo. He also said that the Economy, Trade and Industry Ministry, and related government offices plan to offer support to enable the company to receive domestic and overseas donations. His remarks came after a group of lawmakers proposed to Suga on Friday that the government should provide tax breaks for donations to the animation company, which have exceeded 600 million yen.
According to the news report, Hiratsuka sent threats to the major Shinjuku, Tokyo-based game development company Square Enix through their official website, with threats stating “Give me back my money from your sh*t game,” “Do you want a repeat of Kyoto Animation?” and so forth on July 23, several days after the arson attack. When questioned by the police following his arrest, the man said “I was pissed off at losing in a game, so I sent the mail.” No further details were shared by the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department. This makes it the second major Square Enix death threat incident which led to an arrest this year, following an incident back in March when a 25-year-old man threatened staff after claiming to have spent more than 200,000 yen on gacha game and didn’t get the item he wanted.
As with any branch of the entertainment industry, video game publishers sometimes find themselves on the receiving end of needlessly harsh online anger. However, threats of violence are getting increased scrutiny in Japan following the arson attack on Kyoto Animation that left 35 dead, and a recent incident was even more alarming since it involved a game publisher that’s worked very closely with Kyoto Animation in the past. Osaka-based Visual Arts’ generic sounding name may be easy to forget, but the company serves as publisher for in-house development studio Key, which has a spot in the highest tier among makers of games in the visual novel genre. Key may not be a prolific producer of content, having released only about a dozen games in its 20 years, but its high quality standards and enthusiastically loyal fanbase have earned anime adaptations for several of its games, with some of its best-loved having been handled by Kyoto Animation (specifically Air in 2005, Kanon in 2006, and Clannad, often cited as Key’s masterpiece, in 2007). As further proof of the depth of their relationship, Key donated 10 million yen (US$92,600) to the Kyoto Animation recovery fund which was set up in the aftermath of the arson attack. “[The things he wrote] bore a strong resemblance to the arson attack on Kyoto Animation, so I informed the police,” explained Visual Arts managing director Manabu Okamoto. A formal complaint was filed on August 6, and investigators from the Osaka Prefectural Police’s Oyodo Precinct were able to determine that the tweets came from the personal account of Saiki Akagawa, a 25-year-old man living in Hamamatsu, Shizuoka Prefecture. Akagawa was arrested on August 30, and has admitted to sending the threatening tweets. ● Want to hear about SoraNews24’s latest articles as soon as they’re published? Follow us on Facebook and Twitter.
