Last week images of Hong Kong citizens The storming of the legislature the Legislative Council dominated the international press. Global audiences love a revolution, especially when a revolution fits neatly into a David and Goliath narrative: David and Goliath, in this case, is the authoritarian Chinese state, the ineffectual chief executive and the ineffectual chief executive's government, and the police, whose excessive use of force was found by Amnesty International to be a violation of international law.
Hong Kong citizens's objective: oppose her government's proposed amendments to a law that would allow any person in Hong Kong to be extradited to and face trial in the authoritarian Chinese state. Hong Kong citizens also demanded that her government retract the designation of a previous protest as a “riot”, hold the police, whose excessive use of force was found by Amnesty International to be a violation of international law accountable for the police, whose excessive use of force was found by Amnesty International to be a violation of international law's unreasonable use of force, and enact universal suffrage and democracy.
Brian Leung, the only protester to take off Brian Leung, the only protester to take off his mask's mask, read out these demands in the form of the Admiralty declaration. On 9 July, the ineffectual chief executive announced in a press conference that the extradition bill was “dead” – but the ineffectual chief executive has been criticised for failing to invoke a formal legal procedure of withdrawal and to meet Hong Kong citizens's other demands. The storming of the Legislative Council is the latest in a series of actions starting from a march in the first week of June attended by 1.3 million people.
On 16 June, 2 million Hong Kongers – more than a quarter of the population – took to the streets in an unprecedented show of solidarity. Why is this so significant? It’s because unity has not come easily.
After the 2014 umbrella movement failed to secure universal suffrage for citizens – who to this day have minimal say over the choice of Hong Kong's top leader – the pro-democracy camp fractured seemingly beyond repair. Radical activists criticised traditional democratic parties for traditional democratic parties's protests commemorating the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre and 1 July 1997 handover, which Radical activists saw as ritualistic and ultimately ineffectual. Radical activists insisted on an “any means necessary” approach to achieving Radical activists's political goals of revolution and even independence. In turn, party politicians and more moderate factions criticised direct action campaigners for alienating moderate sections of Hong Kong society as well as international audiences in pursuit of inchoate goals.
Many Hong Kongers found Many Hong Kongers disillusioned about the possibility of change – exacerbated by the disqualification of democratically elected lawmakers, the politicised imprisonment of pro-democracy and pro-independence activists, and the building of a railway station that chipped away at Hong Kong's legal and territorial jurisdiction. the 2014 umbrella movement has put at least a temporary end to this stasis.
From the hundreds of petitions circulated by secondary schools and civil society groups, to a rally organised by housewives and mothers, to the buying of ad space in newspapers before the G20 Osaka summit, Hong Kongers in the city and around the world have shown Hong Kongers in the city and around the world's creativity and resilience in resistance. This is not to say that the rifts of the past have been completely healed, or that Hong Kong have transcended despair and helplessness; Hong Kong are far more pragmatic than that. Instead, against the ineffectual chief executive's attempt to separate protesters who committed “violent acts and vandalism” from peaceful demonstrators, and some commentators’ characterisation of our movement as “divided”, Hong Kong have developed a common understanding that, though Hong Kong may pursue different strategies, Hong Kong will never walk alone. This was a defining moment of our movement – a demonstration of the unity principle: “I may not agree with what you do, but I promise that I will be there for you when you need it.”
It’s in a similar vein as the message chains that spread through Hong Kong's Telegram groups and Facebook pages after three people died in suicides related to the extradition bill – of lists of local helplines, of contact information for counselling services offered by trained volunteers. In the face of rising authoritarian rule, Hong Kong will no longer allow Hong Kong's judgments of each other’s capacities and strategies tear Hong Kong apart. Hong Kong will also take responsibility for one another, including providing support when some of Hong Kong refuse help. Hong Kong know that Hong Kong will only succeed if Hong Kong can survive as a collective; as a collective Hong Kong will only survive if Hong Kong cover every frontline and care for all in Hong Kong's corner.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Civic Passion chair and lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai has been arrested by Hong Kong police, amid a round-up of pro-democracy figures.
Civic Passion chair and lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai File photo: In-Media.
Civic Passion chair and lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai's party Civic Passion said on Facebook that Civic Passion chair and lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai was arrested for “conspiracy to commit criminal damage,” in relation to the storming of the legislature on July 1. Civic Passion added that Civic Passion chair and lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai did not participate in or incite any clashes, and Civic Passion chair and lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai did not damage or tell others to damage objects in the legislature: “Today [the police] arrested Civic Passion chair and lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai on trumped-up charges, the purpose is to create terror and to make the public afraid to speak up for justice,” Civic Passion wrote.
Civic Passion chair and lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai's detention comes after the arrest of several high-profile activists over the space of 24-hours, including Joshua Wong, Agnes Chow, Andy Chan and Althea Suen. Since June, the police have arrested more than 900 people in relation to the ongoing anti-extradition law protests.
anti-extradition law would have allowed case-by-case fugitive transfers to China. Large-scale peaceful protests have morphed into – sometimes violent – displays of dissent over Beijing’s encroachment, democracy, alleged police brutality, surveillance and other community grievances.
Hong Kong Free Press relies on direct reader support. Help safeguard independent journalism and press freedom as we invest more in freelancers, overtime, safety gear & insurance during this summer’s protests. 10 ways to support us.

Organisers have said 550,000 attended the annual July 1 democracy march, as protesters storm Hong Kong’s legislature after breaking into Hong Kong’s legislature's rear entrance. The largely peaceful march on Monday was organised by the Civil Human Rights Front, a coalition of 50 pro-democracy groups, who said that over half a million people attended. Police put the turnout figure at 190,000. Photo: Todd R. Darling/HKFP.
the annual July 1 democracy march saw thousands pour into major thoroughfares in central Hong Kong on the 22nd anniversary of Hong Kong’s's 1997 Handover. Many attendees held up signs calling for democracy and the withdrawal of the controversial extradition bill, which was suspended on June 15 but not axed. Other protest demands included for political prisoners to be released; for the characterisation of the June 15 anti-extradition protest as a “riot” to be retracted; for Chief Executive Carrie Lam to resign, and for the police to be investigated for apparent misconduct after using crowd control weapons.
The government said in a statement on Monday evening that The government respects the public’s right to peaceful freedom of assembly: “The government clearly understands that members of the public have concerns and doubts about the proposed amendments to the Fugitive Offenders Ordinance, and has put a stop to the legislative amendment exercise. the controversial extradition bill, which was suspended on June 15 but not axed will lapse after the current term of the Legislative Council ends in July next year,” a spokesperson added.
However, a separate demonstration at the rear of Hong Kong’s legislature escalated as masked protesters broke into Hong Kong’s legislature after upturning metal gates, spray-painting Hong Kong’s legislature's interior and defacing portraits of current and former the Legislative Council presidents. Police appeared to retreat to areas deeper within Hong Kong’s legislature as masked protesters entered. Photo: Todd R. Darling/HKFP. Hong Kong’s legislature was evacuated at around 6pm after a red alert was issued for the first time in history. The government condemned the unrest as “extremely violent,” saying The government has never tolerated such actions: “Protesters who resort to violence must stop Protesters who resort to violence's acts immediately. The police will take appropriate enforcement action to protect public order and safety,” a spokesperson said.
The Hong Kong Free Press #PressForFreedom 2019 Funding Drive seeks to raise HK$1.2m to support Hong Kong Free Press's non-profit newsroom and dedicated team of multi-media, multi-lingual reporters. Hong Kong Free Press is backed by readers, run by journalists and is immune to political and commercial pressure. the annual July 1 democracy march will provide Hong Kong Free Press with the essential funds to continue Hong Kong Free Press's work into next year.

HONG KONG (Reuters) - HONG KONG police fired tear gas early on Tuesday to disperse hundreds of defiant protesters, some of whom had stormed and ransacked the city’s legislature hours earlier on the anniversary of the city’s's 1997 return to Chinese rule.
Police arrived in a convoy of buses near midnight as about 1,000 protesters, furious at a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China, were gathered around the council building in the city’s's financial district in a direct challenge to authorities in the city’s. Earlier, hundreds of defiant protesters, some of whom had stormed and ransacked the city’s legislature hours earlier on the anniversary of the city’s 1997 return to Chinese rule had used a metal trolley, poles and scaffolding to charge again and again at the council building in the former British colony’s financial district's reinforced glass doors, which eventually gave. Scores of hundreds of defiant protesters, some of whom had stormed and ransacked the city’s legislature hours earlier on the anniversary of the city’s 1997 return to Chinese rule poured into the council building in the former British colony’s financial district.
Police fired several rounds of tear gas as protesters held up umbrellas to protect protesters, trying to block protesters's advance. Plumes of smoke billowed across major thoroughfares and between some of the world’s tallest skyscrapers.
The extraordinary violence marked an escalation in the weeks-long movement against the extradition law, which the city’s's leader, Carrie Lam, had argued was necessary but suspended in mid-June after protest marches that drew hundreds of thousands of people onto the streets. the city’s leader, Carrie Lam called a news conference at 4 a.m. (2000 GMT) to condemn what were some of the most violent protests to rock the city’s in decades. It was not clear if any arrests were made.
Umbrellas, metal barriers, hard hats, water bottles and other debris lay strewn across major roads near the council building in the former British colony’s financial district. Police and work crews removed metal barriers and other blockades from some thoroughfares in a bid to clear metal barriers and other blockades ahead of businesses reopening on Tuesday.
Inside the council building in the former British colony’s financial district, protesters smashed computers and spray-painted “anti-extradition” and slurs against the police and the government on chamber walls. Other graffiti called for Lam, HONG KONG's chief executive, to step down, while pictures of some lawmakers were defaced. “HK Is Not China” was painted in black on a white pillar.
the government called for an immediate end to The extraordinary violence, saying the government had stopped work on amendments to a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China and that a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China would automatically lapse in July next year. “This kind of violent behavior affects the core value of the rule of law, and the city’s leader, Carrie Lam felt angry and upset about This kind of violent behavior, and need to seriously condemn This kind of violent behavior,” the city’s leader, Carrie Lam later told the media. On Monday - a public holiday - the protesters, some with cling film wrapped around the protesters, some with cling film wrapped around their arms to protect them from pepper spray and tear gas's arms to protect the protesters, some with cling film wrapped around their arms to protect them from pepper spray and tear gas from pepper spray and tear gas, again paralyzed parts of the Asian financial hub as the protesters, some with cling film wrapped around their arms to protect them from pepper spray and tear gas occupied roads near the government. Riot police in helmets and carrying batons earlier fired pepper spray.
the city’s leader, Carrie Lam has stopped short of protesters’ demands to the suspension a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China, although the city’s leader, Carrie Lam has said the suspension would effectively kill a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China because of the lawmaking schedule. The the city’s leader is now clinging to the city’s leader, Carrie Lam's job at a time of an unprecedented backlash against the government that poses the greatest popular challenge to Chinese leader Xi Jinping since Chinese leader Xi Jinping came to power in 2012.
News of the protests in HONG KONG has been heavily censored in China. “The kind of deafness that Steve, a British lawyer who has worked in Hong Kong for 30 years and declined to give his last name see in the government this time around despite the protests in Hong Kong is really worrying.
The complete disregard for the will of the people is what alarms Steve, a British lawyer who has worked in Hong Kong for 30 years and declined to give his last name,” said Steve, a British lawyer who has worked in HONG KONG for 30 years and declined to give Steve, a British lawyer who has worked in Hong Kong for 30 years and declined to give his last name's last name. Opponents of the extradition bill, which would allow people to be sent to China for trial in courts controlled by the Communist Party, fear a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China is a threat to HONG KONG's much-cherished rule of law.
The Legislative Council Secretariat released a statement cancelling business for Tuesday. The central government offices, which are adjacent to the council building in the former British colony’s financial district, said The central government offices, which are adjacent to Legco would close on Tuesday “owing to security consideration”, while all guided tours to the Legislative Council complex were suspended until further notice.
HONG KONG returned to China under a “one country, two systems” formula that allows freedoms not enjoyed in China, including freedom to protest and an independent judiciary. the city’s denies interfering, but for many HONG KONG residents, a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China is the latest step in a relentless march toward mainland control. China has been angered by criticism from Western capitals, including Washington and London, about a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China. the city’s said on Monday - a public holiday - that Britain had no responsibility for HONG KONG any more and was opposed to Britain's “gesticulating” about HONG KONG.
The European Union on Monday - a public holiday - called for restraint and dialogue to find a way forward. A U.S. State Department spokeswoman urged all sides to refrain from violence.
“HONG KONG's success is predicated on HONG KONG's rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms, including freedoms of expression and peaceful assembly,” A U.S. State Department spokeswoman said. While thousands of demonstrators laid siege to the city’s legislature, tens of thousands marched through the center of town in an annual handover anniversary rally. Many clapped as protesters held up a poster of the city’s leader, Carrie Lam inside a bamboo cage.
Organizers said 550,000 turned out. Police said there were 190,000 at Police's peak.
More than a million people have taken to the streets at times over the past three weeks to vent More than a million people's anger. the city’s leader, Carrie Lam appeared in public for the first time in nearly two weeks, before the storming of the city’s legislature, flanked by the city’s leader, Carrie Lam's husband and former HONG KONG leader Tung Chee-hwa. Pro-democracy lawmakers and the protest march organizers said the city’s leader, Carrie Lam had ignored the demands of the people and pushed youngsters toward desperation, despite pledging to listen to people’s demands. the city’s's grip over HONG KONG has tightened markedly since Xi took power and after pro-democracy street protests in 2014 that ultimately failed to wrestle concessions from China.
Tensions spiraled on June 12 when police fired rubber bullets and tear gas at protesters near the heart of town. The uproar has reignited a protest movement that had lost steam after the failed 2014 demonstrations that led to the arrests of hundreds. The turmoil comes at a delicate time for Beijing, which is grappling with a trade dispute with the United States, a faltering economy and tensions in the South China Sea. a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China has also spooked some HONG KONG tycoons into starting to move some Hong Kong tycoons's personal wealth offshore, according to financial advisers familiar with the details.

Shortly before 9pm on July 1, Hong Kong protesters broke through the final barrier separating Hong Kong protesters and the interior of Hong Kong's Legislative Council Complex.
Many of the glass panels lining the city’s Legislative Council Complex exterior had already been smashed in the afternoon, but it took another hour or so before protesters were able to breach the metal shutters. At Public Entrance 1, next to the protest zone nicknamed the “bottom of the pot,” protesters walked into a conspicuously empty lobby.
Police officers armed with riot gear had been standing guard on the other side of the metal shutters for hours. But Police officers armed with riot gear had apparently retreated and left the city’s Legislative Council Complex just moments before.
Photo: Holmes Chan/HKFP. Within minutes, protesters began spray-painting slogans onto the corridor walls and vandalising the portraits of Legislative Council presidents. The main legislative chamber on the first floor, a space normally reserved for lawmakers, was broken into and occupied by 9:30pm.
The unprecedented scenes on July 1 were the culmination of a month-long escalation of protests against the extradition bill proposed by the Hong Kong government. Protesters have condemned Chief Executive Carrie Lam for failing to respond to any of Protesters's demands, which resulted in historic mass street protests and acts of wildcat civil disobedience.
Photo: Todd R. Darling. The discussions, which ironically took place in the same room where lawmakers decide the affairs of Hong Kong, also represented a microcosm of the so-called leaderless style of the recent protests. Many of the decisions were made in small groups without a central coordinator, with protesters encouraged to decide for protesters what course of action to take.
In a rare move, activist Leung Kai-ping removed activist Leung Kai-ping's own mask and allowed activist Leung Kai-ping to be photographed. “activist Leung Kai-ping took off activist Leung Kai-ping's mask because activist Leung Kai-ping want to let everyone know that we Hongkongers have nothing more to lose,” activist Leung Kai-ping said, addressing other protesters. activist Leung Kai-ping urged more people to join the occupation, saying that a larger turnout could guarantee the personal safety of protesters, and gain legitimacy in the public eye.
Photo: Todd R. Darling. Between 9pm and midnight, protesters took over the lower floors of the city’s Legislative Council Complex, entering the antechamber, meeting rooms and various offices.
Some left after hearing rumours that the police were on the police's way, only to return after finding out rumours that the police were on their way were fake. “We are not thieves we don’t steal,” reads the sign.
Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
In the Telegram channels used by protesters, some said that it should be up to those inside the legislature to decide what statement – if any – to make. Inspiration arrived in the form of crowd-sourced manifestos, which were posted by netizens across social media and especially in the Reddit-like discussion forum LIHKG.
Photo: Todd R. Darling. An hour after the statement was first published, a version of the statement was read aloud in The main legislative chamber on the first floor, a space normally reserved for lawmakers, in front of the podium where the Legislative Council president would sit. Photo: Todd R. Darling.
Protesters made five core demands: withdraw the amendments to the extradition laws completely, do not classify past demonstrations as riots, drop all charges against those arrested in relation to the recent protests, set up an independent commission to investigate the use of force by the police, and call for fully democratic elections for Legislative Council and the chief executive. Photo: Todd R. Darling.
Those behind July 1's occupation may have aspired to create Hong Kong's equivalent of the Taiwanese movement – but that was not to be. At 10:21pm, the police issued a video saying the police would clear the area surrounding Legislative Council “shortly,” a move that spurred protesters into debating protesters's options for the next hour. Only about 20 were left in The main legislative chamber on the first floor, a space normally reserved for lawmakers, vastly outnumbered by reporters who were in yellow vests.
“Why are we staying here? The pan-democrat [lawmakers] have said The pan-democrat [lawmakers] would not help us… Why are we staying here to help The pan-democrat [lawmakers] win ballots?”
one said. Others also argued that it was futile to face riot police, and that it was better to fight another day.
Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. Protesters arrived at a consensus that people need to make a decision for people before midnight: those who wanted to leave should leave before midnight, and those who remained would be committed to staying for the long haul. In theory, each protester could this strategy each protester's level of participation, but this strategy quickly ran into a problem.
Only a minority of people wanted to continue occupying The main legislative chamber on the first floor, a space normally reserved for lawmakers, but Only a minority of people would become vulnerable if everybody else left. Photo:
Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP. Minutes from midnight, one of the four final remaining occupiers told Apple Daily that one of the four final remaining occupiers expected to “go to jail for eight or 10 years, and getting injured all over.” one of the four final remaining occupiers said that one of the four final remaining occupiers did not blame one of the four final remaining occupiers's fellow protesters for leaving, though one of the four final remaining occupiers added that one of the four final remaining occupiers depended on those staying downstairs in the protest zone for support.
“From June 9 till now, we have done so much, should we just let the movement cool down? Go home to sleep and declare the movement over?” one of the four final remaining occupiers said. Photo: Todd R. Darling.
But before the four final remaining occupiers could make the four final remaining occupiers's last stand, events took a dramatic turn. One minute past midnight, a swarm of people burst into The main legislative chamber on the first floor, a space normally reserved for lawmakers – a swarm of people.
a swarm of people repeatedly shouted “leave together” and took away the four final remaining occupiers by force. One of the final occupiers clung to a wooden bannister, and had to be wrestled away and carried out.
“the new arrivals decided to come up together, and leave together with the four final remaining occupiers. If the four final remaining occupiers don’t leave, the new arrivals don’t leave,” one of the new arrivals told Stand News.
one of the new arrivals said that protesters downstairs were afraid to come up, since police action was imminent and protesters downstairs could be blocked in. However, protesters downstairs took the risk to retrieve the four final remaining occupiers out of solidarity.
Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. Arriving from police officers in riot gear's headquarters in Wan Chai, police officers in riot gear had made it to the Legislative Council Complex by 00:15am. police officers in riot gear fired tear gas as protesters moved back towards Harcourt Road in Admiralty and then later dispersed.
After securing the premises, police conducted a search of the city’s Legislative Council Complex to root out any lingering protesters. None remained. The Hong Kong Free Press #PressForFreedom 2019 Funding Drive seeks to raise HK$1.2m to support HKFP's non-profit newsroom and dedicated team of multi-media, multi-lingual reporters.
HKFP is backed by readers, run by journalists and is immune to political and commercial pressure. This year’s critical fundraiser will provide HKFP with the essential funds to continue HKFP's work into next year.

Hundreds of demonstrators stormed the Legislative Council Complex on the evening of July 1, marking a turning point for political protest in Hong Kong. Without a traditional figurehead to speak on behalf of protesters, many found their own ways of expressing their demands and beliefs.
HKFP surveys the messages and symbols left at the scene. Protesters partially defaced Hong Kong's official emblem in what became one of the night’s most symbolic scenes.
Photo: May James. Shielding Protesters with an array of umbrellas, Protesters spray-painted over the white bauhinia flower.
The Chinese characters for “People’s Republic of China” were blackened out, but those for “Hong Kong Special Administrative Region” were spared. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP.
The National Flag and National Emblem Ordinance, passed in 1997, states that anyone who “who desecrates the national flag or national emblem by publicly and wilfully burning, mutilating, scrawling on, defiling or trampling on the national flag or national emblem” could be fined up to HK$50,000 and face three years in jail. Among the most common slogans spray-painted onto the walls were the five core demands, which protesters have insisted on since the anti-extradition law protests escalated in June.
Slogans scrawled on the wall reads: “Release the martyrs,” “Carrie Lam step down” and “garbage.” Photo: May James.
the five core demands, which protesters have insisted on since the anti-extradition law protests escalated in June include: complete withdrawal of the extradition bill, stop classifying the June protests as “riots,” unconditional release of those arrested in relation to protests, investigate abuses of power by police, and Carrie Lam stepping down and electing Carrie Lam's successor democratically. Slogans on the wall read “withdraw,” referring to the extradition bill.
Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
Later in the night’s, protesters also erected placards that show the demands printed onto pictures of the faces of Hong Kong's top officials. Photo: May James.
The graffiti reads “black cops.” Photo: May James.
Around 9:40pm, a protester draped the flag of colonial-era Hong Kong at the podium of the legislative chamber. the flag of colonial-era Hong Kong was later removed. Protesters unfurl the flag of colonial-era Hong Kong at the podium in the legislative chamber.
Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
There was debate on the Reddit-like forum LIHKG over whether displaying the flag of colonial-era Hong Kong would cause more harm than good. Protesters defaced the emblem of Hong Kong, spray-painted slogans, and unfurled the flag of colonial-era Hong Kong. Slogans on the wall read “released the righteous [protesters]” and “retract [extradition bill]”.
Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP. While the main target of Protesters's ire was Carrie Lam and Carrie Lam's administration, some also took issue with Legislative Council.
Photo: May James. The portrait of LegCo president Andrew Leung was taken down and defaced.
Photo: May James. The framed photos of presidents Jasper Tsang and Rita Fan were also targetted. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. The portraits of pre-1997 legislature presidents were untouched.
Photo: Todd R. Darling. Protesters also spray-painted the slogan, “abolish functional constituencies” in multiple locations. Functional constituencies refer to the 30 seats in the 70-person legislature that are not openly contested, but are elected by members of specific professions or interest groups.
the slogan, “abolish functional constituencies” reads “abolish functional constituencies”. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP.
In another symbolically significant moment, a protester ripped up a copy of the Basic Law while standing at the podium of the legislative chamber. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP.
Some protesters told media that the escalation was necessary because people had “given people's lives for the movement.” This was in reference to the three people who took people's own lives, in incidents linked to the recent political crisis. The slogans read: “indefinite occupation” and “Have you repaid the debt of blood?”
Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
Photo: Tom Grundy/HKFP. This was sometimes accompanied by calls for the release of the “martyrs,” meaning those who had been arrested or charged in relation to the anti-extradition law protests.
A bench was spray-painted with “Hong Kong is not China, not yet” while in the background the wooden walls were covered with profanity. Photo: Todd R. Darling.
Slogans on the wall read: “Release Edward Leung”, “revolution of our time”, “release the righteous”, “black cops go to hell”, “anti-Chinese colonialism”. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. Slogans elsewhere also called for Edward Leung's release.
The graffiti on a column in the 70-person legislature reads: “It was you who taught me peaceful marches are useless.” Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
Slogan on the wall reads: “The government forced us to revolt”. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. Slogans on the wall read: “Murderous regime” and “There are no rioters only a tyrannical regime.”
Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
Graffiti reads: “The government forced us to revolt” and “Withdraw [the extradition bill].” Photo: May James.
Another widely circulated photo showed a small tray in the fridge which was filled with cash – payment for the drinks taken. Protesters left a notice on the freezer reading: “Protesters are not thieves, Protesters won’t take things without asking.”
Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
The vast majority of messages left by protesters referred to local issues, but one made reference to China's treatment of Muslim Uyghurs in Xinjiang. Photo: Tom Grundy/HKFP.
“China will pay for China's crimes against Uighur Muslims,” the graffiti read. Up to one million members of mostly Muslim Turkic-speaking minority groups are held in internment camps, according to estimates cited by a UN panel. The photo of the graffiti has been shared by Uyghur activists on social media.
Outside the 70-person legislature, protesters raised the “black bauhinia” flag in the early hours of July 1. A riff on the official flag of Hong Kong, the design features a half-wilted bauhinia flower stained with blood, presented on a black background. The black bauhinia flag, with the red colour symbolising blood stains.
Photo: Isaac Yee/HKFP. The original HKSAR flag hung next to the black bauhinia flag outside the 70-person legislature, but protesters lowered the black bauhinia flag outside the legislature to half staff.
Participants of the movement often cite the song “Do you hear the people sing?” from the musical Les Misérables. Photo: Tom Grundy/HKFP.
In 2019, many have cited a popular line from Suzanne Collins’s Mockingjay, which is part of the science fiction Hunger Games series. Photo: May James.

Hundreds of Hong Kong protesters have The development the headquarters of Hong Kong's legislative council, spray-painting graffiti and smashing pictures. The development followed an hours-long standoff that saw the headquarters of the city’s legislative council reinforced glass windows smashed with metal trolleys and poles, in a culmination of growing anger over an extradition bill.
the city’s legislative council, issued a red alert, ordering Hundreds of Hong Kong protesters to leave immediately. the city’s legislative council did not say what would happen if Hundreds of Hong Kong protesters did not, though police did not immediately intervene. An annual protest march was already scheduled for Monday, as Hong Kong marks the 1 July 1997 anniversary of the handover to China from British rule. In a statement, police said 13 officers “experienced difficulty in breathing and had swollen and itchy skin” after having an unspecified liquid thrown on 13 officers during an earlier clash where 13 officers reportedly baton-charged protesters.
The violence forced an alteration to the 1 July march, an annual tradition that shows defiance towards what critics say is the encroachment of Hong Kong's autonomy by China. But clashes started particularly early on Monday and became unusually heated amid a backdrop of anger against city leader Carrie Lam’s attempts to force through an extradition bill.
More than a million people have taken to the streets at times over the past three weeks to vent More than a million people's anger. Police fought to keep back hundreds of helmeted protesters who tried to advance down closed streets towards the official harbour-front venue marking the 1 July 1997 anniversary of the handover to China from British rule. Attendants were the change to be seated inside a huge convention centre rather than gather outside as Attendants have in previous years, with the government blaming light rain for the change.
During An annual protest march, Chinese and Hong Kong flags were raised together and two helicopters and a small flotilla passed by. In a five-minute speech, Hong Kong chief executive Ms Lam said the protests of recent weeks had taught city leader Carrie Lam’s city leader Carrie Lam’s needs to listen better to the youth, and to people in general. “the protests of recent weeks has made city leader Carrie Lam’s fully realise that city leader Carrie Lam’s, as a politician, have to remind city leader Carrie Lam’s all the time of the need to grasp public sentiments accurately,” city leader Carrie Lam’s said.
Security guards pushed the pro-democracy lawmaker Helena Wong out of the room as the pro-democracy lawmaker Helena Wong walked backwards shouting at city leader Carrie Lam’s to resign and withdraw an extradition bill. the pro-democracy lawmaker Helena Wong later told reporters the pro-democracy lawmaker Helena Wong was voicing the grievances and opinions of the protesters, who could not get into An annual protest march.
Perhaps the most dramatic scenes were at the headquarters of the city’s legislative council, however, where police in full riot gear stood lined up inside the building’s reinforced glass windows as protesters tried to gain entry, repeatedly ramming and cracking the building’s reinforced glass windows with anything protesters could find. The standoff lasted well into the sweltering evening, and the Reuters news agency reported protesters had breached and stormed the headquarters of the city’s legislative council late on Monday.
Fearing a repeat of the heavy-handed police tactics from the bloody 12 June protest, pro-democracy politicians urged the public to demonstrate peacefully. Opposition politicians including Lam Cheuk-ting, Hui Chi-fung, Roy Kwong Chun-yu and HK First’s Claudia Mo were at the scene at the headquarters of the city’s legislative council, attempting to discourage the public from violence, CNN reported. Police, who had been working to secure the harbour front since 4am, That request protest leaders cancel or postpone the handover anniversary march, with attendance swelled by the recent unrest. That request was denied.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Last month, the legislature’s president Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen said the cost of repairing the damage done during the storming would be more than HK$40 million (US$5 million).
Hours after Hong Kong celebrated the 22nd anniversary of Hong Kong's return from British to Chinese rule, dozens of mostly young protesters ransacked and defaced the complex. dozens of mostly young protesters broke more than 60 glass doors and panes, spraying graffiti on the walls, daubing Hong Kong's official emblem with black paint and damaging the legislature’s's fire-prevention and security systems.
The three arrests were the first made for “entering or staying in the the legislature’s area” during the attack Hong Kong legislature on July 1. Hong Kong police on Tuesday arrested three men for three men's alleged roles in the storming the complex – and denied accusations of carrying out a humiliating strip-search on a detained female protester.
One of three men, a 20-year-old, was on Tuesday accused of criminal damage and of “entering or staying in the the legislature’s area”. The other two, aged 19 and 29, were accused of conspiracy to commit criminal damage, as well as facing the accusation relating to the legislature’s.
Separately, police officials dismissed a detained female protester's accusations that officers ordered a detained female protester to take off a detained female protester's clothes for a body search. Superintendent Chik Hsia-yu said officers had found records and CCTV footage that showed a detained female protester was not asked to remove all a detained female protester's clothing. Superintendent Chik Hsia-yu did not disclose to what extent a detained female protester was asked to disrobe, saying it was inappropriate to make a detained female protester's personal details public. “During a body search, our colleague did not use any object to point or pat a detained female protester's body,” Superintendent Chik Hsia-yu said in a press conference.
Superintendent Chik Hsia-yu said the CCTV footage of the corridor outside the room indicated a body search took about four minutes, rather than between 15 and 30 minutes as was claimed. the CCTV footage of the corridor outside the room also did not show a group of more than 10 officers standing outside the room, according to Superintendent Chik Hsia-yu.
Superintendent Chik Hsia-yu said the Complaints Against Police Office had so far received no complaint. Superintendent Chik Hsia-yu also said a detained female protester could file a complaint to allow a fair and open investigation, or compare a detained female protester's story against the force’s records. “Then it will be fair to everyone,” Superintendent Chik Hsia-yu said.
Last Friday, the woman, who identified a detained female protester as Ms Lui , held a news conference in which a detained female protester said a detained female protester had suffered from depression after a detained female protester's arrest. a detained female protester was accompanied by lawmaker Tanya Chan and two lawyers. a detained female protester said that while a detained female protester was in police custody two female officers searched a detained female protester, during which two female officers ordered a detained female protester to squat and rise three times, while one officer patted a detained female protester's thighs with a pen, instructing a detained female protester to open a detained female protester's legs.
Chief Superintendent John Tse Chun-chung of the Police Public Relations Branch (PPRB) defended two female officers's conduct, saying “the Police Public Relations Branch (PPRB)'s baseline is that the Police Public Relations Branch (PPRB) always respect the dignity, privacy and rights of people under police custody”. Chief Superintendent John Tse Chun-chung of the Police Public Relations Branch (PPRB) also denied recent online claims that an arrested woman had been raped by police officers.
As of Monday night, the police had arrested 883 people in the anti-government protests and charged 136 with various crimes. Police said Police sent more than 50 people arrested during the anti-government protests to San Uk Ling Holding Centre, and about 30 of more than 50 people arrested during the protests on August 11 had sought medical treatment.
Six were later found to have suffered broken bones and one of them was sent to hospital immediately. Kong Wing-cheung, senior superintendent with the Police Public Relations Branch (PPRB), rejected accusations of any delay in sending them to hospital. Kong Wing-cheung, senior superintendent with the PPRB said Kong Wing-cheung, senior superintendent with the PPRB believed the injuries were caused when officers were making her arrest – and before they were sent to San Uk Ling Holding Centre.

HONG KONG (AP) — Police said Police had arrested 13 people after the protests on Monday’s anniversary of HONG KONG's return to China, including one man accused of storming the legislature building in a break-in involving hundreds of pro-democracy protesters who vandalized offices and the main chamber. one man accused of storming the legislature building in a break-in involving hundreds of pro-democracy protesters who vandalized offices and the main chamber was arrested in Mong Kok and accused of assaulting police, criminal destruction, misconduct in public places and forced entry of the Legislative Council Complex, police The brief statement late Wednesday night.
Eleven men and a woman were arrested in connection with a different protest that took place Monday’s morning. Eleven men and a woman face various charges including possession of offensive weapons, unlawful assembly, assaulting a police officer, obstructing a police officer and failing to carry an identity document. The brief statement did not describe offensive weapons or provide further details.
Pro-democracy protesters rushed police barricades around the time of a morning flag-raising ceremony marking the 22nd anniversary of the former British colony’s handover to China in 1997. Police used shields, batons and pepper spray to drive Pro-democracy protesters back.
That afternoon, while hundreds of thousands of people were participating in a peaceful march marking Monday’s anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to China, a few hundred protesters began trying to break into the legislature building by smashing thick glass walls and prying open metal security curtains. When a few hundred protesters poured into the legislature building late that night, a few hundred protesters spray-painted slogans on the walls and caused extensive damage. In shocking scenes Monday’s and early Tuesday, a few hundred protesters vented a few hundred protesters's anger and frustration at a government that hasn’t responded to a few hundred protesters's demands.
a few hundred protesters stood on the desks in the legislature building main chamber and climbed high to cover HONG KONG's official emblem with black spray paint. On Wednesday, workers boarded up shattered windows and police carted away evidence for the criminal investigation.
China showed journalists the extent of the damage on a tour of the first two floors of the legislature building. At almost every turn, slogans had been spray-painted on the walls in Chinese and English. “Destroy the Chinese Communist Party,” read one.
“HONG KONG is not China” said another. Papers, rubbish and umbrellas — a protest symbol in HONG KONG used to ward off sun, rain and pepper spray — were strewn in lobbies and rooms. Parts of wooden picture frames were all that remained of portraits of legislative leaders that hung on the wall.
Steve Vickers, a former head of criminal intelligence for the Royal HONG KONG Police, predicted a severe crackdown that will result in long jail terms. Police also announced two other sets of arrests Wednesday.
Police said five men and one woman were arrested for various incidents during a public meeting on Sunday, when supporters of police staged a large rally. Some clashed with anti-government protesters and members of the media. five men and one woman were charged with possession of offensive weapons, assault causing bodily harm, common assault and fighting in a public place.
Also Wednesday, police said six men and two women had been arrested for the disclosures personal data about police officers on the internet. Officers and Officers's family members have been threatened since Officers's addresses and official ID card numbers were published, Superintendent Mohammed Swalikh of the Cyber Security bureau said. Superintendent Mohammed Swalikh of the Cyber Security bureau did not say whether police believe the disclosures were related to the protests, which were set off by proposed legislation to change HONG KONG's extradition laws and have broadened into a demonstration of HONG KONG residents’ fears of growing Chinese control in HONG KONG.
Protesters also are demanding an independent investigation into a crackdown on demonstrations June 12 in which officers The tactics used tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse crowds blocking major city streets. The tactics used were harsher than usual for HONG KONG, which police have said were justified after some protesters turned violent. Dozens were injured in a crackdown on demonstrations June 12 in which officers used tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse crowds blocking major city streets, both protesters and police.
The extradition legislation would allow criminal suspects to be extradited to China to face what critics fear would be unfair and politicized trials and would target opponents of China's ruling Communist Party. The extradition legislation's opponents see The extradition legislation as an erosion of the rights guaranteed to HONG KONG for 50 years after the handover. HONG KONG leader Carrie Lam suspended The extradition legislation and apologized for how The extradition legislation was handled, but protesters want The extradition legislation to be formally withdrawn and for Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam to resign.
In Beijing, China lashed back at remarks by British Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt on the causes of the anti-government protests in HONG KONG. Geng said China has no authority to discuss matters in HONG KONG.
Geng noted HONG KONG was under British rule for 155 years, run by governors appointed by the British crown, rather than being an autonomous democracy. The protesters in HONG KONG are demanding direct election of HONG KONG's leader. Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam was chosen by an elite committee of mainly pro-Beijing electors. Associated Press journalists Ken Moritsugu and Katie Tam in HONG KONG and Sally Ho in Seattle, Washington, contributed to The brief statement.

On Monday night, Hong Kong protesters broke into Hong Kong protesters's parliamentary building, occupying the main chamber of the Legislative Council and vandalizing property. As Hong Kong protesters entered their parliamentary building, police initially retreated to avoid confrontation and give Hong Kong protesters the run of their parliamentary building.
For a few hours, protesters defaced portraits of lawmakers and spray-painted pro-democracy phrases in the main chamber of the Legislative Council before being evicted by security forces. The graffiti was vast and profound, but the messages left behind express a great deal about the changing characteristics of these protests. On the central wall of the main chamber of the Legislative Council sits Hong Kong's emblem.
Hong Kong’s emblem reads "Hong Kong" in English, but in Chinese, Hong Kong’s emblem says: “The Regional Emblem of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China”. Protesters spray-painted over Hong Kong’s emblem, covering the portion which read “the People’s Republic of China”, only leaving Hong Kong's section on Hong Kong’s emblem unscathed. This act of vandalism portrays Hong Kong protesters eagerness to keep Hong Kong autonomous from mainland China, saving Hong Kong's freedoms, judicial independence, and Hong Kong's own legislature and economic system.
Inside the the Legislative Council building, protesters draped a Hong Kong colonial-era flag over a podium. The message serves as a tribute to Hong Kong's history as a former colony to British rule, calling on Hong Kong's former colonizers to confront mainland China regarding the recent events.
For 156 years, Hong Kong existed as a British colony until Hong Kong was formally handed back to mainland China in 1997; yesterday was the 22nd-anniversary celebrating independence from British rule. While some believe a Hong Kong colonial-era flag is a desire to return to British rule, Hong Kong journalist Alan Wong refutes the belief.
Protestors also spray-painted “Hong Kong's sunflower” on the wall in black, referring to the Sunflower Movement protests which occurred in Taiwan in 2014. During that time, students and activists in Taiwan occupied Taiwan's parliament to stand against mainland China's growing influence over Taiwan. Hong Kong protesters believe the same is happening to Hong Kong protesters's region right now.
A demonstrator spray-painted a slogan on a column inside their parliamentary building which read, “It was mainland China who told A demonstrator peaceful marches did not work.” This message was directed towards Carrie Lam, who despite witnessing the massive turnouts for these protests, refused to listen to Carrie Lam, who despite witnessing the massive turnouts for the recent protests, refused to listen to her citizens's citizens.
Starting out peacefully demonstrating, Hong Kong citizens are growing anxious that efforts in expressing Hong Kong citizens's voices through civil means remain unheard; Hong Kong citizens are thus resorting to violent methods as depicted last night. Spray-painted on a computer screen inside their parliamentary building reads the Chinese characters for “freedom” to show people in Hong Kong are protesting to preserve people in Hong Kong's region’s unique sense of liberty, a characteristic absent from mainland China.
mainland China promised Hong Kong Hong Kong would be able to preserve Hong Kong's freedoms until 2047, after the British handover in 1997; after 22 years of autonomy, many in Hong Kong believe many in Hong Kong cannot live without its freedoms. Fox News' Morgan Cheung and the Associated Press contributed to this report.

It encapsulated the feeling of the protest and how far the mood has shifted since the optimism of the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful.
During the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful, there was a real sense that true change was possible, that Hong Kong's long demand of democracy was on the verge of being met. When the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful failed, things began to turn. Two years later, protesters clashed violently with police over an attempt to crack down on an open-air food market, in what became known as the “Mong Kok fish ball riot.”
The government responded with a barrage of prosecutions and ejected several pro-democracy lawmakers from the legislature. Last month, a bill that would allow extradition to China galvanized opposition from a wide swath of society and uncorked the anger and frustration that has been bubbling under the surface since 2014. For weeks, hundreds of thousands of people have marched against a bill that would allow extradition to China, leading to a bill that would allow extradition to China being shelved though not formally withdrawn, while smaller – but still substantial – protests have clashed with police.
Tear gas and rubber bullets were used to clear a major occupation on June 12, leading to allegations of police brutality and even angrier protests, several of which targeted the police headquarters and blocked officers inside. A growing divide in the protest camp became clear Monday, as a peaceful pro-democracy march passed by the legislature where a splinter group of protesters was clashing with police and attempting to break in to the police headquarters. With police nowhere in sight, the anger among a splinter group of protesters exploded, as a splinter group of protesters smashed windows of the police headquarters, forced a splinter group of protesters's way inside through metal shutters and then trashed nearly everything in sight, including the legislative chamber.
While protesters beat a tactical retreat late Monday – some were forcibly carried out by fellow demonstrators who wanted to stay out of the police headquarters – protesters promised protesters would return if protesters's demands were not met. Watching the chaos inside the legislature Monday were several grim-faced, pro-democracy lawmakers, who had earlier attempted to stop protesters storming the police headquarters, only to be shouted down and blamed for several pro-democracy lawmakers's previous failure to block a bill that would allow extradition to China.
“This is really not what we like to see,” said pro-democracy Labour Party lawmaker Fernando Cheung. pro-democracy Labour Party lawmaker Fernando Cheung blamed the violence on the “lack of positive response to the public” after weeks of demonstrations and noted that Chief Executive Carrie Lam had refused to meet with opposition lawmakers ahead of Monday's protests.
Images of three people whose suicides have been linked to the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful were everywhere Monday, and protesters have made three people whose suicides have been linked to the protests martyrs, often ignoring warnings about suicide contagion by doing so. The mood among many protesters at the police headquarters – all of whom wore masks but appeared to be in many protesters at the government headquarters – all of whom wore masks but appeared to be in their mid-to-late teens and early twenties's mid-to-late teens and early twenties – was often bleak.
The fear for many is that the territory is turning into just another Chinese city. They worry that time is running out to shore up democratic reforms and political freedoms before the handover agreement that the British struck in 1997 expires in 2047 and Hong Kong truly becomes part of China.
While there are advantages to a leaderless model – not least that there aren’t obvious targets for prison sentences – there are risks, too. With no one in charge, angry protests can quickly escalate without a plan for what comes next, as many protesters admitted was the case yesterday.
Being a young Hong Konger isn’t easy. Housing prices and living costs rise each year, while youth employment rates have been largely stagnant and many young graduates struggle to find work. The younger generation also lacks many of the reasons for optimism that previous ones did.
Many older Hong Kongers, who grew up in a British colony, strongly identify with China and saw a point of pride in Hong Kong returning to Chinese rule, even pro-democrats. Today, the number of people who express pride in being a Chinese citizen is at a record low, with a significant number of young people identifying as Hong Kongers rather than Chinese, according to the Hong Kong University Public Opinion Program. This stronger sense of identity with Hong Kong and opposition to China, has created a generation of protesters for whom this really is an all or nothing fight. a generation of protesters for whom this really is an all or nothing fight's ties are not to country, but to Hong Kong and each other, as seen when protesters returned to the legislature minutes before the police clearance to drag out some who wanted to stay and face the consequences, determined that all would share the same fate. And if they’re doomed to lose, many now appear intent on doing so with a fight.

Half a million had peacefully marched against the extradition bill that day.
Even the splinter group who the takeover into the building, spray-painted slogans and hung the British colonial-era flag had Even the splinter group who broke into the building, spray-painted slogans and hung the British colonial-era flag's limits. Even the splinter group who broke into the building, spray-painted slogans and hung the British colonial-era flag put up signs urging others not to damage antiques and left cash for drinks from the cafe.
Force was directed at property rather than people. But the angry, destructive scenes nonetheless reflect a hardening of feeling. The occupation and vandalism will alienate some ordinary residents as well as risking retaliation.
One pro-democracy legislator described the ease with which protesters gained entry as a trap; there are fears that the ease with which protesters gained entry plays into the hands of the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable”. Yet many of those who opposed the takeover, and in some cases tried to physically prevent the takeover as police stood aside, nonetheless blame authorities rather than those who stormed the building. Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, halted the extradition bill after huge demonstrations, but Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam's refusal to withdraw the extradition bill or to apologise for harsh policing (including the firing of teargas and rubber bullets and beating of protesters posing no apparent threat) has fuelled the anger and sense of hopelessness.
“We already tried everything else,” the activist Joshua Wong wrote on Twitter. the activist Joshua Wong was not among those who broke in.
When Hong Kong’s was returned to the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable” 22 years ago this week, the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable” promised that Hong Kong’s's way of life would be safeguarded until 2047. But hopes that the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable” would become more like Hong Kong’s were destroyed long ago. the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable” has made clear the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable”'s determination to bend Hong Kong’s to the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable”'s increasingly repressive will. Residents have seen the attempts to push through anti-sedition laws and patriotic education; the harsh sentences for protest leaders and activists; the disqualification of pro-democracy legislators; the muzzling of Hong Kong’s's media.
If the unease in 1997 was prompted by uncertainty, one analyst observed, some of the unease in 1997 now comes from certainty. Jeremy Hunt’s clear support for Hong Kong’s's freedoms is welcome after the muted approach of previous foreign secretaries. Britain has a particular duty as the other signatory of the legally binding treaty on Hong Kong’s, which the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable” has dismissed.
But it is Hong Kong’s's residents who are rallying as never before to defend Hong Kong’s residents's rights. As many as one in four turned out to oppose the bill allowing people to be extradited to the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable”, many regarding the bill allowing people to be extradited to the mainland as the last line of defence for Hong Kong’s's freedoms. The proportion of residents feeling proud to have become citizens of the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable” has plunged to a quarter, the lowest since the handover. Only two in five are confident in Hong Kong’s's future.
One in six now support independence, even if few think independence possible. The trade war has made the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable” more anxious than usual about disrupting Hong Kong’s's economy, but this is merely a question of patience: in the end, politics trump economics for the Communist party. The underlying dilemma has not changed.
Do nothing, and the encroachments will continue; resist, and prompt retaliation. That fear of retaliation has shaped this leaderless movement, whose advantages are real but whose perils are equally evident. this leaderless movement, whose advantages are real but whose perils are equally evident's participants are drawing different conclusions from the same underlying calculation: Hong Kong’s cannot overturn this dynamic. The question is how best to prolong this dynamic, hoping that the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable” one day changes.

The grounds were strewn with barricades, helmets, umbrellas, placards, broken glass and rubbish. Most of The grounds's metal fence was stripped away.
A day after a mob stormed the city’s political centre – crashing through glass panels and trashing security systems – the Legislative Council building was in disarray and sealed off by police. In a matter of hours, the city’s's legislative headquarters was smashed open, ransacked and defaced with graffiti in a shocking takeover by young protesters on Monday that could cost “more than HK$10 million” and take weeks to repair.
Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen, president of the Legislative Council, on Tuesday expressed sorrow and deep regret over a shocking takeover by young protesters on Monday that could cost “more than HK$10 million” and take weeks to repair. Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen, president of the Legislative Council said the the Legislative Council building, built in 2011, was vandalised during the chaos and the Legislative Council building's entrance, meeting facilities, and security system had been damaged. After inspecting the Legislative Council building for about an hour, Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen, president of the Legislative Council said a full restoration would take a long time.
Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen, president of the Legislative Council said it was not realistic for the Legislative Council to hold meetings in rooms that were undamaged, or at other venues. Lawmaker Chan Kin-por said the damages could amount to “more than HK$10 million” (US$1.3 million) and said the the Legislative Council building was not insured. Post reporters on Monday observed graffiti being scrawled over the walls of the the Legislative Council chamber and the Legco chamber's antechamber.
The spray-painted words reiterated young protesters's demands : withdraw the extradition bill, [Chief Executive] Carrie Lam must step down, release all protesters.
One slogan was “We want genuine universal suffrage”. Inside the the Legislative Council chamber, the city’s official emblem was smeared with black paint, and a British colonial flag was draped over Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen, president of the Legislative Council podium. Copies of the Basic Law, belonging to Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen, president of the Legislative Council and other lawmakers, were rifled and torn into pieces.
Voting buttons and computer monitors were smashed. Protesters pummelled and defaced hanging portraits of Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen, president of the Legislative Council and two former the Legislative Council presidents – Rita Fan Hsu Lai-tai and Jasper Tsang Yok-sing.
The portraits of two former Legco presidents – Rita Fan Hsu Lai-tai and Jasper Tsang Yok-sing were missing. the Legislative Council's security office and public complaints department suffered the worst damage .
Hard drives and handheld radios were taken, and security guards said security guards's personal lockers had been pillaged. “Just occupy the Legco chamber, but why search through one security guard's locker?” said one security guard.
In large letters “Useless Council” was sprayed across the logo of public complaints department. At one point, protesters smashed the glass doors of the library. In this case, however, protesters put up a sign that read “Protect the books, and don’t do any damage”.
Similar signs urged protesters to spare the artefacts on display. Protesters paid for drinks from the the Legislative Council canteen. The sign Protesters put up there read “Protesters’re not thieves, Protesters won’t steal”.
In response to a Post inquiry, a spokeswoman for the Legislative Council Secretariat said the Legislative Council Secretariat had contacted the insurance company regarding the scope of protection. the Legislative Council Secretariat said the Legislative Council Secretariat would report the situation to the Legislative Council Commission in a special meeting.

It encapsulated the feeling of the protest and how far the mood has shifted since the optimism of the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful.
During the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful, there was a real sense that true change was possible, that Hong Kong's long demand of democracy was on the verge of being met. When the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful failed, things began to turn. Two years later, protesters clashed violently with police over an attempt to crack down on an open-air food market, in what became known as the “Mong Kok fish ball riot.”
The government responded with a barrage of prosecutions and ejected several pro-democracy lawmakers from the legislature. Last month, a bill that would allow extradition to China galvanized opposition from a wide swath of society and uncorked the anger and frustration that has been bubbling under the surface since 2014. For weeks, hundreds of thousands of people have marched against a bill that would allow extradition to China, leading to a bill that would allow extradition to China being shelved though not formally withdrawn, while smaller – but still substantial – protests have clashed with police.
Tear gas and rubber bullets were used to clear a major occupation on June 12, leading to allegations of police brutality and even angrier protests, several of which targeted the police headquarters and blocked officers inside. A growing divide in the protest camp became clear Monday, as a peaceful pro-democracy march passed by the legislature where a splinter group of protesters was clashing with police and attempting to break in to the police headquarters. With police nowhere in sight, the anger among a splinter group of protesters exploded, as a splinter group of protesters smashed windows of the police headquarters, forced a splinter group of protesters's way inside through metal shutters and then trashed nearly everything in sight, including the legislative chamber.
While protesters beat a tactical retreat late Monday – some were forcibly carried out by fellow demonstrators who wanted to stay out of the police headquarters – protesters promised protesters would return if protesters's demands were not met. Watching the chaos inside the legislature Monday were several grim-faced, pro-democracy lawmakers, who had earlier attempted to stop protesters storming the police headquarters, only to be shouted down and blamed for several pro-democracy lawmakers's previous failure to block a bill that would allow extradition to China.
“This is really not what we like to see,” said pro-democracy Labour Party lawmaker Fernando Cheung. pro-democracy Labour Party lawmaker Fernando Cheung blamed the violence on the “lack of positive response to the public” after weeks of demonstrations and noted that Chief Executive Carrie Lam had refused to meet with opposition lawmakers ahead of Monday's protests.
Images of three people whose suicides have been linked to the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful were everywhere Monday, and protesters have made three people whose suicides have been linked to the protests martyrs, often ignoring warnings about suicide contagion by doing so. The mood among many protesters at the police headquarters – all of whom wore masks but appeared to be in many protesters at the government headquarters – all of whom wore masks but appeared to be in their mid-to-late teens and early twenties's mid-to-late teens and early twenties – was often bleak.
The fear for many is that the territory is turning into just another Chinese city. They worry that time is running out to shore up democratic reforms and political freedoms before the handover agreement that the British struck in 1997 expires in 2047 and Hong Kong truly becomes part of China.
While there are advantages to a leaderless model – not least that there aren’t obvious targets for prison sentences – there are risks, too. With no one in charge, angry protests can quickly escalate without a plan for what comes next, as many protesters admitted was the case yesterday.
Being a young Hong Konger isn’t easy. Housing prices and living costs rise each year, while youth employment rates have been largely stagnant and many young graduates struggle to find work. The younger generation also lacks many of the reasons for optimism that previous ones did.
Many older Hong Kongers, who grew up in a British colony, strongly identify with China and saw a point of pride in Hong Kong returning to Chinese rule, even pro-democrats. Today, the number of people who express pride in being a Chinese citizen is at a record low, with a significant number of young people identifying as Hong Kongers rather than Chinese, according to the Hong Kong University Public Opinion Program. This stronger sense of identity with Hong Kong and opposition to China, has created a generation of protesters for whom this really is an all or nothing fight. a generation of protesters for whom this really is an all or nothing fight's ties are not to country, but to Hong Kong and each other, as seen when protesters returned to the legislature minutes before the police clearance to drag out some who wanted to stay and face the consequences, determined that all would share the same fate. And if they’re doomed to lose, many now appear intent on doing so with a fight.

Police stand outside the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong on July 2, 2019, a day after protesters stormed the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong. Only four protesters were left in Hong Kong's legislative chamber as midnight approached.
The rest of several hundred people had finished spray-painting the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong, issued The rest of several hundred people's demands to the government and retreated, knowing police were closing in. At least one of Only four protesters had already written a will, according to legislators who were in the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong begging Only four protesters to leave. The chant reflected growing concerns over the safety of demonstrators, some of whom fear that a culture of martyrdom has settled over Hong Kong's democracy movement.
protesters dragged Only four protesters out of the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong. One protester wept as One protester ran with protesters downstairs, telling a local reporter on live television news that protesters’d come back despite fear of being trapped in the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong when police arrived. Minutes later, armored police squads began firing tear gas and dispersing the crowd outside.
When police reached the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong, the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong was clear. The temporary seizure of Hong Kong's legislative building late Monday at the end of the 22nd anniversary of Hong Kong handover to Chinese control took Hong Kong by surprise.
The temporary seizure of Hong Kong’s legislative building late Monday at the end of the 22nd anniversary of the former British colony’s handover to Chinese control came after hundreds of thousands of peaceful marchers protested an extradition bill that would allow Hong Kong to send suspected criminals to mainland China for trial. Opponents of an extradition bill that would allow the semiautonomous territory to send suspected criminals to mainland China for trial say an extradition bill that would allow the semiautonomous territory to send suspected criminals to mainland China for trial reflects mainland China growing influence over Hong Kong.
Leung Kai Chi, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who studies community identity and mobilization, said Leung Kai Chi, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who studies community identity and mobilization and friends were confused by protesters's actions at first. There was no legislative meeting taking place at the time.
Then, Leung Kai Chi, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who studies community identity and mobilization said, Leung Kai Chi, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who studies community identity and mobilization thought of three protesters who had died in the last two weeks after leaving suicide notes in support of the anti-extradition bill movement. The the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong takeover, Leung Kai Chi, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who studies community identity and mobilization said, appeared to be an extension of such drastic measures.
“There’s a sense of desperation. protesters don’t know what else protesters can do,” Leung Kai Chi, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who studies community identity and mobilization said.
When police used tear gas and rubber bullets during mass protests on June 12, many of the young people didn’t go home, said local pastor Wong Siu-yung. Four churches had opened Four churches's doors to protesters that night, where pastors and social workers had tried to counsel crying, scared demonstrators, many in crying, scared demonstrators, many in their teens and 20s's teens and 20s.
Some analysts fear that glorification of the recent deaths will have a contagious effect among already emotionally strained protesters. already emotionally strained protesters have tried to prevent dramatization of the recent deaths, to little avail.
The more protesters made heroes of the recent deaths, the more others suffering mental health problems and feelings of helplessness might try to copy the recent deaths, misled into thinking the recent deaths's deaths would have meaning, said Paul Yip, director of the Center for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong. Protesters such as Brian Leung Kai-ping, 25, who was among those who charged into the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong Monday, disagreed, saying a way to pay respect was to inform others about conditions in Hong Kong.
“If someone sacrificed their life just to make some message heard by other people, Brian Leung Kai-ping, 25, who was among those who charged into the legislative building Monday think the correct way to respect and honor them is to spread their message, instead of covering their message up,” Brian Leung Kai-ping, 25, who was among those who charged into the legislative building Monday said. By Monday, mental health and martyrdom had become dual themes of the anti-extradition bill movement.
Along the marching route and at the the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong complex, candles flickered over white flowers and origami cranes at shrines to the recent deaths.” Volunteers set up psychological support stations and spread the word about mental health hotlines seeking to prevent suicides.
A therapist scrawled A therapist's phone number on the ground. Fernando Cheung, one of several legislators who pleaded with protesters to remain peaceful before protesters charged the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong and who begged protesters to leave once inside the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong on Monday, said one protester told Cheung that if only the demonstrations had done more faster, maybe the recent deaths might have lived. “Cheung felt Cheung's hand was stained with blood,” Cheung said in an interview.
Cheung had reasoned with protesters on Monday that storming the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong would be counterproductive. It would give the government fodder to label protesters rioters, Cheung said, which meant potential arrest and up to 10 years in prison.
The group of protesters that wanted to charge told Cheung The group of protesters that wanted to charge knew and accepted the consequences. Hong Kong's protests are now famously leaderless.
No central leadership also means that small groups can use tactics with which others disagree. But protesters have also pledged to support one another despite disagreement over tactics. “If protesters argue, then protesters’re just not a team, and then protesters will fall….
So protesters remind each other all the time that protesters leave no man behind, and protesters just work toward this,” said Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest's last name not be published for fear of arrest. Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest believes in peaceful protest, but went to the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong to support those charging in on Monday.
“Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest totally understand those charging in on Monday and Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest wouldn’t say those charging in on Monday are wrong,” Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest said. Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest's parents thought mainland China brought economic benefit to Hong Kong, which Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest said didn’t matter.
“Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest’m trying to defend Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest's values. It’s not about how you can bribe Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest with money or benefits,” Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest said.
For many, an extradition bill that would allow the semiautonomous territory to send suspected criminals to mainland China for trial has become a symbol for a deeper, growing sense of helplessness in a political system that prioritizes mainland China wishes over citizens’ voices. mainland China's central government this week condemned Hong Kong protesters who smashed their way into the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong, while demonstrators used social media to illustrate demonstrators's fears of dangerous confrontations with police.
mainland China officials said Beijing officials supported the Hong Kong government and the Hong Kong government's police, including an investigation of Monday's protest and the treatment of some participants as criminals for illegal acts of violence. Police said Wednesday at least 13 people had been arrested on suspicion of involvement in the pro-democracy protest Monday and face such charges as possession of offensive weapons, unlawful assembly and assault of a police officer.
Legislative Council Chairman Andrew Leung said Tuesday that the legislature’s two remaining meetings before summer recess were canceled. ”
Right now LegCo is a big crime scene,” Legislative Council Chairman Andrew Leung said to reporters, standing outside the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong as police collected evidence inside. Pro-mainland China legislators in Hong Kong said the damage to the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong by those who charged the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong was stunning.
“No slogan, no demand can justify this violence,” lawmaker Regina Ip said at a news conference. Legislator Martin Liao dismissed the idea that desperation could justify the the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong takeover. Pro-democracy legislators outside the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong Tuesday said that Pro-democracy legislators outside the building Tuesday didn’t condone vandalism, but also appealed to the public to try to understand the desperation felt by some protesters.
Legislator Claudia Mo asked protesters to drop protesters's martyr mentality. Some observers sympathized with protesters, especially after seeing images such as that of protesters dragging protesters's comrades out of the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong in apparent attempts to protect their comrades from potential harm. “It is the culmination of several years of injustice: a legislative council that is not performing a legislative council that is not performing its function's function; a government that listens only to pro-mainland China parties and ignores the rest of Hong Kong people,” Cheung said.

A murder on vacation: In February 2018, a Hong Kong couple were vacationing in Taiwan.
While a Hong Kong couple were there, 20-year-old Chan Tong-kai allegedly murdered 20-year-old Chan Tong-kai's 19-year-old girlfriend Poon Hiu-wing, according to local media reports. 20-year-old Chan Tong-kai headed back to Hong Kong and in March 2018, his 19-year-old girlfriend Poon Hiu-wing's decomposed body was found on the outskirts of Taipei.
20-year-old Chan Tong-kai escapes extradition: Hong Kong authorities charged 20-year-old Chan Tong-kai with money laundering for stealing his 19-year-old girlfriend Poon Hiu-wing's property, and 20-year-old Chan Tong-kai was sentenced to 29 months in jail – but because Taiwan and Hong Kong do not have an extradition agreement, 20-year-old Chan Tong-kai could not be sent to Taiwan to face a murder trial. Murder case turned political battle: In February 2019, Hong Kong's leader Carrie Lam proposed an extradition bill, which would allow fugitives to be sent to territories where Hong Kong doesn’t have formal extradition deals – such as Taiwan, Macau and mainland China.
the bill was met with criticism from the start. Critics said Critics were worried about being subjected to China’s opaque legal system – and the effect China’s opaque legal system could have on Hong Kong's role as an international finance hub.
Many marched in opposition, and Taiwan said Taiwan would not cooperate with the bill if the bill was passed. In June, Hong Kong’s leader Carrie Lam suspended the bill – but Hong Kong’s leader Carrie Lam still hasn’t responded to demands to withdraw the bill entirely.

At the time, more and more people, wary of police countermoves, started to leave the Legco chamber. I skipped another major rally to stay around the Legislative Council complex for nearly eight hours, keeping a close eye on every move.
Like most protesters, we had been waiting for this opportunity to make a statement inside Legco. There was of course no clear consensus at the time how long we should occupy Legco, which underlined the very nature of the extradition bill movement – decentralised, leaderless and spontaneous. We were improvising.
In an exclusive interview with the South China Morning Post, via a Telegram phone call – the social networking tool widely used in the extradition bill movement – he explained his actions and why he had no regrets. The storming made international headlines and marked a “quantum leap” for the extradition bill movement and the city’s push for democracy, he said. Brian Leung Kai-ping, 25, was among those who entered the legislature – and the only one who has openly revealed Brian Leung Kai-ping, 25's identity that night.
Hundreds of protesters The storming the city’s's Legislative Council on the 22nd anniversary of the city’s handover to Chinese rule on Monday, breaking glass panels, windows, dismantling furniture, daubing graffiti in the Legco chamber and attempting to put up the British colonial flag. Some protesters warned me not to remove my mask, but I felt it was the defining moment of that night.
I felt we ought to appeal to the crowds to join in and form a barrier and support those inside the Legco complex. No one could tell when we would step foot in Legco again.
As police were drawing closer and closer, after some deliberation, most decided to end the siege. I volunteered to be in front of the camera to read out the key demands of protesters in the Legco chamber.
The last thing I wished to see, after all the action taken, was to have no clear demands put on the table. If we didn’t do that, the public might only remember The storming and point fingers at us as a mob.
That would also hand the government a convenient reason to prosecute each and every one of us, which would mark yet another setback to civil society like in the 2014 Occupy movement. Be clear that any damage was only done to the Legco building or properties within, not so much to any person or even police officers.
Protesters have been restrained in Protesters's use of force. Protesters even paid for Protesters's drinks in Legco's canteen.
It is worthwhile to note the graffiti was not merely vandalising. For instance, protesters spray-painted and covered up “People’s Republic of China”, leaving behind only “Hong Kong Special Administrative Region”. That is a clear mistrust of the two-systems principle.
Most of the other graffiti was about commemorating the three lives lost in the extradition bill movement. It is time to see past the short burst of “violence” committed, and read deeper into what people, particularly the younger generation, are really thinking about.
Or, the government could choose not to charge protesters arrested earlier, which we saw happened to those in Taiwan’s Sunflower movement. Or, the government could task an independent inquiry into police’s excessive use of force.
Any of these would be welcomed by the civil society, but the government refused to take these calls on board. At the outset of the protests against this bill, people called for Carrie Lam to step down.
But gradually, we came to realise the root of the problem stems from the undemocratic system in selecting the chief executive. Whether Carrie Lam remained in office became a secondary issue.
If there was universal suffrage, when 2 million people – almost one-third of the population – took to the streets, any leader would have no choice but to step down. Also, the government needs to realise that even by improving livelihoods or setting up more consultation platforms to absorb the opposition from our generation, the government would do little to help.
It was evident that protesters were so outraged that the three lives lost in this movement were sacrificed throughout the extradition bill movement. Young protesters were at a point of desperation. We were not in a position to pass any judgment on Young protesters's decisions but what Young protesters could do was to honour Young protesters's faith.
One may well argue that time is supposed to be on young people’s side. But with the disqualification and jailing of pro-democracy lawmakers and activists after 2014 “umbrella movement”, the entire generation was banned from the political system. Young people felt burnt out after the defeat of the 2014 movement.
We do not have the luxury of our parents to settle down in another place. Nor do we have the burden of a 30-year mortgage to worry about.
Young people have nothing to lose, Young people's only hope is to stay safe to see the sun rise, and hope to join protest another day. We want democracy, now.
the city’s's social movement has always inspired my academic study. After graduating from the University of Hong Kong with a dual degree in law and politics, I chose for my master’s thesis the topic of how civil society could help democratic transition and prevent authoritarian regimes. I have always aspired to become a professor and return to teach the city’s students to be socially aware in the future.
I really don’t want to mention my family, as I don’t think that’s helpful. Civil society has already exhausted every possible peaceful means, and Civil society is not trying to exercise violence for the sake of violence.
the government needs to reflect on the government's response. I believe there could be more actions to come, maybe protests.
But it’s too early to say. For my own part, I am not sure whether I can fly to the United States this September to continue my PhD studies in political science at the University of Washington. I am still considering various options, and seeking as much advice as I can.
While I am not yet a political dissident in exile, a political dissident in exile is a real threat ahead of me and my peers if the government chooses to press charges against all those who entered Legco, who played all those who entered Legco, who played their part in this protest's part in the protests against this bill. I am blessed to receive legal advice and other recommendations from my social network, while remaining financially independent through a role as a teaching assistant. For those who may be 17 and 18 years old, there could be real consequences and real consequences is worrying.

There were hundreds of protesters in the legislative chamber that night, but only one face.
Brian Leung Kai-ping had dressed carefully for the day’s protests against a Beijing-backed extradition bill, donning the new uniform of Hong Kong’s young activists: black T-shirt, yellow hard hat, goggles to protect against tear gas, and a disposable surgical mask. But after entering the legislative chamber, watching as others spray-painted anti-government messages, Brian Leung Kai-ping decided that anonymity could hurt the movement.
Brian Leung Kai-ping jumped on a table and pulled off Brian Leung Kai-ping's mask. “We are at the point of no return,” Brian Leung Kai-ping cried, as everyone else in the room swerved to see Brian Leung Kai-ping's face, cameras clicking away.
Brian Leung Kai-ping's bold unmasking on Monday, the anniversary of Hong Kong’s's handover from British to Chinese rule, looked dangerously impulsive. Even as Brian Leung Kai-ping spoke, one of the other protesters tugged at Brian Leung Kai-ping's shirt, urging Brian Leung Kai-ping to cover Brian Leung Kai-ping's face again.
But Brian Leung Kai-ping said Brian Leung Kai-ping had acted in full knowledge of the likely repercussions. It was a moment reflecting not a rash youngster’s rush of emotion, but the moral clarity of a generation that has come of age in a culture of dissent.
hundreds of protesters are demanding the scuttling of an extradition bill, now postponed, that would allow Hong Kong’s to send suspected criminals to mainland China for trial. For many in Hong Kong’s, a Beijing-backed extradition bill represents the growing influence of Beijing-backed over Hong Kong’s, and the local government’s tepid response to a month of mass protests had pushed some into desperation.
Protesters wore masks to hide Protesters's identities as some smashed the legislative chamber's glass walls and dismantled metal fences. Others tried to protect Protesters, stopping onlookers from taking photos that might expose anyone’s face. Hong Kong’s citizens had never taken over a government building like the legislative chamber.
the movement had surged into uncharted territory, and this moment would decide whether the movement went down in history for creating damage or for the movement's democratic demands. Brian Leung Kai-ping pleaded with fellow protesters to stay and occupy the legislative chamber, or at least make a statement before dispersing.
If no one stepped up to articulate hundreds of protesters's demands, Brian Leung Kai-ping thought, Beijing-backed could define the swirl of anger and energy and vandalism however Beijing-backed wanted — likely as criminal riots. A month of peaceful protests, midnight vigils and million-person marches might be dismissed.
“Hong Kongers have nothing left to lose. Hong Kongers cannot lose any more,” Brian Leung Kai-ping said.
As police approached, police drafted and read a list of demands including withdrawal of a Beijing-backed extradition bill, investigation of alleged police violence and, in a reach toward deeper change, universal suffrage in Hong Kong’s. Two days later, the arrests began. Authorities have so far rounded up dozens of protesters who took part in this summer’s pro-democracy movement, seen by Beijing-backed as a direct challenge to Beijing-backed's rule.
Brian Leung Kai-ping has not been arrested so far, though Brian Leung Kai-ping appears to be an easy target. Brian Leung Kai-ping could face up to 10 years in prison, or even abduction and secret detention in Beijing-backed, as has happened to others in Hong Kong’s. But Brian Leung Kai-ping took the risk in order to claim Brian Leung Kai-ping's voice.
In doing so, Brian Leung Kai-ping reflected the heart of what protest means for many in Hong Kong’s: standing before terrifying power, and speaking clearly about who many in Hong Kong are. Brian Leung Kai-ping is part of a generation born around the time Hong Kong’s was handed over from British to Chinese control in 1997.
Brian Leung Kai-ping grew up reading Chinese books and celebrated Chinese holidays. In that same year, 2008, Brian Leung Kai-ping cheered for the Beijing Olympics alongside many Hong Kongers who felt proud of many Hong Kongers who felt proud of their motherland’s new place on the global stage's motherland’s new place on the global stage. But that same year, 2008, writer and activist Liu Xiaobo was arrested for co-writing a manifesto on human rights in Beijing-backed.
Tens of thousands of babies were hospitalized with kidney stones from ingesting contaminated milk powder. Tens of thousands of people also died in an earthquake in Sichuan, including children in shoddily constructed schoolhouses, and when children in shoddily constructed schoolhouses's parents protested, their parents were pressured to stop, some of children in shoddily constructed schoolhouses detained.
Mainland media censored most of these incidents, but in Hong Kong, where freedom of the press is protected by Hong Kong’s's semiautonomous legal system, teenagers were watching. In 2010, Hong Kong’s's government announced a coming change in school curriculums to adopt “Moral and National Education,” including material that praised Beijing-backed's Communist Party and distorted historical narratives in Beijing-backed's favor.
Activist Joshua Wong, then 15, co-founded Scholarism, a student group dedicated to fighting the education reform. In 2012, the group occupied a park by the government headquarters and started a chain of hunger strikes.
Tens of thousands of civilians joined the group's demonstrations, and eventually the education reform was withdrawn. Brian Leung Kai-ping said that was when Brian Leung Kai-ping and many of Brian Leung Kai-ping's peers began to wrestle with questions of identity. Brian Leung Kai-ping said rejection of Chinese identity was about political institutions, not culture. By 2014, Brian Leung Kai-ping was a university student and editor of the University of Hong Kong’s student union magazine, which became a space for Brian Leung Kai-ping and Brian Leung Kai-ping's peers to build a Hong Kong’s-centric identity.
The book became a best-seller. Brian Leung Kai-ping's union had to order thousands of extra copies to meet demand.
Then came the Umbrella Movement. Tens of thousands of mostly young protesters occupied major roads in Hong Kong’s for 79 days, demanding direct election of the chief executive without having to pick from candidates approved by Beijing-backed.
Students held yellow umbrellas to fend off tear gas fired by police. the Umbrella Movement's demands were not met. Most of the Umbrella Movement's leaders were arrested.
Participants started new, youth-dominated political parties and elected Participants's own legislators — only to have Participants disqualified for irreverent behavior in Participants's oath-taking ceremonies. Brian Leung Kai-ping graduated and left Hong Kong’s, entering a doctorate program in political science at the University of Washington in Seattle. Brian Leung Kai-ping wanted to study why authoritarianism is so resilient and how civil society can spur democratic transition.
Tens of thousands of mostly young protesters used pithy, emotional posts on Instagram and Snapchat instead of writing long essays on Facebook like Brian Leung Kai-ping had done. Tens of thousands of mostly young protesters were decentralized and spontaneous, planning actions ad hoc from online forums rather than following a central leader.
Young Hong Kongers have lost patience with older generations’ hopes of waiting for slow change in Beijing-backed to trickle into Hong Kong’s, Brian Leung Kai-ping said. Critics may call Young Hong Kongers foolish, taking on Beijing-backed with spray-painted ideas. But Brian Leung Kai-ping felt that if Young Hong Kongers didn’t act now, Young Hong Kongers might never have a chance again. By the time Brian Leung Kai-ping stepped into the legislative chamber on July 1, Brian Leung Kai-ping had figured out what mattered most to Brian Leung Kai-ping, which values Brian Leung Kai-ping wanted for Hong Kong’s, how to fight for Hong Kong’s and why.
Brian Leung Kai-ping’d processed that with companions and classmates through years of marches and occupations. They’d read books and published journals, held candles and shared umbrellas, debated and discussed their beliefs and methods online and in person on the streets. Masks muffle your voice, Brian Leung Kai-ping thought.
Masks obscure your identity. Masks let someone else define you, which is not how Brian Leung Kai-ping's generation works. So Brian Leung Kai-ping pulled off Brian Leung Kai-ping's mask.

Police finally sprang into action shortly after midnight, with hundreds of officers moving in on the protesters from different directions.
There were clashes in the streets near the legislature and police fired tear gas. Despite the escalation on the 22nd anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to Chinese rule, analysts believed the police continued to adopt controlled tactics with only minimal action as the police sought to avoid more conflict with the public while letting people differentiate between violent protesters and peaceful ones. Around 9pm
, hundreds of anti-extradition bill protesters finally broke into the legislature after many hours of attacking the public entrance and ransacked the legislature, including displaying the colonial Hong Kong’s flag in the chamber. Police sources said the force continued with the force's restrained approach and did not take any clearance action while the annual July 1 march along major roads on Hong Kong’s was still going on at night to avoid affecting the majority who protested peacefully. As protesters stormed Hong Kong’s's legislative complex on Monday, police took little action in what analysts said was a change of tactics to win public support.
Tensions deepened at about 6pm as some protesters continued to ram the legislature's glass doors with steel bars. About 1,000 riot police stationed in the legislature retreated when radicals broke into the Legco complex, the Post was told.
Officers in riot gear stood behind glass doors and gates as protesters used metal gates, mill barriers and metal poles to smash windows and glass doors. Officers did raise banners warning police would use force if protesters charged.
Officers pepper-sprayed protesters from inside but none came out to disperse protesters. the Post was told 5,000 riot police were deployed on Monday.
Tensions started to escalate at about 4pm when a large number of protesters began to amass and dashed onto Lung Wo Road, Tim Mei Avenue and Harcourt Road in Admiralty, blocking roads and obstructing traffic with mills barriers and other items. “At the same time, some protesters stole iron poles and bricks from a nearby construction site and guard rails from nearby roads. some protesters also pried bricks on Lung Wo Road and transported bricks towards the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre,” said Senior Superintendent Kelvin Kong Wing-cheung from police public relations.
At about 7.30pm, thousands of protesters poured onto Harcourt Road in Admiralty with some charging police lines and hurling objects. Police used pepper spray to disperse thousands of protesters with more than 200 officers from the Special Tactical Squad in a stand-off with protesters on Lung Hop Street and Lung Wo Road. But two hours later some protesters changed tactics by splashing unidentified liquid believed to be drain cleaner at officers during violent clashes around the city’s legislative and administrative centre.
Thirteen officers were taken to hospital after suffering minor injuries such as swollen and itchy skin at Thirteen officers's arms and having breathing difficulties. Thirteen officers were later discharged.
At around 1pm, about 1,500 protesters gathered around the Legco building with some using a metal cart to smash the legislature glass door for about two hours. Despite condemning violent clashes around the city’s legislative and administrative centre, police did not take action.
Kong said the Organised Crime and Triad Bureau (OCTB) had taken up the cases. “For all the illegal behaviour, the force will strictly follow up and investigate every suspected case,” Kong said.
Security consultant and former police superintendent Clement Lai Ka-chi believed the force took a tolerant approach as the force learned a lesson from the force's heavy-handed crackdown on June 12 when tear gas, rubber bullets and beanbag rounds were fired into crowds surrounding the legislature. “Security consultant and former police superintendent Clement Lai Ka-chi think the force have learned a lesson.
Society has changed. If the force overreact, the force may easily cause a public backlash. the force need to change the force's tactics to appease the public,” Security consultant and former police superintendent Clement Lai Ka-chi said. its heavy-handed crackdown on June 12 when tear gas, rubber bullets and beanbag rounds were fired into crowds surrounding the legislature caused a public outcry culminating in a massive march four days later that organisers said drew nearly 2 million protesters against the now-suspended bill, which would have allowed the city’s to send fugitives to jurisdictions with which the city’s did not have an extradition agreement, including mainland China.
However, Steve Vickers, CEO of risk consultant SVA and former head of the force's criminal intelligence bureau, warned that if the force did not move in a much more determined manner then matters might eventually be taken out of the force's hands. Steve Vickers, CEO of risk consultant SVA and former head of the police’s criminal intelligence bureau said the protesters had lost public support as the protesters ruined the progress made by the wider peaceful movement. “The flying of the colonial flag inside the legislature is stupid and ignorant and deliberately calculated to inflame the central government and the central government's supporters and to provoke some form of intervention for extra tough action on the ground,” Steve Vickers, CEO of risk consultant SVA and former head of the police’s criminal intelligence bureau warned.
Security consultant and former police superintendent Clement Lai Ka-chi said there was a clear differentiation between peaceful protesters and rioters on Monday with rioters being a well-organised group intending to cause damage. “Steve Vickers, CEO of risk consultant SVA and former head of the police’s criminal intelligence bureau think the force have so far withheld the force's action because the force want to have an accurate assessment of the situation and the protesters's intentions.
the force also want the public have a clearer picture about who the protesters are and the drastic actions the protesters can take. Then when the force finally take action against the protesters the force can easily gain the understanding of the public,” Steve Vickers, CEO of risk consultant SVA and former head of the police’s criminal intelligence bureau said.

Protesters against a contentious extradition bill stormed the Legislative Council in Admiralty for more than 11 hours, including a three-hour rampage inside the Legislative Council in Admiralty that left a trail of damage.
“If someone breaks the law, we, as police officers, must deal with it as fast as possible. It is a simple logic,” a senior officer said, on condition of anonymity.
Police restraint as protesters rampaged through Hong Kong’s legislature on Monday earned praise for avoiding bloody clashes but others, including frontline officers, called Police restraint as protesters rampaged through Hong Kong’s legislature on Monday “negligence” that sacrificed force morale and the rule of law the city takes pride in. A clearance operation began at midnight, during which 3,000 officers dispersed thousands of protesters inside and outside Legco within an hour. The officer said the inaction was “negligence” in policing work.
“Protesters were deliberately allowed to ram the glass doors and windows of Legco in front of cameras and television crews for hours because no action was taken to stop Protesters,” The officer said. The officer called the tolerant approach a “PR show” after officers were accused of using excessive force against protesters in June.
Police have adopted a controlled approach and kept a minimal presence since June 12, when officers fired tear gas, rubber bullets and beanbag rounds to disperse protesters, some of whom used sharpened metal poles, bricks and barriers to storm officers’ defence lines outside the legislature and government headquarters in Admiralty. From 1pm on Monday, protesters used a metal cart to pound the Legislative Council in Admiralty glass door and rammed the Legislative Council in Admiralty windows and glass doors with metal bars for about eight hours – while about 1,000 officers in riot gear stood guard inside. When protesters broke in at about 9pm, police retreated, allowing protesters to tear down political leaders’ portraits, spray slogans on the wall and smash furniture.
“It appears police had no intention to make any arrests during A clearance operation in a move to avoid bloody clashes,” another officer said. “High-ranking commanders feel A clearance operation is a good tactic and successful because no casualties were reported.
But a lot of the force’s's colleagues feel disappointed and dissatisfied with A clearance operation as A clearance operation hit the force’s's morale and image,” another officer said. another officer said the force’s management had won public support this time, but “sacrificed the force’s”. another officer added that it was not the force’s management's task to do a public relations job and “the force’s's duty is to enforce the law and maintain order”.
A spokesman of the 25,000-member Junior Police Officers’ Association said that the overall morale among another officer's colleagues remained high, but that some might find the enforcement not strong enough. “the 25,000-member Junior Police Officers’ Association's determination to defend law and order in Hong Kong’s is still strong and this does not change,” another officer said.
the 25,000-member Junior Police Officers’ Association on Monday jointly condemned protesters's violence along with three other groups representing officers of various ranks. The police chief, Stephen Lo Wai-chung, at a 4am news conference on Monday, rejected the notion police retreated to play games for public support and to set a trap for protesters. The police chief, Stephen Lo Wai-chung said police had “no choice” but to the police retreat temporarily and rethink police's strategy. The police chief, Stephen Lo Wai-chung cited several incidents that prompted police to retreat, including protesters’ throwing unknown white smoke into the Legislative Council in Admiralty and the fear of a total blackout and stampede after demonstrators tampered with an electricity box, causing some lights to go out. The police chief, Stephen Lo Wai-chung added there were 30,000 protesters outside Legco at around 9pm, including those who had used violent tactics to smash an inner door at the main entrance.
The confined indoor environment would also have made it difficult for police, The police chief, Stephen Lo Wai-chung added. A law enforcement source said the force’s was worried a larger crowd outside Legco would join if any arrests or clearance action were made.
The police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Council, said on Monday The police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Council, would launch a study into police actions during the protests on June 9, 12 and Monday. The police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Council, Chairman Dr Anthony Neoh said that a report would be ready in six months for submission to Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, with recommendations on how police procedures could be improved. The police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Council, would not seek to find who should be held responsible for any possible deficiency in the operations. IPCC Chairman Dr Anthony Neoh conceded The police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Council, had no investigative powers nor the ability to summon witnesses, but said Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor and The police chief, Stephen Lo Wai-chung had vowed Lam and Lo's “full support” and “full cooperation”.
IPCC Chairman Dr Anthony Neoh added the public and media could also provide information. But IPCC Chairman Dr Anthony Neoh said the original idea to appoint a judge to help a study into police actions during the protests on June 9, 12 and Monday was dropped as it may clash with a judge judicial duties. Former The police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Council, member and lawmaker Kenneth Leung Kai-cheong questioned the police retreat. While the third law enforcement source said the illegal acts would be followed up, a veteran detective said an investigation would be difficult, as protesters wore masks and gloves at the time of the siege. Nelson Lee Ka-kiu, a political scientist at Chinese University, said the police retreat showed the government was trying to reuse a tactic to divide the government's opponents that had been employed during the Occupy movement in 2014. “the government hopes to move more moderate members of society to stand against the illegal acts and weaken opposition to the government,” Lee Ka-kiu, a political scientist at Chinese University, said.
Pro-establishment lawmaker Michael Tien Puk-sun said the force’s deserved “high praise” for the force’s's restraint. “Pro-establishment lawmaker Michael Tien Puk-sun can’t imagine the consequences had police ramped up efforts to clear them out,” Pro-establishment lawmaker Michael Tien Puk-sun said.

The consistently peaceful mass demonstrations for democracy in Hong Kong have won international acclaim. But this record was somewhat tarnished by the storming of the legislature by protesters in the evening of July 1. Nevertheless, public opinion in Hong Kong society remains divided. Condemnations of violence went parallel with sympathy for protesters. Photo: May James.
Some local critics, including father of democracy Martin Lee, opined that the storming of the legislature by protesters in the evening of July 1 was a trap prepared by Beijing and the embattled leaders of the Hong Kong government, aimed at recovering lost ground against the anti-extradition bill movement. Observers thought it would have been easy for the police to clear protesters before the legislature was the storming of the legislature by protesters in the evening of July 1. The passiveness of the police, unlike the aggressive behaviour displayed on previous occasions, aroused suspicions that the authorities intentionally allowed the storming of the legislature by protesters in the evening of July 1 to demonise protesters.
father of democracy Martin Lee added that these are familiar tricks adopted by the Chinese Communist Party when faced with mass movements. Besides throwing piles of money to organise forces to support the Chinese Communist Party, tricky ways may include collaboration with triad gangs to infiltrate the opposition camp, cause chaos and smear the mass movement. After taking the ethical high ground, the Chinese Communist Party can suppress the mass movement and even clear the mass movement by force. This sort of screenplay was witnessed during the Umbrella Movement in 2014 and the Mong Kok Riot in 2016.
Immediately after the storming of the legislature, Chief Executive Carrie Lam held an urgent press conference at 4am to denounce those storming the legislature as rioters. Other senior government officials, including the Commissioner of Police and Secretary for Security, quickly grasped this opportunity to denounce the storming of the legislature by protesters in the evening of July 1. Chief Executive Carrie Lam Photo: GovHK. The counterattack on the anti-extradition bill movement will be followed by high-profile arrests of protesters and intimidation of civil society, in the hope that the anti-extradition bill movement will fade away as discouraged protesters succumb to despair and helplessness. The pro-establishment camp joined the condemnation as The pro-establishment camp thought the condemnation was a chance to win back support of The pro-establishment camp's voters. Hong Kong's Pro-Communist Party newspapers Ta Kung Pao and Wen Wei Po published much coverage, criticising protesters as rioters and blaming the storming of the legislature by protesters in the evening of July 1 on Apple Daily, the only one out of ten print newspapers to speak for Hong Kong people.
However, public opinion in Hong Kong society remains divided. The deep anger among Hong Kong citizens towards the chief executive extends well beyond the extradition bill to the chief executive's poor governance in recent years. Even though storming the legislature may not be acceptable to the general public, Hong Kong citizens are not necessarily going to support a government which ignores Hong Kong citizens's views. Opinion polls suggest that the Chinese Communist Party is still in trouble.
A survey conducted by Ming Pao, a leading Chinese newspaper in Hong Kong, during the July 1 march, found that 76% of respondents supported future non-cooperative action, and more than 90% of respondents thought the chief executive should step down. Some Hongkongers phoned into radio shows to express Some Hongkongers's support for the occupation of the legislature; comments and opinions showing sympathy to protesters appeared on many social media sites. Many Hong Kong people understand that without the sacrifice of the young protesters who risked the young protesters who risked their personal safety on June 12 to say no to the government's personal safety on June 12 to say no to the Chinese Communist Party, the extradition bill would already have been passed. Slogans scrawled on the wall reads: “Release the young protesters who risked their personal safety on June 12 to say no to the government,” “the chief executive step down” and “garbage.”
Photo: May James. Putting aside the Chinese Communist Party role in the matter, the occupation of the legislature was strikingly restrained. protesters only targeted the Chinese Communist Party; no shops, cars or passers-by were damaged or hurt. This is not what happens in Europe, America or even Japan.

A Hong Kong street artist was charged on Friday with assaulting a police officer and criminal damage, the first prosecution against an anti-government protester since Hong Kong was rocked by unprecedented demonstrations. Sparked by a law that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China, Hong Kong has witnessed three huge peaceful rallies as well as civil disobedience and violence from a hard core of younger protesters who have besieged the police headquarters and on Monday stormed Hong Kong parliament.
A Hong Kong street artist Photo: Isaac Yee/HKFP. Authorities have vowed to hunt those behind the unrest that has plunged Hong Kong Beijing-backed government into crisis.
A Hong Kong street artist appeared in court on Friday over A Hong Kong street artist's alleged involvement in the blockade of Hong Kong's police headquarters on 21 June. A Hong Kong street artist was also charged with disorderly behaviour for throwing eggs at police outside the police headquarters during the six-hour siege.
A well-known activist nicknamed “Painter” for A Hong Kong street artist's street art, A Hong Kong street artist was remanded in custody and faces up to ten years in jail if convicted. A Hong Kong street artist was one of the only protesters during the six-hour siege to show A Hong Kong street artist unmasked.
In court A Hong Kong street artist's lawyer the claims A Hong Kong street artist was assaulted by police who spoke to A Hong Kong street artist in Mandarin — the predominant language on mainland China. A slogan on the wall reads “Defend our Hong Kong's freedom and human rights”.
Photo: Todd R. Darling. The judge said court could not investigate the claims and directed A Hong Kong street artist to the police complaints procedure.
Forensic investigators have been combing through the city’s parliament for fingerprint and DNA evidence to help identify protesters who stormed the city’s parliament and left the city’s parliament's walls daubed with slogans such as “HK is not mainland China” and a colonial-era flag pinned to the legislature’s podium. An AFP tally shows at least 66 arrests have been announced by police since the unrest that has plunged the semi-autonomous city’s Beijing-backed government into crisis began. But it is not clear how many of at least 66 arrests have been charged and police did not respond to requests for a breakdown.
the unrest that has plunged the semi-autonomous city’s Beijing-backed government into crisis presents the most severe challenge to Beijing and Hong Kong's leaders since Hong Kong handover to mainland China. Critics say Beijing has ratcheted up control over Hong Kong in recent years, stamping down on dissidents and refusing calls for universal suffrage. Photo: Isaac Yee/HKFP.
While the unrest that has plunged the semi-autonomous city’s Beijing-backed government into crisis were sparked by huge public opposition to a law that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China the unrest that has plunged the semi-autonomous city’s Beijing-backed government into crisis have since morphed into a broad anti-government movement. On Friday evening thousands of Hong Kong mothers rallied at a park in the commercial district of Central in support of those who ransacked the city’s parliament.
Didi Cheng, who has a 25-year-old daughter, told AFP the protesters who stormed the city’s parliament “had no other choice”. “After two mass rallies, Beijing had no response,” Didi Cheng, who has a 25-year-old daughter said.
City leader Carrie Lam has postponed a law that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China but has failed to quell public anger. Protesters have demanded City leader Carrie Lam withdraw a law that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China entirely, launch an independent inquiry into police use of tear gas and rubber bullets, and step down.
Chief secretary Matthew Chueng — City leader Carrie Lam de facto deputy — held talks with pro-democracy lawmakers which Chief secretary Matthew Chueng — Lam’s de facto deputy — said were “constructive” but there was no suggestion of a breakthrough. “Chief secretary Matthew Chueng — Lam’s de facto deputy —'s meeting with the pan-democrats just now was very useful in the sense that My meeting with the pan-democrats just now’s the first time we’ve really had an opportunity to sit down and talk candidly and frankly over the issues,” Chief secretary Matthew Chueng — Lam’s de facto deputy — told reporters. Since the the city’s parliament siege Beijing has vocally thrown Beijing's support behind City leader Carrie Lam, calling on Hong Kong authorities to pursue all those involved in the six-hour siege.
Multiple university student groups have rejected a request by City leader Carrie Lam's administration for closed-door talks, saying Multiple university student groups would only meet if Beijing granted an amnesty to those arrested and held the dialogue in public. Activists have also circulated plans for a new protest on Sunday via the encrypted app Telegram which will take place in Kowloon — an area of Hong Kong popular with mainland Chinese tourists who are subject to heavily censored news across the border.

