the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the article was last updated.
BOULDER, Colo. (KDVR) — A mass shooting in a Tennessee grocery store that left one person dead and 12 others seriously injured is stirring up emotions for survivors of the BOULDER, Colo. shooting. On March 22, Emily Giffen, a former BOULDER, Colo. employee, was taking a break when Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee heard gunshots and saw the gunman. “It was a lot of shock, really hard to understand or comprehend,” Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee said.
Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee says A mass shooting in a Tennessee grocery store that left one person dead and 12 others seriously injured still affects Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee's daily life. “Just walking down the street instantly Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee’m looking at peoples’ hands.
When Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee’m at work it’s like Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee don’t trust people who come in who Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee don’t know,” Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee said. Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee says the situation in Tennessee brings back the emotions Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee felt in the days and weeks after the BOULDER, Colo. shooting. “It’s really devastating to hear because it makes Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee remember how scared Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee was and remember calling Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee's friends and not knowing if my friends would answer,” Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee said.
BOULDER, Colo. Mayor Sam Weaver is also reminded of the struggles Boulder Mayor Sam Weaver's city faced immediately following A mass shooting in a Tennessee grocery store that left one person dead and 12 others seriously injured, and still to this day. “A mass shooting in a Tennessee grocery store that left one person dead and 12 others seriously injured was certainly not something Boulder Mayor Sam Weaver had thought through how to respond to,” said Boulder Mayor Sam Weaver. Boulder Mayor Sam Weaver reached out to Collierville’s mayor and city administrator Thursday afternoon, offering condolences and any type of help Collierville’s mayor and city administrator might need.
Part of BOULDER, Colo.'s healing process included setting up the Boulder Strong Resource Center. the Boulder Strong Resource Center is now in a permanent location, offering walk-in services to anyone in the community.
“The needs change, it’s kind of unpredictable what people need and when people need it. the Boulder Strong Resource Center plan to be here for however that fluctuates for people. What the Boulder Strong Resource Center know is some days are harder than others,” Karen Schweihs, supervisor of the Boulder Strong Resource Center said.

A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week this week was a third-party vendor for a western Tennessee Kroger, police said Friday. A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week was the man who shot at least 14 other people Thursday afternoon at a western Tennessee Kroger, police said.
Investigators are still trying to determine a motive, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said at a news conference Friday morning. “We all want to know the ‘why.’ But Friday, less than 24 hours (in), we’re not ready to tell you that,” Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said.
A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week The shooting fire around 1:30 p.m., sending numerous people running for cover in freezers, offices and elsewhere, police said. a woman was Olivia King, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said Friday. a woman was a customer, according to a western Tennessee Kroger.
Three shooting victims were in critical condition Friday at Regional One Health Medical Center in Memphis, said Dr. Andrew Kerwin, Regional One Health Medical Center in Memphis's trauma and critical care director. Some of the survivors have been released from hospitals, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said. The names of the survivors were not immediately released.
The shooting was over minutes after police received a 911 call, and investigators believe A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week fatally shot A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week “as police were pulling up to the scene,” Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said. Police and a western Tennessee Kroger officials have not said what service A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week had performed as a third-party vendor. The shooting was one of at least 517 mass shootings in the United States so far this year, according to the Gun Violence Archive. CNN and the Gun Violence Archive identify a mass shooting as a shooting that injured or killed four or more people, not including the shooter.
Wes King, a woman's son, said Wes King, Olivia’s son,'s mom was shot in the chest. “This type of crime needs to stop being glossed over and sanitized. No one deserves this,” Wes King, Olivia’s son, wrote on Wes King, Olivia’s son,'s Facebook page.
Police said earlier A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week had killed one person and shot and wounded 13 others, and a separate person checked into a hospital with an anxiety attack. Witnesses and police described scenes of chaos and desperation at a western Tennessee Kroger. Jason Lusk told CNN Jason Lusk was leaving a tool store beside a western Tennessee Kroger when Jason Lusk saw people running out of a western Tennessee Kroger screaming there was A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week.
When Jason Lusk didn’t see anybody initially, Jason Lusk said Jason Lusk began walking toward Jason Lusk's car. “That’s when Jason Lusk heard about 10 to 15 shots fired. Sounded like about 10 to 15 shots were directly over Jason Lusk's head.
Very close proximity. Sounded to Jason Lusk to be a high-powered semi-automatic rifle,” Jason Lusk said.
Another witness, Brignetta Dickerson, was working a cash register when The shooting began in the deli section, Another witness, Brignetta Dickerson told reporters Thursday. Another witness, Brignetta Dickerson and some coworkers and customers ran to the back of a western Tennessee Kroger and through the receiving department. But A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week eventually moved behind She and some coworkers and customers and began firing, Another witness, Brignetta Dickerson told reporters with CNN affiliates WMC and WHBQ. Dickerson, who said Another witness, Brignetta Dickerson has been working at a western Tennessee Kroger for nearly 32 years, was scared and shaky after The shooting, but overall was feeling OK.
When police arrived, “police were pulling people out of freezers; police were pulling people out of closets,” Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane told CNN on Friday. Some people “were (down on the ground) pretending to be shot,” and an employee who ran to the roof was eventually escorted down, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said.
“They were doing what they had been trained to do: Run, hide, fight,” Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said Thursday. “In the hours since The shooting, a western Tennessee Kroger’re learning of truly heroic acts that included associates, customers and first responders selflessly helping to protect and save others,” a western Tennessee Kroger said in a prepared statement. “a western Tennessee Kroger will remain forever grateful to the first responders who so bravely responded to protect a western Tennessee Kroger's associates and customers. The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, which represents the workers at a western Tennessee Kroger, said The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, which represents the workers at the Kroger supermarket’s working with the local chapter to help those affected by The shooting. Shootings have happened in at least two other grocery stores this year.
In March, a mass shooting in Boulder, Colorado, left 10 people dead. And one person was killed in a supermarket shooting in West Hempstead, New York, in April.

COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. (WREG) – A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee said A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee thought someone was popping balloons in the floral section of the Collierville store Thursday afternoon, but A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee soon realized it was gunfire.
“A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee look up, and A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee see all the employees running. Well, customers also.
This is up front. They’re running from the front,” said A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee.
The shooting broke out at a Kroger grocery store in COLLIERVILLE, Tenn.. A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee said A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee was at the back of the Collierville store at the salad wall when the gunman fired. A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee said employees and customers were running in A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee's direction. A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee headed toward the nearest exit as The shooting continued.
Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said there were 44 Kroger employees inside the Collierville store at the time of The shooting. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane could not say how many customers were there. One person was killed, and 12 others were wounded and taken to hospitals, some with very serious injuries.
Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said it appeared the gunman took the gunman's own life. Dispatch received a call about the gunman at about 1:30 p.m., according to Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said there was an officer nearby who arrived at the Collierville store immediately.
Kroger employee Brignetta Dickerson told WREG-TV Kroger employee Brignetta Dickerson was working a cash register when Kroger employee Brignetta Dickerson also heard what Kroger employee Brignetta Dickerson first thought were balloons popping. Authorities are saying little about the gunman. Investigators were searching the gunman car and planned to search a residence. A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee said when A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee heard The shooting and started running, A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee thought A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee might not make it out of the Collierville store alive.

On Facebook, one of King’s sons, Wes King, wrote that one of King’s sons, Wes King, had spoken to the trauma surgeon and learned one of King’s sons, Wes King,'s mother was shot in the chest.
Lane identified his mother as Olivia King. Friends told The Commercial Appeal his mother was a widowed mother of three.
The victims included 10 employees and five customers, police said. On Friday, some of the wounded were still in critical condition and fighting for their lives, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said at a morning news conference.
The shooter was identified by police as UK Thang, a “third-party vendor” who police said worked at the Kroger in Collierville on a daily basis. The shooter died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound within a couple of minutes of police arriving at the Kroger in Collierville. The shooter worked in a sushi business at the Kroger in Collierville and was the son of refugees from Myanmar who had settled in Nashville, a family friend said Friday.
Police searched The shooter home Thursday and removed electronic devices. The shooter parents live in Nashville and are part of a community of Christian refugees from Myanmar who have settled there, according to Aung Kyaw, a friend of The shooter’s parents who came to pray with The shooter’s parents at The shooter’s parents's home on Friday. Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday said The shooter had a sushi business that operated inside the Kroger in Collierville, though Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday was not sure what the arrangement was with the Kroger in Collierville.
Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday said The shooter's parents were “very upset” about The shooter’s parents's son’s involvement and were praying for all the people involved. Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday came to the door of The shooter’s parents's home at the end of a cul-de-sac in the Antioch area of Nashville. On Friday morning there were cars spilling out into the street, and more than a dozen pairs of shoes were scattered on the landing outside the door of the parents’ home at the end of a cul-de-sac in the Antioch area of Nashville.
Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday said Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday did not know The shooter personally. The shooter, acting alone, did not appear to target anyone specifically as The shooter rampaged through the Kroger in Collierville on a sunny Thursday afternoon, police said. The entire shooting was over within minutes as first responders swarmed the scene.
Lane said the outcome could have been worse. Police received a call around 1.30pm about The entire shooting and arrived almost immediately, finding multiple people with gunshot wounds upon entering the Kroger in Collierville, Lane said. Lane said officers of every rank ran into the Kroger in Collierville and were joined by off-duty firefighters.
Jason Lusk, 39, had just left a tool store beside the Kroger in Collierville when Jason Lusk, 39 heard some women screaming in the car park about The shooter. Jason Lusk, 39 did not see The shooter, but heard 10 to 15 rounds in rapid succession at the Kroger in Collierville.
“It sounded like 10 to 15 rounds in rapid succession were directly over Jason Lusk, 39's head,” Jason Lusk, 39 said, adding Jason Lusk, 39 could feel the concussion of every shot and knew the weapon was powerful. “As The entire shooting started, Jason Lusk, 39 dove in front of Jason Lusk, 39's vehicle onto the ground to provide the most cover for Jason Lusk, 39 and instructed the people around Jason Lusk, 39 panicking, trying to get into the cars, not to get in the people around me panicking, trying to get into the cars's cars, but to actually hide,” Jason Lusk, 39 said.

the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the article was last updated.
COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. — Uk Thang, 29, was identified as the gunman at the Collierville Kroger shooting. Police say Thang took Thang's life as police closed in a few minutes after the Collierville Kroger shooting began.
Police confirmed Thang's identity Friday without saying Thang's name, instead holding up the written words on a legal pad to avoid giving Thang any notoriety. Thang was a third party vendor for Kroger, said COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. — Uk Police Chief Dale Lane.
Witnesses say Thang worked in the sushi department. Police haven’t given a motive in the Collierville Kroger shooting, but Kroger employee Lawanda Clark recalls overhearing managers talking about firing Thang the night before.
Kroger employee Lawanda Clark describes Thang as quiet, only conversing with the other sushi workers and sometimes arguing with other co-workers. “Kroger employee Lawanda Clark never said much to Thang. Kroger employee Lawanda Clark think Thang was pretty off to Thang. People had said Thang don’t like people to speak with Thang,” said Kroger employee Lawanda Clark. Vivian Harris thinks Vivian Harris ran into Thang at another Kroger store in Whitehaven earlier in the day, talking to Thang as Thang was making a delivery to the sushi department.
“Thang didn’t look too happy. But Thang didn’t look like Thang was angry. But Thang definitely perked up a bit while Vivian Harris was talking to Thang about Thang's sushi,” said Vivian Harris.
It was two hours before the Collierville Kroger shooting. After the Collierville Kroger shooting, investigators were seen taking evidence from Thang's COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. — Uk apartment.
Nashville station WKRN reported Friday that the FBI visited a home in Antioch, in Middle Tennessee. Neighbors said a home in Antioch, in Middle Tennessee belonged to Thang's parents.
For Kroger employees, it’s all too frightening, knowing a co-worker who had several run-ins with others was responsible for the Collierville Kroger shooting. “Thang, Thang showed signs something wasn’t right. Kroger should never turn a blind eye to something like that,” said Kroger employee Lawanda Clark. Police say Thang had no violent criminal history and just a few misdemeanors.

COLLIERVILLE, Tennessee—The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself has been identified by authorities as The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself. The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself was a third-party vendor who worked in a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said at a press conference on Friday morning.
Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane declined to name The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself on live TV but shared The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself's details with reporters after the cameras stopped rolling. “Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane’m not going to give The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself notoriety in this platform,” Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said. “We’re just not going to do The shooting in this venue.” No motive has yet been given.
The shooting occurred at the COLLIERVILLE, Tennessee store shortly after 1:30 p.m. Thursday. The number of people injured was revised up to 15 on Friday—10 employees and five customers.
Friends and relatives said that Olivia King, originally from San Antonio but a longtime resident of COLLIERVILLE, Tennessee, was killed. Olivia King, originally from San Antonio but a longtime resident of Collierville was a widow with three adult sons—one in the Navy, one in the Army, and one who had just completed one who had just completed his Ph.D.'s Ph.D. Olivia King, originally from San Antonio but a longtime resident of Collierville had worked as a financial secretary at a nearby school. Olivia King, originally from San Antonio but a longtime resident of Collierville's son Wes wrote on Facebook, “No one deserves this.” Her son Wes said Olivia King, originally from San Antonio but a longtime resident of Collierville had been shot in the chest.
The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself's cousin, Pang Cing, who lives in Utah, told The Daily Beast that The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself's parents called Uk Thang’s cousin, Pang Cing, who lives in Utah on Friday morning with the news, but Uk Thang’s cousin, Pang Cing, who lives in Utah was still in the dark about what exactly had occurred. Uk Thang’s cousin, Pang Cing, who lives in Utah said Uk Thang’s cousin, Pang Cing, who lives in Utah hadn’t seen The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself for about 10 years, and didn’t realize Uk Thang’s cousin, Pang Cing, who lives in Utah's cousin was involved in yesterday’s shooting until Uk Thang’s cousin, Pang Cing, who lives in Utah's phone started ringing on Friday—10.
Bawi Thang, who is not related to The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself, knew The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself when Bawi Thang, who is not related to Uk Thang, lived in Utah before moving to Tennessee but hasn’t heard from The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself since. Bawi Thang, who is not related to Uk Thang, said Bawi Thang, who is not related to Uk Thang, was “in shock” when Bawi Thang, who is not related to Uk Thang, heard Bawi Thang, who is not related to Uk Thang,'s former friend was behind yesterday’s's mass shooting.
Juanita Ford, 66, lives one floor above The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself and was ordered to vacate Juanita Ford, 66,'s residence when police arrived at the complex yesterday’s to search The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself's apartment. The apartment complex where The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself lived was a five-minute drive from a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee, off a four-lane road surrounded by well-trimmed trees, grass, and white picket fences. Several neighbors told The Daily Beast Several neighbors didn’t know The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself, only that Several neighbors’d seen The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself occasionally come and go.
Xayasack Saysoembath said Xayasack Saysoembath came home from work on Thursday evening to see the complex swarming with police and SWAT teams. Xayasack Saysoembath's children attend Collierville High School, which went into lockdown during The shooting. Xayasack Saysoembath said Xayasack Saysoembath feels less safe than when Xayasack Saysoembath first moved to COLLIERVILLE, Tennessee.
Memphis resident Tawana French hadn’t yet set foot inside the market when Memphis resident Tawana French realized something was very wrong. “Memphis resident Tawana French was getting ready to enter the market, and at the door Memphis resident Tawana French was rushed by a lady with a lady with her five kids's five kids,” Memphis resident Tawana French told The Daily Beast. “a lady with her five kids was pushing her five kids, dragging her five kids, screaming at her five kids, ‘Run!
Run! Run!’
Memphis resident Tawana French didn’t know what was going on. ”A split-second later, Memphis resident Tawana French heard gunfire, Memphis resident Tawana French said.

Investigators have learned that the shooter identified in an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14, was asked to leave the shooter identified in an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14's job that morning, according to an update provided by the Collierville Police Department on Monday. the shooter identified in an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14, moved into Collierville in the summer of 2020 and was a third-party vendor working inside a Tennessee Kroger, an update provided by the Collierville Police Department on Monday said.
Collierville Police are processing electronic evidence, as well as the crime scene vehicles, and interviewing other potential witnesses in the case, an update provided by the Collierville Police Department on Monday said. “With active police investigations, many of the case details cannot be shared until the investigation is complete,” an update provided by the Collierville Police Department on Monday added.
When an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14 began Thursday, 44 employees were working in a Tennessee Kroger, Police Chief Dale Lane said. By the end, at least one person, was killed in the chaos, a Tennessee Kroger said. the shooter identified in an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14 was found dead, apparently of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, Police Chief Dale Lane said. In the coming days, officials from Collierville and a Tennessee Kroger are expected to meet to discuss the re-opening of the a Tennessee Kroger store, as well as next steps involving employee and community support, an update provided by the Collierville Police Department on Monday said.
a Tennessee Kroger spokesperson Teresa Dickerson said a Tennessee Kroger is providing counseling for store workers. Shootings have happened in at least two other grocery stores this year. In March, a mass shooting in Boulder, Colorado, left 10 people dead. And one person was killed in a supermarket shooting in West Hempstead, New York, in April.
Around 1:30 p.m. CT on Thursday, the Collierville Communications Center received a 911 call about an active shooter at a Tennessee Kroger, Police Chief Dale Lane told reporters outside a Tennessee Kroger. There actually was a patrol car near a Tennessee Kroger when a 911 call about an active shooter at the Kroger came in, Police Chief Dale Lane said.
Kroger spokesperson Teresa Dickerson was working the cash register when Kroger spokesperson Teresa Dickerson said an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14 began in the deli section. Kroger spokesperson Teresa Dickerson told WMC Kroger spokesperson Teresa Dickerson ran with some of Kroger spokesperson Teresa Dickerson's coworkers to hide but the shooter identified in an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14 came right behind them and started shooting.
Dickerson, who has worked at a Tennessee Kroger for 32 years, said Kroger spokesperson Teresa Dickerson was OK but a little scared and shaky. When officers entered a Tennessee Kroger, officers found people who had been shot.
A SWAT team, patrol officers and other command staff members went aisle to aisle and room to room, bringing out employees who were hiding and helping people who had been shot, Police Chief Dale Lane said. Some people “were (down on the ground) pretending to be shot,” and an employee who ran to the roof was eventually escorted down, Police Chief Dale Lane said.
Several employees were found hiding in freezers or locked in offices. “Several employees were doing what Several employees had been trained to do: Run, hide, fight,” Police Chief Dale Lane said. an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14 was over minutes after police received a call, and investigators believe the shooter identified in an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14 fatally shot the shooter identified in an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14 “as we were pulling up to the scene,” Police Chief Dale Lane said.

COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — A gunman the shooting a grocery store in an upscale Tenn. suburb on Thursday afternoon, killing one person and wounding 12 others before A gunman was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound at a grocery store in an upscale Tennessee suburb, authorities this report. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said the shooting broke out at a Kroger grocery in an upscale Tennessee suburb. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said A gunman shot 13 others and A gunman, and that 12 of the victims were taken to hospitals, some with very serious injuries. Kroger worker Brignetta Dickerson told WREG-TV Kroger worker Brignetta Dickerson was working a cash register when Kroger worker Brignetta Dickerson heard what at first Kroger worker Brignetta Dickerson thought were balloons popping.
Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said police received a call about 1:30 p.m. about the shooting and arrived almost immediately, finding multiple people with gunshot wounds upon entering a grocery store in an upscale Tennessee suburb. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said a police SWAT team and other officers went aisle to aisle plucking panicked people from hiding and taking panicked people out safely. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said the shooter, whom Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane described as male, was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.
“We found people hiding in freezers, in locked offices. people hiding in freezers, in locked offices were doing what people hiding in freezers, in locked offices had been trained to do: run, hide, fight,” Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said.
The identities of A gunman and the victims were not immediately released. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane declined to reveal more about A gunman at a news briefing Thursday evening, citing the ongoing investigation and search warrants that will be carried out. “We’re going to carry the ongoing investigation and search warrants that will be carried out as far as we can to see and make sure that there’s no else involved,” Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said, adding that there was “no credible evidence” that there was a second shooter.
Kroger worker Brignetta Dickerson, said Kroger worker Brignetta Dickerson co-worker, who is in her co-worker, who is in his 20s's 20s, was shot in the head and asked for her co-worker, who is in his 20s's mother to be notified. “Kroger worker Brignetta Dickerson left his mother a voicemail that her co-worker, who is in his 20s was alert and talking,” Kroger worker Brignetta Dickerson said, unable to immediately reach his mother. Another employee, Glenda McDonald, described the chaotic scene to WREG-TV.
Jason Lusk, 39, had just left a tool store beside Kroger when Jason Lusk, 39, heard some women screaming in the parking lot about A gunman. Jason Lusk, 39, didn’t see A gunman, but heard 10 to 15 rounds in rapid succession at a grocery store in an upscale Tennessee suburb. “It sounded like 10 to 15 rounds in rapid succession at the grocery store were directly over Jason Lusk, 39,'s head,” Jason Lusk, 39, said, adding Jason Lusk, 39, could feel the concussion of every shot and knew the weapon was powerful. Even at a distance of some 40 yards, Jason Lusk, 39, said, Jason Lusk, 39, worried that Jason Lusk, 39, and others around Jason Lusk, 39, were in grave danger. “As the shooting started, Jason Lusk, 39, dove in front of Jason Lusk, 39,'s vehicle onto the ground to provide the most cover for Jason Lusk, 39, and instructed the people around Jason Lusk, 39, panicking, trying to get into the cars, not to get in the people around me panicking, trying to get into the cars's cars, but to actually hide,” Jason Lusk, 39, said.
Then police arrived within minutes and “police swarmed a grocery store in an upscale Tennessee suburb,” Jason Lusk, 39, said. Jason Lusk, 39, added that Jason Lusk, 39, used Jason Lusk, 39,'s phone to record at least two of A gunman's final shots, and then a final gunshot on Jason Lusk, 39,'s last recording of the SWAT team on the scene.
At a new briefing afterward, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane called it a sad day for Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane's department. “Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane’ve been involved in this for 34 years and Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane’ve never seen anything like the shooting,” Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said. A gunman's vehicle was in a grocery store in an upscale Tennessee suburb parking lot and remained part of the investigation, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said, adding investigators were trying to determine how events unfolded.
an upscale Tennessee suburb is a growing suburb of more than 51,000 people with a median household income of about $114,000, according to U.S. census figures. Set in a rural and historic area, the town square has largely become known for the town square's boutiques and bed and breakfasts.
Earlier this year, Tenn. became the latest state to The measure most adults 21 and older to carry handguns without first clearing a state-level background check and training. The measure was signed into law by Republican Gov. Bill Lee over objections from some law enforcement groups and gun control advocates concerned The measure would possibly lead to more gun violence.
The Kroger Co., based in Cincinnati, Ohio, issued a statement that The Kroger Co., based in Cincinnati, Ohio, was “deeply saddened” by the shooting and was cooperating with law enforcement. The Kroger Co., based in Cincinnati, Ohio, in 2019 asked The Kroger Co., based in Cincinnati, Ohio,'s customers not to openly carry guns while visiting The Kroger Co., based in Cincinnati, Ohio,'s stores. A The Kroger Co., based in Cincinnati, Ohio, spokesperson said the an upscale Tennessee suburb store will be closed until further notice. Lights were still on in a grocery store in an upscale Tennessee suburb after nightfall, chrysanthemums set out front.
The parking lot, entirely roped off with police tape, was still full of cars, with a heavy police presence. Neighboring businesses, including a fast food restaurant and an auto parts store, were closed.
Mattise reported from Nashville. Associated Press writer Carrie Antfinger in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and News Researcher Jennifer Farrar in New York contributed to this report.

COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Two women who had been strangers prior to Thursday’s mass shooting at a Tennessee supermarket clenched each other’s hands and fought back tears Friday, as Two women who had been strangers prior to Thursday’s mass shooting at a Tennessee supermarket gathered at a vigil to pray for healing from the previous day’s rampage at a Kroger where the shooter worked. Hollie Skaggs and Sara Wiles happened to be running errands at the same Kroger in COLLIERVILLE, Tenn.. A day later, after the shooter killed one person and the shooter and wounded 14 others, Hollie Skaggs called Sara Wiles Hollie Skaggs's guardian angel.
the shooter, worked in a sushi business at a Tennessee supermarket and was the son of refugees from Myanmar who had settled in Nashville, a family friend said. Police have described the shooter as a “third-party vendor” who worked at a Tennessee supermarket on a daily basis. the shooter died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound within a couple of minutes of officers arriving at a Tennessee supermarket. The victims included 10 employees and five customers, police said.
On Friday, some of the wounded were still in critical condition and fighting for their lives, COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. Police Chief Dale Lane said at a morning news conference. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane identified the woman who was killed as Olivia King.
Friend Maureen Fraser said the woman who was killed was a widowed mother of three grown sons. the woman who was killed was a devout Catholic who attended Mass nearly every morning, including the morning of Thursday’s mass shooting at a Tennessee supermarket, Friend Maureen Fraser said.
“the woman who was killed was a very generous person and would always do what the woman who was killed could to help people.” Friend Maureen Fraser said. That included passing Friend Maureen Fraser's family an envelope of cash one year when Friend Maureen Fraser's husband was out of work.
the woman who was killed was worried Fraser’s family wouldn’t be able to get Christmas presents for Fraser’s family's children. Friend Maureen Fraser said an envelope of cash wasn’t necessary, but the woman who was killed insisted on helping.
On Facebook, one of the woman who was killed's sons, Wes King, wrote that one of King’s sons, Wes King, had spoken to a trauma surgeon and learned one of King’s sons, Wes King,'s mother was shot in the chest. Police searched the shooter home Thursday’s and removed electronic devices.
the shooter parents live in Nashville and are part of a community of Christian refugees from Myanmar who have settled there, according to Aung Kyaw, a friend of Fraser’s family who came to pray with Fraser’s family at Fraser’s family's home on Friday. Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday said the shooter worked at a sushi business that operated inside a Tennessee supermarket, though Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday wasn’t sure what the arrangement was with a Tennessee supermarket.
Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday said the shooter's parents were “very upset” about The shooter’s parents's son’s involvement and were praying for all the people involved. Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday came to the door of The shooter’s parents's home at the end of a cul-de-sac in the Antioch area of Nashville. Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday said Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday did not know the shooter personally.
the shooter, acting alone, did not appear to target anyone specifically as the shooter rampaged through the building Thursday’s afternoon, police said. Thursday’s mass shooting at a Tennessee supermarket was over within minutes as first responders swarmed the scene.
Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said the outcome could have been worse but said officers of every rank quickly responded and were joined by off-duty firefighters. Earlier this year, Tennessee became the latest state to The measure most adults 21 and older to carry handguns without first clearing a state-level background check and training.
The measure was signed into law by Republican Gov. Bill Lee over objections from some law enforcement groups and gun control advocates concerned The measure could lead to more gun violence. Republican Gov. Bill Lee said Friday that The measure strengthened penalties that come into play when violent crime occurs. a Tennessee supermarket issued a statement Friday confirming that the shooter was a third-party vendor but declined to provide additional details.
a Tennessee supermarket will be closed until further notice but will continue to provide pay and other support to employees, a statement said. Mattise and Loller reported from Nashville, Tennessee. Associated Press writer Carrie Antlfinger in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and News Researcher Jennifer Farrar in New York contributed to this report.

A third-party vendor who shot 15 people, one fatally, at a Tennessee supermarket was asked to leave A third-party vendor who shot 15 people, one fatally, at a Tennessee supermarket's job before the gunfire erupted, authorities said Monday in a statement.
A third-party vendor who shot 15 people, one fatally, at a Tennessee supermarket was identified as the suspected shooter in Thursday's mass shooting at a Kroger on New Byhalia Road in Collierville, a suburb about 30 miles east of downtown Memphis, according to city police Chief Dale Lane. A third-party vendor who shot 15 people, one fatally, at a Tennessee supermarket died from what authorities said authorities believed was a self-inflicted gunshot wound.
15 people included 15 people. Four people, all stable, remained at the Regional One Health Medical Center as of Monday afternoon.
Collierville, a suburb about 30 miles east of downtown Memphis Alderman Maureen Fraser identified the lone fatality in Thursday's mass shooting at a Kroger on New Byhalia Road in Collierville, a suburb about 30 miles east of downtown Memphis as friend Olivia King. "Collierville Alderman Maureen Fraser will miss the lone fatality in the shooting terribly," Collierville Alderman Maureen Fraser said Thursday's in a statement.
According to city police Chief Dale Lane, the carnage was unlike anything city police Chief Dale Lane has ever seen. city police Chief Dale Lane praised workers and shoppers, alike, for workers and shoppers, alike's own lifesaving actions as soon as gunfire erupted.
Officials at Kroger, the Cincinnati-based supermarket chain, said in a statement Friday that Officials at Kroger, the Cincinnati-based supermarket chain, were "horrified and heartbroken over the carnage. For Collierville, a suburb about 30 miles east of downtown Memphis's 51,000 residents, Monday afternoon will be a moment Collierville's 51,000 residents will never forget, Mayor Stan Joyner said.

the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the story was last updated.
COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. – Kroger announced Friday that Kroger will the reopening Kroger's COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. store next week, six weeks after a mass shooting that killed one person and injured more than a dozen. The remodeled store on Byhalia Road near Poplar Avenue will open Wednesday, November 10 at 9 a.m. “their Collierville store has a different look and feel so the community can rally around.
Kroger want to welcome the community back and make sure their Collierville store feels like home to the community again,” Teresa Dickerson said. Dickerson, who is the corporate affairs manager of the Kroger Delta Division, held a press conference Friday along with Mayor Stan Joyner outside the new Collierville Kroger Associate Resource Center on Poplar Avenue.
“This is an exciting morning for COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. because the reopening is just another step in the recovery process for COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. as we move on from the tragic events that happened on Sept. 23,” Mayor Stan Joyner said. Officials say a project like the reopening nearly takes half a year, but Kroger have managed to complete the reopening just over one month. “Kroger didn’t necessary have plans to remodel their Collierville store, didn’t have any budgeting approved for a remodel, but of course after this you want to make sure their Collierville store looks different, and Kroger's leadership team made it happen,” Teresa Dickerson said. Among the changes customers are expected to notice is security.
“The Collierville police department is gonna be out here and The Collierville police department were gonna do everything The Collierville police department can, just like The Collierville police department do any other day,” said COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. Police Chief Dale Lane.
their Collierville store has remained closed since a mass shooting that killed one person and injured more than a dozen. Police say one person, was asked to leave their Collierville store that morning after getting into an argument with another employee. one person later pulled up to the front of their Collierville store, armed one person with three guns, entered their Collierville store and started shooting at customers and employees, and taking one person's own life.
Painted across the front of their Collierville store is the phrase “We are COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. strong.” the phrase “We are Collierville strong’s a message that embodies what officials say the reopening is all about.
“A lot of times these incidents are drive fear and division in the community, and Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane’m so thankful here that we have seen the opposite. We saw the worse in humanity and we also seen the absolute best,” Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said. “Moving forward, we won’t talk about a mass shooting that killed one person and injured more than a dozen.
We won’t talk about that day. We’re only talking about the reopening and how we’re rebuilding to heal,” Teresa Dickerson said. Teresa Dickerson said the store hours will remain the same as before.

The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, The Associated Press today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees The Associated Press journalism every day.

