Kingstown – The lead scientist monitoring the La Soufriere volcano here, Professor Richard Robertson, says an increase in earthquakes at the site could suggest that an explosive eruption could happen soon. La Soufriere has been erupting effusively since late December, and a new dome has formed alongside the one left inside the crater after the 1979 eruption of the volcano. The National Emergency Management Organisation (NEMO) Wednesday warned residents of communities near to the volcano to heighten their preparedness in the event that it becomes necessary for them to evacuate at short notice. NEMO said that scientists at the Belmont Observatory, have noted a change in seismic activity associated with the ongoing eruption of the volcano. Robertson said that the scientists had always indicated that the volcano could continue effusing material for a long time, it could stop effusing material, or it could erupt effusively. “And one of the things that will drive it to go explosive is fresh material coming in; new material to give it energy,” Robertson said, adding that the earthquakes which began on Tuesday could indicate that fresh magma is trying to make its way to the surface. “So this is the first indication that maybe this is happening. We have to track it to see if it is really indicative of that,” he further explained. He said that the material that has oozed out of the volcano since December could have been there since the eruption of April 1979. However, this week’s events suggest that new material could be making its way to the surface. “This magma is deeper down, is trying to get to the surface, it’s trying to find a pathway through and, in doing that, it is causing vibrations in the ground, which our instruments are detecting,” Robertson said. Since the effusive eruption began, scientists have installed additional monitoring equipment across the country and Robertson said that the information generated this week shows that the equipment is functioning as intended. “That is what they are set up there to do. They are set up there precisely to tell us if something like that is trying to come through and we are then about to track it . . . ,” he explained. Robertson led the team that was initially deployed from the Trinidad-based Seismic Research Centre (SRC) of the St Augustine campus of the University of the West Indies (UWI) after the effusive eruption began. He has since returned here after leaving in January and noted that the new dome that resulted from the ongoing effusive eruption is probably twice as large as it was in January. “At the end of January it was bobbing around four to five million cubic metres. Now, it’s 13.1 [million cubic metres] last time we checked,” Robertson said. In January, the dome measured between 100 and 200 metres across, but it is now 900 metres long. “So it stretches from around the Larikai gap all the way to the place where the fumarole is on the pre-existing dome,” Robertson said. The scientist said that eruption continues to be effusive but there have been some slight changes since Tuesday. “We have now started to feel what we call proper earthquakes,” he said, adding that up until Tuesday, most of the earthquake activity from the volcano was really related to the dome building itself up — which scientists call dome emplacement events. “So you have magma coming out and oozing out and as it oozes out, its solid rock, because it is solid rock, is moving, it has gas and so on, all of those general seismic signals,” he said, noting that these signals don’t travel very far and were only captured by stations very close to the volcano. Robertson said that these types of earthquakes tend to have a little bit more energy and larger in magnitude and detected by more volcano monitoring stations. “And because they have more energy, because they are bigger, it’s possible that they are being felt, and we have reports that they have been felt by people on the volcano itself,” he said, referring to communities located on the slope of the volcano. While speaking on the programme, Robertson said the monitoring station recorded the biggest event since the increased activity started. “We have to keep tracking it to see if the signature of the signal will change as it tries to get further up. The number of events might change; the magnitude might change.
No significant change in the activity of the volcano has occurred since the last update and has remained essentially unchanged at effusive phase.A satellite image from 5 February shows clear picture of thein the crater. The new dome continues to grow with lateral spreading of ~15 m towards the north-west and south-east, currently about 540 m long.Gas-and-steam plumes continue to rise from the top of the dome as well as along the contact of the 1979 dome and the new dome.Daily observations confirmed a continuous fire in the NW area of the crater that affected vegetation on vertical slope of the crater.
The effusive eruption of the volcano continues characterized by the actively growing lava dome.On 19 March the University of the West Indies Seismic Research Centre (UWI-SRC) monitored the volcano by drone to detect of physical changes of the new lava dome.The central active vent continues to feed the growing lava dome in north-west and south-east direction. The extruded lava dome is currently about 105 m tall, 243 m wide and 921 long (511 m on 4 Feb) with a volume of 13.13 million cubic meters (5.93 million cubic meters on 4 Feb). Its length and volume is almost twice since the last update on 4 February.The observations confirmed ongoing sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions concentrated on the top of the new dome as well as at the contact with the 1979 lava dome.
The Caribbean island of Saint Vincent has declared a red alert and issued an evacuation order for northern areas after seismologists warned that the La Soufrière volcano shows signs of an imminent eruption. The prime minister, Ralph Gonsalves, issued the order on Thursday after several days of increased seismic activity. The country’s National Emergency Management Organisation said on Twitter there was a “substantial prospect of disaster”, and warned residents to “be ready, get your things in order”. “Safe areas where people will be evacuated to are from North Union to Kingstown, on the Windward side of the island, Barrouallie to Kingstown on the Leeward side and the Grenadine Islands,” Nemo tweeted. A cruise ship from the Royal Caribbean line was heading to the island to help with evacuation efforts, Nemo said. The geologist Richard Robertson said that La Soufrière could erupt in a matter of hours or days, according to the St Vincent online newspaper News 784. Monitoring stations had reported long earthquakes, which suggested that fresh magma was trying to reach the surface, and indicated that the volcano was moving to “an explosive stage”. Video posted on social media showed a plume of smoke towering above the volcano, which is the highest point in the island country of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. 1. The steaming/smoking at the La Soufriere Volcano has increased over the last few hours. La Soufrière has been increasingly active since November. On Monday, researchers from the University of the West Indies reported that its monitoring station had detected a “swarm of small volcano-tectonic earthquakes”, which increased steadily in magnitude. “The earthquakes were located beneath the volcano’s summit at 6km depth. The largest event reached the magnitude of 3.5 that was felt by residents living close to the volcano,” the UWI said in a statement. La Soufrière’s most devastating eruption was in 1902 when about 1,600 people – most of them indigenous Caribs – were killed. That occurred shortly before Martinique’s Mt Pelee erupted and destroyed the town of Saint-Pierre, killing more than 30,000 people. It last erupted in April 1979, but there were no casualties as the local population was evacuated.
The Caribbean island of St Vincent has been rocked by a string of explosive eruptions at La Soufrière volcano, which spewed clouds of ash miles into the air a day and forced thousands to flee for safety. The country’s National Emergency Management Organisation (Nemo) confirmed on Twitter that the 4,049-foot volcano had erupted on Friday morning and warned residents to leave the surrounding areas. Pictures shared on social media showed towering plumes of gas and volcanic matter billowing into the sky above the volcano, and heavy ash fall was reported in the surrounding areas. “The majesty that is La Soufrière is awake in all her terrifying glory,” tweeted Heidi Badenock, a lawyer on the island. Nemo said that the ash plume from the first eruption reached 20,000ft and was drifting eastwards into the Atlantic Ocean. Two more explosive eruptions on Friday afternoon spewed more clouds of ash and dust into the air. There were no immediate reports of casualties. The prime minister, Ralph Gonsalves, issued a mandatory evacuation order on Thursday for about 1,600 people living in the northern part of the island. Evacuations continued on Friday, although Nemo tweeted that heavy ash fall had complicated the process as visibility was “extremely poor”. Footage posted on social media showed evacuees with suitcases and bags trudging through streets carpeted with thick grey ash. Other videos showed palm trees and tin-roofed houses coated with ash. Four cruise ships are expected to reach the island on Friday – two from Royal Caribbean, and two from Carnival Cruise Line – to ferry evacuees to nearby islands or shelters elsewhere in St Vincent. A third Royal Caribbean ship is expected to arrive in the coming days. Gonsalves said in a press conference that evacuees will need to be vaccinated for Covid-19 before they are allowed to board a cruise ship or are granted temporary refuge in another island. Islands that have said they would accept evacuees include St Lucia, Grenada, Barbados and Antigua. About 2,000 people are staying at 20 shelters across the island, Gonsalves said. My team and I have been working all day to set up some IMMEDIATE HELP for those in need. From tomorrow we will be working with shelters to get emergency supplies to those in need. Philmore Mullin, director of Antigua & Barbuda’s National Office of Disaster Services, told AFP the twin island nation was ready to receive evacuees from Saint Vincent. “I know for sure they will be scared out of their wits. The question is, what will happen after they move? Volcanoes don’t tell you what they are thinking,” said Mullin. La Soufrière last erupted in 1979, and a previous eruption in 1902 killed about 1,600 people. That occurred shortly before Martinique’s Mt Pelée erupted and destroyed the town of Saint-Pierre, killing more than 30,000 people. Scientists warned in December that La Soufrière had become more active than it had been for years, with monitors reporting tremors, gas emissions, the formation of a new volcanic dome and changes to its crater lake. Mt Pelée is now active once again. In early December, officials in the French Caribbean territory issued a yellow alert due to seismic activity – the first such alert since the volcano last erupted in 1932.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) — An explosive eruption rocked La Soufriere volcano on the eastern Caribbean island of St. Vincent on Friday after the government ordered thousands to evacuate their homes nearby. Experts said the first explosion shot an ash column 32,000 feet (10 kilometers) into the sky and that the majority of the ash was headed northeast into the Atlantic Ocean. Lightning crackled through the towering column of smoke and ash late Friday. Heavy ashfall was reported in communities around the volcano and beyond, with authorities saying some evacuations were limited by poor visibility. Several flights also were canceled and islands including Barbados, St. Lucia and Grenada prepared for light ashfall as the 4,003-foot (1,220-meter) volcano continued to rumble. Authorities reported two other explosions later Friday as the island braced for possible additional activity. “More explosions could occur,” Erouscilla Joseph, director of the University of the West Indies Seismic Research Center said in a phone interview, adding that it was impossible to predict whether they might be bigger or smaller than the explosions that have occurred so far. There were no immediate reports of casualties from the eruption that occurred four days short of the 42nd anniversary of the last sizable eruption. In the coastal town of Barrouallie, about 14 kilometers (9 miles) from the volcano, evacuees trudged toward shelters carrying backpacks, duffel bags and shopping bags stuffed with personal belongings after the explosion. Some prepared to stay there, while others were expected to board cruise ships and go to nearby islands that have offered help. Others still waited for transportation to a shelter, including one family who stood for at least an hour by the side of a road under the sun with their children and suitcases as they awaited a ride from someone. The volcano last erupted in 1979, and a previous eruption in 1902 killed some 1,600 people. The new eruption followed mandatory evacuation orders issued Thursday for the roughly 16,000 people who live in the red zone near the volcano in the island’s northern region. More than 2,000 people were staying in 62 government shelters. “We have had hiccups here and there ... but by and large we are proceeding pretty well,” Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves said in a press conference. He later wiped tears from his eyes and apologized for crying while he thanked people and other governments in the region for opening their homes and countries to St. Vincentians. “On the dangerous road to Jericho, we have the good Samaritans,” he said. He said that depending on the damage done by the explosion, it could take up to four months for things to go back to normal. As dozens of people streamed toward safer ground, officials worried the pandemic could hamper evacuation efforts. Gonsalves said people have to be vaccinated if they go aboard a cruise ship or are granted temporary refuge in another island. He said two Royal Caribbean cruise ships and two Carnival Cruise Lines ones arrived Friday. Islands that have said they would accept evacuees include St. Lucia, Grenada, Barbados and Antigua. He said he was talking to Caribbean governments to accept people’s ID cards if they don’t have a passport. “This is an emergency situation, and everybody understands that,” he said. Gonsalves added that he highly recommends those who opt to go to a shelter in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, an island chain of more than 100,000 people, be vaccinated. Authorities said those staying in shelters would be tested for COVID-19, and that anyone who tests positive would be taken to an isolation center. Emergency management teams have been going out to communities in the red zone and providing transportation to safer locations, including prearranged shelters, according to Joseph. By late Thursday evening, shelters were filling up as a string of car lights making their way to safer ground twinkled through the darkened mountains. John Renton, a school principal who was in charge of one shelter, said in a phone interview that they had plenty of masks and other personal protective equipment but needed more cots. While talking, he was interrupted by a phone call from a government official asking about the state of things. “We’re over capacity,” he responded, noting that the shelter could hold 75 people and was already filled up. Meanwhile, the government warned of water shortages given that people were stocking up after the alert was issued. Scientists alerted the government about a possible eruption after noting a type of seismic activity at 3 a.m. on Thursday that indicated “magma was on the move close to the surface,” Joseph said. A team from the seismic research center arrived in St. Vincent in late December after the volcano had an effusive eruption. They have been analyzing the formation of a new volcanic dome, changes to its crater lake, seismic activity and gas emissions, among other things. Seventeen of the eastern Caribbean’s 19 live volcanoes are located on 11 islands, with the remaining two underwater near the island of Grenada, including one called Kick ’Em Jenny that has been active in recent years. The region’s most active volcano in recent years has been Soufriere Hills in Montserrat, which has erupted continuously since 1995, destroying the capital of Plymouth and killing at least 19 people in 1997.
La Soufriere volcano on the Caribbean island of St Vincent "explosively" erupted this morning, spreading ash across surrounding villages and forcing thousands to flee to safety. In a press conference today, journalists were told that the eruption was "likely to continue for days and possibly weeks". This morning's blast sent plumes of hot ash and smoke 6,000 metres into the air, the local emergency management agency said. Video posted on the website news784.com showed a tower of ash being belched out and expanding roughly into a ball shape as it rose upwards. No deaths or injuries have been reported. "Please leave the red zone immediately. La Soufriere has erupted. Ash fall recorded as far as Argyle International Airport," the National Emergency Management Organisation said. The airport and volcano are at opposite ends of the 28km long island. La Soufriere, the highest peak in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, has been dormant for decades. Its largest blow-up happened over a century ago, killing more than 1,000 people in 1902. Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves started issuing evacuation orders last night for residents in so-called red zones, home to some 16,000 people on the biggest island in the archipelago. The total population of the chain is about 100,000. "Persons living in the 'Red Zones' are strongly advised to pack a quantity of personal items, secure your homes and animals; and be ready to be evacuated immediately," police said in a statement after the eruption. Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises said in a press release they were sending two ships to assist the evacuation effort. Mr Gonsalves said two more ships from cruise liner company Carnival were also on their way. Those evacuated would be taken to shelters elsewhere in the island chain or other Caribbean territories that have offered assistance, such as Barbados and Saint Lucia, according to local media. Philmore Mullin, director of Antigua & Barbuda's National Office of Disaster Services, told AFP the twin island nation was ready to receive evacuees from Saint Vincent. He said between 12,000 and 15,000 people had already moved out of the red zones. "I know for sure they will be scared out of their wits. The question is, what will happen after they move? Volcanoes don't tell you what they are thinking," said Mr Mullin.
St. Vincent and the Grenadines Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves on Thursday declared a disaster alert prompted by a change in the eruptive activity at the La Soufrière volcano, according to the country’s National Emergency Management Organization. The island is on red alert, meaning an eruption is “imminent now,” NEMO said. Evacuation orders are in place in about a dozen districts of St. Vincent, affecting roughly 6,000 to 7,000 people, a spokesperson for the University of the West Indies Seismic Research Centre, or UWI-SRC, told CNN. St. Vincent is the largest island of the St. Vincent and the Grenadines chain in the Caribbean. Scientists at the Belmont Observatory in St. Vincent observed a volcanic tremor on the island at about 3 a.m. local time, according to UWI-SRC. The first band of tremors was followed by five more throughout the day. This type of seismic signal is usually associated with movement of magma and fluids close to the surface, according to UWI-SRC. “Ash venting was also observed during the most recent tremor episode,” the center reported on Facebook. The volcano has had five explosive eruptions – in 1718, 1812, 1814, 1902/03 and 1979 – according to the seismic research center. Trinidad and Tobago Prime Minister Keith Rowley has spoken to Gonsalves and offered assistance, according to the Ministry of National Security for Trinidad and Tobago. Venezuela will send humanitarian supplies and risk experts, Venezuelan Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza said on his Twitter account. Cruise ships are heading to the islands to assist in evacuations, NEMO officials wrote on their Twitter account. Carnival Cruise Lines is sending two ships – the Carnival Paradise and the Carnival Legend – to evacuate residents, a spokesperson told CNN. “Each ship will accommodate up to 1,500 residents who will be transported to neighboring islands which have agreed to offer refuge out of harm’s way. All precautions will be taken to protect the health and safety of Carnival crew and the passengers who board the ships,” the spokesperson said. The ships will arrive Friday, the spokesperson said. Royal Caribbean and Celebrity Cruises are each sending one ship and should arrive Thursday night, according to a statement from Statement from Royal Caribbean International.
A second “explosive event” has been reported by authorities in Saint Vincent, leaving residents of the area around La Soufrière volcano facing power cuts and water outages. Locals described loud rumbling, lightning and heavy ashfall as conditions deteriorated on the Caribbean island, after the volcano first erupted on Friday, forcing thousands to evacuate, though some remained in their homes. Professor Richard Robertson of the University of the West Indies Seismic Research Centre said lava had begun to flow down La Soufrière. Elford Lewis, a farmer who evacuated his home on Sunday morning, said the latest incident was worse than the previous major eruption of the 1,234-metre (4,049ft) volcano in 1979. About 16,000 people have had to flee their ash-covered communities with as many belongings as they could stuff into suitcases and backpacks. There have as yet been no reports of deaths or injuries. Ralph Gonsalves, the prime minister of the 32 islands that make up the country of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, has said people should remain calm and keep trying to protect themselves from Covid-19. He said officials were trying to figure out how to collect and dispose of the ash, which covered an airport runway near Kingstown and fell as far away as Barbados, about 120 miles (193km) to the east. About 3,200 people took refuge at 78 government-run shelters, while four empty cruise ships stood ready to ferry other evacuees to nearby islands, with more than 130 having already been taken to Saint Lucia. Those staying at the shelters were tested for the virus, and anyone who returned a positive result was sent to an isolation centre. Antigua and Guyana were among the countries offering help by either shipping emergency supplies or temporarily opening their borders to evacuees. The first explosion occurred on Friday morning, a day after the government ordered mandatory evacuations based on warnings from scientists who noted seismic activity before dawn on Thursday that meant magma was on the move close to the surface. An ash column burst more than 10,000 metres into the sky, forcing the cancellation of flights, while poor visibility limited evacuations in some areas. Officials warned that Barbados, Saint Lucia and Grenada could see light ashfall as the volcano continued to rumble. Most of the ash is expected to head north-east into the Atlantic Ocean.
KINGSTOWN, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, April 11 (Reuters) - The Caribbean Saint Vincent island was hit by another explosive event from the La Soufriere volcano early on Sunday, triggering power cuts and water outages in some areas, while ash clouds began to blanket parts of the island of Barbados. After decades of inactivity, the volcano erupted on Friday, spewing dark clouds of ash some 10 km (6 miles) into the air and prompting an evacuation of thousands of people on the island. The volcano has continued to rumble and vent ash since then. On Sunday morning, Saint Vincent's National Emergency Management Organisation (NEMO) said there was a huge power outage after "another explosive event" at the volcano. However, by 12 p.m. ET (1600 GMT), power had been restored, residents said. "Explosions and accompanying ashfall, of similar or larger magnitude, are likely to continue to occur over the next few days," the University of the West Indies Seismic Research Centre said on Twitter. St. Vincent and the Grenadines, which has a population of just over 100,000, has not experienced volcanic activity since 1979, when an eruption created approximately $100 million in damages. An eruption by La Soufriere in 1902 killed more than 1,000 people. The name means "sulfur outlet" in French. Finance Minister Camillo Gonsalves said the government believes about 20,000 people will be internally displaced for about three to four months. Some houses in the island have also collapsed due to the weight of the ash, Gonsalves added. In the tourist island of Barbados, about 178 km (110 miles) from Saint Vincent, the meteorological services agency said varying intensities of ash were impacting the island. Videos posted on social media showing a thin layer of ash coating cars and even the country’s airport, which remains closed. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
KINGSTOWN, St. Vincent (AP) — People who ignored an initial warning to evacuate the area closest to a volcano on the eastern Caribbean island of St. Vincent raced to get clear Saturday, a day after it erupted with an explosion that shook the ground, spewed ash skyward and blanketed the island in a layer of fine volcanic rock. The eruption Friday of La Soufrière — its first large one since 1979 — transformed the island’s lush towns and villages into gloomy, gray versions of themselves. A strong sulfur smell was unavoidable Saturday and ash covered everything, creeping into homes, cars and noses, and obscuring the sunshine that makes the island so popular with tourists. Chellise Rogers, who lives in the village of Biabou, which is in an area of St. Vincent that’s considered safe, said she could hear continuous rumbling. Scientists warn that the explosions could continue for days or even weeks, and that the worst could be yet to come. “The first bang is not necessarily the biggest bang this volcano will give,” Richard Robertson, a geologist with the University of the West Indies’ Seismic Research Center, said during a news conference. About 16,000 people have had to flee their ash-covered communities with as many belongings as they could stuff into suitcases and backpacks. However, there have been no reports of anyone being killed or injured by the initial blast or those that followed. Before it blew, the government ordered people to evacuate the most high-risk area around the 4,003-foot (1,220-meter) volcano after scientists warned that magma was moving close to the surface. Ralph Gonsalves, the prime minister of the 32 islands that make up the country of St. Vincent and the Grenadines, said on local station NBC Radio that people should remain calm, be patient and keep trying to protect themselves from the coronavirus. He said officials were trying to figure out the best way to collect and dispose of the ash, which covered an airport runway near the capital of Kingstown, about 20 miles (32 kilometers) south, and fell as far away as Barbados, about 120 miles (190 kilometers) to the east. Although Gonsalves said it could take up to four months for life to return to normal, he’s confident it will. “Agriculture will be badly affected, and we may have some loss of animals, and we will have to do repairs to houses. But if we have life and we have strength — we will build it back better, stronger, together,” he said. People who didn’t heed the initial evacuation order hurried to do so Saturday. At least a few ash-covered evacuees escaped in small boats and headed to other parts of the main island, which makes up 90% of the country’s total land. About 3,200 people took refuge at 78 government-run shelters, and four empty cruise ships stood ready to take other evacuees to nearby islands, with a group of more than 130 already taken to St. Lucia. Those staying at the shelters were tested for COVID-19, with anyone testing positive being taken to an isolation center. Nearby nations, including Antigua and Grenada, also offered to take in evacuees. On Saturday, some people swept outside their homes and taped their doors and windows shut in the hopes of keeping out the ash. “We’re hearing rumbling from here and witnessed the lightning flashes last night,” said Rukersha Jackson, a 22-year-old marketing specialist who lives with her family a little outside the mandatory evacuation zone. That zone covers the northern third of St. Vincent and is on the opposite side than Kingstown, where most of the country’s more than 100,000 people live. The ash has forced the cancellation of several flights, and poor visibility limited evacuations in some areas. Officials warned that St. Lucia to the north and Grenada to the south could get light ash fall, though most of it was expected to head northeast into the Atlantic Ocean. Although the ash can seem scary, it won’t harm healthy people in the short term, said Claire Horwell, a professor at Durham University in the United Kingdom who will be analyzing the ash emitted by La Soufrière. She recommended that people wear face masks, long sleeves and pants to avoid irritation. “Volcanic ash looks really scary, and it is really terrifying to people who have never been exposed to it before, but for most healthy people, it is more of a nuisance,” said Horwell, who is also director of the International Volcanic Health Hazard Network. However, she warned that the ash and gases, particularly sulfur dioxide, could affect asthmatics and others with chronic health conditions. La Soufrière last had a sizable eruption in 1979. An eruption in 1902 killed roughly 1,600 people. The volcano had a minor eruption in December, which led regional experts to fly in to analyze the formation of a new volcanic dome and changes to its crater lake, among other things. The eastern Caribbean has 19 live volcanoes, including two underwater near Grenada. One of those, Kick ’Em Jenny, has been active in recent years. But the most active volcano of all is Soufrière Hills in Montserrat. It has erupted continuously since 1995, razing the capital of Plymouth and killing at least 19 people in 1997. Coto reported from San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Grantley Adams International Airport Inc. wishes to advise the public that the airport is currently closed and will remain closed until at least 6 a.m. on Sunday, April 11. Deputy CEO Terry Layne says only authorized, essential airport personnel will be allowed access to the airport during this time. Barbados is currently under a severe volcanic ash and small-craft warning as a thick plume of volcanic ash from the La Soufriere Volcano in St Vincent is currently affecting the island. A Small-Craft Warning shall be issued when reduced visibility (less than 5 km) is affecting the marine area. Read our ePaper. Fast. Factual. Free. Sign up and stay up to date with Barbados' FREE latest news.
The explosions at La Soufrière on St. Vincent that started last week appear to only be a throat clearing. Earlier today (April 12), the volcano unleashed even larger explosions and sent pyroclastic flows racing down the volcano after the dome collapsed. This is very bad news for anyone who might have remained in the Red Zone around La Soufrière. Ash from the explosions have reached well over 40,000 feet (12 kilometers) and is readily seen drifting across the Atlantic to the east of St. Vincent. The towns on the island itself are getting a steady rain of ash and there have been reports of collapsed roofs. Remember, volcanic ash is many times denser than snow, so a few inches of ash (especially when combined with rain) can easily collapse weak roofs. The University of West Indies Seismic Research group thinks we should expect at least a few more days of explosions, possibly many more. Ash from the eruption of La Soufriere on St. Vincent. Just a few centimeters of ash can be hazardous to health and property. Credit: U of West Indies. Although it is impossible for volcanologists to get close to the volcano to see what is happening, they can look for clues in data like seismicity, ash composition and shape as well as gas emissions. The seismicity can show that pyroclastic flows are rushing down the sides of the volcano as they can produce an identifiable seismic signal. It can also show whether magma is still rising up into the volcano -- as provided that seismometers are still operational. Volcanic ash shape can offer information of how much new magma is involved in the eruption -- the more curved and sharp like broken glass, the more new magma. Volcanic gases can offer more evidence as well, where more volcanic gases, like more new magma reaching the surface. Remember, volcanic ash is not like fire ash! Ash from an eruption is broken pieces of rock or glass and aren't formed from burning. They can get into your lungs and do real damage, very fast. If these explosions are happening as a cycle of new basaltic andesite domes form, then we might expect to see these eruptions continue. The sticky basaltic andesite will erupt, helping build pressure until the dome fails, unleashing an eruption. Then, the cycle begins again. Tan ash from the eruption of La Soufriere on April 10, 2021, spotted by Suomi NPP. Credit: NASA/NOAA. The current and only webcam pointed at La Soufrière shows all the billowing ash (although you should ignore the "explosion prediction" shown on the right -- it is nonsense). There have been a bounty of images of the explosions seen from space as well, where the GOES-15 GOES-16 and GOES-17 weather satellites have captured the growing ash plumes. The blowing ash darkened the skies of Barbados, over 100 miles to the east, and fell as a thin, dark layer of dust. The explosions at La Soufriere were recorded by infrasound (low frequency) on Guadelope, almost 200 miles (300 kilometers) away.
Conditions on the Caribbean island of St. Vincent have worsened as La Soufrière volcano continues to push ash and debris into the atmosphere. Dozens of individuals have been rescued from the northern part of the island after refusing to evacuate last week. Officials are warning anyone still in the red and orange zones to flee as the mountain presents a new danger to anyone still in the area. In the areas around the volcano, there is evidence of pyroclastic flows — avalanches of superheated gas and debris traveling as fast as some 120 miles per hour along the mountainside — the University of the West Indies Seismic Research Centre's lead scientist, Richard Robertson, said in a Sunday news conference. These flows are the most dangerous trait of the volcano, he said, as opposed to a slow-moving river of lava. As La Soufrière continues to explosively erupt, ash and debris are launched into the air. Sometimes there isn't enough force behind the materials to continue upward and the ash plume collapses on itself and it shoots back down, Robertson said. These clouds of gas can reach scalding-hot temperatures and carry car-size boulders as the flows make their way through valleys along the mountain. Once the pyroclastic flows hit the coast, the seawater begins to boil and the clouds pick up speed, racing across the surface of the water and away from land until they run out of energy. These flows can happen as the volcano goes through periods of explosive activity and venting. Every hour and a half to three hours, Robertson explained, La Soufrière rumbles and produces tremors as the mountain vents more ash. This activity can create pyroclastic flows anywhere on the volcano, threatening anyone who didn't evacuate last week. During the news conference, the prime minister of St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Ralph Gonsalves, said the coast guard has rescued dozens of people from the northern part of the island since the volcano started to erupt Friday morning. The areas closest to the volcano were ordered to be evacuated last week, but some people decided to stay, putting rescuers at risk. Some 16,000 people have already evacuated, The Associated Press reported, about 3,200 of whom have fled to 78 government-run shelters. Robertson said things will likely get worse before they get better. Instruments monitoring the eruption have shown no sign of activity dying down. The volcano, he explained, is showing a similar pattern to the volcano's eruption in 1902, which killed about 1,600 people. "That means it's probably, unfortunately, going to cause more damage and destruction to St. Vincent," Robertson said. But the volcano isn't just affecting the people of St. Vincent. The winds have carried ash all the way to Barbados, about 120 miles east. Barbadian Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley said the country needs to prepare itself for weeks of ash fall and harsh times. Erouscilla Joseph, director of the Seismic Research Centre, said the winds that carry the debris east over the island can also circle back around, blanketing the island with more ash from the east.
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content KINGSTOWN — H ot flows of ash, rock fragments and gas tore down the flanks of the La Soufriere volcano on the tiny Caribbean island of Saint Vincent on Monday after its most powerful explosion yet, four days after it first started erupting. La Soufriere erupted back into life on Friday after decades of inactivity, pumping dark clouds of ash some 10 km (6 miles) into the air and prompting an evacuation by sea and land of thousands of nearby residents. No deaths have been reported so far but a roughly a third of the island is off limits and airspace remains closed while power and water supply is intermittent in some communities. Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS Enjoy the latest local, national and international news. Exclusive articles by Conrad Black, Barbara Kay, Rex Murphy and others. Plus, special edition NP Platformed and First Reading newsletters and virtual events. Unlimited online access to National Post and 15 news sites with one account. National Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles including the New York Times Crossword. Unlimited online access to National Post and 15 news sites with one account. National Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles including the New York Times Crossword. Support local journalism. REGISTER FOR MORE ARTICLES Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience. Access articles from across Canada with one account. Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments. Enjoy additional articles per month. Article content Several Vincentians told Reuters they were avoiding venturing outdoors as the ash was clogging the air and turning into what looked like cement in the rain, making it difficult to walk or drive. Article content “We are having a lot of ashfall, and it is hard to breathe sometimes,” said Aria Scott, 19, a student living in the capital of Kingstown of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. “I’m not going outside because I don’t want to take the risk.” Monday’s explosion at around 4 a.m. local time was the most powerful to date, said Erouscilla Joseph, director at the University of the West Indies Seismic Research Centre, which warned the eruption could cause mudflows as ash was swept into rivers. “We expect more explosions are possible in the next days to weeks,” she said. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, where just over 100,000 people live, had not experienced volcanic activity since 1979, when an eruption caused approximately $100 million in damages. The eruption of La Soufriere – which means “sulfur outlet” in French – in 1902 killed more than 1,000 people. The Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency said on Monday it estimated around 16,000-20,000 people would be displaced by volcanic activity, with 3,600 currently in shelters and others staying at the homes of relatives and friends. Advertisement 3 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Read Next Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
President of the Barbados Road Safety Association (BRSA), Sharmane Roland-Bowen, is advising drivers to use “extreme caution” while on the roads during the next few days, as Barbados continues to experience ashfall from the La Soufrière volcano eruptions occurring in neighbouring St Vincent. With the significant amount of ash on the road, mixed with light rain overnight, Roland-Bowen says the hazardous nature of the roads to vehicles right now, cannot be underestimated. “Our roads are very hazardous; they are very dangerous at this time and we cannot go about driving in the way that we used to before. We have to take all of the necessary precautions in order for us to arrive at our destinations safely,” she said. The BRSA President also stressed that Barbadians should only use the roads today if absolutely necessary. “Our roads, because of the ash, have become [dangerous]. Visibility has become reduced and because of that, we cannot see as far ahead as we could in more ideal conditions. One of the ways in which you can combat the hazards, is for you to slow down. So we are asking all persons to reduce their speeds on the roads,” she stressed. Roland-Bowen also added that the current road conditions will significantly reduce the traction of vehicle tyres. Read our ePaper. Fast. Factual. Free. Sign up and stay up to date with Barbados' FREE latest news.
Citing reports from the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), Stéphane Dujarric added that about 20,000 evacuees on the Caribbean island are currently in need of shelter. “The eruption has affected most livelihoods in the northern part of the island, including banana farming, with ash and lava flows hampering the movement of people and goods”, he told journalists at the daily news briefing. Although the volcano had been dormant since 1979, it started spewing smoke and actively rumbling in December. La Soufrière erupted last Friday, blanketing Saint Vincent in a layer of ash and forcing some 16,000 residents to evacuate their homes to cruise ships and safer parts of the island. Emphasizing that access to the island is limited, Mr. Dujarric said that along with the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency, the UN has mobilized pre-positioned water and sanitation hygiene supplies, currently stored in nearby Barbados. Over the weekend, the Secretary-General spoke to Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves and the Government officially asked for UN assistance. The aid includes relief items, food and cash distribution and technical advice while neighbouring countries are contributing emergency supplies and assets to support evacuation, according to the UN spokesperson. Meanwhile, OCHA reported that as of yesterday, intervals between tremors have lasted between 1.5 to 3 hours, which, based on visual observations and satellite imagery, are associated with periods of explosive activity or enhanced venting of the volcano. “Explosions and accompanying ashfall of similar or larger magnitude are likely to continue to occur over the next few days”, according to the UN humanitarian office. At the request of the Prime Minister, the UN has also mobilized experts through the UN Environmental Programme (UNEP) to develop and implement a debris management plan, including to clean up ash and promote environmental health and safety. Situation overview Airports in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are closed. Maritime assets are limited. Approximately 30 villages have been evacuated. Between 16,000 and 20,000 people have been affected. Some 3,500 people are in 85 shelters. The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) and the World Food Programme (WFP) have deployed to support health and humanitarian efforts.
On Friday, April 9, La Soufrière, the largest volcano and the highest peak on the main island of St. Vincent and the Grenadines, erupted for the first time in 40 years. The blast sent plumes of ash six miles high, blanketing surrounding communities and creating heavy ashfall. Early this morning, another eruption, the biggest yet, rocked the Caribbean island, in what experts called a "huge explosion" of pyroclastic flows (masses of extremely hot ash, lava, and gases that can move more than 120 miles per hour) that are destroying everything in its path. “Anybody who would have not heeded the evacuation, they need to get out immediately," Erouscilla Joseph, director of the University of the West Indies’ Seismic Research Center, told The Associated Press. 16,000 people were evacuated last week. Seismologists began noticing increased volcanic activity in La Soufrière in December 2020, prompting government officials to review evacuation plans with residents. On Thursday, April 8, a "red alert" was declared and an evacuation order issued, leading 16,000 people living near the volcano, which is located in the northern region of the island, to seek refuge in shelters. Dozens of people who refused to evacuate last week have had to be rescued by the coast guard. This eruption is one of the worst in St. Vincent's history. While no fatalities or injuries have yet been reported, experts are comparing the magnitude of this event's destruction to La Soufrière's eruption in 1902, which was the country's most catastrophic and killed more than 1,000 people. Forests, farms, homes, and livestock have been destroyed. Water and food supplies have been cut off in some areas, forcing the government to drill for water and set up distribution points. There has been a massive power outage. Transportation remains treacherous because the smoke is so thick. Emergency personnel have likened the landscape to a "battle zone." White ash has covered homes across the island. Residents of Barbados, 124 miles away, have been told to stay indoors, while those living on St. Lucia, 47 miles away, have been warned of poor air quality and harmful gases. It goes without saying that scores of flights to and from the region, including Barbados, Dominica, St. Lucia, and Antigua, have been canceled. Countries have offered to help but Covid-19 is complicating evacuation efforts. Neighboring countries have stepped up to offer aid and financial support. Prime Minister Timothy Harris of St. Kitts and Nevis pledged $1 million in disaster relief. Venezuelan Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza announced he would send humanitarian supplies. Barbados deployed members of its Defense Force to deliver UNICEF relief supplies and offer assistance. It also joined St. Lucia, Antigua, and Grenada in agreeing to accept evacuees, with empty Carnival and Royal Caribbean cruise ships on standby to transport them. The pandemic, however, has complicated things. St. Vincent's prime minister Ralph Gonsalves has stated that those wishing to board cruise ships to seek refuge in other countries must be vaccinated before doing so, as the nations accepting St. Vincent's residents will require that they are immunized. "The chief medical officer would be identifying the persons already vaccinated so that we can get them on the ship," he said at a press conference last week. Even some St. Vincent hotels that are being turned into emergency shelters are asking that people be vaccinated. While Covid-19 tests are being administered at government-run shelters, those who turn up positive for the virus will be sent to an isolation center.
The Director of the Seismic Research Centre at the University of the West Indies (UWI), Dr. Erouscilla Joseph, says that Barbados should be prepared for ash emanating from the La Soufriere volcano in St. Vincent and the Grenadines “for days to weeks” in the first instance. “Unfortunately the worst-case scenario is that this can go on for weeks because of the changes in the dynamics of the system. We just have to kind of keep monitoring the seismicity associated with the volcano and advise based on that,” she told a news conference at which Prime Minister of Barbados, Mia Mottley has urged Barbadians “not to panic” as a result of the tremendous amount of ash falling on the island since the volcano began explosive eruptions last week. The UWI official said that given the previous eruption, which lasted six months to a year, “the long term span of the eruption in terms of the worst of it could be days to weeks”. Volcanologist, Professor Richard Robertson, on Sunday warned that the ongoing eruption of La Soufriere volcano is in keeping with the events surrounding the 1902 eruption, which claimed 1,600 lives at a time when early warning systems and evacuation capabilities were not as advanced. Prime Minister Mottley said that while it is understandable for Barbadians to be worried about the amount of ash falling on the island “we do not need to panic”. Mottlety told reporters that the authorities have “already taken some steps” to deal with the situation, adding “it is one thing for me as Prime Minister to tell you I don’t know but in these matters, I have taken the advice of scientists and I believe that the country must also benefit from the advice I have taken”. She warned Barbadians to be extremely careful when removing the ashes from their roofs and other places, given that several accidents can occur as people undertaken the cleaning up operations and the ash makes the place slippery. Mottley and the UWI official urged residents to clean as frequently as possible, using light amounts of water, in a bid to prevent the ash from getting extremely heavy when wet and could lead to the destruction of property. “It is the first for us in recent time in having to deal with the scale of the ash fall that we have had to.” Prime Minister Mottley said, recalling that ‘as a young child I would have remembered the eruption in 1979 and the extent to which the ash just literally …came into the glasses (while we were eating outside). “I have no recollection of it being as comprehensively hazardous to the country as I see now,” she added.
Monday, April 12, 2021 — In a Statement issued on Saturday Afternoon, April 10th, the Prime Minister of St. Kitts and Nevis Dr. the Hon. Timothy Harris announced a pledge of EC$1 million to the people of St. Vincent and the Grenadines in the wake of the devastation caused by the recent series of eruptions of the La Soufriere Volcano. The relief pledge includes financial support as well as humanitarian support through the accomodation of evacuees and the provision of security and defense force personnel to provide assistance through the Regional Security Service (RSS). The Government and people of the Federation of St. Kitts and Nevis stand in solidarity with the Government and people of St. Vincent and the Grenadines during this very difficult time brought about by the volcanic eruption in that Country. St. Kitts and Nevis has always stood in strong support of our OECS Member States in their time of difficulty and need. Financial assistance in the sum of EC$1 million to assist with the evacuation and resettling of his citizens and residents from the danger zone around the volcano; Welcome families of two or three members evacuated from the danger zone totaling not more than three hundred persons. Our Technical Team will determine the requirements for entry including Covid-19 protocols such as vaccination; Provide human resources through the Regional Security System (RSS) recruited from the Defence and the Police Forces to support humanitarian activities, provide technical support, and conduct peace keeping efforts on the ground in St. Vincent and the Grenadines; Immediately release to the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency (CDEMA) the sum of US$20,000 towards its Special Emergency Assistance Fund in order to bring immediate relief to St. Vincent and the Grenadines and support its logistical operations; and Our National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has been tasked with coordinating the National response to the Needs List provided by the Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Further details will be provided by NEMA. Our prayers are with the Government and people of St. Vincent and the Grenadines at this most challenging time. I thank you.
The Government of Montserrat will contribute one hundred and fifty thousand Eastern Caribbean dollars (XCD$150,000.00) along with donations of essential supplies to St. Vincent and the Grenadines, as the island continues to cope with a series of eruptions at the La Soufrière Volcano. Montserrat’s Premier Honourable Joseph E. Farrell made the announcement today (Monday April 12, 2021) following a meeting of Cabinet earlier today. The Cabinet meeting was preceded by an Emergency Stakeholder meeting on Friday, during which stakeholders to include officials from the Disaster Management Coordination Agency (DMCA), identified relief items available on island and which can be donated based the ‘Immediate Needs–Volcanic Emergency’ list received from the National Emergency Management Organisation (NEMO) in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Additionally, the Premier announced that Cabinet was advised of the establishment of a local support team to either work from home or travel to St. Vincent and the Grenadines to provide assistance in key areas such as radio communications, shelter management and operational support among others. He noted that Montserrat has already provided technical support before the eruptions began, as scientists from the Montserrat Volcano Observatory (MVO) joined their colleagues from the UWI Seismic Research Centre in St. Vincent to monitor the La Soufriere volcano, in January. To this end, the Premier said additional technical support will be provided as the scientists will have to be rotated depending on the duration of the increased activity and eruptions. Discussions on the situation in St. Vincent and the Grenadines will continue with the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency (CDEMA) and the Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
The Digicel Group today announced the donation of US$500,000 worth of much-needed items to support the urgent relief efforts in St Vincent & the Grenadines arising from the eruption of the La Soufrière volcano. With thousands of people evacuated from the red zone and housed in shelters and significant ash fall affecting the island, the situation is developing and deteriorating. Leveraging its global reach and supply chains, Digicel says it will work with the Government to identify immediate needs as well as procuring and shipping items identified as urgently needed in these early stages by the National Emergency Management Organisation. Headlines Delivered to Your Inbox Sign up for The Gleaner’s morning and evening newsletters. Follow The Gleaner on Twitter and Instagram @JamaicaGleaner and on Facebook @GleanerJamaica. Send us a message on WhatsApp at 1-876-499-0169 or email us @onlinefeedback@gleanerjm.com or editors@gleanerjm.com.
KINGSTOWN, St. Vincent (AP) — La Soufriere volcano fired an enormous amount of ash and hot gas early Monday in the biggest explosive eruption yet since volcanic activity began on the eastern Caribbean island of St. Vincent late last week, with officials worried about the lives of those who have refused to evacuate. Experts called it a “huge explosion” that generated pyroclastic flows down the volcano’s south and southwest flanks. There were no immediate reports of injuries or death, but government officials were scrambling to respond to the latest eruption, which was even bigger than the first eruption that occurred Friday morning. Roughly 16,000 people who live in communities close to the volcano had been evacuated under government orders on Thursday, but an unknown number have remained behind and refused to move. Richard Robertson, with the seismic research center, told local station NBC Radio that the volcano’s old and new dome have been destroyed and that a new crater has been created. He said that the pyroclastic flows would have razed everything in their way. Joseph said the latest explosion is equivalent to the one that occurred in 1902 and killed some 1,600. The volcano last erupted in 1979. Ash from the ongoing explosions has fallen on Barbados and other nearby islands. One government minister who toured the island’s northeast region on Sunday said he saw an estimated two or three dozen people still remaining in the community of Sandy Bay alone, prompting Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves to urge people to leave. Emergency management officials warned they would arrest all those, residents or not, caught inside the red zone without police permission. Communities in the red zone are those closest to the volcano. Two young men, Codrian Simmons and Rashon Charles, have been praised for their bravery as they helped evacuate some 115 people from communities that are in danger. The ongoing volcanic activity has threatened water and food supplies, with the government forced to drill for fresh water and distribute it via trucks. “We cannot put tarpaulin over a river,” said Garth Saunders, minister of the island’s water and sewer authority, referring to the impossibility of trying to protect current water sources from ongoing falling ash. He told NBC Radio that officials also are trying to set up water distribution points. Meanwhile, Gonsalves said government officials are meeting Monday afternoon to talk about difficulties with food supplies. Deputy Prime Minister Montgomery Daniel told the radio station that the damage was extensive in the island’s northeast region, which he toured on Sunday. Forests and farms were wiped out, with coconut, breadfruit, mango and soursop trees destroyed, as well as plantain and banana crops. “What I saw was indeed terrible,” he said. Cots, tents, water tanks and other basic supplies were flooding into St. Vincent as nearby nations rushed to help those affected by the eruptions. At least four empty cruise ships floated nearby, waiting to take evacuees to other islands who have agreed to temporarily receive them, including Antigua and Grenada. Gonsalves, however, said he expects his administration might call off the cruise ships since the vast majority of people seem to be staying in St. Vincent for now. The only people evacuated from St. Vincent via cruise ship are 136 farm workers who are part of a seasonal agricultural program and had been stranded on the island. The group was supposed to fly to Canada, but their flight was cancelled as a result of Friday’s explosion. They arrived Saturday in St. Lucia and will board a flight to Canada from there. Gonsalves told NBC Radio on Sunday that his government will do everything possible to help those forced to abandon their homes in ash-filled communities. Gonsalves said it could take four months for life to go back to normal in St. Vincent, part of an island chain of that includes the Grenadines. The majority of the 100,000 inhabitants live in St. Vincent. Among them is Ranique Chewitt, a 32-year-old salesman who lives in South Rivers, located southeast of the volcano. The pandemic also is complicating response efforts. At least 14 new cases of COVID-19 have been reported since the eruptions began on Friday, and all those going to shelters are being tested. Those who test positive are taken to isolation centers. More than 3,700 people are in 84 government shelters. The eastern Caribbean has 19 live volcanoes, 17 of those located on 11 islands. The remaining two are located underwater near Grenada, including one called Kick ’Em Jenny that has been active in recent years. The most active volcano of all is Soufriere Hills in Montserrat, which has erupted continuously since 1995, destroying the capital of Plymouth and killing at least 19 people in 1997.
Since December 2020, a strange and gloopy mass of lava has been oozing from the top of La Soufrière, a volcano on the northern side of the Caribbean island of St. Vincent. This eruption posed no real threat to the 110,000 or so people living on the island, but things took a turn for the worse at the end of March, when the volcano began shaking in a way that suggested something more violent was coming. Sure enough, at 8:41 a.m. local time today, the first of several major explosions rocked the mountain, kicking off a more dangerous phase of the eruption. The situation on the island is extremely febrile: Anywhere from 20,000 to 30,000 people in the north needed evacuation, either off-island via boat, or to the island’s south via a single, jam-packed road. The process began the day before the blast and was still ongoing as the eruptions began. Please be respectful of copyright. Unauthorized use is prohibited. The hazards for those still in the north include significant ashfall, falling volcanic blocks and bombs, and avalanches of superheated volcanic ash and gas that cannot be outrun. This volcano’s eruptions have killed thousands in the past, and it’s hoped that the evacuations have been successful enough already that the worst-case scenario has been avoided. So far, there have been no reports of deaths. Today’s explosions are but a harbinger of things to come. If its past paroxysms are anything to go by, then La Soufrière is just getting started. “We can’t be sure that because there’s been one explosion, that this is it,” says Jenni Barclay, a volcanologist at the University of East Anglia. “Many volcanic eruptions continue over weeks or even months, and they have different phases of activity associated with them.” La Soufrière is likely to be no different. La Soufrière is the youngest volcano on St. Vincent, which is itself part of an archipelago of 32 islands and cays in the Caribbean. Its eruptions are known for their explosivity and lethality. Before European colonists arrived in the early 1700s, the Indigenous population dwelled along the coast, away from the danger of any potential eruptions. But after becoming a British colony in the 1760s, the island’s enslaved population was forced to live and work in the volcano’s shadow. Many enslaved people died after an eruption in 1812, and many of their descendants perished when a 1902-03 eruption devastated a huge swath of the island. Since its last eruption in 1979, the volcano has been relatively quiet. But in late December 2020, without much seismic fanfare beforehand, it began squeezing out gloopy lava that, over the following months, grew into a so-called lava coulee nearly 3,000 feet long. Paul Cole, a volcanologist at the University of Plymouth, says that this event could have been the entire eruption, and once it ran out of steam, the volcano could have gone quiet again. But like many of the volcanoes in the region, La Soufrière has a reputation for being mercurial. Its magma type is known as a basaltic andesite, says Jazmin Scarlett, a social and historical volcanologist based in England. It is stickier than the stuff coming out of Kīlauea in Hawaii and in Iceland, which means the magma’s trapped gas has trouble escaping as it rises to the surface—a key feature that often leads to explosive eruptions as the gas finally breaks through and dramatically expands. It isn’t clear why volcanoes like La Soufrière can suddenly switch between effusive and explosive eruption styles, says Scarlett. But it can happen at the drop of a hat, and that put volcanologists on high alert since December. As the dome continued to grow, a number of earthquakes shook the volcano at the end of March. These were plenty energetic, but a second swarm of earthquakes on April 5 was more intense. These temblors, known as volcano-tectonic, or VT, earthquakes, are often associated with magma forcing its way through rock deep underneath. “As soon as we saw these VT earthquake swarms, I think most people who were involved said that was really bad news,” says Cole. In the past week, the dome cracked open, became noticeably more incandescent, and began blasting out a lot of noxious gases. Additional seismic activity linked to the shallow movement of magma was also detected. Although it’s too early to confirm, the most likely scenario is that all this behavior pointed toward a significant amount of gas-rich magma speedily rising toward the surface. An explosion was on its way, and volcanologists were hoping an evacuation notice would be given. “But it’s very difficult when you can’t put your finger on a time and date and say, that’s when it’s going to get too dangerous to stay in your house,” says Barclay. To many people’s relief, the Prime Minister of St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Ralph Gonsalves, ordered people in the northeast and northwest of the island to immediately evacuate during a televised address on April 8. Alerts were sent via the radio, as well as across social media channels. Police in the island’s north spread the word too. Early in the morning of April 9, a huge explosion took place at the summit, creating an ash plume six miles high. A second blast happened a few hours later. The evacuation is still ongoing, and it’s no small feat, explains Scarlett. There were about 20,000 people in the so-called red zone, the area most threatened by any explosive eruption, with an additional 10,000 people in the orange zone a little further south. Some of Scarlett ‘s family live in Georgetown, which is in the red zone. At the time of writing, it’s not clear if everyone has left. “I’m just trying not to think about it, really,” she says. “There is only one road that connects the northern end of the island to the south end,” says Scarlett. For many, this is the only passage to safety, and footage shared on social media has shown it at points to be choked with traffic. Others are hoping to escape by sea, using anything from small fishing vessels to cruise ships. Surrounding island nations have offered to receive any refugees, but in 2021, it’s not simply a matter of cramming as many people onto those ships as possible. “This year, the framework of the pandemic makes things much more complicated,” says David Pyle, a volcanologist at the University of Oxford. Evacuees are only allowed on boats if they can prove they have been vaccinated against COVID-19. Although the vaccination program on the island has been both widespread and rapid, says Scarlett, there is still a decent amount of vaccine hesitancy, partly due to antivax propaganda. That means unvaccinated people may still be stranded on the shores of the red zone. “I’m absolutely certain there were still people in the red zone that were trying to get out” when the explosion happened, says Cole, though he hopes that many had already fled. As with previous volcanic eruptions, though, a small number of people in the dangerous zones will likely refuse to leave their homes behind. But people still in the red zone are remain in harm’s way. The falling ash can cause breathing problems, especially for those with pre-existing respiratory conditions. It can block escape routes while adding a terrifying psychological layer to proceedings. “It’s a powerful and horrible form of darkness,” says Barclay. Volcanic avalanches known as pyroclastic density currents, whose innards can be 1,300°F, may spill downslope and rush toward people at speeds exceeding 50 miles an hour. “They can flow over water, they have surmounted and flown uphill,” says Scarlett. Huge blocks ejected by explosions can also kill people several miles away from the summit. And if it begins to rain, any old volcanic deposits may be mobilized into concrete-like slurries known as lahars that crush and suffocate anyone they impact. Those that have managed to get to the island’s south also now present emergency managers with a huge logistical headache. Putting people into shelters, or, as is usually the case when disaster strikes the island, asking them to stay with friends and family, may inadvertently cause a jump in COVID-19 infection rates. Today’s activity is probably only the opening salvo. “I fully expect that there is likely to be further explosions,” says Cole. Historical eruptions have often featured prolonged successions of blasts, spread days, weeks, and even months apart. And these initial explosions may not be the biggest. The island was well-prepared for the disaster though, which means the grimmest outcome may have been avoided. For many years, explains Pyle, the University of the West Indies has led a volcano awareness week for the island. It’s held around Easter, during the anniversary of the 1979 eruption. The possibility of a future eruption has been kept in the minds of the populace thanks to this endeavor. The National Emergency Management Organization also has been using seismic and volcanologic data to continuously update its warning and evacuation procedures long before this new eruption began. Scientists working at the Montserrat Volcano Observatory, another volcanic isle with a history of devastating eruptions, have been acting in a supportive capacity during the current eruption. “This event is still showing us that nothing beats on-the-ground expertise, in terms of having scientists who have a sense of what the signals are telling you based on experiential knowledge,” says Pyle. A profound sense of optimism, too, can be gained from a look at the island’s history, horrific though some of its chapters may be. Scarlett has looked at two centuries of volcanic paroxysms in the region. “What I’ve found is that the Caribbean always comes together to help,” she says. The commonality these island nations have—cultural, religious, and historical, including the bonds they share as the descendants of enslaved people—mean that they, and the wider diaspora, help each other out in moments of crisis.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) — Ongoing volcanic eruptions have displaced about 20% of people in the eastern Caribbean island of St. Vincent as a U.N. official on Wednesday warned of a growing humanitarian crisis. Between 16,000 to 20,000 people were evacuated under government orders before La Soufriere volcano first erupted on Friday, covering the lush green island with ash that continues to blanket communities in St. Vincent as well as Barbados and other nearby islands. About 6,000 of those evacuees are considered most vulnerable, said Didier Trebucq, United Nations resident coordinator for Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean. “So we are facing a situation with a great deal of uncertainty, and also a humanitarian crisis that is growing and may continue for weeks and months,” he said. Some 4,000 people are temporarily living in 87 government shelters, while others have relocated to hotels or the homes of friends and family, officials said. Trebucq noted that many shelters are lacking basic services including drinking water. He said priority number one is water, which is being transported from nearby Caribbean nations and other contributors since water systems shut down in many parts of the island. He said priority number two is meeting the needs of the 4,000 people in shelters, including cots and basic supplies, sanitation, hygiene and emergency latrines. Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves said Wednesday during a press conference broadcast by local station NBC radio that people need to strictly adhere to COVID-19 measures to avoid outbreaks. “We cannot have that at any time, and most of all, at this time,” he said. He also said a big issue is trying to determine the needs of those staying in hundreds of private homes across the island, adding that registration of those evacuees is ongoing. Officials also urged those remaining in communities closest to the volcano to evacuate as soon as possible, noting that the explosions are ongoing and causing new pyroclastic flows. Friday’s explosion produced only ash, but pyroclastic flows have multiplied as the volcano shifts shape with each new eruption, some of which have been stronger than the one recorded last week. Robertson said volcanic activity is expected to continue for days or even weeks. The volcano had a minor eruption in December after a previous eruption in 1979. An older eruption in 1902 killed some 1,600 people. Water continues to be of great concern, although Garth Saunders, minister of the island’s water and sewer authority, said Wednesday that the situation is improving and that more water supply systems are coming back on. He added that crews are prioritizing bakeries so people can have basic sustenance. “We are doing our best,” he said. Trebucq said the U.N. will soon be launching an emergency appeal to support the humanitarian response and the early recovery for the next six months. He said the goal is to ensure people’s lives go back to normal as soon as possible, but that he worried about the impact on the island’s tourism and agricultural sectors. The U.N. is mobilizing experts through the U.N. Environment Program in collaboration with the European Union to help remove and dispose of the ashes, he said. “This is a crisis that is going to certainly last more than six months in St. Vincent and other islands,” he said. Lederer reported from the United Nations.
KINGSTOWN, St. Vincent (AP) — Officials in St. Vincent said Thursday that they were extremely worried about a COVID-19 outbreak given the lack of water and more positive cases being reported as thousands of evacuees fleeing the erupting volcano crowd into shelters and private homes. About a dozen cases have been reported in recent days, with at least five evacuees staying in two homes and one shelter testing positive, exposing at least 20 people to the virus, said Dr. Simone Keizer-Beache, chief medical officer on the Caribbean island. Keizer-Beache said officials are preparing to do massive testing as part of contact tracing, a complicated undertaking given that between 16,000 to 20,000 people were evacuated before La Soufriere’s explosive eruptions started on Friday. She also urged people to keep wearing masks and asked them to cooperate, noting that some who arrive at shelters do not want to be tested, which is voluntary. “Let us work together to prevent a second catastrophe,” she said in a press conference broadcast by local station NBC Radio. Complicating efforts to fight COVID-19 is the lack of water in some communities given the heavy ashfall, with people walking or driving to spigots with buckets and jugs in hand as long lines formed. Among those in line was Suzanne Thomas, a 46-year-old saleswoman from South Union, a community in eastern St. Vincent that has been hit with water shortages since Saturday. She had welcomed nine evacuees into her home who are huddled together, sleeping only on rugs and blankets. Meanwhile, supplies were non-existent or running low at some government shelters. More than 4,000 people are staying in 89 government shelters. Meanwhile, the government so far has registered more than 6,000 evacuees in private homes, a number that keeps growing, said Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves. He said he worries about an uptick in COVID-19 cases in certain areas given dwindling water supplies or complete lack of water. Garth Saunders, director of St. Vincent’s utilities company, said crews are still cleaning intakes of the island’s water and sewer system and expected water to reach more communities later Thursday, adding that ashfall has been very heavy. Neighboring islands and organizations also have shipped water to St. Vincent, where officials have distributed water bottles and dispatched water trucks. Long lines formed at those trucks and at money transfer companies, with some standing for hours to retrieve cash from loved ones. “I’ve been here since 4:30 this morning,” said Joseph King, a 67-year-old plumber, adding that he was tired and hungry. La Soufriere is expected to keep erupting for days or even weeks, with a scientific team expected on Thursday to estimate the amount of gases expelled by the volcano and gather samples of pyroclastic flow material. Those analysis will tell scientists how the volcano is behaving and help them guess what it’s likely to do in the future, said Richard Robertson, who is leading the team for the University of the West Indies’ Seismic Research Center. The volcano had a minor eruption in December, and prior to that erupted in 1979. A previous eruption in 1902 killed some 1,600 people. Coto reported from San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Didier Trebucq, UN Resident Coordinator for Barbados and the Caribbean, briefed journalists on response to the growing humanitarian crisis sparked after long-dormant La Soufrière volcano erupted last week, displacing some 20,000 people, or roughly one-fifth of the population. Around 6,000 are considered vulnerable. “We are about to initiate the UN funding appeal and response plan to support the humanitarian response, but also the early recovery for the next six months”, he said, speaking via video link from Barbados. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, located in the southern Caribbean, consists of more than 30 islands and cays, nine of which are inhabited. At 4,000 feet tall, La Soufrière dominates the largest island, Saint Vincent. The volcano had been silent since 1979, but began spewing smoke and rumbling in December, before erupting on Friday. “We are facing regular eruptions of the volcano, including up to last night”, Mr. Trebucq reported. Some 4,000 of the displaced people are now living in 87 shelters, though many facilities lack basic services such as drinking water. Others have found refuge with families and friends, while a handful fled to neighbouring countries on fishing boats. Mr. Trebucq said right now, water is “priority number one”, as service has shut down in many areas and supplies are being transported from sister Caribbean nations. The UN Children’s Fund, UNICEF, and the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO), the regional office of the UN health agency WHO, are on the ground to assess needs. “Priority number two is really about shelter management”, he continued, highlighting the need for cots and basic hygiene items. UN teams, including from the World Food Programme (WFP) are working with the Vincentian authorities on digital registration of beneficiaries for cash vouchers. “The clean-up of the ashes, finally, is another important priority, in terms of environmental health but also clean-up to make sure that life can come back to normal outside the red zone as soon as possible,” Mr. Trebucq added. Relatedly, UN agencies, in collaboration with the European Union, are also working to provide experts who will devise a plan for the clean-up of volcanic ash in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the other affected islands.
