Wauwatosa police say seven adults and one teen were wounded after a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20. a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20 happened shortly before 3 p.m. -- on the Macy's end of Mayfair Mall. When emergency personnel arrived on the scene, officials indicated the shooter was no longer on the scene. the shooter is at large at this time, officials said. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said the shooter is described as a male, white, in the shooter's 20s or 30s. Officials said seven adults and one teen were taken from the scene. But the extent of seven adults and one teen's injuries was unknown. That is different from an earlier statement that indicated seven adults and one teen suffered non-life-threatening injuries. "Preliminary investigation has led us to believe that a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20 was not a random act, and was the result of an altercation. We will continue to work diligently to interview the many witnesses, as well as seven adults and one teen, to identify and apprehend the shooter. As police and fire crews first arrived on the scene, so did loved ones of those inside Mayfair Mall. Police asked for patience as those in Mayfair Mall were brought outside -- and later reunited with loved ones. Mall owner Brookfield Properties said in a statement Mall owner Brookfield Properties were “disheartened and angered that Mall owner Brookfield Properties's guests and tenants were subject to a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20 Friday, Nov. 20.” Mall owner Brookfield Properties declined further comment. "Mall owner Brookfield Properties's hearts go out to those who were injured in the shooting at Mayfair Mall Friday, Nov. 20. Kathy and I are thinking of seven adults and one teen and seven adults and one teen's families and wish seven adults and one teen a full and speedy recovery. "In an unprecedented year for gun violence across the country we are faced with a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20. Mall owner Brookfield Properties's thoughts are with the victims, staff, shoppers, and everyone impacted by a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20. Mall owner Brookfield Properties commend the quick actions of mall staff and first responders in assisting families to safety and the life-saving efforts of the trauma unit at Froedtert Hospital. "According to the National Gun Violence Archive (GVA), there have been 571 mass shootings so far in the country this year in comparison to a total of 417 in 2019. Since 2009 over 1,500 people have been killed in the country in a mass shooting and over 900 were wounded. 2020 is on track to have the most mass shootings since the National Gun Violence Archive (GVA) began tracking these incidents in 2013. "The impact of gun violence stretches far beyond those killed or injured but impacts their families, friends, co-workers, and entire communities. these incidents can be especially traumatic for children and youth. "If there are any families in need of counseling support for children or teens that may have been in Mayfair Mall at the time, Mall owner Brookfield Properties encourage any families in need of counseling support for children or teens that may have been in the mall at the time to contact the Milwaukee Trauma Response Team at 414-257-7621. "I am profoundly shocked by the shooting this afternoon that left seven adults wounded inside Mayfair Mall. The senseless burst of gunfire inside what we know is one of the busiest and most popular malls in the region is deeply disturbing, and tonight I offer thoughts of sympathy and healing to seven adults and one teen. "I ask that citizens offer help and comfort to seven adults and one teen during seven adults and one teen's time of recovery and healing from seven adults and one teen's injuries. According to Wauwatosa Mayor Dennis McBride, it appears that thankfully, none of seven adults and one teen appear to have life-threatening injuries. With the number of shots that were fired inside Mayfair Mall (according to witnesses), the fact that no one was killed is by sheer, blind luck. "Wauwatosa Police – with the assistance of law enforcement partners from throughout the area, including Milwaukee Police and the FBI – are investigating a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20 and what exactly transpired. As of this writing, the shooter is still at large. "I have been closely monitoring the active shooter situation at Mayfair Mall Friday, Nov. 20. I appreciate the work of the first responders, law enforcement, and local officials responding to the active shooter situation at Mayfair Mall, and our health care professionals at Froedtert Hospital, and Children’s Wisconsin, who are caring for our gunshot victims. "My concern is with those injured, their loved ones, and all those exposed to the violence. It is important to understand the psychology of the ripple effect of those injured, and those exposed to violence. These incidents produce trauma that is critical to acknowledge, to address. We need to ensure access to trauma support. The violence doesn’t disappear when the incident concludes. FREE DOWNLOAD: Get breaking news alerts in the FOX6 News app for iOS or Android. Mayfair Mall was the site of a February shooting in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old was fleeing from police; a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, said a city police officer, Joseph Mensah a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20 Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old because Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old pointed a gun at a city police officer, Joseph Mensah. Mayfair Mall was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20. The Milwaukee County district attorney declined to file charges against a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, but the city this week agreed to a separation agreement in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah will be paid at least $130,000 to leave the force. Associated Press contributed to this report.
Eight people were shot about 2:50 p.m. Friday at Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's, and the shooter is still on the loose. Wauwatosa police tweeted Friday night that Wauwatosa police's preliminary investigation has led Wauwatosa police to believe the "shooting was not a random act, and was the result of an altercation."The shooter, who was not at the scene when police arrived, is believed to be a white man in a white man in his 20s or 30s's 20s or 30s, Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said. Wauwatosa police are working to determine the shooter's identity. It is not known if the shooter was still in Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's when police arrived, Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said. Eight people were taken to Froedtert Hospital, a level one trauma center, and one teen victim was taken to Children's Wisconsin. The extent of the injuries was not known. The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's Office was not called to the scene. At 9:30 p.m., police said the Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's property has been cleared and was secure.Law enforcement personnel remained at Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's through the night processing the scene.Employees told WISN 12 News earlier that when Employees were allowed to leave where Employees were sheltering, Employees must have Employees's hands up.At about 4:30 p.m., Wauwatosa police tweeted, "Police are actively investigating an incident at Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's. Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's is currently closed. Please use alternate routes to get through the area." News Chopper 12's Matt Salemme reported seeing tactical units going into Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's. News Chopper 12's Matt Salemme also saw Eight people being brought out of Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's on stretchers. Three of Eight people were sitting upright and conscious. More ambulances continued to arrive at the scene.There were officers there from Wauwatosa, Milwaukee, the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office, the Waukesha County Sheriff's Office, State Patrol and others called to Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's.The FBI also responded. Department of Justice investigators have also arrived at the scene. A woman who was shopping on the second floor of Macy's's heard eight to 12 shots being fired. A woman who was outside Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's told WISN 12 News A woman who was outside the mall had a friend who worked at Macy's and that they were hiding in the stockroom. "They’re very scared. They’re just hiding. That’s all they can do right now," Becky Clark said. A father, whose daughter works inside Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's told WISN 12 News's Derrick Rose that A father, whose daughter works inside the mall got a call from A father, whose daughter works inside the mall's daughter, and his daughter told A father, whose daughter works inside the mall someone was shooting in Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's. Then A father, whose daughter works inside the mall heard gunshots through the phone and heard people start running. Wauwatosa Mayor Dennis McBride told ABC News, "The Wauwatosa Police Department is currently involved in an active shooter incident at Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa. Through The Wauwatosa Police Department's public information officer, more information will be released as if becomes available and is confirmed. Multiple injured victims have and are being transported from the north end of Macy's. None of Multiple injured victims's injuries appear to be life threatening. the shooter is "at-large" at this time. There are approximately 75 police officers on scene at this time. It will take time to provide additional, and perhaps, more accurate information, but information will be provided as information becomes available." The owners of Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's released a statement saying, "The owners of the mall are disheartened and angered that The owners of the mall's guests and tenants were subject to an active shooter incident at Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa Friday. The owners of the mall are thankful for The owners of the mall's partners at The Wauwatosa Police Department and The owners of the mall are cooperating with The Wauwatosa Police Department as The Wauwatosa Police Department's investigation develops." Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's was closed Saturday. Police said Saturday that anyone who has property or a vehicle that anyone who has property or a vehicle that they need to pick up need to pick up, should contact Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's Security at 414-443-5140, and Mayfair Mall Security will provide you with directions on how to retrieve property or a vehicle that they need to pick up.Police asked if anyone has any information, to please call them at 414-471-8430. There was a reunification center set up at the At Home store, 3201 N. Mayfair Road. No other information has been released.
Eight people were injured, including a teenager, during an active shooting incident at a mall in Wauwatosa, Wis. WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) -- Eight people and a teenager were injured in a shooting at a suburban Milwaukee mall Friday, according to police. Emergency crews are responding to the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wis., west of Milwaukee. WISN reports that there was a shooting inside a mall in Wauwatosa, Wis.. WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) police say Wauwatosa police began receiving 911 calls reporting an active shooting incident at a mall in Wauwatosa, Wis. just before 3 p.m. Friday. "We dropped to the ground and ran in the opposite direction and found a stairwell nearby," one witness said. "Everybody started screaming, and like one witness saw a lot of people running, so one witness ducked. one witness was in shock, so one witness ducked, and then one witness ran," said one witness. Police say by the time Police arrived, the shooter was no longer at the scene. No motive for a shooting at a suburban Milwaukee mall Friday has been released. Police say preliminary statements from witnesses indicate that the shooter is a white man in the shooter's 20s or 30s. Investigators are working on determining the identity of the shooter. Any information reporting the shooter's identity at this time is false, police say. Officers from WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS), Milwaukee, the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office, the FBI Milwaukee bureau, State Patrol and other agencies all responded to the scene and are aiding in the investigation. Eight people's exact condition were not immediately known. Those who are looking to reunify with anyone who was at a mall in Wauwatosa, Wis. should go to the reunification area, located at the At Home store at 3201 N. Mayfair Rd, officials say. Police are asking residents to use alternate routes to get through the reunification area, located at the At Home store at 3201 N. Mayfair Rd as Police actively investigate a shooting at a suburban Milwaukee mall Friday. a mall in Wauwatosa, Wis. was the site of a February shooting in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old was fleeing from police; a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, said a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, shot Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old because Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old pointed a gun at a city police officer, Joseph Mensah,. a mall in Wauwatosa, Wis. was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of a February shooting in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. The Milwaukee County district attorney declined to file charges against a city police officer, Joseph Mensah,, but WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) this week agreed to a separation agreement in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, will be paid at least $130,000 to leave the force. a mall in Wauwatosa, Wis. will remain closed Saturday, Nov. 21. the scene is active and police ask members of the public to stay away from the reunification area, located at the At Home store at 3201 N. Mayfair Rd to keep the scene secure during the investigation. The Associated Press and WISN-TV contributed to this report.
Police have arrested a 15-year-old Milwaukee boy in connection with a shooting at a suburban mall Friday that left eight people injured. Weber gave no further information on a 15-year-old Milwaukee boy, saying the investigation into a shooting at a suburban mall Friday that left eight people injured was ongoing and that the weapon was recovered at the scene. Several other arrests have been made, police said. Of those injured in a shooting at a suburban mall Friday that left eight people injured, four were innocent bystanders who received non-life threatening injuries and police said most victims were now recovering at home. a 15-year-old Milwaukee boy was no longer at a suburban mall when Wauwatosa police officers arrived, Weber said Friday. Weber said eight people injured were seven adults and one teenager. Wauwatosa Mayor Dennis McBride told CNN about 75 police officers responded to a suburban mall Friday night. The FBI in Milwaukee tweeted that agents were supporting local law enforcement after a shooting at a suburban mall Friday that left eight people injured. A heavy police and EMT presence responded, according to footage from CNN affiliate WISN, and police officers in tactical gear were seen entering a suburban mall. Austin Seybold, 24, said Austin Seybold, 24 was locked down in the back room of the Finish Line store inside a suburban mall. Austin Seybold, 24 saw customers running past the Finish Line store inside the mall. Employees starting rounding up the people inside the Finish Line store inside the mall and “took the people inside the store into the back room of the Finish Line store inside the mall and locked the Finish Line store inside the mall's front gate,” Austin Seybold, 24 wrote to CNN via text message from the Finish Line store inside the mall. Austin Seybold, 24 said six employees and about a dozen customers were locked in the back room of the Finish Line store inside the mall for about two hours before a SWAT team escorted six employees and about a dozen customers out. “It was a little frantic at first, but we managed to get the people inside the store into the back room of the Finish Line store inside the mall without any hassle and the people inside the store has remained fairly calm which is good, although we can hear what sounds like SWAT teams in the back passageways of a suburban mall and the gravity of the situation is beginning to set in,” Austin Seybold, 24 wrote. a suburban mall the post on Facebook Friday that a suburban mall was closed following a shooting at a suburban mall Friday that left eight people injured. “a suburban mall are disheartened and angered that a suburban mall's guests and tenants were subject to a shooting at a suburban mall Friday that left eight people injured Friday. a suburban mall are thankful for a suburban mall's partners at the Wauwatosa Police Department and a suburban mall are cooperating with the Wauwatosa Police Department as the Wauwatosa Police Department's investigation develops,” the post read. Wauwatosa is about seven miles northwest of Milwaukee. Wauwatosa was the site of multiple protests in October following news that Officer Joseph Mensah, who shot and killed 17-year-old Alvin Cole outside a suburban mall, would not face criminal charges. The decision not to charge Mensah sparked protests during a monthslong wave of nationwide demonstrations over how police treat Black people.
WAUWATOSA, Wis. -- Eight people including one teen were shot by a suspect at Mayfair Mall Friday afternoon, and a suspect is still at large, police say. WAUWATOSA, Wis. Police Chief Barry Weber said during an evening press conference that seven adults and one teen were injured. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said that preliminary witness accounts identify a suspect as a white man in a suspect's 20s or 30s. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber added that police are not sure a suspect is still at Mayfair Mall, but police are seeking to identify a suspect. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber confirmed shots first rang out around 2:50 p.m. near an entrance to the Macy’s store. When law enforcement arrived, though, a suspect was no longer at the scene. Wauwatosa Police adds that Mayfair Mall has been cleared and is secure. Mayfair Mall's management told Wauwatosa Police that Mayfair Mall will be closed Saturday, Nov. 21. Police will remain at Mayfair Mall into the night. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber says a family reunification center has been set up at the At Home store located at 3201 N. Mayfair Rd. in WAUWATOSA, Wis.. Anyone with information is asked to contact Wauwatosa Police at (414) 471-8430. Froedtert Hospital confirms to TMJ4 News that Eight people including one teen are being treated at Froedtert Hospital and the Children’s Hospital. Earlier video from the scene shows several people being lifted into ambulances. Armored cars, squad cars and other vehicles were scattered across Mayfair Mall's sprawling parking lot. WAUWATOSA, Wis. police earlier tweeted that Wauwatosa police are actively investigating an incident at Mayfair Mall. Wauwatosa police say Mayfair Mall is closed and ask people to use alternative routes in the area. The FBI tweeted that The FBI is currently supporting local law enforcement's tactical response to a "shooting incident" at Mayfair Mall. Witnesses tell TMJ4 News described Witnesses's experience. One man learned that One man's uncle had been shot and One man's cousin was still trapped in Mayfair Mall, as police searched for suspects. One man recalled scores of people running out of Mayfair Mall, and hearing upwards of a dozen gunshots. An owner of a business at Mayfair Mall said An owner of a business at the mall heard as many as 15 gunshots. The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner tweeted that The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner are not responding to a "shooting incident" at Mayfair Mall, indicating no one has died at the scene. Members of the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, WAUWATOSA, Wis. Police, Wisconsin National Guard, ATF and other departments responded to a "shooting incident" at Mayfair Mall. Mayfair Mall was also the site of a shooting in February, when a WAUWATOSA, Wis. Police Officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Mayfair Mall was the place of protests in the wake of a shooting. The Milwaukee County District Attorney decided to not file charges against a Wauwatosa Police Officer, Joseph Mensah. a Wauwatosa Police Officer, Joseph Mensah has since signed a separation agreement in which a Wauwatosa Police Officer, Joseph Mensah will be paid at least $130,000 to leave Wauwatosa Police. Check back often for updates on this developing story.
Police in Wisconsin are still searching for a suspect in a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday. a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday occurred at the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, according to authorities. a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday occurred during an altercation near the entrance to the Macy’s location at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall, and was not a random act, police said. As of noon Saturday, police are still working to identify the suspect in a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday. Those with information on a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday are asked to call authorities at 414-471-8430. Police are also reminding the public that a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall is closed for business Saturday amid the ongoing investigation into a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday. Individuals who need to pick up property or a vehicle that was left at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall after Friday's shooting are asked to call mall security at 414-443-5140. When officers arrived, a suspect in a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday was no longer at the scene, but first responders discovered eight people wounded, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin Police Chief Barry Weber said. eight people were hospitalized following a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday but the extent of eight people's injuries was not immediately known, Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said. Police said witnesses reported a suspect in a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday was a man in a suspect in a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday's 20s or 30s, but a suspect in a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday's identity was not immediately known. Armed officers, including FBI agents and SWAT members, could be seen in areas outside a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall for several hours Friday afternoon. The FBI Milwaukee office confirmed The FBI Milwaukee office was assisting with the ongoing investigation into the incident. the Macy’s's said in a statement the Macy’s was working with the police department on the ongoing investigation into the incident. A witness who works inside a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall reported hearing several shots fired. Delos Reyes, who lives in Chicago but was working at the Finish Line inside the Macy’s's to help out, said Delos Reyes, who lives in Chicago but was working at the Finish Line inside Macy's to help out and others ran from the Macy’s location at the mall. a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall was the site of a February shooting in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old was fleeing from police; Mensah, who is also Black, said a city police officer, Joseph Mensah shot Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old because Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old pointed a gun at a city police officer, Joseph Mensah. a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday. The Milwaukee County district attorney declined to file charges against a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, but Wisconsin this week agreed to a separation agreement in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah will be paid at least $130,000 to leave the force.
WAUWATOSA, Wis. (CBS) -- Multiple people were The incident Friday afternoon at the Mayfair Mall in WAUWATOSA, Wis., and police are still searching for the shooter. The incident began just before 3 p.m. on Friday when officers were called for an active shooter situation at the mall, about 7 miles west of Milwaukee. Police say The incident happened near the Macy's entrance on the northwest side of the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. WAUWATOSA, Wis. police said Multiple people were hospitalized after The incident. The police chief did not have information on Multiple people's conditions just before 6 p.m. but said none had died. "the shooter is 'at-large' at this time. There are approximately 75 police officers on scene at this time," WAUWATOSA, Wis. Mayor Dennis McBride said in a statement. Police only had a vague description, saying the shooter was described as a white male in the shooter's 20s or 30s and said any information that is currently out about the shooter's identity is false. Police said anyone seeking someone who was at the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin should go to the reunification site at the At Home store at 3201 N. Mayfair Rd. Police urged the public to stay away from the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin as the investigation continues. the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin will be closed until further notice, Police said. The FBI is assisting in the investigation. A woman who was in the Macy's department store at the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin when A woman who was in the Macy's department store at the mall when she heard eight to 12 shots heard eight to 12 shots told CBS 58 in Milwaukee A woman who was in the Macy's department store at the mall when she heard eight to 12 shots did not see the shooting, which A woman who was in the Macy's department store at the mall when she heard eight to 12 shots believed near the Macy's's interior entrance to the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. CBS 58 in Milwaukee's Cearron Bagenda reports dozens of police cars at the scene searching the area. Many of the police were outside the Macy's's. The Milwaukee medical examiner's office said The Milwaukee medical examiner's office had not been called to the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. In February, a 17-year-old was fatally shot by police at the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, according to CBS 58 in Milwaukee. Police said the first shot came from a 17-year-old, officers gave commands and then an officer returned fire. Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old was fleeing from police; Joseph Mensah said Joseph Mensah shot Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old because Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old pointed a gun at Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of The incident. The Milwaukee County district attorney declined to file charges against Joseph Mensah, but the city this week agreed to a separation agreement in which Joseph Mensah will be paid at least $130,00 to leave the force.
A 15-year-old boy has been arrested in a shooting that left eight people injured last week at a Wisconsin mall, authorities said Sunday. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said in a news conference that A 15-year-old boy was arrested Saturday night with a gun alleged to have been used in a shooting that left eight people injured last week at a Wisconsin mall. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber did not identify A 15-year-old boy or say what charges A 15-year-old boy may face. Several other people were arrested in connection with a shooting that left eight people injured last week at a Wisconsin mall, said Abby Pavlik, a spokeswoman for the police department, but Abby Pavlik, a spokeswoman for the police department did not provide details. Authorities said a shooting that left eight people injured last week at a Wisconsin mall followed an altercation between two groups at Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, outside Milwaukee, on Friday afternoon. Among eight people injured was A 15-year-old boy. Abby Pavlik, a spokeswoman for the police department could not say whether A 15-year-old boy was the suspected shooter, adding that several people in two groups were wounded. Four bystanders were also injured, Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said the suspected shooter fled a Wisconsin mall as tactical teams cleared the space of patrons and worked to contain a Wisconsin mall's 1.2 million square feet, a process that took several hours. Abby Pavlik, a spokeswoman for the police department did not say where A 15-year-old boy was arrested.
WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) -- Police have the arrest of a 15 year old Hispanic male a 15-year-old for the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday. WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) police say Wauwatosa police began receiving 911 calls reporting the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday just before 3 p.m. Friday. "We dropped to the ground and ran in the opposite direction and found a stairwell nearby," one witness said. "Everybody started screaming, and like Blanca De Los Reyes, mall employee saw a lot of people running, so Blanca De Los Reyes, mall employee ducked. Blanca De Los Reyes, mall employee was in shock, so Blanca De Los Reyes, mall employee ducked, and then Blanca De Los Reyes, mall employee ran," said Blanca De Los Reyes, mall employee. Chief Barry Weber gave no motive for the attack at a Wisconsin mall during a briefing Friday evening. Chief Barry Weber said the shooter had left the scene before officers arrived, and that extent of eight people's injuries was unknown. Police also said the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday apparently stemmed from an altercation and was not a random act. Four of eight people are described as innocent bystanders, police said. Wauwatosa Police Department Sergeant Abby Pavlik added that several arrests have been made and police continue police's investigation. Authorities said a Wisconsin mall was closed Saturday but has since reopened for business. "Wauwatosa Police Department is pleased to announce the arrest of a 15-year-old in connection with the shooting at a Wisconsin mall. The suspected firearm used in the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday was recovered at the scene of the arrest of a 15 year old Hispanic male. Around 2:49pm, officers were notified of shots fired inside a Wisconsin mall, near lower level Macy's. Officers were on scene, providing medical aid to victims within 30 seconds of notification. An officer's first priority in this situation is to secure the scene and begin rendering first aid. During this time, the shooter exited a Wisconsin mall as other patrons were running out. Unaware that the shooter had left a Wisconsin mall, a perimeter was established and tactical teams formed to begin clearing a Wisconsin mall of patrons sheltering in place as well as searching for the shooter. The process to completely secure a Wisconsin mall, took approximately six hours and involved seven tactical teams. While tactical teams were securing a Wisconsin mall, investigators were interviewing victims and witnesses to aid in identification of the shooter. Multiple leads were obtained during this time period which resulted in numerous hours of investigation. It is important to stress that these types of investigations not only require the identification of a suspect but preservation of evidence related to the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday. This presents a cautious balance of what to release to the public versus potential destruction of evidence. Wauwatosa Police Department's initial investigation led Wauwatosa Police Department to believe that the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday was not random and therefore no immediate danger to the public existed. Photos of Wauwatosa Police Department's suspect were not released to media for fear of compromising Our initial investigation and potential destruction of evidence. It is important to stress that the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday was not a random one but an altercation between two groups. As often happens in these types of situations, innocent bystanders are injured. There were four innocent bystanders that received non-life-threatening injuries during the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday. Wauwatosa Police Department extend Wauwatosa Police Department's well wishes and prayers to four innocent bystanders that received non-life-threatening injuries during this incident for a speedy recovery. On behalf of Wauwatosa Police Department I would like to thank the numerous agencies that assisted in their investigation. The bravery, professionalism and service to community shown by all first responders was exemplary. As a result, WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) and a Wisconsin mall remain a safe community and shopping destination. I would like express a special thanks to our officers, detectives, the FBI, Milwaukee Police Department and the City of Brookfield Police Department for our officers, detectives, the FBI, Milwaukee Police Department and the City of Brookfield Police Department's commitment and invaluable assistance. I am so proud of the personnel in Wauwatosa Police Department. the personnel in our police department have worked tirelessly to solve this case quickly. Wauwatosa Police Department have gotten support from so many agencies; Law enforcement here in WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) and all of SE Wisconsin continues to showcase the professionalism and capability that citizens have come to expect. a Wisconsin mall is a wonderful place to shop and is a safe place to be. Unfortunately, in our society, an incident of this type can happen at any time in any place. I encourage people to show people's support for a Wisconsin mall, a Wisconsin mall have been wonderful partners to us at Wauwatosa Police Department for many years. a Wisconsin mall was the site of a February shooting in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old was fleeing from police; a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, said a city police officer, Joseph Mensah shot Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old because Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old pointed a gun at a city police officer, Joseph Mensah. a Wisconsin mall was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday. The Milwaukee County district attorney declined to file charges against a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, but WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) this week agreed to a separation agreement in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah will be paid at least $130,000 to leave Wauwatosa Police Department. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Seven adults and one teenager were wounded after a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday afternoon, Nov. 20. Unfortunately, a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday afternoon, Nov. 20 is the latest incident at Mayfair Mall. In February, Wauwatosa Police Officer Joseph Mensah shot and killed 17-year-old Alvin Cole. Police said 17-year-old Alvin Cole was fleeing from police on foot and that 17-year-old Alvin Cole pointed a gun, and did not comply with orders to drop a gun. Last month, a victim showed up at the hospital after police said shots were fired at Mayfair Mall. Three people were shot in that incident. On Thanksgiving 2019, a fight broke out at Mayfair Mall and was captured on cellphone video. Shoppers were seen throwing punches when a Wauwatosa police officer used a taser on one person. No one was shot in a fight. Still, Mayfair Mall is no stranger to crime. Back in 2007, Mayfair Mall implemented a weekend chaperone policy for anyone age 17 or younger due to concerns about crime caused by minors. a weekend chaperone policy for anyone age 17 or younger remains in effect today, running from 3 p.m. to close from Friday through Sunday. Friday's shooting happened just before then; a 911 call was received at approximately 2:50 p.m., according to police. FREE DOWNLOAD: Get breaking news alerts in the FOX6 News app for iOS or Android. Mayfair Mall, is owned by Brookfield Properties and is the largest taxpaying entity in Wauwatosa -- valued at more than $500 million. There are more than 160 retailers at Mayfair Mall and over 1.3 million square feet of retail space, making Mayfair Mall one of the top places to shop in the Milwaukee area. But over 1.3 million square feet of retail space should have no room for crime. Friday's shooting was one of the largest Mayfair Mall has seen in Mayfair Mall's history.
Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer, is being allowed to The resignation at the end of this month, city officials announced. Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer has been suspended from the department since July 15. Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer has shot and killed three people in the line of duty since 2015, according to multiple reports, including a Black teenager outside a shopping mall in February. The Wauwatosa, Wis., Common Council announced The Wauwatosa Common Council entered a separation agreement on Tuesday with Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer, the Wauwatosa Peace Officers' Association and Wauwatosa, Wis.,'s police department. The resignation is effective Nov. 30. "Now is the time for all of us to come together and heal," Wauwatosa, Wis., Mayor Dennis McBride said in a statement. Prior to The resignation, a hearing was scheduled for next month before the Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission, which would have provided an opportunity for Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer to hold on to Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer's job, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports. the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel notes that the Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission was the only body that could terminate Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer from the department. In October, days of protests erupted in Wauwatosa, Wis., after the Milwaukee County district attorney announced no charges would be filed against Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer. The district attorney's office said Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer acted in self-defense when Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer shot and killed 17-year-old Alvin Cole outside Mayfair Mall on Feb. 2. the Milwaukee County district attorney's report said that 17-year-old Alvin Cole was armed with a 9 mm pistol and that after 17-year-old Alvin Cole arrived at Mayfair Mall, 17-year-old Alvin Cole got into a verbal altercation with an adult male. Afterward, when 17-year-old Alvin Cole encountered police officers in the parking lot, 17-year-old Alvin Cole ran, His report said. 17-year-old Alvin Cole's weapon was discharged and officers ordered 17-year-old Alvin Cole to surrender Cole's weapon. "17-year-old Alvin Cole did not surrender Cole's weapon and was fired upon by Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer causing 17-year-old Alvin Cole's death," the Milwaukee County district attorney's report added. Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer's two earlier shootings had also been found to be in self-defense, and Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer was not disciplined. A separate report after the latest death, compiled by an independent investigator, former U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic, was submitted to the Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission last month. an independent investigator, former U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic's report stated that Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer should be terminated, according to a local CBS affiliate. the Milwaukee County district attorney's decision to not bring charges set off consecutive nights of protests in Wauwatosa, Wis.,, prompting officials to impose curfews for five days, The Associated Press reports. a local CBS affiliate adds that at the time, Wauwatosa, Wis.,'s schools were shuttered, local businesses were boarded up and the National Guard was called in and stationed outside Mayfair Mall. Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer's two previous fatal shootings took place in 2015 and 2016, reports the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel notes that during the 2016 shooting, Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer was patrolling Madison Park during the overnight hours when Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer came across Jay Anderson sleeping in Jay Anderson's car. As Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer approached, Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer said, Jay Anderson lunged for Jay Anderson's gun, which Jay Anderson legally owned, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports, adding that Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer fired six rounds into his car, striking Jay Anderson four times. the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel notes that Jay Anderson's family disputed the department's accounting of the events and filed a complaint with the Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission. the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports that Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer's first fatal shooting in the line of duty took place after roughly seven months with the department, in 2015. A man named Antonio Gonzales was brandishing a sword and refused to drop a sword when Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer and another officer arrived to the scene. "Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer fired Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer's weapon eight times because Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer feared for Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer's safety and the safety of two other citizens on the scene," the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports, citing a review of Mensah's first fatal shooting in the line of duty.
A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February won’t be charged because A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February had reasonable belief that deadly force was necessary, a prosecutor said Wednesday. Wauwatosa Officer Joseph Mensah the shooting a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February on Feb. 2 after police responded to a reported disturbance at a suburban Milwaukee mall in February. Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm, in a 14-page letter laying out Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm's rationale, said evidence showed a Black teenager fled from police carrying a stolen 9 mm handgun. Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm cited squad car audio evidence, along with testimony from A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February and two fellow officers, that Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm said showed a Black teenager had fired a shot while fleeing and refused commands to drop a stolen 9 mm handgun. a Black teenager was the third person A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February has fatally shot since becoming an officer, and a Black teenager's death has sparked periodic protests in Wauwatosa and the Milwaukee area. Gov. Tony Evers announced earlier Wednesday that Gov. Tony Evers had activated National Guard members as a precaution, though Gov. Tony Evers didn’t say how many or how National Guard members were being used. National Guard spokesman Maj. Joe Trovato later said “hundreds” of troops were at the ready. Wauwatosa issued a nightly 7 p.m. curfew after Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm's decision was announced, to run until next Monday. Many people ignored a nightly 7 p.m. curfew, marching peacefully in Wauwatosa. Late Wednesday evening and well past a nightly 7 p.m. curfew, a group of a few hundred protesters confronted a police line. Police said some in a group of a few hundred protesters were throwing rocks at law enforcement and buildings and that Police used tear gas to disperse a group of a few hundred protesters. Footage posted on social media showed tear gas and a group of a few hundred protesters retreating. WISN-TV reported windows broken at several businesses on Wauwatosa's north side, including a pharmacy, coffee shop, wall coverings store, cleaners and fitness centre. Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm's report noted that a Black teenager's gun had a spent round in the chamber — the one that investigators believe a Black teenager fired while running, possibly striking a Black teenager in the arm — and that the magazine was recovered in a Black teenager's sling bag, meaning a stolen 9 mm handgun had no more bullets in a stolen 9 mm handgun when a Black teenager was shot. A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February and two other officers at the scene said a Black teenager pointed a stolen 9 mm handgun at Mensah and two other officers at the scene. a Black teenager's sister, Taleavia Cole, insisted the shooting wasn’t justified because Cole’s sister, Taleavia Cole,'s brother could not have fired at A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February. Cole’s sister, Taleavia Cole, said A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February should not be allowed to continue working as an officer. “The fight continues. The fight doesn’t end here,” said a Black teenager's sister, Taleavia Cole. ”… It’s time for Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm to retire or step down. Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm also said that Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm didn’t believe the state had enough evidence to disprove that A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February was defending A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February or others, so Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm couldn’t meet the burden required to bring charges. Kimberley Motley, a family attorney for the Coles, seized on Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm's wording. Motley, who also represents the families of the two other people killed by A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February, said if A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February had been fired earlier then a Black teenager would still be alive. Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel in an interview that Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm understood some people would be angry or disappointed by Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm's decision, but Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm said Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm wouldn’t change Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm's “objective review” because of Chisholm’s decision. Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm said that although A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February had been cleared in all three of A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February's shootings, Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm was concerned about A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February's involvement in all three of his shootings. The Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission that suspension A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February with pay in July, and A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February has appealed that suspension. The Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission hired former U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic to investigate the case with an eye toward what discipline A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February might face. In a report released earlier Wednesday, former U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic recommended that A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February be fired, saying the risk A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February might shoot a fourth person is too great. former U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic also wrote that A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February violated department policy when A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February spoke to the media about the shooting in July. An attorney for A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February didn’t respond to a phone message from The Associated Press. There’s no body-camera video of the a Black teenager shooting because Wauwatosa's officers aren’t equipped with body-camera video of the Cole shooting. Wauwatosa did release squad car dashcam video that shed little light on what happened. a Black teenager's death sparked protests in Wauwatosa throughout the summer, including in and around a suburban Milwaukee mall in February and outside a house where A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February was staying. Two men were charged in an August altercation at a house where Mensah was staying after a shotgun was fired. A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February was not charged in the 2016 death of a Black teenager or the 2015 death of Antonio Gonzales. Police have said A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February shot Antonio Gonzales eight times after Antonio Gonzales refused to drop a sword. In a Black teenager's case, A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February approached a parked car where a Black teenager was sleeping and said A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February saw a gun and thought a Black teenager was reaching for a gun, so A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February shot a Black teenager six times. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Webber said in a recorded message that Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Webber's department “concurs’ with Chisholm’s decision but “hears the message” from the public. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Webber said his department has taken steps to improve policing, such as providing added training, posting department police and procedures online and requiring body cameras for all officers by January. Gov. Tony Evers also activated the state's National Guard in August, the morning after a Kenosha police officer The shooting Jacob Blake, a Black man, in the back. The shooting sparked three days of protests over police actions and racism, and caused an estimated $50 million in damage to roughly 100 downtown businesses. Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz also activated Guard members after George Floyd’s death in police custody in Minneapolis set off protests and damaging riots and arson in Minneapolis. In anticipation of protests after the announcement of Chisholm’s decision, Wauwatosa officials shut down City Hall and the library for about three days, beginning at noon Wednesday. News of Chisholm’s decision comes after high-profile deaths of Black people during interactions with police sparked protests that spread around the world over the summer and led to a national reckoning on race in America. Associated Press writers Amy Forliti, Steve Karnowski and Doug Glass in Minneapolis and Dave Kolpack in Fargo, North Dakota, contributed to this report.
WAUWATOSA — A total of three people, including an alleged shooter, have been arrested in connection to the Mayfair Mall mass shooting, which left eight people injured last Friday. WAUWATOSA police on Monday released new details uncovered in Wauwatosa police's investigation into the Mayfair Mall mass shooting, which left eight people injured last Friday. The department announcedSunday that a 15-year-old boy was his arrest in connection to the Mayfair Mall mass shooting, which left eight people injured last Friday. In The department's update Monday, The department said that The department had now arrested a total of three people, including an alleged shooter. The weapon suspected of being used during the Mayfair Mall mass shooting, which left eight people injured last Friday was found in the vehicle a 15-year-old boy was in at the time of a 15-year-old boy's arrest, according to WAUWATOSA police. The department adds that besides an alleged shooter, officers arrested a person believed to be involved in the Mayfair Mall mass shooting, which left eight people injured last Friday, and a passenger in the vehicle the teen was in at the time of his arrest at the time of an alleged shooter's arrest. Investigators are now working with the Milwaukee County District Attorney’s Office regarding charging for A total of three people, including an alleged shooter. The department admits it is unclear at this time whether the Mayfair Mall mass shooting, which left eight people injured last Friday was gang-related. The eight people injured in the Mayfair Mall mass shooting, which left eight people injured last Friday, including a 15-year-old boy, are expected to survive. More officers will be stationed at Mayfair Mall in the coming weeks, "for both an added sense of security as well as routine patrols for an increase in holiday shoppers," according to an email from The department. The investigation into the Mayfair Mall mass shooting, which left eight people injured last Friday remains active.
Even though the 15-year-old suspect is from Milwaukee, police arrested the 15-year-old suspect 24 hours after the shooting in a car with Illinois plates. CHICAGO (WLS) -- The 15-year-old accused in the shooting at a shopping mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, on Friday is being held as a juvenile in Milwaukee, which is why we are not using the 15-year-old suspect's name. Police said the 15-year-old suspect opened fire on a crowd of people at a shopping mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin and wounded eight of a crowd of people. Even though the 15-year-old suspect is from Milwaukee and has no apparent ties to Illinois, police arrested the 15-year-old suspect 24 hours after the shooting in a car with Illinois plates. When Wauwatosa, Wisconsin police arrived at a shopping mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin about 3pm Friday, Wauwatosa police found people shot, down and wounded, and a gunman already on the loose. Police notes reveal witnesses told police of an altercation between teenagers, one of teenagers seen with a handgun stuck in the waist-band of his pants. According to a newly filed Milwaukee charge sheet, the 15-year-old suspect took a "shooter's stance" and began firing. Seven adults and another teenager were hit by pistol fire, numerous innocent bystanders. Seven adults and another teenager have survived. Police say the 15-year-old suspect escaped by calling an UBER to pick the 15-year-old suspect up in a store parking lot across the street and dropped the 15-year-old suspect off at the 15-year-old suspect's family's home in Milwaukee. As authorities scoured a shopping mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin surveillance video and security camera footage from the surrounding area, there was a dragnet in lower Wisconsin looking for the 15-year-old suspect. A day later, as investigators say investigators identified the 15-year-old suspect and zeroed in on the 15-year-old suspect, investigators made a quick arrest. A public records check by the I-Team turns up no connections between the 15-year-old suspect or the 15-year-old suspect's family and Illinois. It is unknown how or why the 15-year-old suspect was in an Illinois car or where the 15-year-old suspect was going. A passenger in the car with the 15-year-old suspect was also arrested with what appears to have been an interrupted plan to leave town and elude arrest. the 15-year-old suspect is being held in a Milwaukee juvenile facility although the 15-year-old suspect could end up being charged as an adult. Federal investigators are also working on the case. ATF agents tell the I-Team ATF agents have traced the original owner of a handgun stuck in the waist-band of his pants. Federal agents are also now running standard ballistics history to see if a handgun stuck in the waist-band of his pants has been used in other crimes.
