Wauwatosa police say seven adults and one teen were wounded after a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday, Nov. 20. The shooting happened shortly before 3 p.m. -- on the Macy's end of the mall.
When emergency personnel arrived on the scene, officials indicated the shooter was no longer on the scene. The perpetrator is at large at this time, officials said. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said the suspect is described as a male, white, in his 20s or 30s.
Officials said all of the victims were taken from the scene. But the extent of their injuries was unknown.
That is different from an earlier statement that indicated all of the victims suffered non-life-threatening injuries. "Preliminary investigation has led us to believe that this shooting was not a random act, and was the result of an altercation. We will continue to work diligently to interview the many witnesses, as well as the victims who were injured, to identify and apprehend the suspect.
As police and fire crews first arrived on the scene, so did loved ones of those inside the mall. Police asked for patience as those in the mall were brought outside -- and later reunited with loved ones.
Mall owner Brookfield Properties said in a statement they were “disheartened and angered that our guests and tenants were subject to this violent incident today.” They declined further comment.
"Our hearts go out to those who were injured in the shooting at Mayfair Mall today. Kathy and I are thinking of them and their families and wish them a full and speedy recovery.
"In an unprecedented year for gun violence across the country we are faced with yet another tragic and preventable mass shooting. Our thoughts are with the victims, staff, shoppers, and everyone impacted by this incident. We commend the quick actions of mall staff and first responders in assisting families to safety and the life-saving efforts of the trauma unit at Froedtert Hospital.
"According to the National Gun Violence Archive (GVA), there have been 571 mass shootings so far in the United States this year in comparison to a total of 417 in 2019. Since 2009 over 1,500 people have been killed in the United States in a mass shooting and over 900 were wounded. 2020 is on track to have the most mass shootings since GVA began tracking these incidents in 2013.
"The impact of gun violence stretches far beyond those killed or injured but impacts their families, friends, co-workers, and entire communities. These events can be especially traumatic for children and youth.
"If there are any families in need of counseling support for children or teens that may have been in the mall at the time, we encourage them to contact the Milwaukee Trauma Response Team at 414-257-7621. "I am profoundly shocked by the shooting this afternoon that left eight people wounded inside Mayfair Mall. The senseless burst of gunfire inside what we know is one of the busiest and most popular malls in the region is deeply disturbing, and tonight I offer thoughts of sympathy and healing to the victims. "I ask that citizens offer help and comfort to the victims during their time of recovery and healing from their injuries.
According to Wauwatosa Mayor Dennis McBride, it appears that thankfully, none of the victims appear to have life-threatening injuries. With the number of shots that were fired inside the mall (according to witnesses), the fact that no one was killed is by sheer, blind luck. "Wauwatosa Police – with the assistance of law enforcement partners from throughout the area, including Milwaukee Police and the FBI – are investigating the shooting and what exactly transpired.
As of this writing, the person believed to be the shooter is still at large. "I have been closely monitoring the active shooter situation at Mayfair Mall today. I appreciate the work of the first responders, law enforcement, and local officials responding to this situation, and our health care professionals at Froedtert Hospital, and Children’s Wisconsin, who are caring for our gunshot victims.
"My concern is with those injured, their loved ones, and all those exposed to the violence. It is important to understand the psychology of the ripple effect of those injured, and those exposed to violence. These incidents produce trauma that is critical to acknowledge, to address.
We need to ensure access to trauma support. The violence doesn’t disappear when the incident concludes.
FREE DOWNLOAD: Get breaking news alerts in the FOX6 News app for iOS or Android.
Mayfair Mall was the site of a February shooting in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Cole was fleeing from police; Mensah, who is also Black, said he shot Cole because Cole pointed a gun at him.
The mall was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of the shooting. The Milwaukee County district attorney declined to file charges against Mensah, but the city this week agreed to a separation agreement in which Mensah will be paid at least $130,000 to leave the force. Associated Press contributed to this report.

Eight people were shot about 2:50 p.m. Friday at Mayfair Mall, near the northwest entrance to Macy's, and the shooter is still on the loose.
Wauwatosa police tweeted Friday night that their preliminary investigation has led them to believe the "shooting was not a random act, and was the result of an altercation. "The shooter, who was not at the scene when police arrived, is believed to be a white man in his 20s or 30s, Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said. They are working to determine his identity. It is not known if the shooter was still in the mall when police arrived, Weber said.
Seven adult victims were taken to Froedtert Hospital, a level one trauma center, and one teen victim was taken to Children's Wisconsin. The extent of the injuries was not known. The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's Office was not called to the scene.
At 9:30 p.m., police said the Mayfair Mall property has been cleared and was secure. Law enforcement personnel remained at the mall through the night processing the scene.
Employees told WISN 12 News earlier that when they were allowed to leave where they were sheltering, they must have their hands up. At about 4:30 p.m., Wauwatosa police tweeted, "Police are actively investigating an incident at Mayfair Mall. The mall is currently closed.
Please use alternate routes to get through the area." News Chopper 12's Matt Salemme reported seeing tactical units going into the building.
He also saw five people being brought out of the mall on stretchers. Three of the people were sitting upright and conscious.
More ambulances continued to arrive at the scene. There were officers there from Wauwatosa, Milwaukee, the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office, the Waukesha County Sheriff's Office, State Patrol and others called to the mall. The FBI also responded.
Department of Justice investigators have also arrived at the scene. A woman who was shopping on the second floor of Macy's heard eight to 12 shots being fired.
A woman who was outside the mall told WISN 12 News she had a friend who worked at Macy’s and that they were hiding in the stockroom. "They’re very scared.
They’re just hiding. That’s all they can do right now," Becky Clark said.
A father, whose daughter works inside the mall told WISN 12's Derrick Rose that he got a call from his daughter, and she told him someone was shooting in the mall. Then he heard gunshots through the phone and heard people start running. Wauwatosa Mayor Dennis McBride told ABC News, "The Wauwatosa Police Department is currently involved in an active shooter incident at Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa.
Through the WPD's public information officer, more information will be released as if becomes available and is confirmed. Multiple injured victims have and are being transported from the north end of the Macy’s Department Store.
None of the victims' injuries appear to be life threatening. The perpetrator is "at-large" at this time.
There are approximately 75 police officers on scene at this time. It will take time to provide additional, and perhaps, more accurate information, but information will be provided as it becomes available." The owners of the mall released a statement saying, "We are disheartened and angered that our guests and tenants were subject to this violent incident today.
We are thankful for our partners at the Wauwatosa Police Department and we are cooperating with them as their investigation develops." The mall was closed Saturday.
Police said Saturday that anyone who has property or a vehicle that they need to pick up, should contact Mayfair Mall Security at 414-443-5140, and they will provide you with directions on how to retrieve your property. Police asked if anyone has any information, to please call them at 414-471-8430. There was a reunification center set up at the At Home store, 3201 N. Mayfair Road. No other information has been released.

Eight people were injured, including a teenager, during an active shooting incident at a mall in Wauwatosa, Wis. WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) -- Seven adults and one teen were injured in a shooting at a suburban Milwaukee mall Friday, according to police.
Emergency crews are responding to the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wis., west of Milwaukee. WISN reports that there was a shooting inside the mall. Wauwatosa police say they began receiving 911 calls reporting a shooting incident just before 3 p.m. Friday.
"We dropped to the ground and ran in the opposite direction and found a stairwell nearby," one witness said. "Everybody started screaming, and like I saw a lot of people running, so I ducked. I was in shock, so I ducked, and then I ran," said Blanca De Los Reyes, mall employee.
Police say by the time they arrived, the shooter was no longer at the scene. No motive for the attack has been released.
Police say preliminary statements from witnesses indicate that the shooter is a white man in his 20s or 30s. Investigators are working on determining the identity of the suspect. Any information reporting the shooter's identity at this time is false, police say.
Officers from Wauwatosa, Milwaukee, the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office, the FBI Milwaukee bureau, State Patrol and other agencies all responded to the scene and are aiding in the investigation. The victims' exact condition were not immediately known.
Those who are looking to reunify with anyone who was at the Mayfair Mall should go to the reunification area, located at the At Home store at 3201 N. Mayfair Rd, officials say. Police are asking residents to use alternate routes to get through the area as they actively investigate the incident.
The Mayfair Mall was the site of a February shooting in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Cole was fleeing from police; Mensah, who is also Black, said he shot Cole because Cole pointed a gun at him.
The mall was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of the shooting. The Milwaukee County district attorney declined to file charges against Mensah, but the city this week agreed to a separation agreement in which Mensah will be paid at least $130,000 to leave the force.
Mayfair Mall will remain closed Saturday, Nov. 21. The crime scene is active and police ask members of the public to stay away from the area to keep the scene secure during the investigation. The Associated Press and WISN-TV contributed to this report.

Police have arrested a 15-year-old Milwaukee boy in connection with a shooting at a suburban mall Friday that left eight people injured.
Weber gave no further information on the suspect, saying the investigation into the incident was ongoing and that the weapon was recovered at the scene. Several other arrests have been made, police said.
Of those injured in the shooting, four were innocent bystanders who received non-life threatening injuries and police said most victims were now recovering at home. The shooter was no longer at Mayfair Mall when Wauwatosa police officers arrived, Weber said Friday. He said the injured were seven adults and one teenager.
Wauwatosa Mayor Dennis McBride told CNN about 75 police officers responded to the mall Friday night. The FBI in Milwaukee tweeted that agents were supporting local law enforcement after the shooting. A heavy police and EMT presence responded, according to footage from CNN affiliate WISN, and police officers in tactical gear were seen entering the mall.
Austin Seybold, 24, said he was locked down in the back room of the Finish Line store inside the mall. Seybold saw customers running past the store.
Employees starting rounding up the people inside the store and “took them into the back and locked our front gate,” Seybold wrote to CNN via text message from the store. Seybold said six employees and about a dozen customers were locked in the back room for about two hours before a SWAT team escorted them out. “It was a little frantic at first, but we managed to get everyone into the back without any hassle and everyone has remained fairly calm which is good, although we can hear what sounds like SWAT teams in the back passageways of the mall and the gravity of the situation is beginning to set in,” he wrote.
Mayfair Mall posted on Facebook Friday that it was closed following the shooting. “We are disheartened and angered that our guests and tenants were subject to this violent incident today. We are thankful for our partners at the Wauwatosa Police Department and we are cooperating with them as their investigation develops,” the post read.
Wauwatosa is about seven miles northwest of Milwaukee. The city was the site of multiple protests in October following news that Officer Joseph Mensah, who shot and killed 17-year-old Alvin Cole outside Mayfair Mall in February, would not face criminal charges. The decision not to charge Mensah sparked protests during a monthslong wave of nationwide demonstrations over how police treat Black people.

WAUWATOSA, Wis. -- Eight people including one teen were shot by a suspect at Mayfair Mall Friday afternoon, and the suspect is still at large, police say. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said during an evening press conference that seven adults and one teen were injured.
The chief said that preliminary witness accounts identify the suspect as a white man in his 20s or 30s. He added that police are not sure the suspect is still at the mall, but they are seeking to identify that person.
Weber confirmed shots first rang out around 2:50 p.m. near an entrance to the Macy’s store. When law enforcement arrived, though, the shooter was no longer at the scene. The department adds that the mall has been cleared and is secure.
The mall's management told the police department that Mayfair Mall will be closed Saturday, Nov. 21. Police will remain at the mall into the night. The chief says a family reunification center has been set up at the At Home store located at 3201 N. Mayfair Rd.
in Wauwatosa. Anyone with information is asked to contact the Wauwatosa Police Department at (414) 471-8430. Froedtert Hospital confirms to TMJ4 News that all eight victims are being treated at Froedtert Hospital and the Children’s Hospital.
Earlier video from the scene shows several people being lifted into ambulances. Armored cars, squad cars and other vehicles were scattered across the mall's sprawling parking lot.
Wauwatosa police earlier tweeted that they are actively investigating an incident at the mall. They say the mall is closed and ask people to use alternative routes in the area.
The FBI tweeted that it is currently supporting local law enforcement's tactical response to a "shooting incident" at Mayfair Mall. Witnesses tell TMJ4 News described their experience.
One man learned that his uncle had been shot and his cousin was still trapped in the mall, as police searched for suspects. One man recalled scores of people running out of the building, and hearing upwards of a dozen gunshots.
An owner of a business at the mall said he heard as many as 15 gunshots. The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner tweeted that they are not responding to the incident, indicating no one has died at the scene.
Members of the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Wauwatosa Police, Wisconsin National Guard, ATF and other departments responded to the mass shooting. Mayfair Mall was also the site of a shooting in February, when a Wauwatosa Police Officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old.
The mall was the place of protests in the wake of the shooting. The Milwaukee County District Attorney decided to not file charges against Mensah.
Mensah has since signed a separation agreement in which he will be paid at least $130,000 to leave the police department. Check back often for updates on this developing story.

Police in Wisconsin are still searching for a suspect in a shooting that left eight people injured at a suburban Milwaukee shopping mall Friday.
The shooting occurred at the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, according to authorities. The shooting occurred during an altercation near the entrance to the Macy’s location at the mall, and was not a random act, police said.
As of noon Saturday, police are still working to identify the suspect in the incident. Those with information on the shooting are asked to call authorities at 414-471-8430. Police are also reminding the public that the mall is closed for business Saturday amid the ongoing investigation into the incident.
Individuals who need to pick up property or a vehicle that was left at the mall after Friday’s shooting are asked to call mall security at 414-443-5140. When officers arrived, the shooter was no longer at the scene, but first responders discovered seven adults and one teenager wounded, Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said. The victims were hospitalized following the shooting but the extent of their injuries was not immediately known,
Weber said. Police said witnesses reported the shooter was a man in his 20s or 30s, but his identity was not immediately known. Armed officers, including FBI agents and SWAT members, could be seen in areas outside the mall for several hours Friday afternoon.
The FBI Milwaukee office confirmed it was assisting with the investigation. Macy's said in a statement it was working with the police department on the investigation. A witness who works inside the store reported hearing several shots fired.
Delos Reyes, who lives in Chicago but was working at the Finish Line inside Macy's to help out, said she and others ran from the building. The Mayfair Mall was the site of a February shooting in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Cole was fleeing from police; Mensah, who is also Black, said he shot Cole because Cole pointed a gun at him. The mall was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of the shooting.

WAUWATOSA, Wis. (CBS) -- Multiple people were shot Friday afternoon at the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, and police are still searching for the shooter. The incident began just before 3 p.m. on Friday when officers were called for an active shooter situation at the mall, about 7 miles west of Milwaukee.
Police say the incident happened near the Macy's entrance on the northwest side of the mall. Wauwatosa police said seven adults and one teenager were hospitalized after the incident.
The police chief did not have information on the victims' conditions just before 6 p.m. but said none had died. "The perpetrator is 'at-large' at this time.
There are approximately 75 police officers on scene at this time," Wauwatosa Mayor Dennis McBride said in a statement. Police only had a vague description, saying the shooter was described as a white male in his 20s or 30s and said any information that is currently out about the shooter's identity is false.
Police said anyone seeking someone who was at the mall should go to the reunification site at the At Home store at 3201 N. Mayfair Rd. Police urged the public to stay away from the mall as the investigation continues. The mall will be closed until further notice, they said. The FBI is assisting in the investigation.
A woman who was in the Macy's department store at the mall when she heard eight to 12 shots told CBS 58 in Milwaukee she did not see the shooting, which she believed near the store's interior entrance to the mall. CBS 58's Cearron Bagenda reports dozens of police cars at the scene searching the area. Many of the police were outside Macy's.
The Milwaukee medical examiner's office said it had not been called to the mall. In February, a 17-year-old was fatally shot by police at the mall, according to CBS 58.
Police said the first shot came from the 17-year-old, officers gave commands and then an officer returned fire. Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Cole was fleeing from police; Mensah, who is also Black, said he shot Cole because Cole pointed a gun at him.
The mall was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of the shooting. The Milwaukee County district attorney declined to file charges against Mensah, but the city this week agreed to a separation agreement in which Mensah will be paid at least $130,00 to leave the force.

A 15-year-old boy has been arrested in a shooting that left eight people injured last week at a Wisconsin mall, authorities said Sunday.
Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Weber said in a news conference that the teenager was arrested Saturday night with a gun alleged to have been used in the shooting. Weber did not identify the teen or say what charges he may face.
Several other people were arrested in connection with the shooting, said Abby Pavlik, a spokeswoman for the police department, but she did not provide details. Authorities said the shooting followed an altercation between two groups at Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, outside Milwaukee, on Friday afternoon.
Among the wounded was a teenager. Pavlik could not say whether the injured teenager was the suspected shooter, adding that several people in the two groups were wounded.
Four bystanders were also injured, Weber said. He said the shooter fled the mall as tactical teams cleared the space of patrons and worked to contain its 1.2 million square feet, a process that took several hours. Pavlik did not say where the suspect was arrested.

WAUWATOSA, Wis. (WLS) -- Police have arrested a 15-year-old for the shooting at a Wisconsin mall that injured eight people Friday. Wauwatosa police say they began receiving 911 calls reporting a shooting incident just before 3 p.m. Friday.
"We dropped to the ground and ran in the opposite direction and found a stairwell nearby," one witness said. "Everybody started screaming, and like I saw a lot of people running, so I ducked.
I was in shock, so I ducked, and then I ran," said Blanca De Los Reyes, mall employee. Chief Barry Weber gave no motive for the attack at the Mayfair Mall during a briefing Friday evening.
He said the shooter had left the scene before officers arrived, and that extent of the victims' injuries was unknown. Police also said the shooting apparently stemmed from an altercation and was not a random act. Four of the injured are described as innocent bystanders, police said. Wauwatosa Police Department Sergeant Abby Pavlik added that several arrests have been made and police continue their investigation.
Authorities said the mall was closed Saturday but has since reopened for business. "The Wauwatosa Police Department is pleased to announce the arrest of a 15 year old Hispanic male in connection with the shooting at Mayfair Mall.
The suspected firearm used in this incident was recovered at the scene of the arrest. Around 2:49pm, officers were notified of shots fired inside the Mall, near lower level Macy's.
Officers were on scene, providing medical aid to victims within 30 seconds of notification. An officer's first priority in this situation is to secure the immediate scene and begin rendering first aid. During this time, the shooter exited the mall as other patrons were running out.
Unaware that the shooter had left the Mall, a perimeter was established and tactical teams formed to begin clearing the mall of patrons sheltering in place as well as searching for the suspect. The process to completely secure the mall, which contains 1.265 million square feet, took approximately six hours and involved seven tactical teams.
While tactical teams were securing the mall, investigators were interviewing victims and witnesses to aid in identification of the shooter. Multiple leads were obtained during this time period which resulted in numerous hours of investigation.
It is important to stress that these types of investigations not only require the identification of a suspect but preservation of evidence related to the crime. This presents a cautious balance of what to release to the public versus potential destruction of that evidence.
Our initial investigation led us to believe that this was not random and therefore no immediate danger to the public existed. Photos of our suspect were not released to media for fear of compromising the investigation and potential destruction of evidence. It is important to stress that this act of violence was not a random one but an altercation between two groups.
As often happens in these types of situations, innocent bystanders are injured. There were four innocent bystanders that received non-life-threatening injuries during this incident. We extend our well wishes and prayers to them for a speedy recovery.
On behalf of the Wauwatosa Police Department I would like to thank the numerous agencies that assisted in this investigation. The bravery, professionalism and service to community shown by all first responders was exemplary. As a result, the City of Wauwatosa and Mayfair Mall remain a safe community and shopping destination.
I would like express a special thanks to our officers, detectives, the FBI, Milwaukee Police Department and the City of Brookfield Police Department for their commitment and invaluable assistance. I am so proud of the personnel in our police department.
They have worked tirelessly to solve this case quickly. We have gotten support from so many agencies; Law enforcement here in Wauwatosa and all of SE Wisconsin continues to showcase the professionalism and capability that citizens have come to expect. Mayfair Mall is a wonderful place to shop and is a safe place to be.
Unfortunately, in our society, an incident of this type can happen at any time in any place. I encourage people to show their support for Mayfair, they have been wonderful partners to us at the police department for many years.
The Mayfair Mall was the site of a February shooting in which a city police officer, Joseph Mensah, shot and killed Alvin Cole, a Black 17-year-old. Police said Cole was fleeing from police; Mensah, who is also Black, said he shot Cole because Cole pointed a gun at him.
The mall was the target of sporadic protests over several months in the wake of the shooting. The Milwaukee County district attorney declined to file charges against Mensah, but the city this week agreed to a separation agreement in which Mensah will be paid at least $130,000 to leave the force. The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Seven adults and one teenager were wounded after a shooting incident at Mayfair Mall on Friday afternoon, Nov. 20. Unfortunately, the shooting is the latest incident at Mayfair Mall, which has seen a fair share of crime and incidents just this year and in years past.
In February, Wauwatosa Police Officer Joseph Mensah shot and killed 17-year-old Alvin Cole. Police said Cole was fleeing from police on foot and that Cole pointed a gun, and did not comply with orders to drop it.
Last month, a victim showed up at the hospital after police said shots were fired at the mall. Three people were shot in that incident. On Thanksgiving 2019, a fight broke out at Mayfair Mall and was captured on cellphone video.
Shoppers were seen throwing punches when a Wauwatosa police officer used a taser on one person. No one was shot in that incident. Still, Mayfair is no stranger to crime.
Back in 2007, Mayfair Mall implemented a weekend chaperone policy for anyone age 17 or younger due to concerns about crime caused by minors. That policy remains in effect today, running from 3 p.m. to close from Friday through Sunday. Friday's shooting happened just before then; a 911 call was received at approximately 2:50 p.m., according to police.
FREE DOWNLOAD: Get breaking news alerts in the FOX6 News app for iOS or Android.
The mall, which opened in 1958, is owned by Brookfield Properties and is the largest taxpaying entity in Wauwatosa -- valued at more than $500 million. There are more than 160 retailers at the mall and over 1.3 million square feet of retail space, making it one of the top places to shop in the Milwaukee area. But the massive space should have no room for crime. Friday's shooting was one of the largest the mall has seen in its history.

Joseph Mensah, a Wauwatosa, Wis., police officer who has been suspended from the department since this summer, is being allowed to resign at the end of this month, city officials announced.
Mensah has been suspended from the suburban Milwaukee police department since July 15. He has shot and killed three people in the line of duty since 2015, according to multiple reports, including a Black teenager outside a shopping mall in February. The Wauwatosa Common Council announced it entered a separation agreement on Tuesday with Mensah, the Wauwatosa Peace Officers' Association and the city's police department.
The resignation is effective Nov. 30. "Now is the time for all of us to come together and heal," Wauwatosa Mayor Dennis McBride said in a statement.
Prior to the resignation announcement, a hearing was scheduled for next month before the Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission, which would have provided an opportunity for Mensah, who is Black, to hold on to his job, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports. The newspaper notes that the commission was the only body that could terminate Mensah from the police department. In October, days of protests erupted in Wauwatosa after the Milwaukee County district attorney announced no charges would be filed against Mensah.
The district attorney's office said Mensah acted in self-defense when he shot and killed 17-year-old Alvin Cole outside Mayfair Mall on Feb. 2. His report said that Cole was armed with a 9 mm pistol and that after he arrived at the mall, he got into a verbal altercation with an adult male. Afterward, when Cole encountered police officers in the parking lot, he ran, the report said.
Cole's weapon was discharged and officers ordered him to surrender it. "He did not surrender the weapon and was fired upon by Officer Mensah causing his death," Chisolm's report added. Mensah's two earlier shootings had also been found to be in self-defense, and the officer was not disciplined.
A separate report after the latest death, compiled by an independent investigator, former U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic, was submitted to the Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission last month. Biskupic's report stated that Mensah should be terminated, according to a local CBS affiliate.
Chisholm's decision to not bring charges set off consecutive nights of protests in the city, prompting officials to impose curfews for five days, The Associated Press reports. The wire service adds that at the time, the city's schools were shuttered, local businesses were boarded up and the National Guard was called in and stationed outside the mall.
Mensah's two previous fatal shootings took place in 2015 and 2016, reports the Journal Sentinel. The paper notes that during the 2016 shooting, Mensah was patrolling Madison Park during the overnight hours when he came across Jay Anderson sleeping in his car. As Mensah approached, he said, Anderson lunged for his gun, which he legally owned, the Journal Sentinel reports, adding that the officer fired six rounds into the car, striking Anderson four times.
The paper notes that Anderson's family disputed the police department's accounting of the events and filed a complaint with the Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission. The Journal Sentinel reports that Mensah's first fatal shooting in the line of duty took place after roughly seven months with the department, in 2015. A man named Antonio Gonzales was brandishing a sword and refused to drop it when Mensah and another officer arrived to the scene. "Mensah fired his weapon eight times because he feared for his safety and the safety of two other citizens on the scene," the paper reports, citing a review of the incident.

A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February won’t be charged because he had reasonable belief that deadly force was necessary, a prosecutor said Wednesday. Wauwatosa Officer Joseph Mensah shot 17-year-old Alvin Cole outside Mayfair Mall on Feb. 2 after police responded to a reported disturbance at the shopping centre.
Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm, in a 14-page letter laying out his rationale, said evidence showed Cole fled from police carrying a stolen 9 mm handgun. He cited squad car audio evidence, along with testimony from Mensah and two fellow officers, that he said showed Cole had fired a shot while fleeing and refused commands to drop the gun. Cole was the third person Mensah has fatally shot since becoming an officer, and his death has sparked periodic protests in Wauwatosa and the Milwaukee area.
Gov. Tony Evers announced earlier Wednesday that he had activated National Guard members as a precaution, though he didn’t say how many or how they were being used. Guard spokesman Maj. Joe Trovato later said “hundreds” of troops were at the ready. The city of Wauwatosa issued a nightly 7 p.m. curfew after Chisholm’s decision was announced, to run until next Monday.
Many people ignored the curfew, marching peacefully in the city. Late Wednesday evening and well past the curfew, a group of a few hundred protesters confronted a police line.
Police said some in the group were throwing rocks at law enforcement and buildings and that they used tear gas to disperse the protesters. Footage posted on social media showed the gas and the crowd retreating.
WISN-TV reported windows broken at several businesses on the city’s north side, including a pharmacy, coffee shop, wall coverings store, cleaners and fitness centre. Chisholm’s report noted that Cole’s gun had a spent round in the chamber — the one that investigators believe he fired while running, possibly striking himself in the arm — and that the magazine was recovered in his sling bag, meaning the gun had no more bullets in it when he was shot. Mensah and two other officers at the scene said Cole pointed the gun at them.
Cole’s sister, Taleavia Cole, insisted the shooting wasn’t justified because her brother could not have fired at Mensah. She said he should not be allowed to continue working as an officer.
“The fight continues. It doesn’t end here,” said his sister, Taleavia Cole.
”… It’s time for DA Chisholm to retire or step down. Chisholm also said that he didn’t believe the state had enough evidence to disprove that Mensah was defending himself or others, so he couldn’t meet the burden required to bring charges.
Kimberley Motley, a family attorney for the Coles, seized on Chisholm’s wording. Motley, who also represents the families of the two other people killed by Mensah, said if he had been fired earlier then Cole would still be alive. Chisholm told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel in an interview that he understood some people would be angry or disappointed by his decision, but he said he wouldn’t change his “objective review” because of it.
He said that although Mensah had been cleared in all three of his shootings, Chisholm was concerned about his involvement in so many. The Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission suspended Mensah with pay in July, and he has appealed that suspension.
The commission hired former U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic to investigate the case with an eye toward what discipline Mensah might face. In a report released earlier Wednesday, Biskupic recommended that Mensah be fired, saying the risk he might shoot a fourth person is too great.
Biskupic also wrote that Mensah violated department policy when he spoke to the media about the shooting in July. An attorney for Mensah didn’t respond to a phone message from The Associated Press. There’s no body-camera video of the Cole shooting because Wauwatosa’s officers aren’t equipped with them. The city did release squad car dashcam video that shed little light on what happened.
Cole’s death sparked protests in Wauwatosa throughout the summer, including in and around the mall and outside a house where Mensah was staying. Two men were charged in an August altercation at the house after a shotgun was fired.
Mensah was not charged in the 2016 death of Jay Anderson Jr. or the 2015 death of Antonio Gonzales. Police have said Mensah shot Gonzales eight times after he refused to drop a sword.
In Anderson’s case, Mensah approached a parked car where Anderson was sleeping and said he saw a gun and thought Anderson was reaching for it, so he shot him six times. Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Webber said in a recorded message that his department “concurs’ with the decision but “hears the message” from the public. He said the department has taken steps to improve policing, such as providing added training, posting department police and procedures online and requiring body cameras for all officers by January. Evers also activated the state’s National Guard in August, the morning after a Kenosha police officer shot Jacob Blake, a Black man, in the back.
The shooting sparked three days of protests over police actions and racism, and caused an estimated $50 million in damage to roughly 100 downtown businesses. Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz also activated Guard members after George Floyd’s death in police custody in Minneapolis set off protests and damaging riots and arson in that state.
In anticipation of protests after the announcement of the charging decision, Wauwatosa officials shut down City Hall and the library for about three days, beginning at noon Wednesday. News of the decision comes after high-profile deaths of Black people during interactions with police sparked protests that spread around the world over the summer and led to a national reckoning on race in America. Associated Press writers Amy Forliti, Steve Karnowski and Doug Glass in Minneapolis and Dave Kolpack in Fargo, North Dakota, contributed to this report.

WAUWATOSA — A total of three people, including an alleged shooter, have been arrested in connection to the Mayfair Mall mass shooting, which left eight people injured last Friday. Wauwatosa police on Monday released new details uncovered in their investigation into the shooting.
The department announcedSunday that a 15-year-old boy was arrested in connection to the shooting. In their update Monday, police said that they had now arrested a total of three people, including the shooter, who was arrested during a traffic stop in the City of Milwaukee.
The weapon suspected of being used during the shooting was found in the vehicle the teen was in at the time of his arrest, according to Wauwatosa police. The department adds that besides the accused shooter, officers arrested a person believed to be involved in the shooting, and a passenger in the vehicle at the time of the suspected shooter's arrest.
Investigators are now working with the Milwaukee County District Attorney’s Office regarding charging for all subjects arrested. WPD admits it is unclear at this time whether the shooting was gang-related. The eight people injured in the shooting, including one teen, are expected to survive.
More officers will be stationed at Mayfair Mall in the coming weeks, "for both an added sense of security as well as routine patrols for an increase in holiday shoppers," according to an email from the department. The investigation into the shooting remains active.

Even though the 15-year-old suspect is from Milwaukee, police arrested him 24 hours after the shooting in a car with Illinois plates. CHICAGO (WLS) --
The 15-year-old accused in the shooting at a shopping mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, on Friday is being held as a juvenile in Milwaukee County, which is why we are not using his name. Police said he opened fire on a crowd of people at Mayfair Mall and wounded eight of them.
Even though he is from Milwaukee and has no apparent ties to Illinois, police arrested him 24 hours after the shooting in a car with Illinois plates. When Wauwatosa police arrived at the mall about 3pm last Friday, they found people shot, down and wounded, and a gunman already on the loose.
Police notes reveal witnesses told police of an altercation between teenagers, one of them seen with a handgun stuck in the waist-band of his pants. According to a newly filed Milwaukee County charge sheet, the teenager took a "shooter's stance" and began firing. Seven adults and another teenager were hit by pistol fire, numerous innocent bystanders.
All have survived. Police say the teenage attacker escaped by calling an UBER to pick him up in a store parking lot across the street and dropped him off at his family's home in Milwaukee. As authorities scoured mall surveillance video and security camera footage from the surrounding area, there was a dragnet in lower Wisconsin looking for the then unidentified suspect.
A day later, as investigators say they identified the shooter and zeroed in on the 15 year old, they made a quick arrest. A public records check by the I-Team turns up no connections between the teen or his family and Illinois. It is unknown how or why he was in an Illinois car or where he was going.
A passenger in the car with him was also arrested with what appears to have been an interrupted plan to leave town and elude arrest. The accused teenage shooter is being held in a Milwaukee County juvenile facility although he could end up being charged as an adult.
Federal investigators are also working on the case. ATF agents tell the I-Team they have traced the original owner of the gun, the 9 millimeter Glock pistol. Federal agents are also now running standard ballistics history to see if that gun has been used in other crimes.

