M	Japanese authorities have informed the IAEA that the evacuation of the population from the 20-kilometre zone around Fukushima Daiichi has been successfully completed. The Japanese authorities have also advised that people within a 30-km radius to take cover indoors. Iodine tablets have been distributed to evacuation centres but no decision has yet been taken on their administration.
M	The IAEA continues to liaise with the Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as it evolves. The Japanese government today requested assistance from the IAEA in the areas of environmental monitoring and the effects of radiation on human health, asking for IAEA teams of experts to be sent to Japan to assist local experts.
M	Preparations for these missions are currently under way. The missions will draw on IAEA resources and may also possibly involve Response and Assistance Network (RANET) and Member States' capabilities. This development follows the IAEA's offer to Japan of its "Good Offices" - i.e. making available the Agency's direct support and coordination of international assistance.
M	RANET is a network of resources made available by IAEA Member States that can be offered in the event of a radiation incident or emergency. Coordination of RANET is done by the IAEA within the framework of the Convention on Assistance in the Case of a Nuclear Accident or Radiological Emergency. The IAEA continues to liaise with the Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as it evolves.
1	Unit 4 was shut down for a routine, planned maintenance outage on 30 November 2010. After the outage, all fuel from the reactor was transferred to the spent fuel pool.
1	Units 5 and 6 were shut down at the time of the earthquake. Unit 5 was shut down as of 3 January 2011. Unit 6 was shut down as of 14 August 2010. Both reactors are currently loaded with fuel.
1	As of 00:16 UTC on 15 March, plant operators were considering the removal of panels from Units 5 and 6 reactor buildings to prevent a possible build-up of hydrogen in the future. It was a build-up of hydrogen at Units 1, 2 and 3 that led to explosions at the Daiichi facilities in recent days. The IAEA continues to monitor and seek information on the status of plant workers, reactor conditions, and spent nuclear fuel at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant.
X	An earthquake of 6.1 magnitude was reported today at 13:31 UTC in Eastern Honshu, Japan. The Hamaoka nuclear power plant is sited an estimated 100 kilometres from the epicentre.
X	IEC confirmed with Japan that the plant continues to operate safely. Units 1 and 2 are decommissioned, Unit 3 is under inspection and not operational, and Units 4 and 5 remain in safe operational status after the earthquake.
1	The IAEA Incident and Emergency Centre (IEC) continues to monitor the status of the nuclear power plants in Japan that were affected by the devastating earthquake and consequent tsunami. All Units at the Fukushima Daini, Onagawa, and Tokai nuclear power plants are in a safe and stable condition (i.e. cold shutdown). The IAEA remains concerned over the status of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, where sea water injections to cool the reactors in Units 1, 2 and 3 are continuing. Attempts to return power to the entire Daiichi site are also continuing. After explosions at both Units 1 and 3, the primary containment vessels of both Units are reported to be intact.
1	However, the explosion that occurred at 21:14 UTC on 14 March at the Fukushima Daiichi Unit 2 may have affected the integrity of its primary containment vessel. All three explosions were due to an accumulation of hydrogen gas.
1	A fire at Unit 4 occurred on 14 March 23:54 UTC and lasted two hours. The IAEA is seeking clarification on the nature and consequences of the fire. The IAEA continues to seek details about the status of all workers, reactors and spent fuel at the Fukushima Daiichi plant.
5	An evacuation of the population from the 20-kilometre zone around Fukushima Daiichi is in effect. The Japanese have advised that people within a 30-km radius shall take shelter indoors.
M	Iodine tablets have been distributed to evacuation centres but no decision has yet been taken on their administration. A 30-kilometre no-fly zone has been established around the Daiichi plant. Normal civil aviation beyond this zone remains uninterrupted.
M	The Japan Coast Guard established evacuation warnings within 10 kilometres of Fukushima Daiichi and 3 kilometres of Fukushima Daini. The IAEA and several other UN organizations held a meeting at 11:00 UTC today to discuss recent developments and coordinate activities related to consequences of the earthquake and tsunami. The meeting was called under the framework of the Joint Radiation Emergency Management Plan of the International Organizations, and this group expects to work closely together in the days ahead. IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano briefed both Member States and the media on developments at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
1	The Japanese authorities have informed the IAEA that the following radiation dose rates have been observed on site at the main gate of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant. At 00:00 UTC on 15 March a dose rate of 11.9 millisieverts (mSv) per hour was observed. Six hours later, at 06:00 UTC on 15 March a dose rate of 0.6 millisieverts (mSv) per hour was observed.
1	These observations indicate that the level of radioactivity has been decreasing at the site. As reported earlier, a 400 millisieverts (mSv) per hour radiation dose observed at Fukushima Daiichi occurred between Units 3 and 4.
1	This is a high dose-level value, but it is a local value at a single location and at a certain point in time. The IAEA continues to confirm the evolution and value of this dose rate.
5	It should be noted that because of this detected value, non-indispensible staff was evacuated from the plant, in line with the Emergency Response Plan, and that the population around the plant is already evacuated. About 150 persons from populations around the Daiichi site have received monitoring for radiation levels. The results of measurements on some of these people have been reported and measures to decontaminate 23 of them have been taken. The IAEA will continue to monitor these developments.
5	Evacuation of the population from the 20 kilometre zone is continuing. The Japanese have asked that residents out to a 30 km radius to take shelter indoors. Japanese authorities have distributed iodine tablets to the evacuation centres but no decision has yet been taken on their administration.
M	A person's radiation exposure due to all natural sources amounts on average to about 2.4 millisievert (mSv) per year. A sievert (Sv) is a unit of effective dose of radiation.
M	Depending on geographical location, this figure can vary by several hundred percent. Since one sievert is a large quantity, radiation doses are typically expressed in millisievert (mSv) or microsievert (µSv), which is one-thousandth or one millionth of a sievert. For example, one chest X-ray will give about 0.2 mSv of radiation dose. For further information on radiation, see Radiation in Everyday Life.
1	Japanese authorities have confirmed that the fire at the spent fuel storage pond at the Unit 4 reactor of Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant was extinguished on 15 March at 02:00 UTC. Please note that all future communications from the IAEA regarding events in Japan will use the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) standard. The IAEA continues to liaise with the Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as it evolves.
1	Japanese authorities informed the IAEA that there has been an explosion at the Unit 2 reactor at the Fukushima Daiichi plant. The explosion occurred at around 06:20 on 15 March local Japan time.
1	Japanese authorities also today informed the IAEA at 04:50 CET that the spent fuel storage pond at the Unit 4 reactor of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant is on fire and radioactivity is being released directly into the atmosphere. Dose rates of up to 400 millisievert per hour have been reported at the site. The Japanese authorities are saying that there is a possibility that the fire was caused by a hydrogen explosion.
1	The IAEA is seeking further information on these developments. The IAEA continues to liaise with the Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as it evolves. Japanese authorities yesterday reported to the IAEA at 20:05 UTC that the reactors Units 1, 2 and 3 of the Fukushima Daini nuclear power plant are in cold shutdown status.
1	This means that the pressure of the water coolant is at around atmospheric level and the temperature is below 100 °C. Under these conditions, the reactors are considered to be safely under control. Japanese authorities have also informed the IAEA that teams of experts from Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), the plant's operator, are working to restore cooling in the reactor Unit 4 and bring it to cold shutdown. The IAEA continues to liaise with the Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as it evolves.

M	Misplaced deference and other "ingrained conventions" of Japanese culture were at the heart of last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, according to the chairman of an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described the accident as a "profoundly man-made disaster". In his combative preface to the report, Kiyoshi Kurokawa, a medical doctor and professor emeritus at Tokyo University, said the crisis was the result of "a multitude of errors and willful negligence", by the government, safety officials and the plant's operator, Tokyo Electric Power [Tepco].
M	But behind the safety missteps and lack of readiness for a tsunami in a region known for powerful earthquakes, are cultural traits that ensured the disaster was "made in Japan", Kurokawa said. "Its fundamental causes," he wrote, "are to be found in the ingrained conventions of Japanese culture: our reflexive obedience; our reluctance to question authority; our devotion to 'sticking with the programme'; our groupism; and our insularity. "What must be admitted – very painfully – is that this was a disaster 'Made in Japan'.
M	None of the agencies involved emerged with any credit. "The Fukushima nuclear power plant accident was the result of collusion between the government, the regulators and Tepco, and the lack of governance by said parties," said the report, compiled by the Fukushima nuclear accident independent investigation commission.
0	The panel's report, one of three major investigations into the accident, challenged claims by Tepco that the triple meltdown at the plant in north-east Japan had been caused solely by a 14-metre tsunami on 11 March last year. The panel said the magnitude-9 earthquake that preceded the waves could not be ruled out as a cause of the accident.
M	It accused Tepco and regulators at the nuclear and industrial safety agency of failing to take adequate safety measures, despite evidence that the area was susceptible to powerful earthquakes and tsunamis. "We believe that the root causes were the organisational and regulatory systems that supported faulty rationales for decisions and actions, rather than issues relating to the competency of any specific individual," it said. The 641-page report was published on the same day a nuclear reactor in western Japan became the first to produce electricity since the accident.
X	All of the country's 50 functioning reactors had been switched off after the crisis to undergo safety checks. Japan, which once depended on nuclear power for about a third of its energy supply, was briefly without atomic power for the first time in more than 40 years after the last reactor went offline in early May.
X	The No 3 reactor at Oi nuclear power plant in Fukui prefecture is the first to be restarted after passing stress tests that the government introduced last year to ease public concerns over safety. The government approved the restart of reactors 3 and 4 at Oi amid warnings that without them a large area of western Japan, including the industrial city of Osaka, could face power shortages this summer. The No 3 reactor should reach full capacity by 10 July, the plant's operator, Kansai Electric Power (Kepco), said, while the second unit will begin producing electricity towards the end of the month. The last of the plant's 11 reactors were switched off in February.
X	Thousands of demonstrators have gathered outside the prime minister's office every Friday evening to protest against the restart, while polls show a majority of Japanese want the government to phase out nuclear power. "We have made a step toward the safe and stable supply of electricity by being able to deliver nuclear-generated electricity for the first time in four and a half months," Kepco's president, Makoto Yagi, said in a statement.
6	While not unexpected, the critical tone of Thursday's report contrasts with a similar investigation by Tepco in which the utility insisted it had acted appropriately in the wake of a natural disaster it claimed it could never have predicted. Tepco has always maintained that the damage to four of Fukushima Daiichi's reactors was caused by the tsunami, which knocked out cooling apparatus and prompted a core meltdown in three of the units. More than 15 months later, the plant has been brought to a safe state known as "cold shutdown," although concerns have been voiced about the state of a pool containing spent fuel rods in reactor No 4. Thursday's report called for an investigation into the role the earthquake played in the accident. "As for direct cause of the accident, the commission reached the conclusion that we cannot definitely say any devices that were important for safety were not damaged by the earthquake," it said. The panel was also critical of Naoto Kan, the prime minister at the time of the accident, whose "direct intervention" in the early days of the crisis had caused confusion in the chain of command and wasted valuable time.
M	Kan said he decided to intervene in the emergency response because Tepco and safety officials appeared incapable of doing so. The parliamentary panel said there was no evidence, however, to support Kan's claim that Tepco was preparing to withdraw all of its workers from the plant in the immediate aftermath of the accident. But it accused Tepco of ignoring warnings going as far back as 2006 that a tsunami could cause a blackout at the plant. The firm, regulators and the government had "failed to correctly develop the most basic safety requirements, such as assessing the probability of damage, preparing for containing collateral damage from such a disaster, and developing evacuation plans for the public in the case of a serious radiation release", it said. The 10-member commission is one of several panels investigating the Fukushima Daiichi accident. The report follows a six-month investigation involving more than 900 hours of hearings and interviews with more than 1,100 people.

M	To see the enhanced content on this page, you need to have JavaScript enabled and Adobe Flash installed.

M	Given the increasing number of operational nuclear reactors worldwide, combined with the continued use of radioactive materials in both healthcare and industry, the unlikely occurrence of a civilian nuclear incident poses a small but real danger. This article provides an overview of the most important historical, medical, and scientific aspects associated with the most notable nuclear incidents to date.
M	We have discussed fundamental principles of radiation monitoring, triage considerations, and the short- and long-term management of radiation exposure victims. The provision and maintenance of adequate radiation safety among first responders and emergency personnel are emphasized. Finally, an outline is included of decontamination, therapeutic, and prophylactic considerations pertaining to exposure to various radioactive materials.

4	Overall, the situation at the Fukushima Daiichi plant remains very serious, but there are early signs of recovery in some functions such as electrical power and instrumentation. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) can confirm that the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) has submitted a provisional International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) Level 7 rating for the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
4	This new provisional rating considers the accidents that occurred at Units 1, 2 and 3 as a single event on INES and uses estimated total release to the atmosphere as a justification. Previously, separate provisional INES Level 5 ratings had been applied for Units 1, 2 and 3.
4	Japanese authorities notified the IAEA in advance of the public announcement and the formal submission of the new provisional rating. The provisional rating was determined by NISA after it received the results of the analysis conducted by the Japan Nuclear Energy Safety Organization (JNES). NISA then applied the INES assessment methodology to calculate the total estimated release in terms of radiological equivalence to I-131.
4	Based on this provisional assessment, NISA concluded that the accident would be provisionally rated INES Level 7 as per the definition below, taken from the INES User's Manual (2008 Edition). NISA estimates that the release of radioactive material to the atmosphere is approximately 10% of the Chernobyl accident, which is the only other accident to have an INES Level 7 rating.
5	"On 11 April the Government of Japan announced that they had concluded to establish 'Planned Evacuation Areas' and 'Evacuation prepared Area' in the areas beyond the 20km radius from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. The review was conducted because the Government consider the safety of residents its first priority. The Government of Japan considered the standards recommended by the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) as part of the review.
5	About the 'Planned Evacuation Areas', the Japanese authorities have found that the areas beyond 20 km radius could be exposed to over 20mSv during the course of the next one year, approximately until next March. Therefore the Government of Japan will be consulting with the local communities in terms of planned evacuations, ant at this juncture they are hoping that this planned evacuation will be carried out during the next month to come. The Planned Evacuation Areas that have been newly designated for evacuation include Kutsurao village, Namie town, Iitate village, a part of Kawamata town and a part of Minami Souma City.
5	The Government also defined a second new area called the 'Evacuation Prepared Area'. This area includes the area previously defined as the 'Indoor Evacuation Area' between 20 and 30 km from Fukushima Daiichi, but excludes those areas designated above as 'Planned Evacuation Areas'.
X	The IAEA confirms that an earthquake occurred in Japan at 08:16 UTC, 11 April. The IAEA International Seismic Safety Centre rated it as a 6.6 magnitude, revised from an initial 7.1 magnitude.
X	The epicenter of the earthquake was in Fukushima Prefecture, 68 km from the Daiichi nuclear power plant. The epicenter was inland at a depth of 13.1 km. stopped but were restarted 50 minutes after the earthquake; and The injection of nitrogen into Unit 1 stopped and resumed later.
1	In Unit 1 fresh water is being continuously injected into the RPV through the feed-water line at an indicated flow rate of 6 m3/h using a temporary electric pump with off-site power. In Units 2 and 3 fresh water is being continuously injected through the fire extinguisher lines at an indicated rate of 7 m3/h using temporary electric pumps with off-site power.
1	Nitrogen gas is being injected into the Unit 1 containment vessel to reduce the possibility of hydrogen combustion within the containment vessel. The pressure in this containment vessel is increasing due to the addition of nitrogen. The pressure in the RPV is increasing as indicated on both channels of instrumentation. In Units 2 and 3 Reactor Pressure Vessel and Drywell pressures remain at atmospheric pressure.
1	RPV temperatures remain above cold shutdown conditions in all Units, (typically less than 95 °C). In Unit 1 temperature at the feed water nozzle of the RPV is 221 °C and at the bottom of the RPV is 120 °C. In Unit 2 the temperature at the feed water nozzle of the RPV is 155 °C.
1	The temperature at the bottom of the RPV was not reported. In Unit 3 the temperature at the feed water nozzle of the RPV is 97 °C and at the bottom of the RPV is 111 °C. There has been no change in status in Units 4, 5 and 6 and the Common Spent Fuel Storage Facility.
7	On 11 April, deposition of both iodine-131 and cesium-137 was detected in 6 and 8 prefectures respectively. The values reported for iodine-131 ranged from 2.1 to 35 Bq/m2 and for cesium-137 from 5.2 to 41 Bq/m2.
7	Gamma dose rates are measured daily in all 47 prefectures, the values tend to decrease. For Fukushima, on 11 April a dose rate of 2.1 µSv/h, for the Ibaraki prefecture a gamma dose rate of 0.15 µSv/h was reported. The gamma dose rates in all other prefectures were below 0.1 µSv/h. Dose rates are also reported specifically for the Eastern part of the Fukushima prefecture, for distances of more than 30 km to Fukushima-Daiichi. On 11 April, the values in this area ranged from 0.2 to 25 µSv/h.
7	In an additional MEXT monitoring programme, on 11 April measurements were reported for 25 cities in 13 prefectures. In Fukushima City, a value of 0.42 µSv/h was observed. In all other cities, gamma dose rates ranged from 0.04 to 0.13 µSv/h. Typical normal background levels are in the range of 0.05 to 0.10 µSv/h.
7	On 11 April, the IAEA Team made measurements at 9 different locations in the Fukushima area at distances of 30 to 58 km, West to Northwest from the Fukushima nuclear power plant. At these locations, the dose rates ranged from 0.1 to 2.2 µSv/h. At the same locations, results of beta-gamma contamination measurements ranged from 0.01 to 0.28 Megabecquerel/m2.
7	Analytical results related to food contamination were reported by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare on 11 April, and covered a total of 21 samples taken on 8 April and 10 to 11 April. Analytical results for all of the samples of various vegetables, spinach and other leafy vegetables, fruit (strawberries), various meats (chicken, beef and pork), seafood and unprocessed raw milk in eight prefectures (Fukushima, Gunma, Hyogo, Ibaraki, Miyagi, Niigata, Saitama and Yamagata) indicated that I-131, Cs-134 and/or Cs-137 were either not detected or were below the regulation values set by the Japanese authorities.
7	TEPCO is conducting a programme for seawater (surface sampling) at a number of near-shore and off-shore monitoring locations. Until 3 April a general decreasing trend was observed at the sampling points TEPCO 1 to TEPCO 4. After the discharge of contaminated water on 4 April, a temporary increase has been reported.
7	On 12 April no new data for TEPCO 1 - 10 sampling points have been reported. As reported in the brief of 8 April MEXT initiated the off-shore monitoring program on 23 March and subsequently points 9 and 10 were added to the off-shore sampling scheme. On 4 April, MEXT added two sampling points to the north and west of sampling point 1. These are referred to as points A and B. 0n 12 April no new data for all MEXT sampling points have been reported. In addition to countries that have already been identified in previous briefs, the Philippines and the Republic of Korea have also provided monitoring data and/or links to their websites.
4	The team of three Agency experts in BWR technology is due back in Vienna today. The Japanese Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) today issued a new provisional rating for the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant on the IAEA International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES). The nuclear accident at Fukushima Daiichi is now rated as a level 7 "Major Accident" on INES. Level 7 is the most serious level on INES and is used to describe an event comprised of "A major release of radioactive material with widespread health and environmental effects requiring implementation of planned and extended countermeasures".
4	Japanese authorities notified the IAEA in advance of the public announcement and the formal submission of the new provisional rating. The new provisional rating considers the accidents that occurred at Units 1, 2 and 3 as a single event on INES. Previously, separate INES Level 5 ratings had been applied for Units 1, 2 and 3.
4	The provisional INES Level 3 rating assigned for Unit 4 still applies. The re-evaluation of the Fukushima Daiichi provisional INES rating resulted from an estimate of the total amount of radioactivity released to the environment from the nuclear plant. NISA estimates that the amount of radioactive material released to the atmosphere is approximately 10% of the 1986 Chernobyl accident, which is the only other nuclear accident to have been rated a Level 7 event.
4	On 18 March, Japanese authorities rated the core damage at the Fukushima Daiichi 1, 2 and 3 reactor Units caused by loss of all cooling function to have been at Level 5 on the INES scale. They further assessed that the loss of cooling and water supplying functions in the spent fuel pool of the Unit 4 reactor to have been rated at Level 3.
M	Japanese authorities may revise the INES rating at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant as further information becomes available. INES is used to promptly and consistently communicate to the public the safety significance of events associated with sources of radiation. The scale runs from 0 (deviation) to 7 (major accident).

4	EVER since Abu Dhabi chose a South Korean group to build a series of nuclear reactors instead of Areva's EPR, which was 50% more expensive, in December 2009, France's nuclear industry has been in a funk.
4	The country's flagship reactor, many concluded, was too costly, mainly due to its wealth of safety features. Areva came under pressure to put older, cheaper designs back in its catalogue.
4	The radiation leak at Fukushima has changed all that. “The idea of low-cost nuclear is dead,” says Alain Minc, a consultant in Paris.
4	So, in one way, Areva, majority-owned by the French state, could gain from Japan's nuclear disaster. China, by far the biggest builder of nuclear capacity, is likely to buy more EPRs than it would have done. An official at China Guangdong Nuclear Power said this month that the government will probably stop approving older, “generation 2” reactors, like those at Fukushima, which dominate the nuclear-power industry today.
4	Third-generation reactors, which incorporate extra safety features, such as the EPR and Westinghouse Electric's AP1000, would benefit. Safety concerns will also boost two of Areva's most profitable divisions.
4	The firm has contracts to maintain existing reactor fleets around the world, and is involved in processing radioactive waste and decommissioning old nuclear facilities. Following reviews post-Fukushima, nuclear utilities will have to revamp their equipment, apply tighter safety standards and in some cases shut down reactors.
4	Over the longer term, however, France's nuclear industry faces a bleaker future. Areva may succeed only in winning a higher share of a shrunken market for reactors, as governments delay or stop new-build programmes.
4	Before Fukushima, the International Energy Agency predicted that nuclear plants would add 360 gigawatts of generating capacity by 2035, or the equivalent of over 200 new EPRs; it is now reckoning on half as many. The slowdown comes just as Areva is about to start making money from new reactors, after suffering heavy losses on its first EPR, in Finland.
M	Some big markets, such as China and India, are expected to push ahead with new nuclear plants. Areva said this month that it expects to sign a big contract this year to supply reactors to India.
M	But that may not compensate for the loss of important developed markets. Italy and Switzerland have halted their expansion of nuclear power and Germany will no longer extend existing plants' lives.
M	It is in Europe that Areva is strongest and most profitable, says Olivier Esnou, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London. Tenders in developing markets are far more competitive.
M	These will be challenges for Areva's boss, Anne Lauvergeon, whose job is up for renewal by Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, in June. Ms Lauvergeon, who is credited with rehabilitating the image of nuclear power over the past decade, is considered the industry's perfect ambassador post-Fukushima. Despite her unpopularity with her main shareholder, she is expected to keep her job—helped also by the fact that no one else may now want it.

3	The dangers facing workers battling to avert disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant were underlined on Thursday when three men were exposed to high levels of radiation after stepping in contaminated water. The plant's operator, Tokyo Electric Power (Tepco), admitted that the workers had not measured radioactivity levels before beginning work, and that two, who are being treated for radiation burns, were not wearing protective boots.
3	The two more seriously injured men were diagnosed with possible beta ray burns and were due to be taken to a special unit at the National Institute of Radiological Sciences in Chiba, east of Tokyo, Japan's nuclear safety agency said. The injuries are similar to regular burns, but can lead to serious complications over a period of several weeks.
3	Tests on the workers, who are all in their 20s and 30s, showed they were exposed to between 170 millisieverts (mSv) and 180 mSv of radiation while laying cable in the basement of the No 3 reactor's turbine building. That is above the usual legal limit of 100 mSv per year for nuclear power workers in Japan, but below a new limit of 250 mSv, introduced soon after the nuclear crisis began to enable them to spend more time inside the crippled facility.
3	The two hospitalised men, employees of a Tepco affiliate, were part of a team of six workers attempting to connect a water pump to the power supply and restart the supply of fresh water in an attempt to cool the reactor. Workers in the first and basement floors of the No 3 reactor's turbine building were ordered to evacuate the area after the accident. Japan's nuclear safety agency said water had probably seeped through their protective clothing, allowing radioactive materials to stick to their skin, as they stood in a 15cm-deep puddle. The two injured men were wearing shoes, while the third had boots on and so escaped serious injury.
3	Radiation levels on the surface of the puddle were later measured at 400 mSv per hour, while the level in the air reached 200 mSv per hour. The source of the water was not immediately clear. Tepco said no puddle had been spotted in the turbine building the previous day.
7	Fire trucks have been dousing the reactor in recent days in an attempt to cool a storage pool for spent fuel rods. The accident cast doubt on Tepco's ability to properly monitor radioactivity at the site. "This kind of exposure, from water, was unforeseen," the government's chief spokesman, Yukio Edano, told reporters.
M	Edano said the injuries were "very regrettable", but defended the health ministry's decision to raise the exposure limit for teams of workers soon after the start of the world's worst nuclear power emergency since Chernobyl. "The decision to increase permissible radiation exposure was taken on the advice of experts, who say that workers are able to withstand up to 250 mSv per year before radiation has an effect on their health," Edano said.
3	More than 20 workers have been injured at the Fukushima plant, 150 miles north of Tokyo, since it was badly damaged in the 11 March earthquake and tsunami. They include 11 who were hurt when the No 3 reactor building exploded. To date, 17 have been exposed to radiation exceeding 100 mSv at the plant, though none has been exposed to contamination exceeding the accumulative 250 mSv limit.
1	The condition of the No 3 unit is of particular concern as it contains plutonium-uranium mixed oxide fuel and would release highly toxic plutonium in the event of a meltdown. On Wednesday afternoon, workers were temporarily evacuated from the plant after black smoke was seen rising from the same reactor.
7	The smoke receded after an hour and radiation levels remained unchanged, the safety agency said. The release of radioactive substances from the plant continued to cause anxiety in Tokyo. Wednesday's warning that radioactive iodine levels in the capital's tap water had exceeded levels considered safe for babies prompted a rush of people buying bottled water. The warning was lifted on Thursday after iodine-131 dropped to safe levels, but they were still above the safe upper limit for infants in the neighbouring prefectures of Chiba and Saitama. In Tokyo, a city of 13 million people, supermarkets quickly ran out of bottled water; the metropolitan government said it would distribute an extra 240,000 bottles to families with infants.

