X	10 Jul 2018 10.49 EDT Hooyah!
8	All twelve members of a boy’s football team and their coach have been rescued, after being trapped in a cave in Thailand for 18 days. The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation, confirmed that all 13 were out.
8	“We are not sure if this is a miracle, a science or what”, the Seals said on their Facebook page. The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation, confirmed that all 13 were out.
8	“We are not sure if this is a miracle, a science or what”, the Seals said on their Facebook page. Three navy seals and a doctor, who had been with the boys, emerged safely from the cave several hours later.
8	The four boys and their coach rescued on Tuesday have been airlifted to hospital to join their eight teammates rescued on Sunday and Monday. Donald Trump tweeted “great job” and Theresa May said: “The world was watching and will be saluting the bravery of all those involved.”
8	Fifa has confirmed that the rescued boys will not be able to attend the World Cup final on Sunday as previously hoped. Doctors have said they need to remain in hospital for at least seven days.
8	Manchester United, who most of the boys support, have invited the boys to Old Trafford next season. Doctors have said they need to remain in hospital for at least seven days.
8	Manchester United, who most of the boys support, have invited the boys to Old Trafford next season. The final rescue operation began at 10.08am local time on Tuesday as the first eight boys, freed in operations on Sunday and Monday, recuperated at a hospital in the nearest city, Chiang Rai.
8	The authorities said preparations for the final rescue mission were unaffected by heavy overnight rain. on Tuesday as the first eight boys, freed in operations on Sunday and Monday, recuperated at a hospital in the nearest city, Chiang Rai. The authorities said preparations for the final rescue mission were unaffected by heavy overnight rain.
8	Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health, said the eight boys rescued on Sunday and Monday were “cheerful”. Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who he said were aged between 14 and 16, had shown possible signs of pneumonia and all had low temperatures when they arrived. Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who he said were aged between 14 and 16, had shown possible signs of pneumonia and all had low temperatures when they arrived. The rescued boys are being kept in isolation to avoid the risk of infection, but the first batch have been seen by their parents through a glass window.
8	They are not yet allowed to eat the rich Thai food they’ve been requesting - so far it’s diluted porridge, bread, and some chocolate. but the first batch have been seen by their parents through a glass window.
8	They are not yet allowed to eat the rich Thai food they’ve been requesting - so far it’s diluted porridge, bread, and some chocolate. The office of Thailand’s prime minister has thanked the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk for his offers of help. Officials praised his mini-submarine but said it was not needed.
8	Musk praised the “outstanding rescue team” but questioned the expertise of the official who turned down his submarine. We’re pausing the blog for now but will update if there are more major developments.
8	For now here’s our full report: Thai cave rescue operation ends with all 12 boys safe Read more And there’ll be more on Thai cave rescue section.
8	10 Jul 2018 10.10 EDT Thai TV has shown footage of an ambulance believed to be carrying the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong to the hospital in Chiang Rai. Here’s what we know about him: Chantawong, 25, took his squad into the cave on 23 June. He was once ordained as a Buddhist monk, and since leaving the monkhood has spent much of his time caring for his grandmother.
8	Thai news outlets have reported that the authorities have not ruled out charging him with a crime, but Thai government spokesman Lt Gen Werachon Sukondhapatipak told the Guardian that “no one is talking about that”. Werachon said the coach’s presence had been a comfort to the boys: “The coach is advising them that they need to lie down, of course [try] meditation, try not to move their bodies too much, try not to waste their energy.
8	And of course, by meditation, they stay conscious all the time, so their mind will not be wandering around.” The parents of the boys wrote the coach telling him: “Please don’t blame yourself.”
8	“To all the kids,” one letter, written by the mother of Nattawut Takamsai, 14, said: “We are not mad at you at all. Do take good care of yourself. Don’t forget to cover yourself with blankets as the weather is cold.
8	We’re worried. You will come out soon.” Addressing the coach she said: “We want you to know that no parents are angry with you at all, so don’t you worry about that.”
8	UPDATE at 8:50pm: Ambulance carrying Coach Aek, the 13th and last member of The Wild Boars, has arrived at the hospital in Chiang Rai. Mission complete. 10 Jul 2018 09.52 EDT The city of Chiang Rai is starting to party as drivers honk their horns, according to Reuters.
8	10 Jul 2018 09.45 EDT What we know so far All twelve members of a boy’s football team and their coach have been rescued, after being trapped in a cave in Thailand for 18 days. The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation, confirmed that all 13 were out.
8	“We are not sure if this is a miracle, a science or what”, the Seals said on their Facebook page. Donald Trump tweeted “great job” and Theresa May said: “The world was watching and will be saluting the bravery of all those involved.”
8	Three navy seals and a doctor, who had been with the boys, are expected to emerge from the cave soon. The four boys and their coach rescued on Tuesday have been airlifted to hospital to join their eight teammates rescued on Sunday and Monday. The four boys and their coach rescued on Tuesday have been airlifted to hospital to join their eight teammates rescued on Sunday and Monday.
8	Fifa has confirmed that the rescued boys will not be able to attend the World Cup final on Sunday as previously hoped. Doctors have said they need to remain in hospital for at least seven days.
8	Manchester United have invited the boys to Old Trafford next season. Doctors have said they need to remain in hospital for at least seven days.
8	Manchester United have invited the boys to Old Trafford next season. The final rescue operation began at 10.08am local time on Tuesday as the first eight boys, freed in operations on Sunday and Monday, recuperated at a hospital in the nearest city, Chiang Rai.
8	The authorities said preparations for the final rescue mission were unaffected by heavy overnight rain. on Tuesday as the first eight boys, freed in operations on Sunday and Monday, recuperated at a hospital in the nearest city, Chiang Rai. The authorities said preparations for the final rescue mission were unaffected by heavy overnight rain.
8	Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health, said the eight boys rescued on Sunday and Monday were “cheerful”. Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who he said were aged between 14 and 16, had shown possible signs of pneumonia and all had low temperatures when they arrived. Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who he said were aged between 14 and 16, had shown possible signs of pneumonia and all had low temperatures when they arrived.
8	The rescued boys are being kept in isolation to avoid the risk of infection, but the first batch have been seen by their parents through a glass window. They are not yet allowed to eat the rich Thai food they’ve been requesting - so far it’s diluted porridge, bread, and some chocolate.
8	but the first batch have been seen by their parents through a glass window. They are not yet allowed to eat the rich Thai food they’ve been requesting - so far it’s diluted porridge, bread, and some chocolate.
8	The office of Thailand’s prime minister has thanked the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk for his offers of help. Officials praised his mini-submarine but said it was not needed. Musk praised the “outstanding rescue team”.

M	Iceland’s prime minister, Katrin Jakobsdottir, was the first world leader to welcome the news. She won’t be the last.
M	The Thai Navy seals have confirmed the four “frogs” remain in the cave. These are a doctor and three navy seals who have been supporting the boys.
X	This article includes content provided by Facebook. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. To view this content, click 'Allow and continue' .
M	A twelfth person has been seen being carried out of the cave, a witness has told Reuters. Once again the Guardian is trying to confirm. A foreign journalist has been detained for flying a drone near the cave entrance area, according to Thai media. On Monday the authorities complained that a journalist flew a drone above the operation. There are also reports that some media have been listening to police radio reports. “This is really wrong,” said Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation.

M	The last remaining member of the Wild Boars soccer team and their assistant coach have been pulled out of a flooded cave in Thailand, bringing an end to a near three-week ordeal that prompted an international rescue effort and captivated audiences around the world.
8	The 12th boy and his coach were the last of the team to be rescued Tuesday, after a complicated three-day operation to extricate the team, who became trapped on June 23 when rising flood water cut them off deep inside the cave. In the last 18 days, what began as a local search for the missing 13 turned into a complex rescue operation, involving hundreds of experts who flew in from around the world to help.
8	The parents of the boys have maintained a constant vigil outside the cave since they went missing, praying for their safe return. All of the boys and their coach have now been transported to a nearby hospital where eight of their teammates are recuperating after being rescued Sunday and Monday. The last of the group to emerge from the cave on Tuesday were four Navy SEALs, including a doctor who stayed with the team for a week after their discovery. “We are not sure if this is a miracle, a science, or what.
8	All the thirteen Wild Boars are now out of the cave,” the Thai Navy SEALS said in a Facebook post confirming the entire soccer team had been rescued. Nineteen divers entered the cave at 10 a.m. local time Tuesday (11 p.m. Monday ET), many on their third mission in three days, with the aim of bringing everyone inside the cave out. Tuesday’s rescue took nine hours in total, from the time the divers entered the cave to bringing out the boys and their coach.
8	Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach, told CNN the wait for the boys and their assistant coach to be rescued has been agonizingly slow. “I’m happy a lot more than other days because we were waiting for this day for a long time,” he said in an interview late Tuesday at his house in northern Thailand’s Mae Sai District.
X	Kanthawong said he didn’t know the players and coach were going into the cave. “At this time, now that the coach is out, just wait until he gives any statements and let’s just wait altogether and find out (why they went into the cave) at the same time,” he said.
X	Kanthawong said he is eager to comfort his players now that they are safe. “I’m going to give them a hug,” he said.
8	Earlier Tuesday, more details emerged about the ages and condition of the children already freed from the cave. Some of the boys have even asked for bread with chocolate spread – which they were given, said Jedsada Chokedamrongsook, the permanent secretary of the Thai Health Ministry. But they’ll mostly be eating a food similar to milk and rich in proteins and nutrients.
8	Chokedamrongsook said the first group of boys taken out on Sunday were aged 14 to 16. Their body temperatures were very low when they emerged, and two are suspected of having lung inflammation.
8	Families of the first four have been able to see their children through a glass window, Chokedamrongsook said. They were also able to talk on the phone. They’ll be allowed to enter the room if tests show the boys are free of infection. The second group freed on Monday were aged 12 to 14.
8	One had a very slow heartbeat but had responded well to treatment, Chokedamrongsook said. The hospital has sent test samples from the boys to a lab in Bangkok. Authorities will likely look for signs of Histoplasmosis, also known as “cave disease,” an infection caused by breathing in spores of a fungus often found in bird and bat droppings. They are all likely to stay in hospital for up to a week, due to their weakened immune systems.
8	Thai Prime Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-ocha visited the hospital Monday, and spoke to relatives and hospital workers. Shortly after the news of the boys’ safe return broke, US President Donald Trump tweeted his congratulations to the Navy SEAL team.
M	Divers involved in the rescue described treacherous conditions, with fast-moving shallow water passing through very narrow passages. “This is the hardest mission we’ve ever done.
M	The lower the water is getting, the stronger the current. It’s stronger now.
M	Every step of the extraction is risky,” said Narongsuk Keasub, a diver for the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand. He’s one of a group of divers whose job is to transport air tanks into the tunnels for the SEAL teams. Before the final rescue, he told CNN that divers inside the cave faced a number of challenges.
M	“We can only see our hands (at a) short distance. Secondly, the stones are razor sharp which is dangerous for our diving, (and) thirdly the passage is very narrow,” he said.
5	For several days, rain threatened to hamper what was already a complicated rescue mission. When it became clear the boys were likely going to have to dive out, experts were sent in to teach them how to use scuba gear. Officials sourced full-faced oxygen masks small enough to fit the boys, to remove the chances of them falling off during the long arduous journey through the craggy tunnels.
M	Saturday, June 23 12 members of the Wild Boar soccer team and their coach become trapped in a Thai cave by monsoon rains. Monday, July 2 British divers find the boys, aged 11 to 16, and their coach on a rocky ledge, 4 kilometers inside the cave. Friday, July 6 A former Thai Navy SEAL dies from lack of air while delivering oxygen tanks inside the cave.
M	Sunday, July 8 The first group of 4 boys are rescued and moved to Chiang Rai Prachanukroh Hospital. Monday, July 9 Four more boys are rescued and taken to hospital. Tuesday, July 10 All remaining boys and their coach are freed and taken to hospital.
M	Two days before the first four boys were rescued, officials warned that oxygen levels with in the cave had fallen to 15%. Forecasts of more rain also threatened to raise water levels, further educing the amount of available air and jeopardizing efforts to get the boys out.
5	However, a few days of relatively clear skies allowed rescuers to pump enough water out of the cave to allow the boys to walk through some sections. During the hours-long trip out of the cave, each boy was accompanied underwater by two divers helping them navigate the dark, murky water. The most dangerous part is the first kilometer, during which the divers and boys are required to squeeze through a narrow, flooded channel.
M	Rescuers needed to hold the boys’ oxygen tanks in front of them and swim pencil-like through submerged holes. Having completed this section, the boys are then handed over to separate, specialist rescue teams, who help assist them through the remainder of the cave, much of which they can wade through. So treacherous were the conditions that one Thai Navy SEAL died during operations last week, a blow to rescuers who faced a race against time to free the soccer team.

X	About a thousand Thai soldiers and civilians have been joined by technical experts from half a dozen countries in a desperate effort to rescue 12 young boys and their soccer coach trapped by floodwater in a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week. The boys, all members of the Wild Boars soccer team between the ages of 11 and 16, and their assistant coach, 25-year-old Ekkapol Chantawong, are believed to have entered Tham Luang Cave after practice on June 23 for what was meant to be roughly a five-hour trek.
X	Monsoon rains flooded several chambers and blocked the exit. Rescuers tried to pump out the water so divers and medics could reach them, but the days that followed only brought more downpours. Authorities then began looking for alternative entries on the mountain above, but they found few viable options.
M	More than a week later, time is running out. The search for the missing boys and their coach has gripped the nation.
M	Well wishers hold vigils in schools and temples across the country. Social media users created hashtags to draw attention to the story.
M	Residents of the mostly rural Chiang Rai province have volunteered to cook, clean and support the boys’ families and rescue teams at a muddy encampment near the entrance to the cave complex. They’ve held onto hope for ten days as Thai authorities try everything they can to make contact. Here’s why it’s taking so long to find the missing team, and what’s next in the extraordinary effort to save them.
X	The Tham Luang cave system is a sprawling complex beneath the Nang Non Mountain marking the border between Thailand and Myanmar to the north. Spanning roughly three miles as the crow flies, a system of narrow corridors winds sharply up and down, connecting larger chambers of limestone dripping with stalactites.
X	Several small rooms are located along the 1.8-mile stretch from the cave’s mouth to a T-intersection. To the right is a tunnel leading north.
X	To the left, the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok. The trek to Pattaya is not particularly difficult, but it can take a few hours in dry conditions through narrow tunnels.
X	Authorities hope that the missing team made it to the spacious cavern, where ground is high and likely to be above water. Small openings are expected to provide enough oxygen, while springs supply fresh water.
X	Besides some scattered belongings in the earlier chambers of the cave, there has been no direct sign of the boys and their coach. But rescuers believe huddling on the Pattaya shelf would be their best — perhaps only — chance of survival. Divers have not yet been able to reach the chamber due to extremely rough conditions, while climbers have yet to find any chimneys leading into it from above ground. Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said Sunday that a conventional exit through the mouth of the cave is the most likely scenario.
1	Thai Navy SEALs on the frontline of the rescue effort have established a command center in “chamber three,” an elevated room about a mile from the entrance and just under a mile from the junction, according to maps provided by Thai authorities. The station has been outfitted with lighting, medical equipment, a communications system and supplies such as food and oxygen, which is being deposited at 25-meter intervals throughout the inundated tunnels. As of Monday morning, divers were closing in on Pattaya after setting out from command, passing the intersection and arriving within a mile of the target.
1	Thai authorities responded quickly to the crisis, but conditions were not in their favor. SEALs arrived late on the night of June 24, and first dove into the dark waters around 2 a.m.
2	They kept diving, rotating three teams of six over the next 16 hours, but made little progress through opaque pools of rain, dirt and debris. By Wednesday, Thai authorities had asked for help.
2	Three British diving experts rushed to the scene, as did a cave expert with extensive knowledge of Tham Luang. The U.S. Indo-Pacific command sent a survival specialist and a team of pararescuemen — an elite special operations unit trained for search, rescue and medical response in almost any environment. Military personnel from Australia arrived later in the week.
M	China, Japan and Israel also sent specialists, believed to be private-sector civilians. Helicopters and drones hovered overhead searching for heat signatures and other signs of life, while police and soldiers rummaged through the jungle for chimneys that could provide an alternative entry point.
X	Two appeared viable, according to Narongsak, and one provided access to a small room 40 meters below. It’s still unclear whether it connects to Pattaya; while extraction from above is unlikely, rescuers hope to at least make contact with the missing team to provide emergency medical treatment and food until floodwaters recede.
M	Industrial drills supplemented efforts to drain the water, but progress is slow. Responders are working day and night in a race against rains expected to resume this week. Thirteen ambulances are standing by to transport survivors to Chiang Rai Region General Hospital, where an entire floor has been cleared to receive them.
M	“We’ve been preparing since the beginning,” says Deputy Director Samroeng Seekaew, speaking to TIME on Monday. Doctors, nurses and mental health specialists are on call to treat trauma, organ failure and infectious disease in the event that anyone is found alive.
5	“If we find them, we want their families to know that we are ready to care for them,” Samroeng said. Paramedics, soldiers and volunteers successfully carried out an evacuation drill Saturday; if found alive, the biggest obstacle to their survival will be transporting them from Pattaya through still-flooded tunnels to the SEAL command center, then on to the mouth of cave — a difficult journey of several miles guided by rope and sheer determination.
M	Despite the odds, responders remain committed to the mission and say they will not give up efforts until all 13 of the missing are located. Addressing reporters Monday, Narongsak, the governor, says rescue teams will power on riding a wave of slow but encouraging progress. “I hope today will be another good day,” he said.

M	As one diving expert put it to me, when underwater cave rescues go wrong they go wrong in a big way. So despite this promising start, there is a sense of unease here in Chiang Mai. But the overriding impression from the rescuers is a clear focus and unshakable resolve to finish the job.

X	Thai officials are still fine-tuning the plan to rescue the 12 Thai boys and their soccer coach who are trapped in a cave in northern Thailand, as the possibility of heavy rains that could threaten the boys’ safety remains.
5	But by Saturday, an air pipe had been run all the way from the rescue base inside the cave to the chamber where the boys and the coach are waiting to be rescued, about 3 miles from the cave’s mouth. Officials are now debating the best way and moment to extricate them from the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system. All of the options are dangerous.
5	And it’s a race against time because if more monsoon rains fall and flood the cave anew, the operation could become considerably more difficult. The boys did not know how to swim when they entered the cave on June 23 and got trapped there, but an official told CNN that rescuers are teaching them to swim and dive. The officials leading the rescue mission are also exploring three other different options, none of them ideal: drilling into the cave so the boys can climb out through a new passage, pumping water out so the boys can walk out the way they came in, or leaving them in the cave until the water recedes and they can walk out. Let’s walk through what we know about the rescue options, from most likely to least likely.
5	As of Saturday, there were signs that rescuers were leaning toward the “buddy dive” option, in which the boys would be given full-face oxygen masks and expert diver buddies to guide them through the cave, back to the mouth. But this is still a highly risky plan as the nearly 3-mile journey has been described by expert divers as “gnarly,” with sections of diving in cold, pitch-black water through tight passages, taking oxygen tanks on and off.
5	And while the boys are receiving food and medical care (and now finally fresh oxygen through the pipe), they are weakened from the ordeal. It currently takes the experienced divers five hours to make the journey out of the cave, due to high currents, poor visibility, and narrow, muddy paths.
X	The cave where the boys are trapped is about half a mile below the surface, in a mountain range. A few days ago, drilling through the side of the mountain to retrieve them seemed unfeasible because it would require new roads to accommodate the drilling equipment, as well as better maps and time to figure out where exactly the boys are and how to reach them.
X	So far, the BBC reports that more than 100 holes have been dug into the mountain. But as of Saturday officials were saying this plan looked less promising. When Elon Musk first announced his interest in helping the operation, he noted that his company’s “advanced ground penetrating radar” and skill “at digging holes” could make the task easier.
X	In addition, SpaceX’s satellite imaging technology could help with location tracking. But as of Saturday, it appeared that Musk’s engineers had been working with Thai cave experts on another plan, the “escape pod” or an inflatable tube with airlocks. An international team, including members of the US Air Force, has been working round-the-clock all week to pump the water that has flooded the cave in the hopes that the boys can simply walk out the way they came in.
5	The rescuers have been successful so far because the weather has stayed dry all week. But the monsoon rain could hit soon and flood the caves again.
X	Initially, the Royal Thai Navy felt the lowest-risk option was simply waiting for water levels to subside. Captain Anand Surawan of the Thai Navy said that they have already sent down four months worth of food and wanted to prioritize the health and safety of the boys before moving them out.
5	Since the monsoon season ends in October, this could mean up to a four-month wait. But with the first fatality and the risk of rains bringing even higher floodwaters into the cave, waiting out the monsoon has become a more and more dangerous option.

5	Earlier, the Thai military said the boys would need to learn to dive - or wait up to four months for flooding to recede before they could get out of the caves, meaning food would need to be supplied for that time.

3	MAE SAI, THAILAND (AFP) - Twelve boys and their football coach found alive in a Thai cave will be supplied with four months' worth of food and get diving training, the military said, as focus shifted to the tricky task of evacuating the group from the complex underground system. The boys, aged between 11 and 16, were discovered with their 25-year-old coach late on Monday (July 2), rake thin but alive, huddled on a ledge deep inside a flooded cave nine days after they became trapped in a pitch black cave hemmed in by rising flood waters. Much-needed food and medical supplies - including high-calorie gels and paracetamol - reached them on Tuesday as rescuers prepared for the possibility that they may be there for some time. "(We will) prepare to send additional food to be sustained for at least four months and train all 13 to dive while continuing to drain the water," Navy Captain Anand Surawan said, according to a statement from Thailand's Armed Forces. The miracle rescue sparked jubilation across the country after a gruelling operation beset with heavy downpours and fast-moving floods. In total, more than 1,000 people have been involved in the operation, including teams from China, Myanmar, Laos and Australia. Rescuers include Thai navy divers, three top British cave divers and US military personnel. "We called this mission impossible because it rained every day... but with our determination and equipment, we fought nature," Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said on Tuesday.

M	Rescuers are racing against the rains to free 12 boys and their football coach, who are trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand. A deluge is expected to hit in a matter of days that could force the water level up, threatening to flood the pocket where the group took refuge.
M	The teenage boys and their 25-year-old coach have been trapped for 12 days. They were found on Monday night by rescue divers, on a rock shelf about 4km (2.5 miles) from the cave mouth.
M	The boys have now received food, foil blankets, and medical attention, and rescuers are trying to run cables through the cave tunnel so they can speak to their families. The region of Chiang Rai where the boys are trapped has for the past few days experienced a dry spell, and rescuers have taken advantage of this to pump water out of the cave complex.
M	About 128 million litres of water had been pumped out by Thursday, with the water levels coming down at an average rate of 1.5cm per hour. Rescue workers are now able to walk through a 1.5km (0.9 mile) stretch from the entrance to what's being called the third chamber.
M	But heavy monsoon rains are forecast for Sunday. Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osotthanakorn said they were "racing against water". "We are calculating how much time we have it if rains, how many hours and days," he said.
M	The Tham Luang cave complex is regularly flooded during the rainy season until September or October, raising fears that a delay could leave the boys trapped in the cave for months. There is hope that enough water can be pumped out of the cave tunnels for the boys to be able to wade - or be floated - out.
M	But rescuers are also planning for other eventualities. A team are exploring the forested mountain land above the cave complex to see if they can find a chimney down to the cavern sheltering the boys. They have enlisted the help of bird-watchers, who are specialists in finding hidden holes, the AFP news agency reports.
5	Thai Navy Seal divers are also teaching the boys the basics of diving, with a view to guiding them out through flooded waters if necessary. But such a rescue would be fraught with risk, say experts. Many of the boys cannot swim or dive, and there is a high risk they might panic in the dark, murky, narrow waterways.
5	The journey for the group to travel up to the cave entrance would take around five hours, rescue divers say. The Thai military has previously said that if the boys can't dive out, the group may have to wait for up to four months for flooding to recede before they can leave.
M	Food and other supplies are being put in place for that eventuality. Rescue teams are working in extremely difficult conditions.
M	The heat has been sweltering and unrelenting, at over 30C, while much of the site is submerged in squelchy mud that is several inches thick in places and extremely slippery. But the work has continued at an unrelenting pace.
M	Everyone is aware that once the monsoon rains start, rescue efforts will be much more difficult. Meanwhile, hundreds of workers are helping to keep the site in order, with road engineers laying gravel to try and secure the mud, workers for the Thai royal kitchen providing hot food for everyone, and volunteers handing out water bottles and ice lollies to those on site.
M	One local civil servant, who had volunteered to help hand out supplies, said he did not know the boys personally but had decided to help because "I consider the boys in the caves as my brothers". The arrival of food, foil blankets and the prospect of speaking to their loved ones will have buoyed their spirits. But concern is mounting for both their physical and mental health after 12 days below ground - and it is not clear how they would be helped to survive months more in the cave.
X	The boys and their coach had gone on their bikes up to the caves on Saturday 23 June after football practice. It was one boy's 16th birthday, and the team had taken a picnic. They knew the caves, and some reports suggest they had wanted to explore deeper than on previous occasions.

3	"If you want a picture, it was probably more like a shopping bag that sometimes you would hold close to your chest if the passage was narrow and deep. If the passage was low and wide you would hold them out to the side and essentially manoeuvre them around any obstacles that were in the way," he said.

1	Rescuers have dug more than 100 holes, hoping to reach the cave by a direct route. There were 18 promising ones, the deepest at 400m, but Mr Narongsak said he was not sure if it would reach the boys, who are believed to be about 600m below the surface.

M	The twelve boys and their football coach trapped in a pitch-black cave in Thailand anxiously awaited rescue for nine days.
M	Now their rescuers have arrived, but their ordeal is far from over. The boys are between 1.2 miles and 2.5 miles into the flooded cave and around half-a-mile below the surface.
3	Here, we examine the issues rescuers face if they try to get them out via the underwater route. “None of these boys know how to swim, we’re going to have to treat them from scratch,” Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US, told The Independent.
5	The mask will be needed not only to help them breathe, but to protect them from the polluted water in which they will swim, he said. They would need exposure suits to protect them from this danger as well as from hypothermia brought on by the icy water, he said. But there could be problems getting hold of such equipment.
5	“Those suits have got to be made special for these boys – they’re not sitting on a shelf somewhere – they’re child sizes,” he said. Manufacturers simply do not cater for child divers, he said.
5	One of the greatest risks is that the children will panic and drown. Having no visibility was likely to make this worse, he said. “Not only have you got to teach them them how to breath under water and use a full face mask you’ve got to them to understand that they’re not going to see anything.
5	To help with this, the boys are going to have to get to know their rescuers. He added: “There’s a major amount of danger is trying to get them out – thats why the training process the preparation in getting them ready to go.
M	You can’t just put a mask on them and say here we go. One of the things I would be saying if I was there with them is - this is the next step in an incredible adventure they they have taken. They’re already survived 10 days before we found them on their own.

M	The initial relief that greeted the dramatic discovery of the trapped Thai soccer team has given way to questions over why the boys are still inside the flooded cave network and not on their way to the surface and their waiting families. Part of the concern about attempting to bring the boys out of the cramped, pitch-black chamber where they have spent the better part of nine days is that they are around two kilometers (1.2 miles) inside the cave, and nearly a kilometer below the surface, according to rescuers.
M	The boys, who were found alive by British divers in the early hours of Monday morning, are now being tended to by seven Thai Navy Seals, including a doctor and nurse, Thai Navy Seal Chief Rear Adm. Aphakorn Yoo-kongkaew told reporters at a news conference late Tuesday. The children were being given access to telephone lines to be able to reach their families, but the focus, said Yoo-kongkaew, was on building their strength so they can attempt the journey out. “We don’t have to rush.
M	We are trying to take care of them and make them strong. Then the boys will come out to see you guys,” he said. However, options for the rescuers working in and around the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system in northern Thailand are limited.
5	The area in which the group remains stranded is accessible only via a narrow, flooded channel, and attempts to pump water from the cave, or find a natural opening in the roof of the chamber, have so far been unsuccessful. Capt. Akanand Surawan, a commander with the Royal Thai Navy, said authorities would now supply the group with four months’ worth of food and begin teaching the boys how to scuba dive.
M	Surawan’s reference to four months has been interpreted as a potential sign that authorities are considering waiting until after the rainy season ends in October to begin the rescue operation. But with heavy rain expected to continue in the coming days, rising water levels could force rescuers to act sooner rather than later. “We believe that there is only a short break in the monsoon and all feasible options for the rescue of the boys are being considered,” British Cave Rescue Council Vice Chairman Bill Whitehouse said in a statement.
5	“Although water levels have dropped, the diving conditions remain difficult and any attempt to dive the boys and their coach out will not be taken lightly because there are significant technical challenges and risks to consider,” said Whitehouse. Diving is considered among the least preferable escape methods, with experts cautioning that any attempt to traverse the narrow passageways will be fraught with difficulties and potential complications, especially if the children can’t swim. “Worst-case scenario is they have to dive them out,” Pat Moret, a rescue consultant, told CNN on Monday.
M	The emotional toil of any rescue attempt would also need to be considered, said Paul Auerbach, professor of emergency medicine at Stanford University. “This is going to be a complicated rescue.
M	It’s manageable, but they have to be sure that these kids are physically capable of it and emotionally capable of it as well,” said Auerbach. “They’ll be assessed for hydration status, adequate fuel supply, adequate food so that their glucose level is adequate, and then no doubt they’ll do practice dives,” he added.
3	The boys, who are between 11 and 16 and are members of the Wild Boars soccer team, had been exploring the cave network with their soccer coach on June 23, when heavy seasonal rains flooded the cave’s entrance, forcing the group further and further into the labyrinth of tunnels in search of high ground. Their sudden disappearance sparked a desperate nine-day race against time as hundreds of volunteers and specialist international search teams battled against the heavy rains to locate the missing group.
M	On Monday, Narongsak Osottanakorn, governor of Chiang Rai, the region where the caves are located, told reporters that the mission is “not done yet” and medical experts need to enter the cave to assess the boys before any further action is taken. The Royal Thai Navy’s Surawan said additional divers will accompany the doctor and nurse.
M	Rescuers will also pump air into the cave to improve conditions. Rescue teams have been trying to drain the underground tunnels for several days, and at one point were removing an estimated 1.6 million liters of water an hour. However, continuous rains have frustrated attempts to clear the passageways, with the water remaining at a steady level. A final rescue option could see the boys lifted through the roof of the cave chamber to safety, either through a natural opening or a drilled entry point.
M	During an attempted rescue mission last week, trekkers found a hidden opening deep in the jungle, giving them another way to enter the cave system. The natural chimney was at least 1.5 meters in diameter and at least 22 meters (72 feet) deep. Though the opening did not connect to the area where the boys were discovered, now that the exact location is known, rescue efforts can focus on finding other, potentially hidden openings.
M	“Back here in the UK, there is an assessment of electronic equipment that may be suitable to pinpoint the underground location of the boys and coach with a greater degree of accuracy than the published surveys,” said Whitehouse. “They (the group) are also located in a relatively small space and this would make any potential drilling attempt as a means of rescue very difficult,” added Whitehouse.

M	A new survival challenge faces the Thai boys and their soccer coach: Oxygen levels in the cave air have plummeted dangerously to just 15%, Thai Navy Seal chief Rear Adm. Aphakorn Yoo-kongkaew said Friday. He did not speculate how long the team could survive at that oxygen level in the cave at the Tham Luang Nang Non complex, where they have been trapped for 14 days.
M	According to the US Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the “optimal range” of oxygen needed in the air a person breathes in order to maintain normal function is between 19.5% and 23.5%. “We originally thought the young boys could stay safe inside the cave for quite a long time but circumstances have changed,” Yoo-kongkaew said, adding that getting more oxygen to the boys and their coach had become a priority.
M	As oxygen drops below the lower threshold of the optimal level, the body begins to undergo changes and may face the serious risk of hypoxia, the condition that causes altitude sickness, according to OSHA. Because the boys and their coach have been trapped for weeks, Edelman “hypothesized” that some ventilation is taking place, though he cautioned that he did not have detailed knowledge of the situation.
M	“The first thing that happens to the body as oxygen levels decline is, you have a signal to make you breathe more. It’s totally analogous to climbing a mountain and going up to, say, 10,000 to 12,000 feet when the oxygen pressure declines,” Edelman said. “So the first thing you feel is a need to breathe more; you may feel a little lightheaded; you may feel a little dizzy.
M	They may have trouble sleeping; they may have headaches while they sleep,” he said. The other problem the boys may experience with declining oxygen is increasing carbon dioxide, the gas we exhale with each breath, Edelman said. Breathing air containing just 6% to 10% oxygen causes nausea, vomiting, lethargic movements and perhaps unconsciousness, according to OSHA; at oxygen levels less than 6%, the body experiences immediate convulsions, followed by cessation of breathing and then cardiac standstill.
M	Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Aside from such dire conditions, Edelman said that individual people react differently to inadequate oxygen and that although it is assumed there are different reactions for children, the process has not been studied.

M	Go here to read the story of how the boys escaped.
5	Rescue divers navigated flooded passages, with some openings as small as 3 feet wide and 2 feet tall, to rescue the trapped soccer team. Rescuers brought in supplies and equipment through the cave’s main entrance.
M	The shape shown here is the cross-section of the cave at the entrance. The rescue team had its base here in Chamber 3, a dry area about a third of a mile from the entrance. Divers tried to run a communications line from here to the trapped team.
M	Starting at about a half-mile from the entrance, the cave significantly narrows. This is the cross-section of the cave at about three-quarters of a mile from the entrance.
M	It was here at Sam Yaek junction that divers first found the tunnel that led to the soccer team. This is the cross-section of the cave about one mile from the entrance. Authorities believe the team fled rising waters here at Pattaya Beach, which has one of the smallest openings in the entire complex.
3	The divers found the 12 boys and their coach near this area, which is more than a mile and a half from the entrance. In rescuing all 13 people, the divers faced a risky and desperate mission.
6	The boys had grown weak from falling oxygen levels in the chamber where they were trapped. One rescue diver died Friday when he ran out of air while underwater.
M	The cave system runs under a mountain range. Officials initially considered drilling as an approach for rescuing the boys, but that option has mostly been eliminated because getting the necessary drilling equipment up the mountain would be daunting and time-consuming.
M	The boys and their coach went into the cave after a practice on June 23 and were caught inside by rising floodwaters. They were trapped for 10 days before they were found.
M	The initial jubilation that the team had been found alive had given way to deep worry over the difficulty of getting them out. The July-to-November rainy season is a particularly dangerous time because rainfall can flood the cave with surging waters.
M	Officials had been monitoring weather forecasts, with some expecting monsoon rains to arrive soon. The storms could have slowed the rescue effort and pushed water levels in the group’s chamber even higher. To help keep water levels down, a small dam was built outside the cave.
5	The boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old soccer coach were trained in how to make the journey through cramped and flooded passageways. None had ever used diving gear, and at least some of the boys didn’t know how to swim at all.
5	Dozens of cave divers from Thailand and around the world participated in the rescue. The operation required shepherding each person for hours through underwater passageways with few air pockets.

M	MAE SAI, THAILAND (AFP) - His fields are submerged and his ducks nearly wiped out by water being frantically pumped from the cave that holds captive 12 boys and their football coach, but Thai farmer Lek Lapdaungpoin is delighted to help the rescue bid. Standing near his ruined land, Lek says he is proud of his small but significant contribution to battling the rescue operation's main enemy - water.
M	"With the farming, we can make money again. But 13 lives are not something we can create," he said, estimating that five districts and hundreds of hectares had been damaged in the lowlands around the Tham Luang cave complex. Flooding is seasonal in Thailand, but for many in the vicinity of the cave, the scale is sudden and massive.
5	Water inside the cave has blocked the boys' escape route. Nineteen high-powered pumps are in place to reduce the water level, which has come down by 1cm each hour.

M	There is a friendly mood among the volunteers - and a keen sense from everyone that they would like to help however they can. At one point, some volunteers offered massages to those at the site. Others distributed bottles of water and ice lollies to journalists.

5	The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand is under way, Thai authorities announced Sunday. At 10 a.m. local time, an international contingent of 13 specialist divers and five Thai Navy SEALs descended into the watery network of underground tunnels below the Mae Sai mountains, carrying with them the hopes of an entire nation. “Our readiness is at the highest today.
7	Today is D-day,” said Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn, adding that the families had been informed of the plan and given their support to the rescue effort. The plight of the stricken boys, who have remained trapped inside the caves for 15 days, has transfixed Thailand, as rescue efforts have become ever more urgent. Their families sat glued to television sets and phones for updates Sunday, expressing hope that their boys would soon return home.
M	One of the boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai, turned 16 on the day the group went missing in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex, in Chiang Rai, northern Thailand. On Sunday, his 17-year-old sister Phanphatsa told CNN she promised to make her brother another birthday cake – and all his favorite food – on his safe return.
7	Rescuers have a dwindling window of opportunity in which to extract the boys, with heavy rain falling shortly after the rescue operation began on Sunday afternoon and forecasters predicting yet more monsoon rains in the coming days, effectively sealing off the cave until October. “We have two obstacles: water and time. This what we have been racing against since day one. We have to do all we can, even though it is hard to fight the force of nature,” said Osotthanakorn, as a light rain began to fall across the site.
7	At the entrance to the caves, volunteers assisting in the operation described the rescue attempt as a “now or never” scenario. The boys and their coach are huddled together in a small chamber four kilometers (2.5 miles) inside the cave, surrounded by flood water and with a limited supply of oxygen. To reach them, divers will need to successfully navigate a network of sprawling, narrow tunnels connecting the boys’ chamber with the rescue command center, known as Chamber Three. Divers are expected to escort the boys through the tunnels one by one. Once they reach the command center, the boys will be handed over to separate specialist rescue teams, who will assist them through Chambers One and Two, according to a Thai navy official with knowledge of the rescue operation.
7	“Today the water level in chambers number One, Two and Three inside the cave is low enough to walk through them,” said Osotthanakorn. Rescue teams have been constantly pumping water out of the cave system, in a race against time before the return of heavy rain forecast for Sunday. Signs that a rescue operation was under way were evident in the hours leading up to the announcement, as authorities installed a large green tarp around the cave entrance and removed media from outside of the camp to a separate location. On the dirt track leading to the tunnels, a near continuous convoy of trucks and military vehicles delivered troops and medical equipment, including a large cache of oxygen tanks.
7	On Saturday evening, numerous international military advisers could be seen entering the site, followed later by four monks in orange robes. At the entrance to the site, a newly placed, thin white decorative flag fluttered in the wind, a Buddhist sign to indicate positive energy.
M	Hopes had been high that an alternative means of rescue would be discovered. For days, specialist teams have scoured mountains above the cave in search of a possible hidden entry point. Divers have previously described conditions in the cave network as some of the most extreme they have ever faced.
6	The decision to remove the boys using divers would not have been taken lightly. On Friday, a former Thai Navy SEAL died while returning from an operation to deliver oxygen tanks to the cave where the boys are located.
7	Even if the divers are successful, it will be many hours before the fate of the boys and their rescuers will be known, with Thai authorities suggesting the extraction process could take days. “We estimate the extraction of the first boy will be finished by 9 p.m. local (10 a.m. ET),” Osotthanakorn said. It has previously taken divers 11 hours to complete the round trip.
6	Finnish volunteer diver Mikko Paasi, a long-term resident of Thailand, said the death of the Thai Navy SEAL had changed the mood on the ground and made real for rescuers just how dangerous the mission had become. At the Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital, where officials plan to send the boys after they are extracted from the cave, a number of gurneys have been placed outside the front of the main entrance in anticipation of their arrival. The hospital, the largest in the region, is approximately 57 km (35.4 miles) from the cave. In the hours preceding the rescue, a letter the boys had sent to their families was published on the Thai SEALs’ Facebook page.
M	The letter shows the boys in good spirits despite their ordeal. In neat blue handwriting, 11-year-old Chanin Viboonrungruang, the youngest of the group, told his parents not to worry, and said he was looking forward to eating fried chicken. His parents, who along with other families, have maintained a constant vigil at the site since the boys first became trapped.
M	On reading the letter Saturday evening, Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang, said he felt a great sense of relief. “I had been worried about my son, that he would be exhausted, he would be tired,” he said. For families the wait for news of their boys’ rescue has been excruciating.
M	“I was worried about him as there are obstacles to extract him out. Everyone knows that it is difficult to stay inside (the cave) but the officials are trying (to help him),” said Viboonrungruang. “I hope he is still healthy and would come out soon. I want to send my support to him. I don’t have a chance to talk with him,” he said.

M	Over the past week we have called in to chat to Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team, and usually found him talking tensely on the phone to parents of the boys. He went over and over the events of the day the boys went into the caves with his assistant after football practice. He says he had no idea they were going. Tonight there was an entirely different atmosphere in the house, just below the mountains where the men who run the Wild Boars meet. They laughed, shouted cheers and shook hands in a very un-Thai way. And coach Nop was smiling for the first time, and almost speechless. "I don’t know what to say – I just want to see them, and hug them," he told me. I was then able to show him a note from Manchester United to the rescued boys. It was an invitation to visit Old Trafford next season, as most of the boys are passionate Man U fans. There was a little disbelief, and then elation, even from coach Nop, who admits he is a Liverpool fan who has failed to convert the rest of his team. "Is this for real?" they asked.

X	Over the past week we have called in to chat to Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team, and usually found him talking tensely on the phone to parents of the boys. He went over and over the events of the day the boys went into the caves with his assistant after football practice. He says he had no idea they were going. Tonight there was an entirely different atmosphere in the house, just below the mountains where the men who run the Wild Boars meet. They laughed, shouted cheers and shook hands in a very un-Thai way. And coach Nop was smiling for the first time, and almost speechless. "I don’t know what to say – I just want to see them, and hug them," he told me. I was then able to show him a note from Manchester United to the rescued boys. It was an invitation to visit Old Trafford next season, as most of the boys are passionate Man U fans. There was a little disbelief, and then elation, even from coach Nop, who admits he is a Liverpool fan who has failed to convert the rest of his team. "Is this for real?" they asked.

3	Four members of the trapped soccer team have been rescued from the flooded cave in Thailand where they had been trapped for more than two weeks, according to Thai Navy SEALS.
7	It's part of an effort to evacuate the 12 boys from the team along with their coach, in a rescue that has captured the world's attention, with reporters flocking to the scene and foreign divers arriving to assist. The complicated and perilous operation to rescue the group began Sunday morning at 10 a.m. local time, officials said. "Today is D-Day," Chiang Rai acting Gov. Narongsak Osattanakorn proclaimed as the rescue effort kicked off Sunday.
7	He said it would take about 11 hours to remove the first boy from the cave and that two divers would accompany each boy. Later Sunday, the effort appeared to be ahead of schedule.
7	The trapped team has been perched on a ledge more than a mile into the complex cave system. Since British divers found the group on Monday, rescue workers have been trying to help them gain strength for the journey and have treated their scrapes. The rescued boys were taken to a nearby hospital, and it wasn't immediately clear what their condition is.
7	According to The Associated Press, Narongsak told reporters that the healthiest were taken out first. The governor said 13 foreign divers and five Thai divers would manage the extraction process.
7	The journey from the entrance to the chamber where the boys and their coach are stuck takes about five or six hours each way. The next phase of the operation is set to start in 10 to 20 hours, Narongsak told reporters. It's not clear precisely how long it will take in total, though Maj. Gen. Chalongchai Chaiyakam said the 13 "will continuously come out in approximately two to four days, which all may change depending on weather and water conditions," The Associated Press earlier reported. The process is extremely risky, but officials say waters right now are at their optimal level inside the cave after a few days of better weather — and they're worried about the potential for more rains to fill the flooded caves even further.
8	"If we keep on waiting and the rains come in the next three or four days, our readiness will decrease," Narongsak said, according to the AP. Underscoring the risk, a former Thai elite navy diver died Friday morning after losing consciousness while returning from placing oxygen canisters in the cave. Many or all of the boys do not know how to swim and none have used scuba gear before, though expert divers who have been with them in the last several days have been reportedly giving the boys instructions on diving. The boys, ages 11-16, and their 25-year-old coach have been trapped in the complex cave system since June 23 due to flooded passageways. The hundreds of journalists that have been waiting outside the entrance to the cave were moved out on Sunday, and told to go to a different press center set up more than a mile and a half away, as the rescue enters full swing.
5	Rescuers had considered other options, like waiting months for the rainy season to end and the waters to recede. But that entails plenty of risks as well, as the water could go up before it goes down.
M	Efforts to pump water out of the cave have been set back by rains. Depleting oxygen levels in the cave have also been a cause for concern over the past week. Officials had made efforts to extend a hose to the chamber where the 13 have been holed up but have reportedly not been able to do so. The oxygen level in the cave was about 15 percent on Friday, The New York Times reported that a Thai navy commander said.
M	Normal air contains about 21 percent oxygen. The mood there now is one of apprehension and elation. In this complicated effort, a lot of things could go wrong. And with the boys in weakest condition yet to be rescued, the tense community waits and hopes.

M	MAE SAI, Thailand — The head coach of the Thai soccer team spent the morning of June 23 preparing his young assistant for an important task: looking out for the boys by himself.
M	Nopparat Khanthavong, the 37-year-old head coach of the Moo Pa (Wild Boars) soccer team, had an appointment that morning. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, was to take the younger boys to a soccer field nestled by the Doi Nang Non mountain range, a formation with numerous waterfalls and caves that straddles the Thai-Myanmar border.
M	“Make sure you ride your bicycle behind them when you are traveling around, so you can keep a lookout,” he wrote in a Facebook message he shared with The Washington Post. Ekapol coaches the younger boys, so Nopparat told him to bring some of the boys from the older team for additional eyes. “Take care,” he wrote.
5	The hours that followed kicked off a chain of events that has riveted the world: a dramatic search and rescue that found the boys alive nine days later, huddled on a small, muddy patch surrounded by floodwaters. Attention has focused on the only adult, 25-year-old former novice monk Ekapol, and the role he has played in both their predicament and their survival. Efforts to extract the boys have involved a swelling team of thousands of divers, engineers, military personnel and volunteers from all over the world — including Elon Musk’s SpaceX — with no clear plan in sight.
5	Diving, the most probable method, is seen as too risky for now given the boys’ lack of swimming experience, pitch-black muddy waters through narrow passageways, and the death this week of a retired Thai Navy SEAL who was among those readying the cave for the boys’ dive. Engineers have been searching for a way through the mountain’s surface, hoping to drill down and reach them within the cave, but acknowledge it could take months and alter the cave’s geography in the process.
X	As the rush to figure out how to rescue the group continues, some have chided Ekapol for leading the team into the cave. A large warning sign at the cave’s entrance raises the risk of entering so close to the monsoon season, they say, and he should have known better.
M	But for many in Thailand, Ekapol, who left his life in the monkhood three years ago and joined the Wild Boars as an assistant coach soon after, is an almost divine force, sent to protect the boys as they go through this ordeal. A widely shared cartoon drawing of Ekapol shows him sitting cross-legged, as a monk does in meditation, with 12 little wild boars in his arms.
M	According to rescue officials, he is among the weakest in the group, in part because he gave the boys his share of the limited food and water they had with them in the early days. He also taught the boys how to meditate and how to conserve as much energy as possible until they were found. Ekapol was an orphan who lost his parents at age 10, friends say.
M	He then trained to be a monk but left the monastery to care for his ailing grandmother in Mae Sai in northern Thailand. There, he split his time between working as a temple hand at a monastery and training the newly established Moo Pa team. He found kindred spirits in the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand.
M	He helped Nopparat, the head coach, devise a system where the boys’ passion for soccer would motivate them to excel academically. If they got certain grades in school, they would be rewarded with soccer gear, such as fresh studs for their cleats or a new pair of shorts. The two spent time looking for sponsors and used the Moo Pa team to prove to the boys that they could become something more than their small town would suggest — even professional ­athletes.
M	“He gave a lot of himself to them,” Nopparat said. He would ferry the boys to and from home when their parents could not and took responsibility for them as if they were his own family.
M	He also kept the boys on a strict training schedule, according to physical education teachers at the school field where they practiced. That included biking across the hills that surround Mae Sai. On that Saturday two weeks ago, Nopparat did not know where Ekapol would be bringing the young soccer team but thought it would be a learning experience for him to manage them on his own.
1	The older Wild Boars were having a match in the evening, he said, so he put his phone away. When he checked it at 7 p.m., there were at least 20 calls from worried parents, none of whose sons had come home.
1	He frantically dialed Ekapol and a number of the boys in quick succession but reached only Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training. He told Nopparat that the team had gone exploring in the Tham Luang caves.
8	The coach raced up there, only to find abandoned bicycles and bags at its entrance and water seeping out the muddy pathway. Information had slowly started to come outabout the boys’ nine-day ordeal before they were eventually found on Monday night, through letters and limited communication between the coach, the team and the rescuers who have been with them in a small cave chamber. The rush of euphoria that ran through the town of Mae Sai and across the world when the group was found has settled into a grim reality that neither Ekapol nor the 12 in his care may see daylight for days or even weeks.
5	Officials said Saturday that they have a three- to four-day window in which conditions will be “most favorable” for the boys to attempt to dive out before monsoon rains hit and continue for months. Urgent concerns include the amount of oxygen in the section of the cave that the group is taking refuge in, which had fallen below healthy levels. Officials are now limiting the number of rescue workers who can travel into the cave to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide that builds when they exhale.
8	Rising water levels, too, could force a quick extraction, but authorities say the boys are not ready to make the dive. The scene in Thailand during a rescue operation to save boys trapped in a cave + 68 The perilous mission ends in triumph as the final four boys and their soccer coach are freed.
M	Friends, meanwhile, grow worried for Ekapol. He had the boys’ complete trust, and it is unlikely that they would have set off ­exploring in the cave’s chambers without him.
M	“I know him, and I know he will blame himself,” said Joy, his friend at the monastery. On Saturday morning, the Thai Navy posted photos of letters that the group had written to their family and the outside world. Ekapol’s, scribbled on a yellow-stained piece of paper, torn out from a notebook, was brief, but included a promise and an apology.

3	None of the first eight has a fever - a sign of a possible infection - although two have needed antibiotic treatment for suspected lung infections. Doctors will be checking for any infections, such as "caver's disease", a lung disease caused by a fungus that grows in bat droppings. They will also make sure any cuts and scrapes that the boys have on their skin are clean and healing nicely.

6	A former Thailand navy SEAL has died while working to save 12 boys and their coach from the submerged Tham Luang cave complex, the New York Times reports. The death comes as a heavy blow to the rescue mission, as monsoon rains threaten further flooding and as oxygen levels inside the chamber have started to drop.
6	Around 1:00 am local time this morning, Saman Gunan, a 38-year-old retired Thai navy SEAL, was on his way out of the cave system after delivering extra oxygen canisters along the route to the trapped boys and their coach when he ran out of oxygen and lost consciousness. His partner, who was unable to revive him, brought his body back to the mouth of the cave. Saman, who had left the Thai navy, returned to help with the rescue mission.
6	In respect for his efforts, the Thai king said he’ll sponsor the funeral. It’s doubtful the boys will be told about the diver’s death, as the news would likely damage their morale even further, and at a time when they need to build both their physical and psychological health. The diver’s death underscores the danger of a rescue attempt.
5	A round trip to the boys takes 11 hours, six of which, en route to the chamber, are against the current. Visibility is practically nil, and some passageways are mere crawlspaces.
3	The 12 soccer players and their coach have been trapped in the Tham Luang cave complex for nearly two weeks. They were discovered by expert divers on July 2, about 2.5 miles (4 km) from the mouth of the cave.
5	The “Wild Boars” team entered the cave when it was dry, but flood waters trapped them inside. Heavy monsoon rains are expected to resume on Sunday, presenting a challenge for rescue workers who are desperately trying to pump water out of the caves.
5	Oxygen levels within the chamber are another concern. The demand for oxygen has increased owing to the presence of the support team members , who are currently attending to the boys.
5	The oxygen level in the chamber is now at 15 percent, down from the usual 21 percent, the BBC reports. Oxygen canisters are being delivered to the chamber, along with food and medical supplies. Rescuers are currently working to connect a three mile (5 km) cable to the chamber to supply oxygen, along with a fiber optic cable for communication.
5	A plan to leave the boys in the caves until the monsoon season ends—which won’t happen for another four months—is appearing less feasible with each passing day and hour. A rescue attempt through the submerged passages seems inevitable. The expected rains will likely replenish the caves with water, but as the monsoon season progresses, there’s a heightened chance that sinkholes and streams will flood the cramped chamber.
5	To complicate matters, the boys have never used scuba gear, and some don’t know how to swim. Sadly, the death of Saman Gunan shows how perilous the situation really is—even for experienced navy SEAL divers.

3	Twelve boys and their football coach trapped in a cave in Thailand may be rescued through cracks in the cave's walls, according to a Finnish diver on the scene. Finnish diver Mikko Paasi has been assisting rescue workers since Tuesday and spoke with Yle on Wednesday morning.
3	Paasi said the boys were able to hear the sounds of barking dogs from outside the cave, raising rescuers' hopes that there is a crack in the cave which could lead to reaching the trapped young footballers and their coach. "The kids said they have heard animal sounds, for example dogs barking, inside the cave.
3	That has raised hope that there might be some kind of crack that leads into the cave," Paasi said. "Now we're trying to find another way into the cave than diving or drilling a tunnel," he said, explaining that the search and rescue team was now trying to locate where the sound originated. That is a difficult task, he said, because sound is reflected around the cave walls.
4	Story continues after photo. Now mountain climbing experts are looking for crevasses on the cave's rocky exterior surface while others look for interior routes into the cave. On Wednesday the Thai Navy released a video of the boys who were seen bundled up in foil blankets, smiling and laughing as they each introduced themselves.
M	Story continues after photo. The dozen boys and their football coach have been trapped in the cave by rising water for the past eleven days, and were discovered by rescuers on Monday.
5	Locals are worried that their rescue may be hampered by more rain, as the rainy season has just begun. Paasi told Yle on Wednesday that the water in the cave was not rising at the moment but said water levels could rise in the coming days. "It's not raining right now and the pumps are working at full capacity," he said. The cave's low water levels have given rescuers hope the boys could be rescued by divers but Paasi said the possibility of cracks in the cave have raised hope they could be extracted more safely that way.

M	CHIANG RAI, Thailand (Reuters) - Danish diving instructor Ivan Katadzic was on holiday in southern Thailand’s beach resort of Krabi when he heard about 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave at the other end of the country.
M	He spent a few days gathering equipment and then set off to help with the rescue, by which time intrepid cave divers from around the world had arrived too, swelling the throng of soldiers, engineers, paramedics and other volunteers to up to 2,000, according to the local government. “I think it’s phenomenal to see so many divers and nationalities here as well as non-divers helping,” said Katadzic, 44, who owns two diving companies on a Gulf of Thailand holiday island.
M	The junior soccer players, who disappeared in the Tham Luang cave in the province of Chiang Rai on June 23, were discovered in a partially flooded chamber on Monday by British drivers. But their ordeal is far from over as rescuers puzzle over how to extract them through murky water coursing through a network of tunnels. A team of Thai Navy SEALs is coordinating an operation that risks getting out of hand as more and more volunteers arrive, and the media circus covering the drama grows.
M	“Whoever offers help, knowledge, technology, equipment, we gratefully accept,” Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said this week, but added that he had turned some people away because they would have been more of a hindrance than a help. He said he would not take responsibility for unregistered volunteers after a group got stuck on a mountainside and radioed for help, forcing the governor to send some members of the official rescue team to bring them back.
M	Buncha Duriyaphan, local commander of the Thai Armed Forces, said some “well-meaning people” had disrupted the rescue team’s efforts to pump water from the cave. “Last night someone dug up holes to drain water but ended up putting water back into the cave,” he said on Thursday.
M	Most of the volunteers, who have come from as far away as Australia and the United States, have found rooms in local hotels, but some are staying in temples. At the muddy site around the cave mouth, there are tents serving free food and drink for all.
6	Two Britons, John Volanthen and Richard Stanton, were among the divers who found the boys and their coach marooned on a bank inside the cave. Andy Torbet, a former British military diver and friend of the pair, told ITV’s Good Morning Britain that they were “two of the best in the world”. “Normally these sorts of conditions the water’s so muddy you can’t see anything,” he said. Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter said a Thai rescue organization reached out to him for help and he traveled from Europe with a Finnish cave diver to join the team.
M	“I am a dad myself, one son is 12 the other 16 ... so I directly feel the pain. I feel the need to help, no question,” he told Reuters.
M	“It is great to see this (international) cooperation. If we would cooperate globally in every aspect like we do here almost all of our problems would be solved,” he said.

0	Український дайвер Всеволод Коробов брав участь у рятувальній операції в Таїланді, де 12 дітей дев’ять днів шукали в затопленій печері.
0	Український дайвер Всеволод Коробов брав участь у рятувальній операції в Таїланді, де 12 дітей дев’ять днів шукали в затопленій печері. Про це повідомляє «BBC Україна».
M	За інформацією видання, Коробов працює інструктором з дайвінгу в місті Пхукет. Під час рятувальної операції він пройшов найскладнішу трикілометрову
M	ділянку в затопленій печері. Дайвер розповів, що він та його друг Максим прилетіли до печери зі зниклими дітьми 29 червня.
M	«Нашим завданням було навчити тайських морських котиків пірнати у таких складних печерах, оскільки з'ясувалося, що в них немає досвіду такого занурення», — пояснив Коробов. Він додав, що місцеві військові включили його та його друга у рятувальну команду. Нагадаємо, 2 липня знайшли живими всіх 12 підлітків, які разом зі своїм футбольним тренером пропали у печерному комплексі.

M	BANGKOK — As Thai and international rescue workers are racing against time to extract 12 young footballers and their coach out of a northern cave, one more help could be at hand – but bureaucracy is getting in the way.
M	Fifteen days into the rescue effort at Tham Luang Nang Non complex, cave experts from a French agency said they are ready to deploy and help, as soon as the Thai government formally requests for their help. But the Thai government said they would only accept help that comes on its own.
2	While speleology, or studies of caves, remains a niche activity in Thailand, it’s a common subject in France, which boasts of large network of caves all around the country – similar to the one where 13 people have been trapped for more than two weeks. They also have Tourte’s organization, which counts experienced divers and cave experts among its ranks. The group announced it could send a team made up of a dozen lifeguard personnel, who are also used to working with an innovative tool such as a diving stretcher, which allows for trips underwater. “This diving stretcher could not be used for every child and not all the way, but it could help especially if some kids start to panic after they passed some trap/some part of the cave on their way out,” Tourte said.
X	But the Thai government said they have received enough aid, for now. “The Thai side did receive a request from the French team via our Thai embassy in Paris,” foreign affairs ministry spokeswoman Bussadee Santipitak said in English. “The Thai side appreciated the offer by the French team but after assessing the situation carefully on the ground, felt that there were adequate experts needed to help rescue [the 13]. Tourte, the French cave agency chairman, said he’s hopeful the Thai government will make the request because his team is equipped for help. On its side, the French embassy contacted some associations to see how they could help rescue the children and to have an overview how France could help Thailand in case it receives an official demand from the Thai Government.

7	An eighth boy has been rescued as part of the huge operation in Thailand to save a junior football team and their coach who have been trapped in a cave for two weeks. The second phase of the rescue mission saw emergency services battling to reach the boys and their coach from the flooded cave. The operation was paused yesterday as rain in the Chiang Rai region threatened to raise water levels inside the Tham Luang Nang Non cave once again after four of the boys were brought to the surface on Sunday.
8	However, rain overnight has not hampered rescue efforts with more boys being brought to the surface this afternoon. So far four have been rescued today, according to news agency Reuters. Rescuers in northern Thailand have now brought four people out of the cave tonight.
7	The first emerged at 4.30pm (local time). The second at 6pm.
M	The chief running the rescue operation said some of the first children rescued are being treated in hospital. One of them was reported to have asked for food after telling authorities, “I’m hungry” and requesting a pad kra pao - a popular Thai meat dish with basil.

M	The 12 young footballers freed from a cave in Thailand have been offered the chance to attend the World Cup final but are too ill to travel, Fifa says. Divers completed the rescue of the Wild Boars football team and their coach on Tuesday, 17 days after they got trapped underground.
M	Offers of support have come from across the world, with Manchester United offering the chance to attend a game. England's Kyle Walker and Jack Butland have offered to send kit to the boys. Those offers have come after one of the boys rescued was pictured wearing an England shirt.
8	In addition, Spanish champions Barcelona have invited the team to play in their international academy tournament next year and watch a first-team game at the Nou Camp. Fifa had invited the boys to fly to Moscow for Sunday's World Cup final, but said they would not be able to go as they needed time to recover.
M	"Our priority remains the health of everyone involved," Fifa said. The boys entered the caves on 23 June during an excursion with their coach, with heavy rains causing flooding and cutting off their route out. Rescuers brought out the first of the group on Sunday, with the last brought out by divers on Tuesday evening. "We would love to welcome the team from Wild Boars Football Club and their rescuers to Old Trafford this coming season," said a Manchester United statement.

2	After the Indian Embassy recommended to the Thai authorities that they could use Kirlosker Brothers’ Limited’s (KBL) expertise in “dewatering”, the company sent teams from its offices in India, Thailand and the United Kingdom to the site, it said.
2	Its experts were on site at the cave in Tham Luang since July 5 and offered “technical know-how and advice on dewatering and pumps involved in the rescue operation,” said a KBL release. The KBL had also offered to provide four specialised high capacity Autoprime dewatering pumps, which were kept ready at Kirloskarvadi plant in Maharashtra to be airlifted to Thailand, it said.
8	The final five members of the young football team were rescued from the flooded Thai cave on Tuesday after spending 18 harrowing days trapped deep inside. A total of 12 children, aged from 11 to 16, and their coach, ventured into the Tham Luang cave in mountainous northern Thailand on June 23 after football practise and got trapped when heavy rains caused flooding.

3	CHIANG RAI (Reuters) -
5	Thirteen fully staffed medical teams stand ready round the clock outside a cave in Thailand -- each with its own helicopter and ambulance -- one for each of 12 boys and their coach trapped inside as a daring rescue gathers pace. With oxygen levels dropping and rainstorms forecast, time is running out on a plan to teach the boys - some as young as 11 and not strong swimmers - to make a dive through narrow, waterlogged passageways that would challenge experienced cavers. Medical staff involved in the mission told Reuters their first assessments will focus on the boy’s breathing, signs of hypothermia and an airborne lung infection known as ‘cave disease’ which is caused by bat and bird droppings and can be fatal if it is untreated and spreads to other parts of the body. Authorities have not ruled out laying an oxygen line and leaving the boys inside for months until monsoon rains clear if their efforts over the next few days fail. “We have set up 13 teams for each of the children,” said Major General Pramote Imwattana of the Army Medical Department in charge of the medical operation at the Tham Luang cave complex near Thailand’s northern border with Myanmar. Each boy will have a devoted medical unit consisting of at least one doctor, two nurses, a paramedic and an ambulance, one medic told Reuters, on condition of anonymity because she wasn’t allowed to speak to media. After the initial assessment, the group will be driven by ambulances to makeshift helipads and airlifted to the Chang Rai hospital some 70km away, Pramote said.
6	Medics have been conducting regular drills at the camp, ferrying would-be patients in stretchers hundreds of meters through thick mud from the cave’s entrance to the road where the ambulances -- assembled from across the country -- wait. Videos of the boys after their discovery on Monday showed them looking frail, thin and exhausted. But they appear to have remained in good spirits, and the head of the rescue mission, Narongsak Osottanakorn said Saturday that the boys’ health was the “best yet” as were the conditions to spring them to safety. Getting to the muddy bank where the boys sought refuge takes a nearly 11-hour round trip through 4 km (2.5 miles) of winding submerged pathways and fast-flowing freezing water. The death of a former Thai Navy seal who fell unconscious during a dive in the cave on Friday, underscores the challenge that awaits the boys.
7	“Hypothermia is the scariest condition. The body temperature drops as the water is very cold,” said the medic, adding that a whole section of the hospital had been set aside for the boy’s treatment.
M	She said histoplasmosis, also known as “cave disease” was one concern as was leptospirosis, an infection caused by bacteria which can lead to severe bleeding from the lungs or even meningitis. When Chilean miners were rescued after more than two months trapped underground in 2010, some were suffering from pneumonia, lung conditions from inhaling dust and dental and eye problems. Aside from the physical illness, there is also the psychological strain of living in the dark hundreds of meters underground. Insomnia, depression and post-traumatic stress will all have to be monitored in the weeks after.

M	Wearing hospital masks and gowns, and waving to family members through protective glass, the freed Thai soccer players were finally able to have a reunion, of sorts. After almost three weeks trapped in the dark, away from their loved ones in a cave in northern Thailand, the boys, aged between 11 and 16, were allowed to see their relatives in a carefully controlled environment, as doctors are still concerned about their health. In video shown at a press briefing, some of the parents were in tears as they looked through the glass.
M	The family members were not allowed to enter the room where they are being treated, in order to avoid infection, Dr Chaiyawej Thanapaisarn said. The doctor said three of the boys were being treated for minor cases of pneumonia, but predicted most would be discharged after about a week. “The recovery process should take around 30 days after they are discharged,” he added.
M	Seeing his son through the glass, he said he only wanted to hug him. Speaking earlier Wednesday, health ministry inspector Tongchai Lertvirairatanapong said the boys were in “good condition,” despite each losing an average of two kilograms (4.4 pounds) in weight during their time in the cave.
M	He attributed their relative good health to their coach, 25-year-old Ekkapol Ake Chantawong, a former monk who was the last person out. “I have to praise the coach who took care of the footballers very well,” Lertvirairatanapong said. He said the children hadn’t eaten any food in the nine days before they were found, and drank murky water from inside the cave, which saved them.
M	On Tuesday authorities said some of the boys had asked to eat bread with chocolate spread, but mostly they’ll be given a food similar to milk which is rich in proteins and nutrients. The first boys rescued on Sunday have been allowed to see their relatives through a glass partition and speak to them on a telephone line.
M	They will soon be able to meet them in person, but only while wearing protective clothing to reduce the risk of infection. The second group of boys rescued has been given approval to see their parents through glass, but the third group are still undergoing tests, he said. The boys are expected to be kept in hospital for at least a week while their immune systems recover.
7	The extraordinary operation to save the boys came to an end on Tuesday, when the Thai Navy SEAL rescuers and a doctor followed the last four boys and their coach out of the cave complex. On Wednesday, they too were recovering, nursing battered hands and feet from wading through the cold water in the cave to reach the boys. “Some have had muscle infections, cold, flu, and some psychologists have been taking care of them to relieve stress,” Health Ministry Inspector Lertvirairatanapong said. Even for some of the world’s most experienced cave divers, it set a new standard for difficult rescues.
8	“The complexity, scale and risk of the operation was unprecedented,” Glen McEwen, Australian Federal Police manager for Asia said at a press conference Wednesday. There was a celebratory mood at the cave entrance, hours after the rescue ended. Police officers took photographs of each other at the massive cave entrance, as pumps continued to suck out huge volumes of water. Wetsuits and scuba gear still hung along a walkway at the entrance Wednesday, waiting to be sorted by Thai Navy officials.
M	Even though pumps had brought down water levels significantly in recent days, the still-flooded chambers presented a daunting task for the teams. One of the men most responsible for the success of the rescue is Australian anaesthetist and underwater cave explorer Richard Harris, who was part of the 20-strong Australian rescue contingent.
M	He was the last man out of the cave Tuesday but emerged to tragedy, learning of his father’s death shortly after the rescue had completed. Described in a South Australia Ambulance Service statement as a “quiet and kind man” who “didn’t think twice about offering his support on this mission” Harry, as he is known, was lauded for his work in throughout the rescue period. At the final press conference for the rescue mission Wednesday, mission commander Narongsak Osotthanakorn paid tribute to Harris. At a school opposite the hospital in Chiang Rai where the boys are recovering, schoolchildren were in an excited, celebratory mood.
M	“Wild Boars, keep fighting!” they chanted. During the roughly nine-hour rescue operation, the boys were underwater for four to six hours, according to Jedsada Chokedamrongsook, the permanent secretary of the Thai Health Ministry.
7	Each boy was accompanied underwater by two divers carrying their oxygen tanks for them, and guiding them through the murky tunnels. The most dangerous part of the journey out of the labyrinthine cave system was the first kilometer, during which they were required to squeeze through a narrow flooded channel. Having completed this section, the boys were then handed over to separate, specialist rescue teams, who helped them through the remainder of the cave, much of which they could wade through. Questions will remain as to why the team, led by their 25-year-old coach, went into the caves during the rainy season – it is common knowledge that it is a dangerous time to enter, and signs at the entrance specifically warn of the dangers of monsoon rains.
X	Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team, told CNN that he did not know why the boys had gone into the cave. “At this time, now that the coach is out, just wait until he gives any statements and let’s just wait altogether and find out at the same time,” he said in an interview.
M	Kanthawong said he just wanted to support the team now that the players were out. “I’m going to give them a hug,” he said.

X	Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, is the coach of the Thai soccer team who was trapped in the Tham Luang cave for 17 days. Parents are not likely to sue Chanthawong over his leading their children into the cave, Thai lawyers told Business Insider. But one local authority suggested they may seek a lawsuit.
X	Chanthawong spent a decade in a Buddhist monastery, and parents are crediting him for keeping their children calm and safe during the two-week ordeal. For 17 days, 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand. They were there with Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, the assistant coach of the boys’ soccer team. Chanthawong took the boys about 2 1/2 miles into the cave after a soccer game on June 23 for an initiation ritual in which they would write their names on the cave wall, a rescue diver said. But heavy rains fell, trapping the team in the cave for about two weeks. On Tuesday, all 12 of the boys and Chanthawong were finally freed from the cave after several days of rescue operations.
X	Despite the dangerous situation the boys were in, lawyers from Thailand have told Business Insider they doubt that Chanthawong will face charges. "I personally believe that the coach would not face criminal charges," said Chatnarin Bumpenwattana, an associate lawyer at JTJB International Lawyers, a law firm based in Bangkok. "All parents would be very likely to forgive the coach for this action," another Bangkok-based lawyer said. Thai law also takes a defendant's intent into consideration, a criminal-law attorney named Ananchai Chaiyadech told the Thai newspaper Khao Sod last week. And the coach doesn't appear to have intended to put the boys in danger. The chief of the police station whose jurisdiction includes the cave said he hadn't ruled out charging the coach, Khao Sod reported.
X	"We have to study the matter carefully first," Col. Komsan Saard-an, the chief of Mae Sai Police Station, told Khao Sod. Reuters reported that many Thais had been critical of the coach and what they say was he and the boys' recklessness - particularly as international volunteers were involved in the rescue. Thailand's prime minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha, told Thai media the emphasis should be on a safe rescue and ensuring the team's psychological recovery, USA Today reported. As for the parents, the coach's care of the children is a key reason they may not press charges. He's said to have given the boys part of his limited food rations and had taught them how to meditate. Videos captured by Thai navy SEAL divers and disseminated to the media last week show the boys in good spirits after rescuers found them in the cave, though they appeared weak. Some parents have told news outlets that they attributed the children's calmness to the coach. "If he didn't go with them, what would have happened to my child?"
X	one mother told Thai television, as reported by News Corp Australia. "When he comes out, we have to heal his heart. Chanthawong had a harrowing childhood - when he was 10, an illness swept his hometown in northern Thailand, leaving his 7-year-old brother, mother, and father dead, News Corp Australia reported. Umporn Sriwichai, his aunt, told The Australian that Chanthawong was "a sad and lonely little boy" after the death of his parents and brother, according to News Corp Australia.

M	BANGKOK (Reuters) - Round-the-clock efforts by rescue teams in Thailand to save 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave have prompted some Thais to turn to social media to ask why they went in at all, and whether they deserve to be called heroes.
M	The junior soccer players, who disappeared in the Tham Luang cave in the northern province of Chiang Rai on June 23, were discovered on Monday by British divers in a partially flooded chamber. News of the survival of the “Wild Boar” team sparked celebrations and relief among Thais transfixed by the drama, following every twist and turn of a search that has drawn worldwide attention and volunteers from Australia to Finland. The furore provoked plenty of opinions on social media, particularly on a Facebook page called “Drama-addict” that is popular among Thais and has 2 million followers.
X	Some criticised what they saw as the group’s recklessness. “There was a big sign outside the cave but they still went in.
X	They should be scolded,” said one person on the popular website Pantip.com. Others appeared to criticise the team’s assistant coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, who went along on the expedition after a soccer practice.
X	But “Coach Ek” had his defenders too. “Coach Ek acted responsibly in his capacity as an adult and a coach to take care of the children’s lives and well-being,” said one user.
X	Some urged forgiveness for the boys, aged between 11 and 16. “When we were kids we weren’t much better than this ...
X	we probably also did things that disappointed our parents. We should not praise them but forgive them,” said one user.
M	There has been little official criticism of the boys’ actions while rescuers struggle to decide how best to extricate them from the flooded cave complex, as most of them cannot swim. Last week, Damrong Hanpakdeeniyom, the head of the forest park where the cave complex is located, said visitors were usually barred from venturing in more than about 700 m (2,300 ft). Other Thais commented on the expanding scope of the rescue, which risks becoming unmanageable as more volunteers turn up and the media spotlight grows.
6	It could take weeks to bring the team to safety, and the death of a volunteer diver on Friday underscored the risks. The criticism spurred the Department of Mental Health to beg Thais not to take sides.

X	MAE SAI, Thailand (Reuters) -
M	A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out will be turned into a museum to showcase the rescue, the head of the operation said on Wednesday. Two British divers found the 12 boys and their coach in a cavern in the flooded Tham Luang cave system in the northern province of Chiang Rai on Monday last week, nine days after they went missing during an excursion.
6	They were all brought safely following a mission fraught with obstacles that ended late on Tuesday. A Thai rescue diver died last Friday, highlighting the dangers.
8	“This area will become a living museum, to show how the operation unfolded,” the head of rescue mission, Narongsak Osottanakorn, told a news conference. Thai officials say the fate of the boys and the multinational rescue has put the cave firmly on the map and plans are in place to develop it into a tourist destination.
M	But Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said on Tuesday extra precautions would have be implemented both inside and outside the cave to safeguard tourists. A guide book describes the relatively unexplored Tham Luang cave as having an “impressive entrance chamber” leading to a marked path and then a series of chambers and boulders.
M	Villagers say it is known to be prone to flooding and many have urged authorities to post clearer warnings. Chongklai Worapongsathorn, deputy director-general of the Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation, said the cave would be closed from Thursday but did not say for how long.
M	He said plans were in place to “revive” an adjacent national park where hundreds of rescue workers and military personnel set up camp during the search and rescue. Superstitious Thais have been gripped by a legend about the cave - the full name of which is Tham Luang Nang Non or “cave of the reclining lady”. Legend has it that a beautiful princess ran away to the cave with her commoner lover.
M	Her father sent soldiers to kill the lover, prompting the princess to commit suicide. Surrounding mountains took on the shape of her body.

7	With all odds against them and time running out, rescuer pulled off a miracle.
7	The steel air tanks glittered under the beams of floodlights as a pair of rescuers defogged their masks and adjusted the straps. They checked their regulators one last time before embarking on what would become their most famous dive. In the jubilant aftermath of the successful rescues of 12 boys and their soccer coach, the Royal Thai Navy SEALs posted a video on Wednesday showing the miraculous mission as it unfolded over three days deep in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand.
7	The first diver wearing a helmet to avoid smashing his head against the mostly low roof the cave gripped a safety rope with a left gloved hand and vanished into the murky water flowing through the narrow passage of the cavern toward where the wayward group was marooned on a small beach. Meanwhile, rescuers were busy putting one of the boys, fitted with a wetsuit, into a plastic gurney and securing him with ropes before guiding him down from the beach to the water's edge.
X	It was a mission none of the rescuers had trained for, fraught with so many hazards that those chiefly involved in its execution doubted it would work. Peerapat Sompiangjai was expected home after soccer practice on June 23.
X	His family had prepared a cake for his 16th birthday and relatives were ready to shower him with presents when he walked through the door. But as the hours passed and he failed to come home, his family grew worried.
X	The following morning, he still hadn't shown up and his loved ones, along with those of his 11 teammates, reported them all missing. The boys' bicycles were found lined up at the mouth of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave near where they hold soccer practice, but they were nowhere in sight.
1	The search party soon learned that 25-year-old Ekkapong Chanwong -- an assistant coach on the missing boys' soccer team, the "Wild Boars" -- had led them on what was supposed to be a fun post-practice expedition inside the cave. But while the group was exploring the underground maze, heavy monsoon rains struck and flooded all their exits -- forcing the boys and coach deeper into the cave. The local search-and-rescue official quickly realized that finding the lost athletes would require far more resources than they could muster on their own. The U.S. Airforce 353rd Special Operations unit in Okinawa was notified and quickly mobilized a group of survival and pararescue specialists that arrived on June 28 at a base camp set up near the mouth of the cave.
2	Soon dive teams and rescue crews from Great Britain, Australia, Japan and China were headed to the Thailand jungle to help. International dive teams led by the Royal Thai Navy SEALs began combing the cave and the deeper they got the more dire conditions they encountered, officials said.
M	The terrain inside the cave was challenging, with steep slippery areas, sharp jagged rocks, narrow passages that they had to squirm through and thousands of bats hanging from stalactites. The biggest obstacles were completely flooded passageways that required them to use scuba gear to search further into the cave. News of the ongoing search quickly spread around the world and more equipment and rescue personnel poured into the base camp.
M	As the underground search continued, geologists began drilling into the cave from outside, searching for hidden openings or areas that looked promising to dig possible escape hatches. But rescuers quickly realized the cave was too deep and the rock too thick to realistically create an alternative way out for those trapped inside. In Hawthorne, California, billionaire businessman Elon Musk and his SpaceX team came up with an alternative rescue idea.
M	The SpaceX engineers set aside their rocket-making venture and created an experimental kid-size submarine that divers could tow through the flooded passageways to extract the boys once they were found. The whole time, rescuers in the camp were leaning toward a plan to teach the lost group to scuba dive on the fly in order to get them out if the conditions didn't worsen and they were found alive. On July 2, ten days after the group went missing, two divers from the British Cave Rescue Council, John Volanthen and Richard Stanton, were stringing a safety rope through a flooded area of the cave when they popped up in a cavern and, to their surprise, saw all 12 boys and their coach huddled on a small beach in the darkness.
M	Crews had set up hoses and equipment to pump thousands of gallons of water a day out of the cave to make flooded areas easier to traverse. Other rescuers used jackhammers to widen narrow crevices to make them less complicated to maneuver through.
4	Technicians also worked to install a phone line to where the group was found. The boys and their coach, who had run out of the little food they had with them when the entered the cave, were given military rations, including chocolate chip cookies, chocolate-covered coffee beans and high-protein gel packs. Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission, had been worried about the weather from the start.
5	The monsoon rain season in northern Thailand runs from May to November and Ostanakorn was concerned about reports of heavy downpours forecast for the Chiang Rai region. Some officials had suggested that rescuers wait to extract the group when the weather improved and the cave dried out, so the boys and their coach could just walk out and avoid having to dive their way to safety, since most of them did not know how to swim.
6	But that idea was nixed when oxygen levels plummeted in the cave and the effort to transport the boys enough supplies to survive for weeks -- possibly months -- was deemed unsustainable. Three days after the group was located, a volunteer diver, retired Thai Navy SEAL Saman Gunan, lost consciousness during an overnight operation delivering extra air tanks inside the cave.
6	He could not be revived and was confirmed dead early Friday morning. "We were very sad, and we felt like the whole world crashed," Ostanakorn said in an interview with ABC News on Wednesday.
M	He said other challenges were being thrown at the rescuers. Pumps were not working sufficiently and not enough floodwater was being siphoned from the cave.
5	Ostanakorn said water was actually rising in the middle part of the cave, threatening to seal off more passageways leading to where the boys and coach were with three Thai Navy SEALs and a medic who was treating their minor injuries and keeping them calm and positive. Declaring "we are still at the state of war against the water," Ostanakorn and the rescue leaders made the decision late Saturday to execute the plan to bring the group out one by one with divers. It was the only viable option they had.
M	Attempts failed to put a communication line into the cavern, also known as the "ninth chamber," where the survivors were located. There was no way for rescue crews venturing beyond the third chamber, where a staging area was established, to be in touch with those organizing outside. At 10 a.m. local time on Sunday, a group of 19 divers entered the cave with about 70 other rescuers and medical teams strategically positioned over the 2.9 miles from the mouth of the cave to where the group waited to be rescued. Air tanks were placed in advance along the route to replenish supplies when needed, officials said.
7	The video released by the Thai Navy SEALs on Wednesday showed how the final push of the operation unfolded. Divers prepared their tanks and adjusted air regulators before venturing through a completely flooded passageway on the way to the chamber where the boys and coach were.
7	One by one, the boys were fitted with wetsuits. One boy was so small that a special wetsuit had to be custom-made for him, Bill Whitehouse, vice chairman of the British Cave Rescue Council, told ABC News. Each boy was placed on a flexible stretcher and secured tightly with ropes, an air tank positioned at his side, and a breathing regulator fixed to his mouth.
7	Rescuers inside the ninth chamber had gingerly lowered each boy to the water. The initial plan called for two divers to be tethered to a stretcher containing each rescuee, but as it had gone throughout the mission, adjustments had to be made at the last minute.
7	"It ended up being normally one diver per boy just because we had a minimal amount of divers," Hodges said. Once through the deep water in which the boys were submerged for up to a half-hour at a time, they were handed off to groups of rescuers who carried them strapped in the stretchers up and down the slippery path, sometimes using ropes and pulleys to move the boys over treacherous expanses along the route. They also used pump hoses throughout the cave as rails to guide the gurneys over the rugged terrain.
7	At one point, at least 30 rescuers formed a sort of bucket brigade to relay each boy toward the mouth of the cave, where a team of medics was waiting to immediately begin treating them. At 5:40 p.m. local time, the first boy was finally removed from the cave and rushed to a waiting ambulance. About 10 to 20 minutes later, rescuers emerged with the second boy, followed two hours later by the third and fourth boys. "Even though we got four for four the first day, it was not much more than cautious optimism the next day because we knew the risks had not gone down at all," Hodges said.
7	Luckily for the rescuers, monsoon rains that had been forecast for the area had held off, giving them a chance to pump oxygen into the cave and pump more water out to improve conditions for the second leg of the rescue. The dive team that had successfully pulled out four boys on Sunday, re-entered the cave on Monday morning. Ostanakorn said he was pleasantly surprised by how smoothly and swiftly the next four boys were rescued.
7	While Sunday's operation took 11 hours, Monday's rescue took nine hours to complete. "When the divers finished their mission and were very successful they had a power inside," Ostanakorn told ABC News.
7	But the weather forecast heightened Ostanakorn's concern and ate away at his nerves. Sleep became a luxury he could not afford, saying he got only 12 hours of shut-eye over the 18-day life-saving mission. Since the plan had worked well on the first two days, the rescuers followed it when they set out on the last leg of the mission Tuesday with one adjustment: Instead of bringing out four more, they set out to rescue the last four boys and the coach.
8	One of the last boys to leave the cave was also the youngest, 11-year-old Chanin "Tun" Wiboonrungrueng. In a letter to his family he penned in the cave, Tun wrote, "Dad, Mum, don't worry I'm fine" and requested them to "prepare to bring me fried chicken to eat" once he was rescued. As classmates of Tun and five other boys at the Maesaiprasitsart School prayed for their safety, rescuers began the final push at 10 a.m. local time Tuesday to save the last five members of the "Wild Boar" soccer team. Nine hours later, the prayers of the students at the Maesaiprasitsart School were answered.
8	All 13 of the rescuees remained in quarantine on the eighth floor of the Chiang Rai Prachanukroh Hospital Wednesday night. Ostanakorn said they were all happy to be out of the cave in time to watch the last games of the World Cup soccer tournament.
8	The group has been invited to attend the World Cup final in Moscow on Sunday between Croatia and France, but it's doubtful that all of them will be out of the hospital by then. Ostanakorn said the boys also plan to spend time as monks in a monastery to offer prayers of thanks that they survived. "Unbelievable," Ostanakorn said of the triumphant rescue.
8	Just two hours after the last rescue was made and all the crews were pulled from the underground, the skies opened up and a rainstorm hit. The pumps that had been used to remove water from the cave also broke down and the subterranean maze was flooded again. "If I wait[ed] one more day, I think [it] would have been really difficult for us because the rain is coming," Ostanakorn said. Although it had nothing to do with soccer, he said the success had everything to do with an international team effort that included the "great divers from the world" and showed what people from different countries and cultures can accomplish when they work together for a single purpose.

8	After 17 days underground, all the Thai boys and their football coach have safely escaped from the Tham Luang cave complex.
M	A team of Thai and international divers mounted a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out, and details of the bid are still emerging now. BBC correspondent Jonathan Head has answered some of the core questions about the boys, the rescue attempt, and what happens next. We will not know that until we hear from them and their assistant coach, Ekkapol "Ake" Chantawong.
M	On that Saturday they were scheduled to play a match, which was cancelled, according to head coach Nopparat Kanthawong. He scheduled a training session instead.
M	The boys were keen cyclists so on the Facebook chat group through which they communicated with the parents, coach Ake suggested they cycle to the football field. There was no suggestion there that they would go on to the caves. Saturday was the 16th birthday of Pheeraphat 'Night' Sompiengjai, and a local shop said the boys spent more than 700 baht (US$22) on food to celebrate, a large sum in this area.
M	Coach Nop describes Ake as being very kind-hearted and devoted to the boys. He thinks the boys persuaded him to go with them into the caves. The caves are well-known in the area and had been explored by the boys before.
M	The best guess is they went quite deep, which is easy when they are dry, got caught by rising flood water, and were forced to go even deeper. The official explanation is they are weak from their ordeal and potentially vulnerable to infection.
M	These are now very precious lives in Thailand. A massive effort has been made to get them out alive. The Thai authorities are taking no chances.
M	Perhaps they also wanted to avoid the excitement of seeing their parents again. Thais are generally less physical than westerners.
M	Hugging is unusual. And the parents are from poor, marginal communities, used to being told what to do by officials, and probably grateful for the lengths the government went to in rescuing them. They would not protest.
M	They were allowed to see them through windows, and are gradually being allowed in, wearing gloves and facemasks, to stand in the same room. At this stage that seems unlikely.
M	The parents say they have forgiven him, and they are grateful for the efforts he is reported to have made to keep their spirits up in the caves, in particular through meditation, which he learned during 12 years as a monk. Coach Nop said Ake may be asked to go back to being a monk for a while, something Thais typically do as a kind of penance, or to replenish or cleanse themselves spiritually. Such a move would make a lot of sense to Thais, and he would likely be allowed to resume life as normal after that.
M	Also Thailand typically does not have a 'blame culture', where a culprit must be found for any misadventure. There is a more fatalistic acceptance of things going wrong, less public clamour for accountability.
M	The boys were in the caves nine days before they were found. They may have had a little food from what they bought to celebrate Night's birthday. They are passionate football players, very fit, and with the training they have had a tight-knit team.
M	This would have helped them ration their food carefully and support each other, perhaps with songs. Coach Ake taught them to meditate, say Thai navy divers, and gave them more food than he ate.
M	He also told them to drink water dripping from the rocks, rather than polluted ground water. During their last six to eight days they were being fed, initially high-protein gels, but later more normal food, which might have allowed them to start putting on a little weight before coming out.
M	Most of the time. They went in with cheap torches, which would not have lasted long.
M	It is likely they were in the dark for most of the first nine days of their ordeal. Once they were found a Thai army doctor and at least three divers stayed with them, equipped with good torches. Even so they were mostly in the dark, and had to wear sunglasses when they were first brought out.
M	The Thai authorities are being very coy about this. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said they had been lightly sedated.
M	But the BBC has spoken to a number of people involved in the operation who say the boys were heavily sedated, and only semi-conscious. The logic for this would be the fear their rescuers had that they would panic when wearing diving equipment for the first time in darkness and swirling cave water, endangering the lives of all of them. The two British cave divers who led the rescue effort, John Volanthen and Richard Stanton, are believed to have asked for Australian Richard Harris, a cave diver and anaesthetician, to assist in preparing the boys.
M	How they carried semi-conscious or very drowsy boys through the technically challenging early stages of the journey out, with a lot of diving in narrow passages, we do not know. At times they may have been strapped to a diver's body. Later they were strapped on to a stretcher and suspended from a rope pulley system attached to the cave roof.
M	The entire operation was complex, innovative and very bold. Nothing like it has been attempted before. Some of those involved described the tasks undertaken by the core divers, who carried the boys out, as superhuman.
M	The Thai government, for most of it. It is likely that the contribution by other countries, like the 30 US air force personnel who went to help, would have been funded by their own governments as a gesture of good will.
M	Many Thai businesses supported with transport and food. Thai Airways and Bangkok Airways offered free flights to some of the foreign divers coming in. No, and few countries could.
0	Cave diving is a very specialised skill, and expert cave rescuers are even rarer. Thailand was fortunate that an experienced caver Vern Unsworth has explored the Tham Luang cave complex extensively, and lives nearby. He was on the scene the day after the boys disappeared, and suggested that the Thai government needed to invite expert divers from other countries to help.
M	The Thai navy divers who went down initially struggled, because both their experience and equipment were for sea diving, which is very different. They were driven out of the caves by rapidly rising flood water, and finding the boys seemed a hopeless cause. Once foreign divers arrived, from many different countries, the Thai authorities allowed them to devise first the search, and then the enormously complex rescue.
M	It was a huge logistical operation involving hundreds of people, building guide rope and pulley systems, putting in power and communication cables. It is to Thailand's credit that it was organised so well, and there was no attempt to diminish the foreign contribution. Since we published this Q&A, we have received many more questions from readers about the rescue.
1	The BBC's Jason Boswell and Howard Johnson have answered some of them. On the evening the boys went missing, Nopparat Khanthavong, another coach of the Wild Boars team, began receiving phone calls from worried parents.
1	He called the missing coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, and some of the boys, but there was no answer. Eventually he got hold of Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year-old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training. The boy told him that his teammates had gone to explore the Tham Luang caves. Coach Khanthavong then raised the alarm.
M	Cave divers will always put in a reference, or guide, line when they first swim into a cave. The line is unspooled from a reel as they extend further into the cave and will be tied off on rocks at regular intervals. The divers can then follow this line in and out of the cave or use it to install additional stronger lines or ropes so they can hold on and navigate despite terrible visibility. Even if they lost their masks they can navigate by touch and feel along the rope.
M	What the head of the Thai rescue operation actually said was that the mini-submarine provided by Elon Musk was not "practical" with the mission. The exact reason why wasn't given.
M	Several expert cave divers told the BBC that one of the potential problems with the design put forward by Mr Musk's team might have been that the "submarine" is a rigid inflexible tube. Cave passages are often not straight and smooth, so if there was a bend it may have been difficult for divers to try navigate the tube.
M	Imagine trying to manoeuvre a long couch into a small room through an even smaller door, but in the dark and with a limited air supply. The divers would have wanted every piece of equipment as streamlined and as flexible as possible to navigate the uneven walls and bends of cave passages.
M	However the mini-sub may be of future use in places that are not as restricted - for example in sunken or capsized ships. Experts say the design should continue to be worked on as the mini-sub may be valuable under a different set of circumstances. Mr Musk responded to the Thai authorities by tweeting an email from one of the British caving experts who played a key role in the rescue urging the inventor to build the capsule as quickly as possible.

8	The 12 boys and coach from a Thailand youth football team who were rescued from a flooded cave have been invited to visit Old Trafford this season by Manchester United. The local Wild Boars team and their 25-year-old coach became trapped in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave just over two weeks ago.
7	The party got trapped on 23 June as they were exploring a cave system in the northern province of Chiang Rai after practice, when a 'rainy season' downpour flooded the tunnels. Divers have been bringing boys out since Sunday, and on Tuesday the final four and the coach were rescued.
8	And Premier League giants Man United have responded by inviting the team and their rescuers to Old Trafford to watch a game this season. #MUFC is relieved to learn that the 12 footballers and their coach trapped in a cave in Thailand are now safe.
8	Our thoughts and prayers are with those affected. The club said on Twitter: "#MUFC is relieved to learn that the 12 footballers and their coach trapped in a cave in Thailand are now safe. "Our thoughts and prayers are with those affected.
M	There was also a message for the boys from England and Manchester City defender Kyle Walker, who said he wanted to send them shirts, after spotting that one of the rescued boys was wearing a Three Lions jersey. The boys were reportedly asking about the World Cup while they were trapped in the cave, and they have also been invited the World Cup final by FIFA president Gianni Infantino, who sent a letter to the president of the Thailand FA.
6	However, it is claimed their attendance is unlikely as they will need time to recover and will instead watch the game on TV. The world has celebrated with the Thai people following the party’s rescue, but those celebrations have been tinged with sadness over the loss of a former Thai Navy SEAL Saman Kunan, who died on Friday during a re-supply dive.

M	3 Jul 2018 18.29 EDT What we know so far A team of rescuers, including a doctor and a nurse, have reached 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days.
M	They were found alive in the Tham Luang cave network by British divers on Monday. who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days. They were found alive in the Tham Luang cave network by British divers on Monday.
4	The Thai navy Seals, who are leading the operation, said the trapped boys and their coach, had been given easily-digested food. Initially, they said a rescue would not be attempted until the group were sufficiently strong. But the expectation of monsoon rains this week may make it necessary to launch one soon.
4	Initially, they said a rescue would not be attempted until the group were sufficiently strong. But the expectation of monsoon rains this week may make it necessary to launch one soon.
5	Rescuers have appealed for 15 small and extra small full face masks, fuelling speculation that divers are preparing to lead them to safety through 2.5km flooded stretch of the cave. A rescuer told reporters that it was too dangerous to use conventional breathing apparatus as this could easily be knocked out during the dive.
5	He said: “As rain is forecast in the next few days, the evacuation must speed up. Diving gear will be used. If the water rises, the task will be difficult.
5	We must bring the kids out before then.” Footage of the group, shot by the British divers who reached them first, showed the boys and their coach huddled on a ledge surrounded by water.
4	They said they were hungry and asked what day it was and if they could leave. They said they were hungry and asked what day it was and if they could leave. The Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn told reporters they were looking at all options, but “I don’t think they will be home soon.”
4	A rescue diver has said the boys were “very weak, but alive”. A rescue diver has said the boys were “very weak, but alive”.
M	There has been jubilation in Thailand at the news the boys and their coach are alive, especially among relatives who have been keeping vigil outside the entrance since the boys were reported missing. The Thai prime minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha, wished the group a “safe and speedy recover” and thanked the rescuers, including the foreign teams who have flocked from Australia, Japan, the US and Britain to help with the search. The Thai prime minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha, wished the group a “safe and speedy recover” and thanked the rescuers, including the foreign teams who have flocked from Australia, Japan, the US and Britain to help with the search.
M	The young football team, made up of 12 boys aged between 11 and 16, and their coach went missing on Saturday 23 June, after monsoon rains trapped them inside the Tham Luang cave network. They were found on Monday night after a nine-day round-the-clock search involving international teams of divers.
X	3 Jul 2018 17.32 EDT The AP has more comments from Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little but I believe that boys with a lot of strength are going to manage to be whole when they get out. It quotes him as saying the boys should “think only about leaving and reuniting with their families”. Reygadas and the other miners were trapped nearly 2,300 feet below Chile’s Atacama desert before a specially built capsule could be lowered down a drilled shaft and raise them to the surface one by one.
X	Faith and prayer, as well as humour were very important to the miners at times when they doubted they would be rescued, Reygadas said. They shouldn’t be ashamed to be scared.
X	Because we were scared, too. Our tears also ran.
X	Even as adult men, we cried. 3 Jul 2018 16.33 EDT A miner who spent 69 days trapped underground in Chile says the 12 boys and their coach should help each other mentally prepare for rescue, the Associated Press reports.
X	Omar Reygadas says the stranded boys and their coach should help each other prepare mentally for rescue. Photograph: Dario Lopez-Mills/AP Omar Reygadas and 32 other miners were rescued in 2010.
X	He says the ordeal was hard for grown men, so he can only imagine what the boys aged 11 to 16 are going through. Reygadas says their coach will be a key figure in keeping them motivated.
X	Beyond that, they should focus on being reunited with their families. 3 Jul 2018 15.57 EDT Volanthen also told the Sunday Times in 2013 that cave diving was not the pursuit of those who crave thrills. The flight response now isn’t always appropriate.
X	Panic and adrenaline are great in certain situations, but not in cave-diving. The last thing you want is any adrenaline whatsoever.
X	They were trapped for nine days, and we had to teach a few of them to dive through a considerable length of passage to get them out. It took about nine hours to get them all out.
X	Stanton also tried to rescue French cave explorer Eric Establie in 2010. Establie’s remains were discovered in southern France after a dramatic eight-day operation.
X	Volanthen was Stanton’s partner on the rescue attempt. Alex Daw, a West Midlands Fire Service watch commander, supervised Stanton for six years during his stint as a firefighter. He said that experience serves him well.
X	He told the AP: If the kids have got someone there like him, they’re safe. He’s cool, calm and collected.
M	3 Jul 2018 13.39 EDT This graphic shows the route rescuers took to find the missing boys – and the problems they face in returning the children to their families. Interactive Where the missing boys were found The main entrance to the six-mile cave, one of Thailand’s longest, in the Doi Nang Non mountain range.
M	Bicycles and football kit were found after a mother reported her son missing on 23 June. The Moo Pa (Wild Boars) academy team had cycled there with their coach after a training session.
M	A sign outside warns against entering the cave during the rainy season. A chamber around 700 metres into the complex is where rescuers, led by Thai navy Seals, are basing operations.
M	Early rescue efforts were hampered by the rising floodwater, which is believed to have forced the boys further inside the network of narrow caverns and passageways. Monk’s Junction, 1,500 metres from the entrance, was reached on Sunday.
M	Changing weather conditions and round-the-clock pumping helped reduce water levels and improve visibility, allowing divers to fix guide ropes along the passageway. A landmark area of higher ground known as Pattaya Beach was where rescuers first hoped the team would be found.
3	But when they reached it, rescuers found the ‘beach’ was also flooded. The boys were eventually located around 200 metres further on, sheltering on a ledge surrounded by water, 2km (1.24 miles) from the main entrance and up to 1km below the surface. After their discovery by two specialist cave divers from the UK, the Wild Boars were visited by medics and other rescuers who supplied food and water.

1	It was a story that captured the world’s attention – 12 boys and their young football coach trapped for more than two weeks in a dark, flooded cave, kilometres from help or food.
8	As the news came on Tuesday night that the last group had been rescued, media outlets large and small, from Denmark to the United Arab Emirates, celebrated. Thailand’s two English-language newspapers – the Bangkok Post and the Nation – which have carried the story of the rescue attempts on their front pages for the past week, both trumpeted the successful mission. “Hooyah!
5	Mission accomplished,” was the headline of the Nation, quoting the war cry of the Thai navy Seals who have been celebrating each day’s successful rescue with the phrase. “All Wild Boars saved,” proclaimed the Bangkok Post, which as well as a main news story also had a chronology of the rescue, an interview with a rescue diver, and Elon Musk’s – rejected – offer to donate a mini-submarine. Unsurprisingly, the news was extensively covered in countries that had been involved in the rescue efforts.
8	In Australia, whose government sent a team of 19 to help with the mission, including the doctor who assessed the kids and declared them fit to make the trip out of the cave, many newspapers had front pages celebrating the successful effort. The Canberra Times dubbed it “The Great Escape”, whereas the Sydney Morning Herald said: “They’re all out”, alongside colour photographs of the boys.
8	Spiegel Online in Germany called the rescue “Liberation from the deep”, whereas Le Monde had the more informative, though less dramatic, headline: “Thailand: after more than two weeks underground, the 13 cave survivors have been evacuated. The Local, a Danish news site, had a prominent story on their news site: “Ambassador praises Danish divers for role in Thailand cave rescue”.
8	Though British divers were key to the rescue mission, the story of the rescue had to fight with both the resignation of the foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, and the upcoming World Cup semi-final for prominence on the front pages. The Thai rescue was one of the lead stories on the front of the Guardian (“Celebration as Thailand rescues all 12 cave boys”), the Times (“Jubilation as all 12 boys freed from Thai cave”), and Metro (“Lucky 13”).
M	The timing of the rescue mission meant that American newspapers had not yet gone to print. However, US newspapers have been covering the search throughout, from the New York Times, which has been running stories of the extended rescue mission on its front page for days, through to local papers like the Fresno Bee, which had the story of the second group of boys freed on its front page on Tuesday.

M	FIFA president Gianni Infantino has written to the Thai FA to invite the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave to the World Cup final. The children have been stuck in the cave for close to a fortnight after heavy rain made it impossible for them to leave when they were exploring the system.
M	After several days of searching, rescuers found all 13 people alive but face a challenge to extract them from the situation . It has been suggested that they may need to learn how to scuba dive in order to escape, but none of the children can swim and cave diving is a notoriously dangerous sport, as emphasised by the death of one of their rescuers, Saman Gunan, a former navy diver, in the caves on Friday. Infantino, meanwhile, has expressed his support in a letter to the president of the Thai FA, Somyou Poompanmoung.
M	“We have been anxiously following the news of the rescue operation in the search for 12 young footballers and their coach in a flooded cave in northern Thailand’s Chiang Rai province since 23 June 2018, and are now greatly relieved to hear the good news that they have been found by the rescue team,” the Italian wrote. “On behalf of the international football community, I would like to join you in expressing my deepest sympathies and support to the families of the players and coach, as well as my solidarity with the people of Thailand at this time of great concern.
M	Our thoughts and prayers are with all of the families and communities and we hope that they will soon be embracing their loved ones and restoring their strength and confidence. “We hope that, in some way, our words of support may help bring them a little peace and courage in these difficult moments of uncertainty and concern.
M	“If, as we all hope, they are reunited with their families in the coming days and their health allows them to travel, FIFA would be delighted to invite them to attend the 2018 World Cup final in Moscow as our guests. I sincerely hope that they will be able to join us at the final, which will undoubtedly be a wonderful moment of communion and celebration.
M	More heavy rain is expected at the weekend, which is set to complicate the rescue effort. The World Cup final, meanwhile, will be played on Sunday, July 15.

X	On June 23, a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach entered the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand.
X	In 1988, a French team of cave explorers mapped for the first time the cave. A British team discovered a passage to another cave, but still, the exact geography of this cave system is poorly known.
M	The Tham Luang cave is at least six miles long, forming a network of caverns and narrow passageways in the Doi Nang Non mountain range. This was not the first time the now trapped group has explored this cave. Authorities found some of the group's belongings at the entrance of the cave after parents reported the kids missing.
M	After recent rainfalls (June-July marks the beginning of the monsoon season in the region) parts of the cave flooded and authorities feared that the group either drowned or was trapped inside the cave. Water plays an important role in the formation of Thailand's caves (see also this article on The Science Behind Thailand's Unstable Caves), but it is also by far the most dangerous element when exploring wild cave systems.
X	According to the geological map of Thailand the Doi Nang Non mountain range is composed of a succession of sandstone, limestone, shale and chert. Limestone is a sedimentary rock, vulnerable to tectonic deformation and erosion by water.
X	Water enters the mountain following superficial cracks and faults. The groundwater dissolves the limestone, a three-dimensional network of caverns and conduits forms over time. Such karst systems act as a natural sponge inside the mountain.
M	During the dry season (September-June), Tham Luang cave can be easily reached on foot (even if it is forbidden to enter the cave). As soon as the cave's entrance flooded after a flash flood, the group was forced to venture deeper inside the cave.
3	An intense rainstorm is sufficient to flood also the cave network as the water, flowing in open cracks and conduits, can travel up to 1,000 ft through the porous limestone-rock in less than one hour. On July 2, all the members of the soccer team were found alive inside the partially flooded cave by a British diver.
M	The group is stranded more than two miles inside the cave complex and the boys huddled together on the side of a steep rock. More than 1,000 rescuers are working to save the group at the moment. The oxygen concentration in the closed cave environment is dangerously low (just 15% compared to 20-21% in open space), and new rainstorms are expected in the coming days.
X	Rescue teams searched for alternative ways inside the Doi Nang Non mountain, as cave systems in karst areas often have multiple entrances. Drones and cameras were used to create the first 3-D aerial map of the region and scout for cave access points.
X	One team traveled some 900 ft down a shaft on Thursday until they reached a dead end. Drilling teams have drilled more than 100 shafts through the mountain. Some of the shafts are as deep as 1,300 ft but missed the cave.
5	Technicians used powerful pumps and also diverted some superficial streams to lower the water level inside the cave. The first mile of the cave now is dry and can be accessed with heavy equipment. Authorities have decided to risk a rescue attempt, taking advantage of the good weather and hoping to be successful before the next rainstorms raise again the water levels inside the cave.
6	The boys will be accompanied and guided by two experienced divers, as they need to dive through the flooded sections. This is a risky operation, as the death of one of the rescuers, drowned in one of the flooded sections, on July 6 shows.
5	The flooded passages are short but very narrow, less than three feet in diameter, some parts too small to wear scuba tanks on one's back. In the inner parts of the cave system, the divers need to swim against the current to get to the group.
M	As the water flows under pressure into the cave, dangerous currents form in the narrowest sections of the cave system. The currents also transport sediments from the surface into the cave, making it easy to lose one's orientation in the mud-clogged water.

M	MAE SAI, Chiang Rai: Classmates of 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave spoke of their hopes for a miracle rescue Monday, as divers inched through thick mud and water towards an air pocket where the group is believed to be.
M	There has been no contact with the boys, aged between 11 and 16, since they went missing with their football coach nine days ago. The massive rescue effort has been hampered by heavy rains that flooded the Tham Luang cave in northern Thailand, blocking access to chambers where it is hoped the group will be found alive.
1	Divers took advantage of a brief window of good weather on Monday to edge further into the cave, with forecasters predicting downpours could return in the coming days. Friends and teachers of the "Wild Boar" football team refused to give up hope of seeing the young players again.
M	Tilek Jana, 14, whose friend Prajak is among the missing, expressed his wish that his friend will soon return. "Let him come and let's play (football) together, I miss him," he told AFP.
M	The principal of Mae Sai Prasitsart school, which is attended by six of the missing boys, said it had been a painful week. "We chant and pray and send our support to them to give them power to wait for help to arrive," Kanet Pongsuwan told AFP. Officials on Monday said the divers were less than 500m from an elevated area called Pattaya Beach where the boys are thought to be stranded.
1	"We are fighting against time and water to save the 13 lives," Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said. Scores of divers -- including foreign experts -- have been sent into the cave with hundreds of oxygen tanks, establishing a base camp inside the chambers over the weekend.
M	Aboveground several team were drilling into chimneys that may lead to new opening into the labrynth of darkned tunnels. "The deepest one is 200 meters and we will continue that operation.
M	If we manage to though the cave walls, then luck is on our side," the governor Narongsak said. Weary-faced relatives have camped out at the cave's entrance for more than a week, desperately waiting for news from the boys, while the head of the Buddhist clergy has urged prayers from a nation fixated on the fate of the group.
M	The youth football team and their 25-year-old assistant coach went into the cave on June 23 after a training session and got stuck when heavy rains cut them off from the entrance. Rescuers found their bicycles, football boots and backpacks near the cave's entrance, and discovered handprints and footprints further in.
M	But those are the only signs of the boys so far and no one knows if they are still alive. They likely have access to fresh water inside the cave and officials believe they brought snacks into the cave and possibly headlamps too. Even without food experts have said young, athletic boys could survive for several weeks if they are not injured -- and don't attempt to escape through deep floods.
M	Yet it remains a perilously urgent rescue. Officials have dropped survival kits with food, medical supplies and a cave map into a crevice in the hope some of the relief will reach the boys. At 10 kilometers long, Tham Luang cave is one of Thailand's longest and one of the toughest to navigate, with its snaking chambers and narrow passageways. A sign outside the site warns visitors not to enter the cave during the rainy season between July and November.

0	It was the most challenging underground rescue in history, and Thai authorities drafted in more than 90 of the world's finest special forces soldiers. But the spearhead of the Thai cave rescue operation depended on seven British civilians who learnt their craft exploring the chilly waters of abandoned mines and limestone caves of England and Wales.
3	First on the scene was Vernon Unsworth, who is from St Albans but now lives in Thailand. Mr Unsworth, an experienced diver who now lives close to the caves, was crucial in persuading Thai authorities to bring in UK expertise. "When Thai Navy Seals went into the cave but they could not see anything because the water is so muddy so they came back, Chaiyon Srisamut, a friend of Mr Unsworth, told the Daily Mail.

6	Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell are both members of the Cave Diving Group - the oldest amateur technical and cave diving organisation in the world. This is not the first time Mallinson and Jewell have dived together.
6	In June 2013 Chris Jewell took nine weeks unpaid leave to lead an international team to explore the deepest cave system in the western hemisphere, 'Sistema Huautla' in Mexico. During the expedition Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell conducted the deepest dive in the western hemisphere. They travelled through dry cave to reach a depth of 1,464 mt / 4,803 ft. Mallinson and Jewell then conducted a dive to 81mt / 265ft reaching a total depth of 1,545 mt / 5,068 ft below the entrance of the cave. It is the eighth deepest dive in history.
M	Earlier today at around 07.00 UK time, a request was made by the British cave divers in Thailand and the Thai authorities, to send out additional personnel and equipment. Tonight Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell checked in a plethora of equipment weighting 500kg / 1102 lbs onto the Thai Airways overnight flight. It is expected that Mallinson and Jewell will be on site by tomorrow night, Thursday 5 July 2018. Charitable rescue organisations such as the British Cave Rescue Council are generally not that well funded. If you feel that you wish to make a practical difference, please consider donating to this charity. The money will be used to support future cave rescues, ie purchase valuable equipment such as the Heyphones.

M	In the UK when the decision is made to deploy a cave rescue team, a number of further decisions have to be made and a 'Surface Control' team is needed.
M	A 'controller' or 'warden' will take overall control at the site for the duration of the rescue and directly liaise with the cave diving team. Surface Control's primary role will be to look after the cave diving team, ie they will implement and manage the requests the cave diving team make.
M	Cave rescues can be quite stressful and part of it is because of the hostile environment. The rescuers are operating in total darkness where it is cold, muddy and there is often quite a lot of water involved. These factors can compound the severity of the situation.
M	There is the potential for miscommunication or a “lost in translation moment” when cave divers directly liaise with the authorities and visa versa. There is a world of difference between an air cylinder and an oxygen cylinder. An added complication at this site is that there are a mix of DIN and A Clamp / international valves fitted to the cylinders.
M	It is absolutely no reflection on any of the personnel involved with the Thai cave rescue, but it is possible for a vital request made by one party to be considered trivial by the other party. By having surface control specialists in place, this stops any ambiguity and removes unnecessary stress from the cave diving rescuers. The surface control team acts as a linch pin liaising with the Thai authorities to ensure everyone is on the same page.
M	The surface control team will then relay the information through to the divers. This frees up the divers so that they know the information they receive is in the correct terminology.
0	In the meantime that has been a new initiative to divert streams and rivers from any inlets identified above Tham Luang Cave (sinks and fissures) to reduce the underground water flow rate. This is an established practice in cave rescue and has proven effective in cave rescue efforts associated with other river caves, not least for Ogof Ffynnon Ddu (OFD) main streamway in South Wales when cavers become trapped underground during flood.
M	In addition surface searches continue for alternative routes into Tham Luang Cave. Many companies have quietly assisted with this rescue mission behind the scenes.
8	This includes Thai Airways. The airline has flown out all the rescue equipment and the rescuers free of charge.
M	Whilst you would think this would be standard operating practice, this does not always happen. Charitable rescue organisations such as the British Cave Rescue Council are generally not that well funded. If you feel that you wish to make a practical difference, please consider donating to this charity. The money will be used to support future cave rescues, ie purchase valuable equipment such as the Heyphones.

X	It’s every parents’ worst nightmare – their children stuck underground as rescuers work around-the-clock to save them.
X	For some 12 boys and their soccer coach – who have been trapped for nearly two weeks in a flooded Thai cave – Israeli technology may be part of the answer. Some of the emergency mobile communications tools used by the first responders have reportedly been donated by Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks. CEO Uzi Hanuni said that Thai authorities had requested assistance from the company’s employee in Thailand.
X	“There’s a guy by the name of Assaf who lives in Thailand and he markets our systems,” Hanuni told Israel Hayom. “They approached him and said they want them.
X	The systems facilitate communication in areas without reception. We gave them our devices and they took them into the cave.
X	This is our Israeli contribution. We did it voluntarily.
X	”Donating the communication systems – which function like handheld radios – costs upwards of $100,000. But the resulting publicity from helping save the Thai children could easily compensate the firm many times over.
X	The lack of reliable communication tools hampered earlier rescue attempts. Maxtech doesn’t require a cell phone tower – and it’s being used as a lifeline for the boys to get data and video-chat with loved ones. Because of the distance and depth – MaxTech’s devices communicate wirelessly between one another – one link at a time.
M	It’s akin to beacons being lit one hilltop after another, gradually sending a message in a type of relay league. A group of British divers, alongside Thai naval special forces, were the ones to first find the boys – nine days after they were reported missing. Rescuers are racing against the weather, as monsoon season threatens to raise water levels – flooding the section of the cave where the boys are stranded. Officials are pumping out water around-the-clock. The boys would have to be guided around murky passageways in deep water – and many of them do not know how to swim or dive.
M	They are around 4 km. from the mouth of the cave. It is unclear when it will be safe for them to dive out, as Thailand’s rainy season lasts through October and the boys lack specialized training. The children are mostly in stable condition – although some worry for their physical and mental health if their predicament continues indefinitely.

2	A team of drainage specialists from Friesland has arrived in Thailand to support the efforts to rescue a football team from a network of flooded caves.
7	The Van Heck pumping company from Noordwolde agreed to send out two members of staff and equipment to help drain the passages in the Tham Luang complex where 12 children and their coach have been trapped since June 23. Four of the boys were led out of the caves by rescue divers on Sunday, but the operation to retrieve them is being hampered by heavy rain and the difficulty of navigating a four-kilometre route, part of which is underwater. Edwin Rigthart, who is co-ordinating Van Heck’s efforts from Noordwolde, told the Leeuwarder Courant that his company was standing by for ‘plan B’ if the divers are unable to rescue all the boys. ‘We fervently hope that the divers succeed in rescuing all the children and their supervisors from the caves, in which case we won’t be needed,’ he said.
M	Van Heck has plenty of experience of deploying large-scale mobile pumps in emergency situations. In 2014 it sent 20 pumps to drain the flooded Somerset Levels in the west of England. Last year it successfully tested a pump in Egypt that can empty an Olympic-size swimming pool in 15 minutes.
7	The four boys who escaped the cave on Sunday were said to be the strongest and fittest of the group. They were said to be in ‘good health’ but are being kept in quarantine in hospital because of the risk of contracting infections in the caves.
M	Most of the group are unable to swim. Their coach, 25-year-old Ekapol Chanthawong, has said he wants to be the last to leave the cave complex because he feels responsible for leading the boys into the caves. He has also lost strength from going without food so that the children had enough to eat.

2	According to the BBC, Volanthen and Stanton had been called in by the Thai authorities along with another British caving expert, Robert Harper. The trio arrived in Thailand three days after the football team went missing.
2	The team has avoided media all week, with Volanthen telling reporters only: "We've got a job to do" when he arrived at the site. It is believed Volanthen and Stanton are part of a rescue team which helped rescue a trapped diver in France in 2010, the BBC said. According to reports on the 2010 rescue, Stanton is a firefighter from UK's Coventry who was also involved in the rescue of 13 British cavers in Mexico in 2004.
3	The Daily Mail reported that Volanthen is an IT consultant from UK's Bristol, citing a previous interview with The Sunday Times magazine. In the interview, Volanthen said he started caving as a scout and that he enjoyed the logistical challenge.
4	The next challenge will be getting the football team out of the flooded cave in their weakened condition and without training as scuba divers. The scrawny boys were huddled on the floor of the cave when the British divers emerged from the murky water.
4	"Thirteen," a boy answered. "Brilliant," the diver said.
4	The boys' first question when the divers arrived was whether they could leave right away. They also wanted to know how long they had been in the cave. The diver explained that the cave was flooded and that it would take some time to get them out. But he assured them that other divers would soon be bringing food and supplies.
2	The United States sent a team of 17 Air Force rescue specialists based on the Japanese island of Okinawa to aid in the search, along with additional support staff. According to US embassy spokesman Jillian Bonnardeaux, the team of American military personnel from the US Pacific Command, including pararescue and survival specialists, arrived at the site on June 28 to help with rescue operations. "Operators are trained in personnel recovery tactics and techniques and procedures," she told Agence France-Presse news agency.
M	Captain Jessica Tait from the US Air Force's rescue support team said there were "lots of challenges" throughout the search but that the effort had brought the country together. "When you consider it there were lots of challenges when it comes to the elements, when it comes to the elements, when it comes to different courses of actions," Tait told reporters.
2	A team of Chinese cave rescue experts also arrived in Thailand in June 29 to aid in efforts to find the missing group. The six-man rescue team brought rescue equipment including underwater robot, diving equipment and three-dimension imager to the cave.
4	Ben Reymenants, the Belgian owner of a diving school in Phuket, has been helping with the rescue and said he spent eight hours in the water on Monday. They discuss what day it is, and the diver tells them that it is Monday. "You have been here 10 days," he says.
4	"You are very strong." Later, one of the group says that he is very happy to see the divers arrive. Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha has thanked the international effort that came together to find the team.

M	This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

M	"Todo era felicidad al verlos salir", recuerda el buzo español Fernando Raigal, que participó en el rescate de los doce niños atrapados junto a su tutor en una cueva del norte de Tailandia.
M	"Mientras los trasladábamos algunos de ellos eran muy pequeños e iban sedados, pero era un alivio escuchar su respiración", cuenta en una entrevista a Efe tras su regreso a Bangkok, donde reside desde hace unos meses. Los chicos y el entrenador recibieron sedantes "para evitar que entrarán en pánico" durante el rescate y salieron al exterior "inconscientes", detalla.
M	La extracción empezó el domingo 8 y sacaron a cuatro chavales; el lunes 9, sacaron otros cuatro; y el martes 10, completaron la operación con los cinco restantes, entre ellos el adulto. Los estudiantes, de entre 11 y 16 años, y el entrenador, de 26, se adentraron en la caverna Tham Luang, en la provincia de Chiang Rai, el sábado 23 de junio tras completar un entrenamiento del equipo de fútbol "Jabatos salvajes", del que forman parte.
1	Una súbita tormenta inundó parcialmente la cavidad y les dejó atrapados en el interior. La voz de alarma la dio una de las madres al ver que su hijo no regresaba a casa.
2	"Recibí un aviso (la noche del domingo) por parte de un conocido y a primera hora del lunes ya estaba ayudando en la cueva", dice el buzo, natural de Ciudad Real. Raigal, que aprendió a bucear con el Ejército y se especializó en trabajos de alta mar, cumplió 33 años en el interior de la cueva mientras contribuía a los preparativos.
3	Ayudó a colocar los cabos que sirvieron como guía a un grupo de buzos británicos experimentados en inmersiones subterráneas y de los cuales dos encontraron a los desaparecidos en una gruta a cuatro kilómetros de profundidad el 2 de julio: habían pasado nueve días desaparecidos, sin comida y en la oscuridad. "Tenían un camino de cinco horas de ida y vuelta. El resto permanecimos a la espera de noticias.
5	Cuando regresaron y dijeron que los habían encontrado fue tremendo (...) La operación de búsqueda había terminado y ahora tocaba el rescate", recuerda el voluntario español.
5	La misión de salvamento, en la que participaban más de mil personas, fue tomando forma poco a poco para superar las numerosas complicaciones con las que se encontraron los equipos de rescate. Había que bucear con visibilidad nula por laberínticos túneles llenos de estrechos pasadizos y rocas afiladas para alcanzar la cueva donde se encontraba el grupo.
6	La dificultad de la misión se hizo patente con el fallecimiento de Saman Gunan, de 38 años, quien perdió la conciencia por la falta de aire durante una misión de abastecimiento. Sus compañeros han iniciado una campaña de recogida de donaciones para su familia. Durante la fase subacuática del rescate, colocaron a los atrapados una máscara especial que le cubría toda la cara y le permitía respirar con normalidad a través de los 150 metros que duraba la inmersión.
7	Una hilera de soldados y voluntarios, entre ellos Raigal, llevó en volandas una vez fuera del agua a los rescatados -que permanecían postrados en una camilla-
8	hasta la entrada, donde aguardaban los equipos sanitarios para el traslado al hospital de Chiang Rai. "Hubo un sentimiento de liberación al completar el traslado del último de los atrapados (...)
8	El objetivo era sacar a los chavales 'cueste lo que cueste' y lo conseguimos", dice Raigal. Los trece se recuperan con normalidad en el centro sanitario y ninguno sufre de problemas graves de salud, según los partes médicos. Los primeros que salieron recibirán el alta el próximo domingo.

2	In the days and weeks to come, we're bound to learn more about the incredible and heroic rescue of all 12 members of a Thai soccer team and their coach who were trapped in a cave. One understated detail: U.S. troops participated early on in the rescue operation, lending support to a situation that at times seemed all but impossible.
7	The 12 boys of the Wild Boars soccer team and their coach entered the Tham Luang cave in Chiang Rai province on June 23, only to become trapped by rising waters inside the cave system. Ten days later, an international rescue team of cave experts and Thai military personnel manage to reach the boys and begin a process of evacuating them along a long and difficult six-hour route.
M	On June 28, the U.S. military’s Indo-Pacific Command deployed 36 personnel based in nearby Okinawa, including airmen from 353rd Special Operations Group and the 31st Rescue Squadron. According to Military.com, they joined seven other personnel, including a member of Joint U.S. Military Advisory Group Thailand. The Pentagon downplayed the role of U.S. troops, releasing little information about them until the boys and their coach began emerging from the cave system.
X	The Defense Visual Information Distribution Service, or DVIDS, has no photos of U.S troops involved in the rescue. U.S. Special Operations Command released photos on its Twitter feed only after all of the trapped individuals were rescued.

5	The BCRC describes the reason for the further deployment of cave rescue divers to northern Thailand today, following the development in the rescue plans announced at the press conference held on the evening of 6th July by the Thai authorities in charge of the rescue operation at Tham Luang Nang Non Cave.
5	Late last night during the press conference to the gathered media held at the entrance of Tham Luang Nang Non Cave, the Governor of Chiang Mai Province, Narongsak Osottanakorn, announced a ‘back up plan’ to dive out the 12 boys and their football coach should the monsoon rains resume before other options could be used to rescue them, situated 2.5 km inside Tham Luang Nang Non Cave. The Governor explained that a re-evaluation of the boys’ situation had led the rescue authorities to conclude that they could not stay in the cave throughout the monsoon season.
M	In anticipation of this back-up plan, the British Cave Rescue Council received a further request for more expert cave divers from the Thai Government. BCRC can confirm that three more cave divers have been sent to Thailand and when they arrive, the total UK team will consist of seven experienced cave divers and three non-divers in support to deal with communications into the cave and to provide general support. It is important to appreciate that the UK cave divers continue to work alongside the Thai Navy SEAL divers and a combination of cave divers and open water divers from many other nations. Please direct any enquiries about the cave rescue operation to: comms@caverescue.org.uk or visit BCRC on the newly created FaceBook page (www.facebook.com/BritishCaveRescueCouncil/). Briefing prepared by BCRC Officers, 7 July 2018.

8	At 15:30h (21:30h Thai time) today, the Thai authorities in charge of rescue operations at Tham Luang Nang Non cave announced that the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, their coach and all cave divers were safely out of the cave after a final rescue operation that had started at 04:00h (10:00h Thai time). After they were brought out, the boys were taken by ambulance to hospital for health checks and to begin their recovery.
8	Today’s operation was almost a repeat of the rescues carried out yesterday and on Sunday when four boys were brought out each day. Today the total number rescued was five.
8	The spearhead group of cave divers each day were four British and two Australians – one of whom was a doctor. After examination by the doctor the boys were kitted out with wetsuits and diving equipment and then each was dived out by one of the British divers passing support divers strategically placed at intervals on the way. After all the boys had left the chamber where they had been for a fortnight the four Thai navy SEAL divers who had been with them since shortly after they had been found also began their own dives out. This concludes one of the most incredible cave rescues ever.
M	BCRC does not normally get involved directly in rescue operations. That is the task of its member teams.
M	This however was a unique occasion when individual cave divers and cave rescuers representing many teams collected together and worked as a truly national team under the BCRC banner. In total eight cave divers and three other cave rescuers travelled out to Thailand to help effect the rescue. They were backed up by a support team in the UK of BCRC officers themselves ably supported by further members from many teams.
M	It has been both gratifying and humbling how the cave rescue world, cave divers and the wider caving world have come together during the past fortnight to help the Thais and others from many nationalities pull off what many believed to be an impossible task. Our thanks from the cave rescue community is also due to many equipment suppliers, employers and non-caving friends who have supported the rescue effort and to civil servants at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office both in the UK and the British Embassy in Bangkok who have helped in so many ways. Finally we send our best wishes to the boys and coach of the Wild Boars Football team and their families for a swift recovery from their ordeal. Please direct any enquiries about the cave rescue operation to: comms@caverescue.org.uk or visit BCRC on the newly created FaceBook page (www.facebook.com/BritishCaveRescueCouncil/). Briefing prepared by BCRC Officers, 10 July 2018.

0	This media briefing has been written to provide context and some additional technical information to explain the recent involvement of a group of British cave rescue divers in the ongoing cave search and rescue incident in northern Thailand. Please note, at this stage, it is BCRC policy not to name the cave rescue divers, in order to protect them from press enquiries and to allow them to get on with their difficult task without distraction.
1	Initial press reports announced that a group of twelve boys, with their coach – a local, youth football team, had gone missing in Luang Nang Non Cave, Chiang Rai province, northern Thailand on Saturday (23rd June). The bicycles and personal belongings left at the entrance of this popular tourist cave were evidence that they had chosen to explore this cave.
M	Luang Nang Non cave is prone to seasonal flooding during the monsoon season, which commences this month and persists to August. Indeed, heavy rain led to the boys being flooded into the cave as early press reports described (e.g. The Guardian). A substantial search and rescue effort has been mobilised by Thai civilian and military authorities but continued heavy rains have hampered efforts to access and search the cave system (e.g. BBC Asia News). Thoughts are very much of those unfortunate boys and their coach trapped underground and distraught family members waiting above.
M	British cavers have a long history of overseas cave exploration and surveying (see RGS magazine; Geographical ). This is certainly the case for Thailand where, over many years, British cavers have helped to catalogue, survey and describe a considerable number of caves (re: Further information), given that there are only a few, independent cavers and guides based locally. Many British cavers, including specialist cave divers, active on such expeditions, also serve as volunteers in cave rescue teams across Britain and Ireland and bring with them valuable knowledge of the layout of overseas cave systems.
0	This provides the context to help explain the recent involvement of British cave rescue divers in the ongoing cave search and rescue incident in Thailand. BCRC Diving Liaison Officer, Chris Jewell, has provided the following, additional information on the events leading up to the involvement of British cave rescue divers in the search and rescue efforts. BCRC received a request for assistance regarding the cave rescue incident in Chang Rai from the Thai authorities earlier this week.
0	Three qualified and experienced cave divers, part of the BCRC overseas diving rescue team, flew from Heathrow Airport at 21:30h GMT on Tuesday for Thailand, to assist with the rescue efforts. This team has taken some specialist cave diving rescue equipment (divers switch block; Heyphone sets) which was delivered to Heathrow in time for their flight, following the welcome assistance of Derbyshire Constabulary and other Police forces.
M	Thai authorities remain in full control of the rescue effort with the UK team working alongside the Thai rescuers to complement their skills. Cave diving rescue requires specialist skills and equipment which the UK team is able to offer to the Thai authorities. This includes the ability to conduct cave dives in low visibility conditions and in small passages.
M	BCRC has no additional operational details regarding the nature of the rescue and UK media should please direct their enquiries to the Thai authorities in charge of the search and rescue effort. Bill Whitehouse MBE, Vice Chairman British Cave Rescue Council (vicechair@caverescue.org.uk; 07836 593677).
M	For general information on cave rescue, the character of active river caves and the particular challenges that face cave divers when they need to access dry cavern beyond flooded, river passages. British Cave Rescue Council –
M	The BCRC formed in 1967 as a co-ordinating (not governing) body to represent and support its member underground rescue teams at National and International level. Individual cave rescue organisations remain entirely autonomous and independent. BCRC promotes the exchange of information between member rescue organisations, disseminates specialist information, conferences, technical workshops, facilitates the development of specialist rescue equipment, overseas the cave rescue team peer review scheme and is the national point of contact for enquiries regarding cave rescue. BCRC provides a common voice for the member teams, serving as the national-level contact with national (British Caving Association, British Cave Research Association, CDG, Cave Radio & Electronics Group and EUG) and with overseas and international cave rescue bodies (European Cave Rescue Association, European Speleological Federation/ Cave Rescue Commission).
M	It is also the cave/ underground rescue contact with UK Search and Rescue (UKSAR), government departments, other national SAR organisations (e.g. Association of Lowland SAR, Mountain Rescue England and Wales) and emergency services (e.g. police, fire services). Established in 1946, the Cave Diving Group is the representative body for Cave Divers in Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Its function is to educate and support cavers for recreational and exploratory operations in British sump conditions.
M	This is the definitive guide to caves and caving in Thailand. NOTE: The author has requested NOT to be contacted by the media in connection with the current cave rescue incident. Although superseded by other underground communication systems, is a robust, portable ‘radio’ system for voice communication from underground chambers and passages to a surface receiving and transmitting set, ideally positioned vertically above the underground set, with two aerial cables extended in the same orientation above- and below-ground to optimise signal strength.

M	BCRC is encouraged and relieved by the progress made on the operation to rescue the remaining boys and their coach, led by the Thai authorities but urges caution given the pending onset of monsoon rain.
5	We appreciate that there will anxious moments for all concerned until all trapped individuals and each and every cave rescuer have emerged safely from the Tham Luang cave. BCRC divers returned to the rescue operation today, Monday, 9 July, taking lead and support roles in the dive team who have successfully recovered a further four boys from the cave today. The principles of the rescue followed the same format as yesterday since the conditions had not significantly changed.
7	As a result the speed of exit for the four boys was some two hours faster without compromising safety of either the boys or the divers themselves. The boys have all been transported to hospital where they are receiving appropriate care.
8	Today again showed how closely and effectively the multinational dive team works together which demonstrates the commitment shown by these volunteers. Successful though today was, there remain five persons trapped in the cave and it is anticipated that attempts to rescue these five will recommence tomorrow on the basis that the conditions do not deteriorate.
M	In the meantime the kit needs to be prepared and the divers need to recuperate properly to continue to ensure that the rescue is as safe as possible. Please direct any enquiries about the cave rescue operation to: comms@caverescue.org.uk or visit BCRC on the newly created FaceBook page (www.facebook.com/BritishCaveRescueCouncil/). Briefing prepared by BCRC Officers, 9 July 2018.

M	This supplementary media briefing follows on from one circulated by BCRC on 28 June 2018 (luang-nang-non-cave-rescue-thailand). It reports developments especially in the period over the weekend into today, Monday morning, local time in Chiang Rai province.
M	Please note that it remains BCRC policy not to confirm the names of the British cave rescuers, even though names have been stated in various media reports. We make a plea that their privacy is respected, to allow them to get on with their difficult task without distraction.
5	Following an improvement in weather conditions in Northern Thailand water levels in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave have to some extent dropped, flow rates have lessened and underwater visibility has improved. Consequently, it was possible to recommence diving operations on Sunday.
5	Two of the British cave divers on the BCRC team sent out to Thailand last week are currently path finding through the flooded passages laying guide lines as they go. They are supported by a large team of Thai Navy SEAL team divers and divers from Australia and the USA who are ferrying in diving bottles and establishing air supply dumps.
5	Overnight progress had reached Monks Junction some 1,500 metres from the entrance and 800 metres beyond the start of the flooded section. It is hoped that diving today will reach a point called Pattaya Beach some 500 metres beyond the limit reached overnight and if this location is reached, it will open up significant opportunities to search for the missing boys in some of the further reaches of the cave system.
3	The 12 boys and their football coach have been trapped underground since Saturday 23 June and the situation for them will be desperate without food or light for such a period. Many share hopes that this window of improved conditions may allow the rescuers to reach the most likely location of the lost boys whilst there remains a chance they are still alive.
M	Bill Whitehouse MBE, Vice Chairman British Cave Rescue Council (vicechair@caverescue.org.uk; 07836 593677). For general information on cave rescue, the character of active river caves and the particular challenges that face cave divers when they need to access dry cavern beyond flooded, river passages. Briefing compiled by Peter Dennis (BCRC Chairman, Bill Whitehouse (BCRC Vice Chairman) and Gary Mitchell (BCRC Assistant Chairman).

5	The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand is under way, Thai authorities announced Sunday. At 10 a.m. local time, an international contingent of 13 specialist divers and five Thai Navy SEALs descended into the watery network of underground tunnels below the Mae Sai mountains, carrying with them the hopes of an entire nation. “Our readiness is at the highest today.
7	Today is D-day,” said Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn, adding that the families had been informed of the plan and given their support to the rescue effort. The plight of the stricken boys, who have remained trapped inside the caves for 15 days, has transfixed Thailand, as rescue efforts have become ever more urgent. Their families sat glued to television sets and phones for updates Sunday, expressing hope that their boys would soon return home.
7	One of the boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai, turned 16 on the day the group went missing in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex, in Chiang Rai, northern Thailand. On Sunday, his 17-year-old sister Phanphatsa told CNN she promised to make her brother another birthday cake – and all his favorite food – on his safe return.
7	Rescuers have a dwindling window of opportunity in which to extract the boys, with heavy rain falling shortly after the rescue operation began on Sunday afternoon and forecasters predicting yet more monsoon rains in the coming days, effectively sealing off the cave until October. “We have two obstacles: water and time. This what we have been racing against since day one. We have to do all we can, even though it is hard to fight the force of nature,” said Osotthanakorn, as a light rain began to fall across the site.
7	At the entrance to the caves, volunteers assisting in the operation described the rescue attempt as a “now or never” scenario. The boys and their coach are huddled together in a small chamber four kilometers (2.5 miles) inside the cave, surrounded by flood water and with a limited supply of oxygen. To reach them, divers will need to successfully navigate a network of sprawling, narrow tunnels connecting the boys’ chamber with the rescue command center, known as Chamber Three. Divers are expected to escort the boys through the tunnels one by one. Once they reach the command center, the boys will be handed over to separate specialist rescue teams, who will assist them through Chambers One and Two, according to a Thai navy official with knowledge of the rescue operation.
7	“Today the water level in chambers number One, Two and Three inside the cave is low enough to walk through them,” said Osotthanakorn. Rescue teams have been constantly pumping water out of the cave system, in a race against time before the return of heavy rain forecast for Sunday. Signs that a rescue operation was under way were evident in the hours leading up to the announcement, as authorities installed a large green tarp around the cave entrance and removed media from outside of the camp to a separate location. On the dirt track leading to the tunnels, a near continuous convoy of trucks and military vehicles delivered troops and medical equipment, including a large cache of oxygen tanks.
7	On Saturday evening, numerous international military advisers could be seen entering the site, followed later by four monks in orange robes. At the entrance to the site, a newly placed, thin white decorative flag fluttered in the wind, a Buddhist sign to indicate positive energy.
5	Hopes had been high that an alternative means of rescue would be discovered. For days, specialist teams have scoured mountains above the cave in search of a possible hidden entry point. Divers have previously described conditions in the cave network as some of the most extreme they have ever faced.
6	The decision to remove the boys using divers would not have been taken lightly. On Friday, a former Thai Navy SEAL died while returning from an operation to deliver oxygen tanks to the cave where the boys are located.
7	Even if the divers are successful, it will be many hours before the fate of the boys and their rescuers will be known, with Thai authorities suggesting the extraction process could take days. “We estimate the extraction of the first boy will be finished by 9 p.m. local (10 a.m. ET),” Osotthanakorn said. It has previously taken divers 11 hours to complete the round trip.
6	Finnish volunteer diver Mikko Paasi, a long-term resident of Thailand, said the death of the Thai Navy SEAL had changed the mood on the ground and made real for rescuers just how dangerous the mission had become. At the Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital, where officials plan to send the boys after they are extracted from the cave, a number of gurneys have been placed outside the front of the main entrance in anticipation of their arrival. The hospital, the largest in the region, is approximately 57 km (35.4 miles) from the cave. In the hours preceding the rescue, a letter the boys had sent to their families was published on the Thai SEALs’ Facebook page.
7	The letter shows the boys in good spirits despite their ordeal. In neat blue handwriting, 11-year-old Chanin Viboonrungruang, the youngest of the group, told his parents not to worry, and said he was looking forward to eating fried chicken. His parents, who along with other families, have maintained a constant vigil at the site since the boys first became trapped.
7	On reading the letter Saturday evening, Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang, said he felt a great sense of relief. “I had been worried about my son, that he would be exhausted, he would be tired,” he said. For families the wait for news of their boys’ rescue has been excruciating.
7	“I was worried about him as there are obstacles to extract him out. Everyone knows that it is difficult to stay inside (the cave) but the officials are trying (to help him),” said Viboonrungruang. “I hope he is still healthy and would come out soon. I want to send my support to him. I don’t have a chance to talk with him,” he said.

3	"We gave them a little bit of extra light, they still had light, they looked in good health. Then of course when we departed, all we could think about was how we were going to get them out.

M	The world is enjoying something rare today: A collective sigh of relief.
M	Jubilant follow-up stories are starting to emerge from Thailand after twelve young soccer players and their intrepid coach were rescued from what appeared from the outside to be an impossibly terrifying labyrinth. It was a tremendous victory for the hastily assembled global team of experts, who, despite the opposing forces of time, language barriers, and weather conditions, managed to hack together a solution that delivered.
M	That only one life was lost is both a tragedy and a miracle. But this particular story from Jim Pollard, a writer for Australia’s PerthNow, paints an even richer story of Moo Pa, the Wild Boars football team, their coach, and the communities surrounding Mae Sai, who supported the rescuers with meals, freshly laundered kits, and prayers. Many are poor but determined, keenly aware of the unique difficulties that surround them, from poverty and violence to drug traffickers and local turf wars.
M	But plenty, like Ekapol Jantawong, the extraordinary coach who went in search of the missing boys, are also immigrants, undocumented “stateless” persons with no clear place in the world. Jantawong, 25, seemed to know where to look when the kids turned up missing. They were always filled with a quest for adventure, so as teens tend to do, they ignored the seasonal warning sign and ventured into Tham Luang, the mysterious cave they knew so well. Jantawong, once trapped himself, is credited for teaching the team to meditate to help them stay calm during their entombment.
M	It was a practice he learned as a boy monk, living in a Thai temple after his Burmese parents died. The “stateless orphan,” as he is still called in Thai media, then moved closer to Mae Sai and befriended the boys, who seem to be just younger versions of his own football-crazed self. They are, in many ways, his family.
M	One team member, Adul Samon, 14, is in a similar predicament. He’s become famous for the short video showing him speaking with the British rescuers who were the first to discover the group.
M	Samon, a sweet-sounding kid who speaks Thai, Burmese, Chinese, and English, is from Wa state, an area in northern Myanmar known for its drug trade. He’d been sent to Thailand by his parents, hoping to turn his fortunes around.
M	The desperation of poor parents to get their children a decent education in these parts is sometimes quite remarkable. I visited a centre for hill-tribe kids about an hour south of the Tham Luang cave nine years ago run by a former architect from the Gold Coast. David Stevenson said carloads of children were sometimes “dumped” at his centre in Mae Suay, Children of the Golden Triangle, even if he said they had no room. He had close to 300 Akha and other hill tribe kids at that time, with the older kids often cooking and caring for the younger ones.
M	Samon is excelling in school, plays guitar, and of course, is obsessed with soccer. But according to Pollard, he is also one of 400,000 registered stateless people in Thailand, a situation that has gotten the attention of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. “With no birth certificate, ID card or passport, Adul cannot legally marry, get a job or bank account, travel outside the province, own property or vote,” he explains.
M	But a different form of rescue may be on the way. The Thailand government has vowed to end statelessness by 2024.
M	In fact, several “service points” have been opened in schools in the Chiang Rai district where most of the team seems to live. This story comes at a time when the U.S. is grappling with one of the most alarming migration crises in modern memory, with children forcibly separated from their asylum-seeking parents and vulnerable migrants trying to survive the sudden change in conditions at our own border. While it has been encouraging to watch the global community root for those amazing kids trapped underground, it would be so much better if we could also find real ways to root for them in the light of day.
M	And I mean everyone who seeks salvation – the tired and poor, the endangered and stateless. If only they didn’t so often have to risk their lives to have a life, only to find themselves entombed in caves we made for them. Ellen McGirt writes Fortune’s raceAhead, a daily newsletter about race and culture.

M	CHIANG RAI - Coming out of the Tham Luang cave covered with mud, the stocky diver could pass off as one of the Thai Navy Seals in the team working to rescue the young footballers trapped in the cave in northern Thailand. But he is not.

3	This is the third media briefing and second issued today following the wonderful news that the missing boys and their football coach have been located underground. This additional media briefing follows on from one circulated by BCRC on 28 June 2018 and earlier today (BCRC Update 2). This briefing reports on the success of the search phase of the operation in Chiang Rai province and explains some of the considerable challenges as the activity of the operation shifts to ‘rescue’ of the boys from the cave. Please note that it remains BCRC policy not to confirm the names of the British cave rescuers, even though names have been stated in various media reports. We make a plea that the privacy of the British cave divers is respected, to allow them to rest properly in anticipation of long, hazardous dives during each day. Around 16:30h this afternoon, we started to receive the remarkable news that all 12 of the boys and their coach had been located in a dry air space south of the Pattaya Beach area of Tham Luang Nang Non Cave. It is estimated that they are around 200 m south of that underground landmark. Shortly after this news, we received a direct (but short confirmation) from our British cave divers of the joyful news that the lost boys had been located alive. Video footage of the boys and their coach has now been released and shown to families waiting on the surface. Two British, volunteer cave divers found the boys at their current location, but the last 36 hours have seen a coordinated and planned approach to the rescue being led by the Thai Military and involving many other nations (including the USA, Chinese, Australians and others). Equipment and air supplies have been ferried in to the system over the last day or so, enabling the divers to progress further in to the system than was previously possible. Diving lines have been laid to the boys’ location for other divers to follow with essential food, comforts and medical supplies. We believe that there is only a short break in the monsoon and all feasible options for the rescue of the boys are being considered. Although water levels have dropped, the diving conditions remain difficult and any attempt to dive the boys and their coach out will not be taken lightly because there are significant technical challenges and risks to consider. It is estimated that the boys are around 2 km into the cave and somewhere between 800 m to 1km below the surface. They are also located in a relatively small space and this would make any potential drilling attempt as a means of rescue very difficult. Back here in the UK, there is an assessment of electronic equipment that may be suitable to pin-point the underground location of the boys and coach with a greater degree of accuracy than the published surveys. The necessary equipment will be sent to Thailand if electronic experts agree on the feasibility that it will operate over such depths. Bill Whitehouse MBE, Vice Chairman British Cave Rescue Council (vicechair@caverescue.org.uk; 07836 593677). For general information on cave rescue, the character of active river caves and the particular challenges that face cave divers when they need to access dry cavern beyond flooded, river passages. Chris Jewell, British Cave Rescue Council, Cave Diving Officer (information on cave diving and underwater rescue, colleague of the cave divers in Thailand: diving@caverescue.org.uk +44 (0)7970 923 959). Gary Mitchell, Assistant Chairman, British Cave Rescue Council (general information on cave rescue and the particular challenges of a cave rescue operation in active river caves under flood conditions: assistantchair@caverescue.org.uk +44 (0)7866 802737). Briefing prepared by Gary Mitchell (BCRC Assistant Chairman), edited by Peter Dennis (BCRC Chairman).

8	A heroic British diver has said that the moment the Thai boys were successfully rescued from the cave in which they were trapped was “electric” and an “indescribable feeling” as he returned home.
3	Tim Acton, from Essex, was one of the seven British men involved in the operation to save the football team of young boys and their coach. He was one of the first people to see the boys emerge alive, as his job was to carry stretchers in and out of the cave. The diver, 39, told The Telegraph: “I helped with the extraction of their boys on their way out.
M	It was fantastic to see them coming out. He said he has made “friends for life” with the other divers, who returned home today, and the Thai Navy Seals, who he lived and worked with in close quarters.

2	Following the successful rescue of 12 young soccer players and their coach trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand, the country’s Navy SEALs will now implement cave-diving into its training regimen to be better prepared for unforeseen emergencies. “SEALs need cave-diving training,” said Navy SEAL Commander Rear Adm. Apakorn Yukongkaew when asked to name post-mission priorities for his SEAL unit, according to local paper the Bangkok Post.
8	When the mission to extract 13 members of the Wild Boars soccer team from Tham Luang cave began, “many simply did not know what to do,” said Lt Cdr Khai Tochaiphum, a former SEAL instructor, adding that none had cave-diving experience. They were helped by expert cave divers from all over the world.
6	Nicknamed the SEALs, 127 present and former members of Thailand’s Underwater Demolition Assault Unit took part in a colossal international effort to rescue the team members who were trapped in the cave for over 17 days. Rescuers faced daunting challenges, from decreasing oxygen levels and fears of further flooding. The SEALs also dealt with tragedy when former Navy SEAL Samarn Kunan died while distributing oxygen tanks throughout the flooded tunnels.
M	His death underscored the dangers of the mission. On Wednesday, Apakorn met with experts from Elon Musk’s SpaceX team who had donated a mini-submarine for the rescue effort.
M	The equipment was rejected for the mission but the Navy believes it could be useful for future efforts, according to the Post. The young boys of the Wild Boars soccer team, all between the ages of 11 and 16, and their 25-year-old coach Ekkapol Chantawong became trapped inside the Tham Luang cave on June 23, when sudden rains flooded their exit.
M	Aided by at least seven foreign governments, over 1,000 people undertook a monumental search effort that ended in elation late Monday when a pair of British divers found all 13 alive and in stable health. The boys are currently recuperating in a hospital in Chiang Rai province. Contact us at letters@time.com.

3	It was days since they had been stranded by the water, although they quickly lost track of how many it had been. They had no food with them at all — they located sources of water by shining a torch to find where thin rivulets of it dripped down the limestone walls. Isolated in the black cave for nine days, weeping with hunger and despair, the 12 boys were sustained by one thing: the voice of Ekkapol Chantawong, 25, their coach.

0	Inside the dark, dank labyrinth of the Tham Luang cave complex, the churning waters were rising as heavy rains lashed the northern Thai beauty spot. For Vernon Unsworth, a British cave explorer who knew the subterranean complex better than anyone, it was clear that time was fast running out to find the 12 young footballers and their coach. The 63-year-old financial broker, who acquired his love of potholing in the Yorkshire Dales but now lives near Tham Luang, was the first foreign rescuer at the scene, arriving the morning after the team disappeared. Three days later, there was no prospect of a breakthrough.

M	Members of the soccer team saved from a Thailand cave are telling family members the boys only intended to be inside the cave for one hour, but were forced to run deeper into the cave when fast-moving water started flowing in.
M	Speaking with "CBS This Morning," the father of the youngest survivor said the boys' soccer coach, Ake, tried to swim to find a way out for them, but the water was too fast and too deep, forcing him to turn around. The father, named Tanawut, says his son, Titan, described the first three days in the cave as the hardest.
M	The group was hungry and cold. The boys had trouble sleeping, and Titan cried, because he missed his mom and dad.
M	Tanawut says he's touched by the actions of the team's coach. Without him, the father says, he doesn't know how the kids could have survived.
M	"Coach Ake hugged and encouraged him to be strong," Tanawut said. Tanawut says Titan is doing well and asked where his coach was and how he was doing when he got out of the cave.
M	Thai health officials say overall, all the kids are in good mental and physical health. Back in London Friday morning, British divers involved in the rescue said nothing like this has ever been done before. And Tanawut says for that, he is thankful.

3	A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand, has described the moment he first saw them – and played down suggestions he was a hero. Retired fireman Rick Stanton and fellow diver John Volanthen found the children deep within the cave nine days after they went missing. Stanton was speaking at a news conference at Heathrow Airport outside London Friday, alongside fellow British divers Josh Bratchley, Chris Jewell and Connor Roe, Irish diver Jim Warny and cave rescuers Mike Clayton and Gary Mitchell. When asked how they felt when they discovered the young football team alive in the Tham Luang cave complex, Stanton replied: “Initially, of course, excitement, relief that they were still alive. As they were coming down the slope, we were counting them until we got to 13.
6	Unbelievable,” he said. “The most important thing to have was a full face mask which had been applied inside with positive pressure to enable them to breathe and to be relaxed enough so not to feel any anxiety during the process,” he said. “The Thai authorities took a lot of steps to divert rivers on the mountaintop which we believe bought us as lot of time to get this outcome,” he said. Former Thai Navy SEAL Saman Kunan died during the operation while replenishing oxygen canisters.
0	Unsworth’s role in the rescue was also pivotal because of his intimate knowledge of the Tham Luang cave system, which he describes as his “second home” after spending the past six years exploring it. It was Unsworth who initally pinpointed where he thought the Wild Boars team would be waiting. They were found 200 meters away from that point, which was “probably around about the best place they could have been,” he said.
1	The flooding of the cave could not have been predicted, he said, as the floodwater had come through three to four weeks earlier than last year. In the early days of the search operation, Unsworth said he quickly realized that outside expertise was required, and advised the Thai authorities to bring in specialist cave divers who had dealt with similar rescues in the past. He was the first one to suggest calling for help from Volanthen, Stanton and Robert Harper – who arrived a few days into the search on June 27. Unsworth described how after the euphoria of finding the team, the reality set in of the seemingly impossible task ahead: getting them out of the cave.
5	“Just getting to the dive start point was proving to be very difficult,” he told CNN. A few days later pumps were brought in to start taking water out of the cave, which along with the low levels of rain that week, helped to lower the water levels as much as possible. But when heavy rains were forecast, the deadline approached for the rescue to begin. The complexities of the cave diving and the dangerous route the divers had to take with the boys – many of whom don’t swim – meant they decided to sedate the boys so they would “stop panicking” during the rescue, Unsworth says.
M	He added that this would also reduce long-term psychological damage because they won’t remember the actual rescue. The next challenge, Unsworth said, was coordination between all the different groups including the Thai Navy SEALs and international volunteers.
7	Unsworth said he expected a “high rate of attrition” in terms of the the boys’ survival, but added that hopes increased after the first day of the rescue. “Sunday was when the first four came out and they were all strong and nothing really to worry about them,” he said. “It gave us hope for the next four and the next five,” he says, especially after the “very sad” death of Kunan.
0	The worsening weather added to the concerns among the rescue teams. Chatting to CNN in a leafy café north of Chiang Rai, Unsworth appeared exhausted physically and emotionally, and is still reeling from the outcome of the rescue.

7	CHIANG RAI - Eight boys from a Thai youth football team trapped in a cave in northern Thailand have been rescued, the Thai Navy Seals confirmed in a Facebook post on Monday (July 9) evening. "2 days, 8 Wild Boars.
7	Hooyah," the Thai Navy Seals said in a post on their official Facebook page, referring to the boys and their coach by the name of their football team. At a press conference on Monday evening, the head of the rescue mission Narongsak Osotthanakorn said the health of five people still trapped inside the cave was "still good", after also confirming that four more boys were brought out safely from the cave complex. "We have helped four more children today," said rescue chief Narongsak.
7	He said rescuers would resume an operation to extract a remaining five people in about 20 hours' time. "The health of the remaining five people inside the cave is still good," Narongsak added.
7	The eighth boy was seen being carried out at 7pm local time (8pm Singapore time) on a stretcher from the flooded Tham Luang cave on Monday, shortly after three other members of the football team emerged safely when the daring rescue mission resumed earlier in the day. A team of international and Thai divers entered the cave this morning again, after pulling off a successful operation on Sunday (July 8) that helped rescue the first four of the 13 people trapped. This brings the current number of rescued to eight, while four more boys and their 25-year-old coach remain stranded in the cave.
7	Rescue operations are also reportedly completed for the day, Reuters said. The sixth and seventh boys who emerged at around 6.30pm local time were reportedly sent to a medical facility onsite, shortly after they were also carried out on stretchers from the cave. Earlier at around 5pm local time, a fifth boy was successfully rescued, according to local media.

X	“The screams started coming because the main pumps failed and the water started rising,” said one of the divers, speaking anonymously because he is not authorised to comment. The trio, stationed at “chamber three”, a base inside the cave, said they heard screaming and saw a rush of head torches from deeper inside the tunnel as workers scrambled to reach dry ground.
8	Divers and rescuers were still more than 1.5km inside the cave clearing up equipment when the main pump failed, leading water levels to rapidly increase, three Australian divers involved in the operation told The Guardian on Wednesday, in the first detailed account of the mission to be published. The rescue operation to free the last of the 12 boys and their football coach from a Thailand cave could have been a disaster, divers have revealed, with water pumps draining the area failing just hours after the last boy had been evacuated. The remaining 100 workers inside the cave frantically rushed to the exit and were out less than an hour later, including the last three Thai navy Seals and medic who had spent much of the past week keeping vigil with the trapped boys.
7	The boys of the Wild Boar football team were brought out in three daring rescue operations starting on Sunday morning. An elite team of 19 divers were involved in ferrying the boys and their 25-year-old coach the around 3.2km path from the muddy slope where they had been sheltering to the outside world.
7	The first four emerged on Sunday, the next four on Monday and then the final five about 8pm local time on Tuesday evening. The operation required the boys to learn to breathe using scuba masks and to traverse narrow, jagged tunnels.
8	During the final mission, as the three Seals and doctor were passed up the human chain of rescuers that had formed inside the cave, each section began cheering and applauding. The rescuers compared it to a joyful Mexican wave that continued until the entrance. The rescuers in the daisy chain spent more than eight hours a day standing on a tiny patch of wet, muddy ground waiting for their turn to pass the boys along the treacherous path.
7	“If one of those people doesn’t do their jobs properly, the stretcher falls,” one diver said. The journey from chamber three to the cave entrance took about four to five hours initially, but was reduced to less than an hour after a week of draining and clearing the mud path using shovels.
7	The 12 boys, who wore diving cylinders and were each tethered to an adult diver, had to submerge themselves for much of the journey but were carried on bright red Sked stretchers whenever they entered patches of dry ground. Each one left the cave on these stretchers still wearing their breathing masks. Much of last week was spent clearing the 1.5km path from chamber three to the entrance.
8	Meanwhile, a Thai public health official said that all boys and their soccer coach were in good health but need to be monitored for about two weeks. The 13 are recovering in hospital in Chiang Rai, the capital of the province of the same name.
8	Thongchai Lertwilairatanapong, a Public Health Ministry inspector, told a press conference one of those rescued Tuesday had a slight lung infection and he was now being treated. The official described the condition of the last group as fine. The official said the four who were rescued Sunday have begun eating regular food, while those brought out Monday, also in good condition without any infections, were expected to resume normal meals by the end of Wednesday.
8	The parents of the four rescued Sunday have been allowed to visit them but on condition that they keep a distance of 2 metres from the boys and wear gowns to prevent infection. The boys will be monitored for one week at the hospital and for another week at home, according to their doctors. As to their mental health, Thongchai said the doctors had not seen signs of stress but a team of psychologists would follow up to ensure that the boys, their coach and their families are free of stress. Their dramatic rescue dominated front page headlines in Thailand.
M	Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ochra made a televised statement thanking everyone involved in the mission who “shared their expertise, manpower and equipment”. Official help came from Britain, the United States, Japan, Laos, Myanmar, China and Australia, a government document showed. There were also volunteers from Denmark, Germany, Belgium, Canada, Ukraine and Finland. A senior Australian police officer acknowledged the degree of international cooperation “in a very unfriendly environment”.
M	“It is amazing what the human being can do. There are extraordinary people doing extraordinary things,” Glenn McEwan, the Australian Federal Police’s Asia manager, told reporters in Chiang Rai.

M	The story of the 12 Thai soccer players and their coach who had to be rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand by more than a dozen international divers and Thai Navy SEALs has enthralled the world for the past 10 days.
M	Though a mission to bring them out through the cave at first seemed impossible, rescuers eventually came up with a scheme that involved fitting the boys with dive masks, and wrapping them on stretchers to transport them out of the cave safely. “We are not sure if this is a miracle, a science, or what.
8	All the thirteen Wild Boars are now out of the cave,” the Thai Navy SEALs said on their Facebook page on Tuesday after the mission was complete. The boys are currently in recovery at the Chiang Rai Prachanukroh hospital, where some are being treated for mild pneumonia.
1	The initial search mission to find the boys after they went missing on June 23 was almost called off because the flooded cave was so dangerous to navigate. But then the boys and their coach were found on July 2 some 2.5 miles from the cave’s mouth by a pair of British divers.
M	The larger search team consisted of Thai Navy SEALs and several international divers, including Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand. Reymenants’s search dives helped lay the groundwork for the rescue, and he assisted the Thai officials in charge of the mission through its end. Vox spoke to him about what it was like in the watery labyrinth with 13 lives at stake.
1	This conversation has been edited for length and clarity. When I arrived, the entrance looked like the Colorado River, but with mud and with zero visibility, so it was really pulling hand over hand.
1	There was this really strong outflow, and at the beginning we were advancing about maybe 100 meters a day in zero visibility, fighting the current. And then there are parts where you have to climb up, dragging all your tanks. I managed to push 200 meters of line.
1	And they said, “Let’s work in teams, laying line.” While one team was sleeping, the other continued, so round-the-clock.
1	And we started advancing fast because the rain had stopped, the vis got better, the flow got less, and then we actually went really fast through the cave. These were still dives of six to eight hours.
1	Very, very tiring. The difficult part was to find this T-junction
1	[a narrow part of the cave with a very sharp turn, beyond which was the tunnel that eventually led to the boys]. We got stuck a few times, we freaked out.
1	And then [our team] found the T-junction, laid another 400 meters of line in the right direction, and then I think we stopped literally not even half a kilometer from the room where we thought they were, and we ran out of line. So we had to turn around.
3	It was very frustrating. When we came out, the British cave divers were just coming in, and we were like, “You probably can find them.
3	We think it’s just another 400 to 800 meters.” And so they went in right after us, and three hours later, they surfaced in the room where the kids were.
3	You’ve probably seen the footage. I couldn’t believe it.
M	Especially that there were all 13, alive and nobody injured, and their mental status as well, they were all like, “Hey, oh, we’re so happy, What day is it?” Remarkable. So they were actually trying at four different levels: they were trying drilling, they were trying sonar in the forest to find alternative entrances, they were making a capsule to get them out.
5	One of the [rescue team’s] options was actually to teach them how to dive. But this is already pretty hard for experienced cave divers. See, the risk is if the boys panic and they pull off the mask, they drown.
5	It’s a mile in; there’s no chance for survival. And they were so skinny and so weak, there was no way they could have walked over all of this.
8	So we decided to put them on a stretcher, with a full face mask, with pure oxygen on a positive pressure. And they’re all in good health and it’s amazing. And what I heard was that the coach did long meditation sessions
8	[before leaving the cave] so they could calm down. The smallest space was actually 2 feet wide, so yes, it was quite high, 60 centimeters high.
8	And these kids are quite skinny and strapped to a stretcher. The kids had to be literally pulled and dragged through that part. That’s also why they decided to strap them in and cover their face with a full face mask, so just in case they would panic or whatever.
8	It’s not easy. I stayed outside of the cave
8	[during the rescue], since I needed to heal my hands and back. But friends of mine, the cave divers, they basically literally pulled and dragged the stretchers and handed them over [to one another].
8	So 24 divers were actually in the cave, and the stretchers were pulled out one-by-one and handed over to the next group, and the next group. It was still a good two hours per kid.
8	By now, we knew the cave. In the beginning, we were literally looking and searching and fighting current. But now, with all the teams, by the time one team carried the stretcher about 100 meters, they got tired and could hand it over to the next team. So that’s why.
8	It was very efficient. Also from Camp 3, rock climbers had actually installed hooks in the roof and made a sort of cable zip line where you could attach the stretchers.
8	It was initially installed there to haul more than 500 tanks into the cave. And the stretchers were clipped on there — they’re very light kids — and that made them come out very quickly.
M	But it was still only four kids a day. I’ve been diving unofficially for about 20 years, and I became a cave instructor roughly 10 years ago.
M	Not even 10 percent of the submerged caves on the planet have been explored. So it’s really the last frontier for mankind because no machines or animals can go in there. Only humans that are trained can go to that extent, which makes it extra special.
M	Luckily these cave rescues happen rarely because a lot of countries have actually put policies in place that prevent non-trained cave divers from going inside caves. This cave ... is only visited when it’s the dry season; when it’s completely dry, people walk in there.
1	It’s a very long cave—it’s about [5.5 miles] long. When it’s flooded, nobody dives. There are no lines.
M	Normally, dive caves have a full set of lines and arrows to point to the exit and safety markers in place, but this one had nothing. So it was really finding your way through with a pretty basic map. I’ve heard this will be turned into two movies.
M	Oh, you have no idea how many requests. Discovery, National Geographic.

2	The first thing I did was to get my mum, wife and kids to sit down. I asked them to give me the blessing to go.
2	My lovely wife, Georgina, she was supportive. She did tell me to sleep outside on the sofa (laughs), but it was because I had to get up early the next day.
M	I reached Chiang Rai on Monday, and because there was a lot of paperwork to do, I had to get my passport, embassy details (recorded) down. The Singapore Embassy (in Thailand) was very fast and efficient, and I started work on Tuesday morning.
7	I went to the campsite, and met up with my brothers. I was stationed directly in chamber two.
7	Chamber one was where the kids were stranded, and chamber three was the exit. Chamber two was quite a crucial chamber, because you didn't know what was going to happen.
7	There was a lot of mixed feelings inside there. We had to rescue the boys from the water. We waited for instructions from the doctor.
7	When he said "standby", everybody would be in position and it was silent. You could only hear the doctor speaking.
7	And when he said "go", we would have to carry the stretchers all the way out of the chamber. Many of the boys, when we were carrying them out, most them were in stable condition, they were breathing. Inside the cave, it was narrow, rocky, muddy, pitch black.
7	The terrain was basically one where anytime, you could fall. So when we carried the stretchers, we really had to be careful.
7	I myself almost fell… and I was so glad that somebody in the dark just held me by the pants. You couldn't afford to make any mistake, you had to carry them carefully.
7	Do it fast, but do it carefully. I was in there for a little bit more than nine hours. We only left the chambers for good when the chief gave the order to go.
8	"Hooyah!"— when he gave that command, we knew the mission was successful, and together we left the cave. I knew it was not going to be easy, that it was going to be tough.
7	Initially, I didn't know whether the other rescuers would accept me, but I just decided to go. I told myself that I was there as a professional, that this was a rescue mission, we were all there to share our knowledge.
7	But they accepted me, and it was such a great honour. In the tunnel, the water (at some points) went right up to your throat, but you just had to walk through the tunnel.
7	Your heart and mind had to be tough. When we moved in, with my Thai brothers, we all just went in with one heart. We pushed each other to go on. Sometimes, even if we had to stop, we told ourselves, if the boys could do it, we could do it, too.

M	One of the schoolboys in the Thai cave rescue has a special present waiting for him when he goes back to school. Adul Sam-on's classmates made 1,000 paper cranes while they prayed for his safe return. Video by Tessa Wong.

M	With the boys and their coach safe, it was time to appease the 'jao mae tham', the goddess of the Tham Luang cave. While predominantly Buddhist, many Thais embrace animist beliefs in spirits that live in the forests, trees and caves.
0	Monks, the boys' families, the rescue commander, military brass and thousands of volunteers gathered to give thanks for the lives saved and to ask forgiveness for the intrusion of pumps, ropes and people as they brought out the Wild Boars soccer team. The families of the rescued boys chipped into buy pigs' heads — a traditional offering — that sat with chickens, fish and flower arrangements.
8	Rescue commander Narongsak Ossathanakon lit candles. In the background, a tribute to the former Navy SEAL Saman Gunan, who died while resupplying air tanks in the cave. Thousands of volunteers helped cook, clean and direct traffic during the 18-day search and rescue, dressed in colours associated with Thailand's king.
X	A new security fence has been built, with Tham Luang officially off limits until January. That's well past the end of the monsoon season, but officials are allowing time for the flooded cave to drain.

M	Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army visited the boys in the hospital.
8	CHIANG RAI, Thailand -- The "Superman" army doctor who took care of 12 boys and their soccer coach while they were trapped in a Thai cave shared a glimpse of their emotional reunion in the hospital Monday. Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army -- who stayed with the boys in the cave as authorities devised a plan to get them out and was dubbed "Superman" -- visited the group inside the Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital in Chiang Rai, Thailand. In photos posted to Loharnshoon's Facebook page, he is shown giving each of the boys a big hug and rallying the "Wild Boars" team members in a huddle.
7	The 12 boys and their coach have been recovering in the hospital since early last week, when they were rescued from a cave in northern Thailand after surviving without food for more than nine days. Hundreds of people, including expert divers from around the world, mounted a daring rescue to save the boys and their coach from the flooded cave complex.
6	In his post, Loharnshoon also recounted how the boys had dug a hole -- as deep as 16 feet -- to try to crawl to safety. He also commended their coach, calling him a martyr, and said that overall, the health of the group was much better than he had expected. British divers who helped bring them out of the cave, one by one, described the conditions as some of the worst they had ever seen, with zero visibility in the murky water.
8	In images released by Thai health officials on Sunday, the team was seen writing messages on a poster featuring the portrait of the former Thai Royal Navy SEAL who died while assisting in the rescue. In the photos, some of the boys were seen wiping away tears with their hospital gowns. Thailand's Ministry of Public Health said the entire group would be allowed to go home tentatively on Thursday and that they would continue to receive care locally.

X	This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
X	Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

M	The horror of imagining a dozen Thai boys trapped inside that frigid cavern chamber was followed — in the minds of some parents — by a sense of indignation. This question has reverberated in Western tabloids — the New York Post, Britain’s The Sun — and has been batted around on American cable news.
M	But a consensus seems to be emerging in Thailand: Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, deserves no scorn. He is instead held aloft as a bona fide hero.
M	Much of Thailand’s 70-million population is now on a first-name basis with the man known as “Coach Ek” in the Thai media. And many are transfixed by tales of Ekapol’s virtuosity. He is beloved for relinquishing his meager rations, going hungry so the kids could nourish themselves — and for hugging them close to ward off hypothermia.
M	The coach, a former novice monk, is also exalted for teaching the boys meditation techniques, fortifying their minds against panic and conserving their energy. In a deeply Buddhist nation, this is widely seen as a powerful affirmation of meditation’s potential. Initial images from the cave showed the boys swaddled in metallic blankets as the coach, clad only in a long-sleeve T-shirt, rested nearby — a Buddhist amulet noticeably slung around his neck.
M	Ekapol, who refused to leave until all of the boys were rescued first, was among the weakest of the thirteen to exit the cave. That he emerged looking so gaunt has only further endeared him to the Thai public.
M	Any notion of prosecuting Ekapol now seems far-flung. Doing so could enrage a public that is smitten with the young coach — and squander good vibes towards Thailand’s military government, a domineering institution that was nevertheless well represented by brave Thai Navy SEAL divers who helped rescue the team. Moreover, a top official at Thailand’s Ministry of Justice, which would oversee any prosecution, has said he wants to hug the coach and openly frets that the coach might blame himself for the debacle, sink into depression and even consider suicide.
M	But Ekapol is a rather unlikely hero in Thailand, a country in which he isn’t even believed to be a proper citizen. He and three of the rescued Wild Boar players are reported to be stateless, a condition afflicting nearly half a million people in Thailand — namely in the mountainous northern borderlands.
M	This area is populated by a patchwork of ethnic minorities, commonly called “hill tribes,” whose native terrain stretches across modern-day borders into Laos and Myanmar. Ekapol’s own people are called Tai Lue, who are ethnic cousins of the Thai people and maintain their own dialect.
M	Many among Thailand’s various ethnic minority populations have long struggled to obtain proper identity cards, a problem that impedes travel, proper employment and overall prospects for a comfortable life. Ekapol is, by all accounts, inured to hardship.
M	He reportedly lost his parents at an early age and later spent years living at a Buddhist temple, a common refuge for orphans in Thailand. Yet in Thai media, his statelessness (and that of three stateless teenage players) has so far been overshadowed by the rescue drama.
M	But even while laid up in a hospital bed, the coach has managed to keep enchanting the public. The bedridden coach was captured by news cameras politely clasping his hands before a hospital worker in scrubs.
M	This is called a wai, the most Thai of gestures, and it is used to convey respect. Perhaps the coach’s newfound celebrity will compel Thai officials to offer him citizenship.
M	According to Reuters, they’re now looking into it. Yet another challenge may confront the coach when he is eventually released from the hospital: the shock of celebrity. Ekapol never sought fame — his star rose because of a tragic mistake — and he may find it hard to endure both the attention and live up to the saintly “Coach Ek” persona created by the media.
M	None know this pressure more than “Los 33,” the 33 Chilean miners who in 2010 were trapped underground for 69 days — a drama that also gripped the world and turned the men into instant celebrities. Some of the men have sent warning messages to the Wild Boars in Thailand. As the miners’ then-foreman, Luis Urzua, told the boys and the coach via Reuters: “Everything changes. In the moment, everyone is talking about you — in the press, on television, you are front-page news everywhere — and then … nothing.

7	One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave has revealed the boys and their coach were heavily sedated during the extraction operation.
7	Retired Perth vet Craig Challen explained how he worked closely with his friend and fellow expert cave diver, Adelaide anaesthetist Dr Richard Harris, to medically assess the boys and their coach and get them ready for the rescue operation, in an exclusive interview with the ABC's Four Corners program. In his first in-depth interview about the rescue operation, Dr Challen confirmed that the boys were heavily sedated. "They did have some sedation to keep them calm, because the worst thing that could happen would be one of those guys panicking," he said.
3	The boys and their coach were located by a pair of British divers on July 2. Dr Challen and Dr Harris were called in by Thai authorities and arrived in northern Thailand on July 6.
4	They dived into the flooded cave the next day. "They [the boys] were pretty unreservedly happy to see us, I think. I can't imagine what it was like for them being in there nine days with no contact," Dr Challen said.
4	"You would be thinking that it was all over, really. But by the time we got in there, there'd been somebody in to visit them every day.
4	"They had lots of food. I wouldn't say that it was all that appetising; it's all just ration packs. But we were able to tell them that we were developing a plan to get them out.
7	Loading... Dr Challen said the risks of diving out the unconscious children cannot be overstated. "It was time consuming and fraught with danger because you really only need to do one little thing wrong that makes the breathing apparatus not work properly or have a little leak or something like that, which may go unnoticed when they set off," he said.
8	Dr Challen said he had his doubts about whether the rescue operation would be successful. "It was not a result that we thought we would get," he said. Watch Four Corners' full report, Out Of The Dark, including exclusive interviews with key rescuers tomorrow, 8.30pm on ABC TV and ABC iView.

X	BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thailand gave diplomatic immunity to three Australians who helped a boys’ soccer team escape from a flooded cave, in case “something went wrong”, its foreign minister said on Monday.
X	The 12 boys of the “Wild Boars” soccer team and their coach are recovering from their ordeal and are to be discharged on Thursday from a hospital in the northern town of Chiang Rai. Dozens of foreign divers and rescue personnel joined the 17-day rescue that captivated people around the world.
X	But immunity was granted only to Australian doctor Richard Harris and two medical assistants, said Foreign Minister Don Pramudwinai. “Doctor Richard Harris did his utmost on the medical mission he was responsible for, but if something went wrong he needed protection,” he told Reuters. “We provided this only to Dr. Richard Harris and two medical assistants.
X	Only to the Australian medical team,” he said. “We knew there were risks involved in this mission...so there was an understanding reached between the Thai government and the Australian government,” Don added. A spokeswoman for Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade declined to comment.
6	The success was tinged with bitterness, however, as Harris learned his father, Jim, died in Australia shortly after the three-day rescue was completed last week. Harris, an anesthetist, went into the Tham Luang cave to assess the boys’ health and was one of the last rescuers out of the cave after the boys, aged 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach were brought to safety. There have been reports the boys were sedated for their trip out through narrow, flooded passageways, though officials said only that some had been given medicine to calm their nerves.
M	The soccer team was exploring the cave on June 23 when monsoon rains trapped them deep inside the 10-km (6-mile mile) cave complex. Thai navy SEALs and an international team of cave-diving experts played a key role in bringing them to safety. Thais have flooded social media with grateful messages for mission participants, including Harris and the only casualty, Samarn Kunan, 38, a former member of Thailand’s elite SEALs unit.
6	Samarn, who died after delivering oxygen tanks in the cave, was cremated on Saturday in a ceremony broadcast live on Thai television. The boys wiped away tears as they signed a portrait of Samarn, in photographs released by the hospital on Sunday.

3	He entered an underwater portion, facing a rushing current he compared to a waterfall. He had to plant his feet firmly or the current could have swept him away. And he had to position his head straight into the current, or the water would rip the mask off his face. At one point, he swam underwater for about an hour, in a 100 meter stretch near a fork in the cave.
5	The murky, muddy water had “zero” visibility, he said. Even when Mr. Ruengrit put his hand in front of his facemask, he couldn't see anything at all.

5	Thai rescuers say 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex may be able to walk out, provided the route can be drained before the monsoon showers predicted for the weekend.
5	A military operation in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex is employing hundreds of industrial pumps to drain the water along the 2.5-mile (4km) path from the entrance to the area where the children and their football coach have been sheltering for 12 days. Poonsak Woongsatngiem, a rescue official with Thailand’s interior ministry, told the Guardian the water had been reduced by 40% in the past few days, clearing a 1.5km stretch of dark, jagged and muddy cave channels that the boys would need to traverse. The focus of Thursday’s operations is a third major basin along the route, Woongsatngiem said.
5	The boys, who are not strong swimmers, are being trained in how to dive using scuba equipment. But forcing them to exit through the water is considered very risky. “We [are] target[ing] the water in the third chamber to reduce to the point that no diving equipment is needed, like to the waistline, so one can wear just life jackets and walk out,” Woongsatngiem said on Thursday.
5	Clearing the third basin would leave another 2.5km of path to the boys, whose ages range from 11 to 16. A Chinese diver at the site, Wang Ying Jie, said about half that remaining path would be walkable in the right conditions; the maximum water depth they would need to cross is about six metres. It is unclear how long the remaining area would take to drain, but monsoon rains are predicted for Saturday and would quickly refill the cave complex, potentially cutting the boys off for months.
5	A fibre-optic cable was being laid inside the cave and would reach the boys soon, he added, so the children would be able to speak to and possibly see their parents on video. Wang said most of the boys remained in good health but three had intestinal issues and were in some pain. Divers were positioned at the third basin waiting to ferry medicine to the children.
5	With wet weather looming, authorities are also calculating how long they are willing to allow rescuers to remain in the cave before they order an evacuation. Updates on the condition of the boys and the water levels were being slowed by the length of the journey to reach the children. “It’s about 11 hours – six on the way from the entrance to where the kids are and five on the way back,” he said.
5	Officials were also scouring the jungle above the complex to find new openings that could be drilled to extract the boys more easily. The children were breathing, he said, so there was very likely a shaft somewhere to the top. “We have around 20 to 30 teams surveying on top to find the closest and most precise spot,” he said.

M	8 Jul 2018 11.04 EDT Jacob Goldberg A few minutes after operation chief Narongsak Osatanakorn addressed the media, heavy rain began falling over the press centre, where hundreds of journalists are working to report this latest chapter in the the Tham Luang saga.
M	With raincoats draped over heads and computers, we feel just a fraction of the urgency that rescue workers must be feeling as water - the element that started this mess - continues to hamper the rescue effort. 8 Jul 2018 10.50 EDT Steve Whitlock, an experienced caver who was part of a rescue mission in one of the deepest mines in the world in Mexico, tells the BBC that its not over until all of the people are out of the cave, “including the rescuers”.
M	“I would caution people to just be a little bit careful because we’ve still got an awful amount of people who still need to come out of that cave. Explaining how you would give a crash course in cave diving in an emergency situation, Whitlock says “you have to put them in the gear that they’ll be moving through the cave through.”
M	“You find a safe piece of water which isn’t submerged, ie not covered by a cave passage above, and you put them in the water, you see how they react,” he says. In Mexico, he explains, the people he rescued did not swim, they following a rope out of the cave and crawled. “Now they may well have used the same method [in Thailand], because the moment you make them neutrally buoyant - and that means that they can float around - they become more difficult to manage,” Whitlock says.
7	This means that they are not diving straight into the unknown and you are able to reassure them with your presence. 8 Jul 2018 10.26 EDT The Thai Navy Seals have said “Tonight, we can sleep well” in a Facebook post as today’s rescue operation comes to a close. “Hooyah,” the post concludes, in the tradition of the Marines.

M	In the end it was a textbook rescue operation.
8	Divers managed to carry, pull and at times swim the 12 young Wild Boars footballers and their coach along more than two miles of flooded and cramped tunnels in the Tham Luang cave complex, as billions of people around the world watched. But briefings by Thai officials and interviews with six Australian, American, Chinese and Thai divers involved in the operation have revealed extensive details of a plan some were unsure could work, even after it started on Sunday morning.
7	The plan to ferry the boys out accompanied by two expert divers, and escorted by a daisy chain of support workers, started to firm up as the most likely option on the evening of Thursday 5 July, said Ruengrit Changkwanyuen, a diver from Thailand who helped coordinate the diving teams – and to carry the first two boys to a field hospital when they emerged on Sunday. By then the boys and their coach had been trapped for more than 13 days, after a fun excursion into the cave turned into a nightmare when flash floods cut off their exit. They were not discovered until 2 July, when John Volanthen, a Briton, found them huddled on a muddy slope nearly two miles inside the cave.
5	By the time the rescue plan was formed, more than 1m cubic metres of water had been drained from the cave using pumps, but the boys would still be underwater, tethered to a diver, for much of the first 1.7km of the journey. For the last 1.5km, they would be on stretchers attached to a pulley system, guided home by more than 100 rescuers fanned out along the path. Authorities had been trying to avoid bringing the boys out through water, which Rasmussen had earlier said was “definitely the scariest option”.
5	But what was the alternative? Even keeping the boys in the cave chamber until January was looking increasingly risky, after medics reported that oxygen levels had depleted to 15% and that the boys could fall into a coma if it fell to 12%. Preventing disease in the dank environment would also have become increasingly difficult.
5	“It is very likely that infections would have started setting in, and the boys would have deteriorated a lot faster than they already were,” said Rasmussen. Another plan, to drill approximately 600 metres into the boys’ chamber from the thicket of jungle above, was also foundering.
5	Engineers could not figure out where to drill. “It was like finding a needle in an ocean,” said Youkongkaew. Monsoon rain predicted for the morning of Saturday 7 July might have flooded the cave, making an extraction impossible.
7	When it didn’t come, rescuers knew they had to go for it. Inside the cave on Sunday morning, unaware of the dangers ahead, the boys were excited, says Changkwanyuen. “They were like, ‘oh wow, I’m going to go diving’,” he said. However, the rescuers were wracked with anxiety.
7	“There were way too many unknowns,” said Rasmussen. Chanin Wiboonrungrueng, nicknamed Titan, 11, the youngest of the group was the focus of most concern.
7	Rescuers sourced the smallest scuba mask they could find – but had to make it even smaller. When Wiboonrungrueng started his journey out of the cave on Tuesday, they were still unsure whether the mask’s seal would hold. “We feared that it wouldn’t fit him properly.
7	That was the biggest worry,” Rasmussen said. Rescuers planned to start with the strongest boy, said Changkwanyuen. “But the Australian doctor Richard Harris evaluated the boys and said everyone was equally strong – so they picked among themselves to see who would come out first,” he said.
7	Thai officials said this week that the ultimate decision was made by the boys’ coach, Ekaphol Chantawong. “The coach selected. He wrote the order down: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,” said Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation.
7	Rasmussen was stationed at an area known as Pattaya Beach, about 3km inside the cave and the longest dry patch between the boys’ chamber and “chamber three” – a forward operating base for the rescue operation. On each of the three mornings of the rescue, he would make the arduous two-hour trip to his designated area with two other divers, train his eyes on the dark water beyond him, and wait.
7	At about 2.30pm on Sunday, a diver emerged holding the first of the boys. “As a team we were working together to put them in a stretcher as soon as they arrived on Pattaya Beach [a dry part of the cave complex] and getting them back into the water as fast as we possibly could,” he said. “I was crouching, crawling, walking through water and over rocks, keeping the kids in the stretcher so they could be protected through all of this,” he said.
7	Navigating the steep, wet and muddy path in his section took about 20 minutes. Rasmussen worried about every second, aware that the boys would be in cold water for two hours, risking their core body temperatures falling to dangerous lows.
8	Every diver interviewed said it was only at the end of the first day that they started to believe they might succeed. “It was only when we made it out on Sunday and heard the kids were all very good and on their way to Chiang Rai hospital, we thought, fuck, this might actually work,” said Rasmussen. The operation became more efficient with each day, but he said the slightest hitch – such as heavy rain – might have condemned some of the boys to staying inside the cave.
X	“We were still ready to back out completely on Monday night,” Rasmussen said. About three hours after the last boys and Chantawong made it out on Tuesday, with the last navy personnel leaving the cave, the entire rescue system suddenly collapsed. Australian divers in chamber three described hearing screams further up the tunnel, then seeing a rush of head lamps coming towards them.
X	Rasmussen does not have a spiritual explanation, but agrees the timing was eerie. “That everything breaks down as soon as everybody’s safe? It’s just weird,” he said.
X	The cave is now empty again, flooded and inaccessible. Divers will need to return in five months to collect their equipment.

5	The rescue operation to free the last of the 12 boys and their football coach from a Thailand cave could have been a disaster, divers have revealed, with water pumps draining the area failing just hours after the last boy had been evacuated.
5	Divers and rescue workers were still more than 1.5km inside the cave clearing up equipment when the main pump failed, leading water levels to rapidly increase, three Australian divers involved in the operation told the Guardian on Wednesday, in the first detailed account of the mission to be published. The trio, stationed at “chamber three”, a base inside the cave, said they heard screaming and saw a rush of head torches from deeper inside the tunnel as workers scrambled to reach dry ground. “The screams started coming because the main pumps failed and the water started rising,” said one of the divers, speaking anonymously because he is not authorised to comment.
7	The remaining 100 workers inside the cave frantically rushed to the exit and were out less than an hour later, including the last three Thai navy Seals and medic who had spent much of the past week keeping vigil with the trapped boys. The boys of the Wild Boar football team were brought out in three daring rescue operations starting on Sunday morning.
7	An elite team of 19 divers were involved in ferrying the boys and their 25-year-old coach the approximately 3.2km path from the muddy slope where they had been sheltering to the outside world. The first four emerged on Sunday, the next four on Monday and then the final five about 8pm local time on Tuesday evening.
8	The operation required the boys to learn to breathe using scuba masks and to traverse narrow, jagged tunnels. During the final mission, as the three Seals and doctor were passed up the human chain of rescuers that had formed inside the cave, each section began cheering and applauding. The rescuers compared it to a joyful Mexican wave that continued until the entrance.
7	The rescuers in the daisy chain spent more than eight hours a day standing on a tiny patch of wet, muddy ground waiting for their turn to pass the boys along the treacherous path. “If one of those people doesn’t do their jobs properly, the stretcher falls,” one diver said.
7	The journey from chamber three to the cave entrance took about four to five hours initially, but was reduced to less than an hour after a week of draining and clearing the mud path using shovels. The 12 boys, who wore diving cylinders and were each tethered to an adult diver, had to submerge themselves for much of the journey but were carried on bright red Sked stretchers whenever they entered patches of dry ground. Each one left the cave on these stretchers still wearing their breathing masks.
2	Much of last week was spent clearing the 1.5km path from chamber three to the entrance. When the Australian divers arrived on 30 June, “the complexity and scale [of the cave] was unknown”, said commander Glen McEwen, of the Australian federal police at a briefing on Wednesday.
2	The Australian divers, carrying 46kg of diving gear, were among the teams ferrying radios, air cylinders and other equipment into the third chamber. Six Australian police divers and one navy diver spent 75 hours in that cave, McEwen said, “moving approximately 20 tonnes of equipment through the caving system”.
2	The equipment included industrial-size pumps, oxygen and air tanks, medical supplies and food. The Australians were unable to go further because their gear was too large: going beyond chamber three required passing through a hole less than a metre wide. The specialist cave divers and the boys wore smaller equipment such as rebreathers and tanks at their sides, rather than on their backs.
M	The divers compared parts of the journey to moving through the S-bend of a toilet. They said there were three main sumps on the path to chamber three, about 10 to 20 metres long, separated by up to 300m of dry ground.
6	It emerged on Wednesday morning that Richard Harris, the South Australian doctor who gave the boys the all-clear to be extracted starting on Sunday, learned soon after he emerged from the cave for the last time that his father had died. Major Alex Rubin, from the Australian Defence Force, said on Wednesday Harris was “personally one of the most professional doctors I’ve ever met”. “His unique skillsets as a specialist doctor and also his extensive experience as a cave diver was quintessential to the success of this operation, which was led very well by the Thai authorities,” Rubin said.
8	Doctors treating the rescued boys and their coach in the nearby city of Chiang Rai said on Wednesday that each had lost an average 2kg during the ordeal but were generally in good health. The parents of the first four boys freed will be able to meet them on Wednesday provided they wear protective suits and stand 2-metres away. Relatives of the nine others rescued will need to see them through a window until doctors can rule out infections.

8	The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days have successfully been retrieved, sparking celebrations across Thailand and praise for the daring rescues from around the world. “Today Thai people, team Thailand, achieved mission impossible,” said Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation to applause and cheers on Tuesday evening.
8	Before 4pm on Tuesday, the first of the remaining four boys in the cave emerged and was rushed to hospital in the nearest city of Chiang Rai. Confirmation of two more followed soon after.
8	Three Seals and a doctor who had spent several days inside the chamber with the boys were still making their way out, the post said. Namhom Boonpiam, whose son Mongkol was among the boys released earlier in the week, told the Guardian she was “happy but sleepy”.
8	Osatanakorn said that the parents of the boys, who have held a vigil at the cave site throughout the marathon search and rescue operation, would soon be able to see their children in hospital – albeit through a window until doctors could check the children for infections. “We are overjoyed,” he told a press briefing later on Tuesday night that was regularly interrupted by applause.
M	At one point he paused to receive a signal. “Oh excuse me, he said.
8	“Doctor Pak [Loharnshoon] and three seals are now coming out of the cave safe and sound.” The cheering reprised.
M	Like the eight rescued in the past two days, the boys and the coach freed on Tuesday will undergo detailed testing of their eyes, nutrition levels and mental health, with blood samples to be sent to Bangkok to test for any infectious diseases. They will only see their relatives through a glass screen initially or from a two-metre distance with the parents wearing a medical gown, face mask and hair net.
8	Health officials said that some of the first boys freed had elevated white-blood cell levels, indicating infections, and two showed signs of pneumonia but were responding well to treatment. “Doctors have treated the boys and now all of them are OK and cheerful.
8	They talk normally. No fever,” said Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health.
8	They are expected to be in hospital for at least seven days. Jesada said the first four boys rescued were able to eat normal food, though not spicy dishes yet.
8	Tuesday’s mission was the most arduous for the 100 people involved because it required shepherding out the weakest and smallest of the boys. But the atmosphere in Mae Sai was palpably optimistic after two successful operations in previous days and news the rescued boys were healthy and “cheerful”.
8	By the time the 11th boy was out, Thai volunteers were cheering and waving as the helicopters that were ferrying the boys to hospital thundered overhead. Confirmation they were free triggered celebrations in Mae Sai and across the country.
8	“I’m so happy,” said Songpol Kanthawong, 13, a teammate of the boys who narrowly missed being trapped along with them, forgetting to bring his bike to training the day the boys cycled out to the site with a picnic lunch. He said the football team’s Facebook Messenger thread was already full of plans for what the boys would do with their teammates when they returned. Doctors said the first eight boys to be released would spend at least one week in hospital recuperating.
8	Images of the boys seen by the Guardian showed them in hospital beds with white patches over their eyes, which doctors said was a precaution to help them adjust to the light after more than two weeks in a near-pitch black environment. Emails purportedly written by Richard Stanton, one of the leaders of the dive team, showed that as late as Sunday night divers were concerned about whether they could free all the boys. “We’re worried about the smallest lad,” he wrote to entrepreneur Elon Musk, who developed a mini submarine for possible use in the operation.
6	The joy on Tuesday was in stark contrast to the gloom at the cave site four days’ earlier, when authorities announced former Thai navy Seal Saman Kunan had asphyxiated while placing air tanks beyond “chamber three”, the most treacherous part of the journey the boys would have to undergo. The same day, authorities revealed the air inside the boys’ chamber was growing increasingly toxic, with monsoon rain forecast to hit within days, increasing water levels and potentially sealing off the boys until January. A press conference scheduled for Friday night was delayed several times, until Osatanakorn finally emerged at midnight, confirming the rescue was not imminent.
7	“The boys are not suitable [and] cannot dive at this time,” he said. By Saturday, authorities were ready to provide a timeline for the first time.
7	The boys would need be removed within three to four days, they said, or stay perched for months on high ground that could shrink to 10 sq metres once the monsoon arrived. It rained heavily that evening and by Sunday morning, journalists were being asked to leave the cave site. The two-mile (3.2km) path was not yet fully dry, and the boys would need to squeeze through the flooded passage, breathing through full-face scuba masks – but time was up.
7	“Today we are most ready,” Osatanakorn told a press briefing, shortly after announcing an elite group of Thai and international divers had entered the cave to get the boys. “Today is D-Day,” he said.
M	Busloads of volunteers travelled to Chiang Rai to assist, including a group from the southern Trang province whose traditional occupation is to scale mountains collecting bird’s nests to make the delicacy bird’s nest soup. “First I heard they needed divers, but then they said they also needed mountain climbers, I thought about my skills using ropes and climbing,” said Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave.
6	They were part of a team of hundreds that scoured the dense jungle above the cave for days trying to find a shaft that might lead 600 metres down to where the boys were believed to be stranded. Lekkamnerd said he was struggling to find the words to describe his joy at the news the boys were free. “I am happy, proud, overwhelmed,” he said. Authorities paid tribute to Kunan, 38, after Tuesday’s operation, calling him “a hero not only for Thais but for the whole world”.
M	“With this mission complete, may you rest in peace brother Saman, the hero of Tham Luang,” said Thanadej Kongbangpoh, a provincial military official. Kongbangpoh said they hoped to seize on the international attention their province had received to one day turn the Tham Luang Nang Non cave into a tourist attraction. “Amid the crisis, we Thais are lucky that we will have a new travel destination, a world renowned one,” he said.

M	Tham Luang:
3	A close friend of some of the Thai soccer players trapped in the Tham Luang cave has declared the “real hero” of the saga that has riveted Thailand and gripped the world is the team’s coach, 25-year-old Ekaphol "Ake" Chantawong. Auttaporn Khamheng, 17, is a close friend and former teammate of 13-year-old Duangpetch "Dom" Promthep on the “Wild Boars” soccer team. He is also close to “Ake”, the team coach, and spoke to Fairfax Media on Monday afternoon on the 16th day since the boys were first trapped in the cave, and after the first four boys were freed. Khamheng said that while he had initially been quite scared the boys would not be found, he had always wanted to believe they would eventually been found.

M	MAE SAI, THAILAND (AFP) - Schooled as a monk and now hailed a hero, football coach Ekkapol Chantawong is one of several stateless members of the "Wild Boars", a team whose survival after days trapped in a flooded Thai cave fixated a country that does not recognise them as citizens. Coach Ekkapol, the 25-year-old who was among the last to emerge from the cave on Tuesday (July 10), has been lauded for keeping the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 - calm as starvation loomed in the dark.
M	He was the only adult with the boys when they entered the cave on June 23 until they were found nine days later by British divers, on a muddy bank deep inside the cave complex. As he awaited his turn to undertake the dangerous exit from the Tham Luang complex, Thais on the outside celebrated him as a modest, devout and duty-bound member of the Mae Sai community. "From all the parents, please take care of all the children.
M	Don't blame yourself," said a letter to him from the boys' relatives released on July 7. In reply, he scrawled a note apologising to the parents, and vowing to take "the very best care of the kids". The touching note won the hearts of the Thai public - a group to which he is yet to officially belong.
M	The UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Agency, says Thailand is home to around 480,000 stateless people. Many are from nomadic hill tribes and other ethnic groups who have, for centuries, lived around Mae Sai, the heart of the Golden Triangle - a lawless wedge of land bisecting Thailand, Myanmar, Laos and China. Among the stateless are Mr Ekkapol and three of the boys who were trapped in the cave alongside him - Dul, Mark and Tee - the founder of the Wild Boars club Nopparat Khanthavong told news agency Agence France-Presse (AFP).
M	"To get nationality is the biggest hope for the boys... in the past, these boys have problems travelling to play matches outside of Chiang Rai," he added, because of travel restrictions that accompany their lack of status. Without passports, they are unlikely to be able to take up an invite from Manchester United Football Club to visit next season.
M	"They also can't become professional football players because they don't have the (correct) status," Nopparat said, adding that the process has begun to try to get them nationality. There are hopes that the boys' ordeal will lead to a change of policy. "The issue of the boys in the cave should give Thailand a wake-up call... to grant the stateless nationality," said Mr Pornpen Khongkachonkiet of Amnesty International Thailand.
M	Coach Ekkapol, who is ethnic Tai Lue, is yet to give his version of the remarkable events of the past few weeks. A novice monk for several years from the age of 10, Mr Ekkapol left the Buddhist clergy before becoming a full monk in order to look after his grandmother in Mae Sai. He later became a coach with the Wild Boars. He is fond of meditation, trekking and the outdoor life, according to monk Ekkapol Chutinaro, who roomed with his namesake as a novice.
M	"We would trek to the jungle. He would always bring a thumb-size parcel of chilli paste and sticky rice, and we would stay there for a couple of days," he recalled of his friend. As a football coach, he is regarded as a generous and patient teacher willing to help even the least skilled children. But as a citizen of nowhere, he cannot yet gain his full coaching qualifications.
M	"He is stateless. No nationality.

M	The BCRC relays here a formal media briefing from the cave rescue camp in northern Thailand. It is produced jointly by the Thai authorities and international partners who are on site.
M	There are three separate statements which we can circulated at this time. Some of the names and titles of those that spoke are not complete and there are some incomplete sentences in the version received.
7	Chief of operations – Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn – confirmed that today is the best day to undertake the extraction of the trapped group. The rescue team comprises 13 international divers and 5 Thai navy SEAL divers, all ready, and the weather is also permitting. Following an assessment from the Australian doctor yesterday, he confirmed that the trapped are mentally and physically well enough to move. Their families have been informed. The chief confirmed the operation had started at 10:00h today and the earliest time the rescuers will exit the cave is 21:00h today. NO CLEAR INDICATION
7	THAT 13 OF THEM WILL BE OUT AT THE SAME TIME. It is stressed that it is a continuous mission. Details on the mission. One child will be accompanied by two divers.
M	The water level in chamber 1, 2 and 3 has dropped. Hence, it’s is walkable in these chambers.
M	The Chief confirmed too that the rescue exercise has been practised prior to today’s mission. The Deputy Commander of Region concurs with the Chief that this is the best in terms of timing and plans of the rescue. He asked for everyone’s cooperation to remain at least 200 metres further away from where the main operation is based (cave’s entrance).
M	A representative from Chiang Rai Public Health Office confirmed that the doctor and paramedics are standing by to provide medical attention whenever the rescue team emerge. Deputy director of DDPM They continue to monitor the electricity and the water level in the cave. Please direct any enquiries about the cave rescue operation to: comms@caverescue.org.uk or visit BCRC on the newly created FaceBook page (www.facebook.com/BritishCaveRescueCouncil/). Briefing prepared by the Thai authorities, 8 July 2018.

X	The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue has revealed that he taught divers how to administer dangerous anaesthetic drugs so they could sedate the Wild Boar team mid-rescue. Dr Richard Harris provided the new details following a ceremony at Government House in Adelaide on Thursday, where he received a standing ovation.
X	He said the anaesthetic used during the dangerous rescue only lasted up to an hour, and it took about three hours to get each of the 12 boys and their soccer coach out. "I had to basically teach the other cavers, the divers, to readminister the sedation when the time was right," Dr Harris said. Loading...
X	As revealed by the ABC's Four Corners program, the Wild Boars were sedated and carried with their bodies against the divers during the complicated sections of the underwater rescue, with some of the children expected to die during the extraction. Dr Harris praised the courage of the other divers for administering dangerous anaesthetic drugs to the young children while they were in the middle of the cave rescue. "They took that on themselves to administer essentially life-threatening anaesthetic drugs to kids to keep them sedated enough to get them out of the cave, and I cannot tell you how impressed I am with those blokes," he said.
M	The ceremony at Government House came only two days after Dr Harris and his dive partner, West Australian vet Craig Challen, were presented with the second-highest Australian bravery decoration for "acts of conspicuous courage in circumstances of great peril" by Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove in Canberra. They, and seven other Australian involved in the cave rescue, were also awarded an Order of the Medal of Australia after Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull sought to fast-track the process to bestow official honours.
M	Speaking at the Adelaide ceremony, Dr Harris said at many times during the operation, the prospect of success looked bleak. "The sense of responsibility for those little kids was overwhelming, and … the fact that our rescue strategy worked, and not just once but 13 times, still seems beyond the realms of possibility and I'm pinching myself that this has been the outcome," he said. At the ceremony the Thai Australian Association of SA presented Dr Harris with a portrait drawn by a local Thai artist of the South Australian doctor kitted up in his dive gear. Thai Australian Association chairwoman Supattra Hom-on said the portrait was a small gesture to say thank you to Dr Harris, his family, and other Australians involved in the rescue.

7	When the operation began, officials said the earliest the boys were likely to reach the surface was 21:00 local time (14:00 GMT) on Sunday. One official has said it could take two to three days to get them all out.

M	The effort to locate 12 boys and their soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week picked up pace Saturday, as a break in the rain eased flooding in the system of caverns and more experts from around the world joined the rescue mission. The search effort in the northern province of Chiang Rai has been going slowly, largely because flooding has blocked rescuers from going through chambers to get deeper into the cave.
M	Pumping out water hasn’t solved the problem, so increasing efforts have been made to find shafts on the mountainside that might serve as a back door to the blocked-off areas where the missing may be sheltering. The boys, aged 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach entered the sprawling Tham Luang Nang Non cave after a soccer game on June 23, but near-constant rains have thwarted the search for them. Authorities have nevertheless expressed hope that the group has found a dry place within the cave to wait, and that they are still alive. Reflecting that hope, a medical evacuation drill was held Saturday morning to see how long it would take to get rescued people out of the cave, into 13 ambulances and to the nearest hospital. Australian police and military personnel were deployed Saturday to join other multinational teams, including U.S. military personnel and experts from a British cave exploration club.
2	China has sent a six-person team of rescue and disaster experts to the cave, the Chinese Embassy in Bangkok announced Friday. The group has experience in lifesaving rescues in Myanmar and Nepal, the embassy’s statement said.
2	A second, private Chinese group, calling itself Green Boat Emergency, arrived Saturday. “Our skills are search and rescue on mountains and in caves. We hope we can help,” said Wang Xudong, a member of the group.
M	Chiang Rai Gov. Narongsak Osatanakorn said the falling water level in the cave has helped the rescue effort considerably. “Today the situation is much better and we have high hopes, and will be here all night,” he said early Saturday evening.
1	Thai navy SEAL divers have been crucial to the search, but have been stymied by muddy water reaching the cave’s ceiling, forcing them to suspend operations again and again. With water levels dropping, they resumed dives Saturday, re-entering a chamber from which they had retreated earlier in the week. But they could not advance farther than 200 meters from their current position, the team reported.
X	In addition to pumping out the flooded chambers, there have been efforts to find the source of the water flooding the cave in order to drain or divert it. Chaiwat Dusadeepanich of the Department of Groundwater Resources said Saturday that his team, which has been drilling for two days, found a small underground water source near the cave. Hopes were also high for finding some kind of access through fissures on the mountainside that might lead to shafts into the cave.
X	“Yesterday our team climbed into one shaft, and went in around 50 meters (yards),” said National Deputy Police Chief Wirachai Songmetta. He said the shaft had led to two separate chambers so far, and they planned to re-enter the second one in a bid to find passages that could lead to other chambers, Wirachai said.
X	Officials also began dropping care packages into the shafts in hopes the missing might retrieve them. Each package contains food, beverages, a phone, a flashlight, candles, a lighter and a map of the cave.

X	LONDON (Reuters) - Prime Minister Theresa May hosted a reception on Tuesday for the British divers who were involved in the rescue of 12 schoolboys from a flooded cave in Thailand earlier this month.
X	All the boys and their 25-year-old soccer coach were brought to safety over the course of a three-day rescue organized by Thai navy SEALs and an international team of diving and caving experts. The boys and their coach had gone into the Tham Luang cave in the northern province of Chiang Rai on June 23, for a quick excursion after soccer practice, when a rainy season downpour flooded the tunnels.
8	Thai Ambassador Pisanu Suvanajata was among the guests at the prime minister’s official residence at Number 10 Downing Street on Tuesday afternoon, posing for a photograph with May and the divers in front of the famous black door. May praised the divers during the event. “On hearing about the boys who were trapped, most people would have just stood by but you chose to go out there and do something about it,” she said in comments released by her office.

8	Five of the BCRC divers involved in the recent rescue of the boys from Tham Luang Nang Non Cave and BCRC support staff recently attended a reception at No. 10 Downing Street. From left to right: Graham, Mike, Gary, Emma, Toby, Chris, Tony, Vern, Peter, the UK Prime Minister, The Right Honourable Theresa May, His Excellency Mr Pisanu Suvanajata, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Thailand, John, Josh, Rob, Bill, Heather and Connor.
M	Unfortunately Rick, Jason, Jim and Martin were unable to attend. Briefing prepared by BCRC Officers, 2nd August 2018.

M	PERTH hero diver Craig Challen has revealed in gripping detail why there were occasions when he did not believe all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave would get out alive. I’m probably feeling like I would rather still be in Thailand to keep away from you (journalists) at the moment.
M	We are not used to this kind of attention. Obviously we are very happy about the outcome, nobody expected it to be as good an outcome as it was.
5	When we first arrived we thought we were there to do recoveries, so the actual outcome was unbelievably good. I wouldn’t say that because we knew the group was alive and we were going to give it our best shot. The English rescue guys that we worked with were already on site, they had found the kids already. We got there on the Thursday (July 5).
5	Everybody was just frantically trying to work out what the best away to go about it was. There was a rough plan in place that we had some input into and then had to go ahead with it. We developed the plan a little bit, changed some of the equipment and stuff like that but it was really the British divers’ plan — they really deserve the credit for the extraction plan.
M	As far as the site goes, cave diving is what we do so the dive wasn’t in and of itself that bad. But, the fact that you have got a living, breathing little tiny person that you are in charge of and you are very limited as to what you can do to help them, and it is a two-hour journey out of the cave ... it was taxing.
M	We had practised and trained for rescues but nobody has ever conceived of anything like this at all. Camera Icon Twenty Aussies involved in the dangerous Tham Luang cave rescue, including Richard Harris and Craig Challen. Credit: Supplied.
M	There are not many underwater cave rescues, most of them are recoveries. As far as cave diving goes, usually by the time help arrives it is all too late.
M	There has really only been one other major rescue which is comparable to this which was done by Rick Stanton in 2004 (in Mexico). That was an order of magnitude less difficult in the sense that the people being rescued were military guys, English-speaking, they could handle themselves and be taught to dive and he basically just dived them out of the cave. There wasn’t the same distance involved as in this case either.
M	This is a first, and hopefully last. I hope my career is well and truly over by the time the next one happens.
5	We did one day of reconnaissance, Richard Harris and I, the first day we were on-site. We went to the end, checked on everyone and talked to them. We told them what the plan was and to pick who was going first.
5	They did all of that, it wasn’t us. I don’t know specifically if it was the coach, but collectively the team decided what order the boys would come out, not us. Then we just went for it.
4	They were great given they had spent two weeks in there by the time that I saw them, and nine of those days without food. The Thai Navy divers that swam in there to help them, a lot of credit goes to them — they were fantastic with the kids, keeping their spirits up and looking after them. I have spent a night in worse places than that, but to spend that time in there knowing that you are powerless to help yourself and having really no knowledge of what everybody is going to do to get you out, that would wear you down a bit I think.
M	They were pretty good, they had lost a bit of weight but that is OK — they are kids and they will get it back again. A few of them had minor little things, a couple sounded like they were just starting to get chest infections but there was certainly nothing life-threatening to them. That was really the pressing thing.
5	It is the start of monsoon season there and once that happens properly the cave completely floods and it would become undivable. There was some talk that if they couldn’t be extracted by us they could be supported for the three or four months until the water levels dropped again. Our judgment was that was impossible, that once the cave became undivable you wouldn’t be able to get supplies in to them on any sort of regular basis.
5	We didn’t think they would survive all that time underground, they would start getting infections and sick and we didn’t think it was an option.
5	With the rain coming we knew that we had to go in, in our judgment it was pretty urgent. The pumps did help but you have to understand the amount of water that was in this cave.
M	It is 2km long and there was a substantial body of water in there. Certainly near the entrance the pumps lowered the levels and made the logistics of getting gear in and out a lot easier.
M	But it was never an option that they were going to pump the cave dry and walk the boys out. While we were there there was some rain coming down each day and that was enough to maintain the levels, it was all the pumps could do to keep up with that.
M	Inside the cave not really. The water level did lower a bit during the time we were there but towards the end of the time the pumps — it is controversial whether they failed or were switched off, we don’t know which — and the water level started coming up quite quickly as soon as that happened.
M	Well nobody knows the exact size, they say 38cm but I don’t know who has been in there with a tape measure — it certainly wasn’t us. But that sort of width is OK, we are used to those conditions.
M	For us to dive that alone is not that bad, but getting the kids through was the problem. This is not just a (38cm) tube, this is rugged territory and there are bits sticking out and stalagtites hanging down from the roof and that sort of thing. The difficulty is that you are not just dealing with the technicalities of the cave for yourself, you are trying to protect the patients at the same time.
M	No, they were in hand. They weren’t stretchered, you couldn’t fit a stretcher through.
5	It was one diver only per patient. The kids had a vest on and the cylinder attached to them in front.
5	They were wearing full face masks and then a tether to the diver. There was no point having two divers because you are single file anyway and it is only 10cm visibility in front of you so you couldn’t see the other diver anyway.
5	No — they didn’t know what was going on. They had drugs. We could not have panicking kids in there, they would have killed themselves and possibly killed the rescuer as well.
M	No. These are conditions that we deal with all the time in the course of our own diving. It is not the most difficult cave we have ever dived in, that’s not the problem. It’s the context of the situation of looking after these boys.
M	It wasn’t dangerous for us but I can’t emphasise enough how dangerous it was for the kids.
5	It was absolutely life and death. We didn’t expect to be getting 13 people out of there alive.
5	No, what’s the point? We didn’t spend any time on that. It was just a case of this being the only feasible way we could see and the only chance we’ve got, so we are going to give it our best shot.
5	Yes, we got better at it and streamlined the process. We also had more people in, some more divers arrived and they had people stationed at various difficult points along the cave to help. There was one section where the patients had to be de-kitted, come out of the water, go over a dry section and then be re-kitted and that all got streamlined and we got a lot better at it.
5	We cut nearly an hour off the total time by the last day. The first day was probably nearly three hours (on the way back, with the kids) and it was close to two hours on the last day. Where the kids were found on the platform there was short dive until a dry section and then they had to be de-kitted, helped about 200m over rocks and sand hills and stuff and then get back into the water again. I was responsible for running that operation with two other guys.
5	I stayed there until the last boy each day. They would come through at 45-minute intervals, because that is how long it took for that transfer. We would go one, two, three, four and then everybody swam out after the last one.
8	Yes we were able to visit the boys in hospital on Wednesday afternoon, which was immensely rewarding. There has been some talk of a visit in the future but I think for now they just need to go home to their families and get back to normal life.
6	The death of Saman Gunan was just before we arrived, so we did not get to meet him. Although it was a big shock, everyone was focused on the objective of the rescue and there was no lessening of our resolve to get the job done.
M	The time for reflection on these things is later. I am very uncomfortable with it.
M	We were lucky enough to be available and have some skills that we could offer that contributed towards the great outcome. There were hundreds of other people there that worked just as hard as us and won’t get any awards. The fact that all the boys are out of the cave and healthy is reward enough.

2	A Thai health official said the 12 boys and their soccer coach rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand are in good condition and recovering at a hospital Wednesday morning following the 18-day ordeal. CBS News has learned the final four boys and the coach were rescued just in time. Hours after the last boy was pulled out, the main water pump in the caves malfunctioned, sending water rushing in. Maj. Charles Hodges, the U.S. mission commander for the 353rd Special Operations unit for the Air Force, was a part of the rescue operation in Thailand.
7	Hodges described the tense moments leading up to that final rescue to "CBS This Morning" on Wednesday. "Well, three of the SEALs, there's four of them back there, three of them made their way into chamber three and about the same time we got the word that the pumps that had been running nonstop shut off for an unknown reason and the water levels back in chamber three started rising which would have cut off our access back to chambers two, one and then out of the cave. And that's an abort criteria for our guys and so when that water level started rising everybody started grabbing their kid and they were ready to get out. Thankfully that last SEAL popped up at the last moment and everyone was able to get out of chamber three safely and make their way out and mission complete," Hodges said.
8	According to Thai health officials, when most of the boys were admitted, they were given antibiotics because of high white blood cell counts, reports CBS News' Anna Werner. Some of the boys have lung infections and they each lost an average of about four pounds while in the cave, but overall, health officials said they are doing well, considering what they went through. Rescue volunteers danced and sang when they learned the entire group was safely rescued Tuesday and at a school where some of the rescued boys attend, students gathered to celebrate. The ordeal began more than two weeks ago, when the 12 boys and their soccer coach became trapped 2 and a half miles inside a complex cave system by fast-moving flood waters. As oxygen levels in the cave dropped and a new round of monsoon rains threatened to raise floodwaters, divers rushed in to rescue the boys. They were taken out in three groups, over 72 hours.
6	The last member of the rescue team to leave the cave was Australian doctor Richard Harris. His boss said he found out shortly afterward that his father had died. He had stayed in the cave to look after the boys' health.
M	According to officials, the boys are doing well, in part because they stayed hydrated by drinking water dripping from the cave ceiling. They are now all being monitored for disease and infections. Health officials said the boys are also doing well mentally. Perhaps because they stayed together, the official said, adding that the coach who took care of them should be admired. Officials said the boys were given anti-anxiety pills to help keep them calm during their rescue. All of the boys and their coach are expected to be kept at the hospital through the weekend. It may come as no surprise that the story of their rescue may become a movie. Film producers have been on the ground in Thailand scouting.

M	Cave diver Jim Warny (35) has been in far more extreme subterranean conditions than Tham Luang in northern Thailand, where he was part of the team that rescued 12 young soccer players and their coach last week. The Burren and Slieve Aughty lowlands, where the Belgian national has set new exploration records, are highly challenging, and he has been in far tighter situations in several parts of the world, most recently in Mexico.
7	However, he says what made the difference last week was “the psychological factor” and knowing the lives of boys only a few years older than his son, Ciarán (9), were at stake. When Warny, who lives in Co Clare, became one of the lead divers in the last stages of the rescue, he was responsible for navigating the sedated soccer coach Ekapol Chantawong (25) to safety through much of the 4km cave system.
M	What made the entire rescue a “miracle”, in his view, was that no one person was in charge. The death of former Thai navy Seal diver Saman Kunan had convinced the Thai authorities that a purely military style approach would not work.
M	The Lufthansa electrician took up cave diving 20 years ago, and exploration became his passion after he moved to Ireland. One of his friends was Polish explorer Artur Kozlowski, and the two of them set a new Irish-British record for a 4km traverse of a water-filled system in the Gort lowlands in 2010.
6	When Kozlowski went missing during an attempted traverse of the Pollonora cave system near Kiltartan in 2011, Warny located his friend’s body at a depth of 52m. Two of the leading British cave rescuers, fireman Rick Stanton and IT consultant John Volanthen, worked with Warny on that operation. “These were people I had looked up to and learned from, because cave exploration is something you have to be mentored in,” he says. It was Volathen who found the 12 boys and their coach on a narrow ledge on July 2nd, and from then on Warny was waiting for a call.
M	He flew out on July 6th. Like mountaineers, cave divers have to manage risk, be self sufficient, but accept that in a subterranean environment there is little or no chance of rescue – only, as his late friend Kozlowski told this newspaper, “recovery if you are lucky”.
7	“You compartmentalise your thoughts, and you have to go in knowing you can answer every question,” Warny says. It was difficult to focus en route to northern Thailand, with “so much information”, but once he was in situ he knew it was “within my comfort zone”. “At the same time, nothing could really prepare any one of us for this,which was something we had never experienced,” he says.
5	In a highly claustrophobic, airless, dark and dank environment, panic attacks are a hazard that every cave diver has to train for. It became clear that the only safe way to take the boys and their coach out was to sedate them, and transport them, sometimes submerged, on stretchers equipped with oxygen.
7	Fortunately Australian diver Dr Richard Harris, who was part of the international diving team, specialises in anaesthesiology. On his first day, Warny was a support diver as part of the chain, pushing, sliding, carrying the stretchers over a period of five and six hours at a time.
7	Whereas the first 1km of the cave system could be walked through, the latter recesses were “fairly tight”, he says. “It was never so tight that we had to take our gas bottles off,” he says, adding that visibility was very poor and down to “touch” in some places.
8	On his third day down, he was one of the main divers charged with bringing the coach out for most of the route. “ The coach had said he wanted to be the last to leave, but it was not his call, and so he was ninth out, and he was also sedated,” Warny says. Rising water levels on that final day and a breakdown in pumps provided a tight finish, but those still inside the cave system at that point had diving gear, he says.
X	After a weekend at home in Clare, Warny was back at work on Tuesday. His partner, Asia, and father, Rene, welcomed him home at Shannon. His mother, Rita, who died last year, “would worry about me, but she trusted me in what I did”, he says.
X	Asked for his views on Elon Musk’s criticism of one caver on Twitter – after Musk’s offer of a submarine was turned down – Warny says the remarks were “uncalled for”. “Vern Unsworth, the expatriate diver who knows the Tham Luang cave system, was really important in helping us,” he says. Warny would love to return to Thailand, knows film rights are already being talked about and wouldn’t mind being involved.

6	Thai authorities say a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave died from lack of oxygen. Petty Officer First Class Saman Kunan, a former member of Thailand's elite Navy SEAL unit who was part of the rescue team in Chiang Rai, died on Thursday night after entering the cave to lay oxygen tanks along a potential exit route, the SEAL commander said.
6	SEAL commander Arpakorn Yookongkaew told a news conference on Friday morning the rescuer was working in a volunteer capacity and died during an overnight mission in which he was placing oxygen canisters. The ABC understands he was diving late at night to get to the chamber where the boys are trapped. Loading... Petty Officer Saman, 38, set out at 8:37pm local time to deliver three oxygen tanks from chamber three to where the boys and their coach are located.
6	He completed his task but on the way back lost consciousness. His diving partner performed CPR but was unable to revive him.
6	Petty Officer Saman was brought to chamber three but was pronounced dead about 1:00am (local time) on Friday. He is one of about 80 Thai Navy SEALs.
M	They make up the bulk of the divers that are running the rescue effort. Rear Admiral Arpakorn said despite the tragedy, the rescuers "will continue until we accomplish our mission". "In that 1,700-metre section [it] is very treacherous," he said.
M	"Last night's operation was to bring the oxygen tanks to the mound, which should take about five to six hours each way, so altogether it takes about 12 hours. "This is what we train for, this is what we have to face, an incident like this can always happen but we're not losing our motivation. He said Thailand's King had ordered a royally-endorsed funeral ceremony.
6	Loading... Petty Officer Saman was a former clearance diver for the Navy SEALs, and Thai media has reported he was more recently working in a security role at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi Airport.
M	Thai authorities are racing to pump out water from a flooded cave where 12 boys and their soccer coach have been trapped since June 23. A navy source, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the ABC three factors were driving the urgency — the water level inside the cave, the amount of oxygen available, and the health of the boys and their coach. "The pressure we are experiencing comes from working against the weather, as the forecasts tell us there will be heavy rain in this area within 48 hours," he said.
M	The soccer team was trapped in a cave system known as Tham Luang, surviving for nine days before rescue divers found them on a muddy ledge. The navy source said two of the boys were in a weaker condition, as was the 25-year-old coach, who sacrificed his share of their meagre food supplies to give to the boys. The source said rescue coordinators faced tough choices and there were differences of opinion among those providing assessments.

6	His Majesty the King has posthumously promoted former Navy Seal Saman Gunan, who died helping save the 12 schoolboys and their football coach trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave, to the rank of lieutenant commander -- an unprecedented rise of seven ranks. The announcement of the posthumous promotion of Petty Officer 1st class Saman was published in the Royal Gazette on Saturday. The King also bestowed a royal decoration -- Knight Grand Cross (First Class) of the Most Exalted Order of the White Elephant -- on the late retired Navy Seal for dedicating his life to the operation to rescue the 13 people trapped in the flooded cave in Chiang Rai. Saman, a 37-year-old former member of the Navy’s elite Underwater Demolition Unit (known as Seals), lost consciousness during a dive while returning rescuers’ used air tanks to Chamber 3 inside the flooded cave in Mae Sai district on July 6. He did not recover. He had left the Navy to work for Airports of Thailand Plc as a security official at Suvarnabhumi airport and was taking time off from work to help his former Seal colleagues with the rescue mission. A large crowd of mourners converged on Wat Ban Nong Khu in Chatuphak Piman district of Roi Et province on Saturday to bid a final farewell to Saman. Navy Seals, police and rescue workers were present to assist the mourners attending the royally sponsored funeral rite.
6	His Majesty the King assigned Privy councillor Gen Surayud Chulanont to preside over the ceremony at 4pm on Saturday. Navy chief Naris Prathumsuwan, senior navy officers and Navy Seals attended the rite.

6	CHIANG RAI: Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat has said he will use his own funds to build a colossal statue of the former Navy Seal who died during the Tham Luang rescue mission. Mr Chalermchai, also the creator of Wat Rong Khun in Muang district of this northern province, said he planned to organise an activity in honour of Petty Officer 1st class Saman Kunan, and build the statue to be put in the Tham Luang Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park in Mae Sai district, where the flooded Tham Luang cave is situated. The artist said he would use his own money to fund the creation in remembrance of PO1 Saman's sacrifice as only a few good people could risk his life like that.
M	As a native of Chiang Rai, he wanted to show the former Seal’s good deeds to other people, said the national artist. He shared Thais’ feelings when they saw all 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach rescued safely. He also saw it as a good opportunity to turn the crisis that happened in the province into an opportunity. Aside from the planned creation of the late PO1 Saman, he would create a large painting, about three metres wide and 13 metres long, featuring the 13 members of the football team venturing into the cave and then trapped inside by floods, as well as the rescue efforts by divers and volunteers from many countries.
M	He already began working on a sketch of this artwork which would be finished in the next 1-2 days. Many fellow artists would join him in the painting it at the Art Bridge Chiang Rai centre in tambon Ban Doo, Muang district, he said.
M	The artwork, to be painted in sepia tones, would be kept at the Tham Luang cave, in which a large exhibition hall would be built. There would be other paintings and drawings inside the cave, which would be turned into a museum and new tourist attraction of the province, said the national artist.
M	“Don’t worry about the budget. I'm not a person who likes to show off good deeds. Over 300 fellow artists in Chiang Rai will join me in creating this work.
6	We want to turn the Tham Luang cave into a new tourist venue worth a visit and study. The statue of 'Ja Sam' (nickname of Pretty Office 1st class Saman) will be twice life-size,’’ said Chalermchai. He would seek permission from the Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation as the statue would be built in the national park.

1	The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a cave decided to allow the boys that live furthest away to be rescued first.
1	25-year-old coach Ekapol Chanthawong said the boys were not chosen based on the state of their health, as had previously been reported. Rather the boys that lived furthest away were could ride their bikes home and tell concerned families and authorities that they were okay.
1	The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a flooded cave decided to allow the boys that live furthest away to be rescued first. It had been previously reported Australian doctor-diver Richard Harris had helped decide which boys to take out first, reportedly the weakest or the bravest of the boys. But at a press conference on Wednesday evening, Ekapol said the boys were not chosen based on the state of their health, but rather were chosen based on who lived the furthest away.
1	According to the boys' 25-year-old coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, it was the entire team, under the guidance of international divers and the Thai Navy SEALS, who decided which boys to rescue from the cave first. Ultimately the team decided those who lived the furthest away were to be extracted first so they could ride their bikes and tell concerned families and authorities that they were okay. "We put the hopes on them to tell the families we are coming out and prepare food," Ekapol said.
8	All of the boys and coach Ekapol were rescued after surviving up to 17 days inside the cave. The team had only intended to spend an hour there on June 23, as many of the boys had been before, but became trapped after heavy rains caused the cave's chambers to quickly flood.
M	The boys survived by finding higher ground and drinking cave water. Ekapol taught them how to meditate and they took turns digging a 16-foot-deep hole into the cave's wall in an attempt to leave. "We ask everyone to give them personal space and time to be with their families and go to school," they said.

M	When 12 boys and their football coach were trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand, the nation launched a massive rescue mission that grew to involve 10,000 people. Think you already know the story? Think again. In exclusive interviews, we hear how experienced Navy SEALs braved unfamiliar conditions that turned 5-hour dives into 23-hour ones. How teams of young men and bird's nest collectors helped scour the mountain for any cracks in the earth that might lead to where the boys waited. How geologists and ordinary Thais alike came together to control the rising waters in the cave. And how the leaders of the rescue mission coped with the pressures of the unprecedented mission. Coupled with high-end animation, this documentary unpacks how events unfolded over 17 dramatic days in Tham Luang Cave.

X	A Kiwi diver who spent seven hours in the Thai cave helping rescue four boys and their coach has described the tense rescue mission.
5	Ross Schnauer, 43, was among the rescue team that extracted the last remaining boys from Tham Luang Nang Non cave on Monday, after the football team of 13 players and their coach had been stuck for 18 days. Schnauer, originally from Auckland, has been living in Thailand for 15 years and works as a diver for offshore oil and gas construction all over the world.
7	After returning from a job in Scotland on Sunday, he messaged his friend and commercial diver Fernando Raigal who was involved in the rescue efforts, and Schnauer was called upon for help. "Basically I flew from Bangkok to Chiang Mai the next morning, went straight to the staging area at the cave and joined in with the Thai Navy Seals," he said.
7	Schnauer was grouped with three other rescuers who were stationed at the end of the dive zone and responsible for carrying the boys out of the cave. "I was a little bit nervous, I have got to be honest. The Navy Seals told us where we would be and what to expect," he said.
7	"The cavern we were in had a fairly high ceiling and was about the size of a basketball court, but obviously an odd shape. It was very rocky on both sides.
7	Schnauer said they got about five minutes notice when a boy was near the cavern, and everybody would get tense in anticipation. "When they came out of the water they were put on a stretcher, their oxygen was changed and the first aid guys checked them over. "Then we stood in pairs ready to receive them and move them along in a chain.
7	Schnauer said everyone was focused on the task at hand and the particular role they had to play. "The section of cave we were in was very rocky and unstable. You had to be very careful where you put your feet," he said.
8	Schnauer said once all the boys were out of the cave, everyone was very happy but also keen to get out of the cave. "When the divers came out we were obviously congratulating them and helping them with their gear, but I think they just wanted to get out of there because they had been in there a long time.
M	It was pretty impressive," he said. Schnauer said he played "a small role" in the rescue efforts but the success of the operation showed what teamwork can achieve.
M	"The teamwork that they went through to get them out is quite phenomenal really. "It showed what people can do when they all collectively come up with a way to do something that has never been done before, and work together," he said.
M	"Everybody played a part and everybody volunteered to go there and help out. It was nice to be a part of that

M	As fans around the globe gathered for the World Cup soccer tournament in late June, monsoon rains trapped a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach in a remote cave in Thailand.
M	The team knew the cave network, Tham Luang, well but heavy rains caught them off guard. Located two miles from Thailand’s border with Myanmar, the cave’s constant stream turns into a river during monsoon season.
M	Once friends and family realized the boys were trapped, rescuers rallied. But rising frigid water and dangerous swift currents thwarted rescue efforts, dimming hopes for those keeping vigil.
M	The Thai people turned out in strong support. Expert climbers from Libong Island, who scale cliffs to collect edible bird’s nests, used their generations-old skills to search the steepest terrain.
M	Farmers delayed planting and villagers dropped daily tasks to assist. An outpouring of aid and around-the-clock cooking of meals helped sustain rescuers.
X	Most search-and-rescue missions start with a map to guide the operation and coordinate tools, supplies, and personnel. Today’s maps, created in a geographic information system (GIS), bring in all types of data to query and explore.
M	In cases of cave rescue, workers rely on maps to correlate the underground world to the land above. The war room at the Geohazard Operation Center became the epicenter for map creation and map-based discussions. Early on, the Thailand Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) pulled in GIS and mapping experts from Esri Thailand and GIS Company to create a variety of maps to help locate the boys.
M	While rescuers searched, heavy rains and surging water levels in the cave made it too dangerous for divers to enter. The force of the currents ripped off diving masks and sent divers drifting too far from the guide ropes used to keep them on course.
M	The Royal Irrigation Department placed high-capacity pumps inside the cave early on but they did not immediately reduce water levels. DMR staff and the mapping teams had to find a new approach.
M	They added prior cave surveys [see sidebar] to the GIS to make maps that showed the complete picture of the cave surface both above and below. Staff from the Royal Irrigation Department surveyed the area’s geology using electrical resistivity techniques. Mapping experts interpreted the data to find sinkholes that might be acting as water funnels and they created 3D maps to show where above-ground streams stopped and went underground. Volunteers followed the maps to conduct a hiking survey of hillsides, noting the direction and volume of flowing water.
M	Experts conferred with GIS-based data and analytics to review and model water diversion options. A team, made up of Department of Royal Irrigation engineers, experts from the Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation, and soldiers from the Royal Army, worked together to construct dams to divert water flow.
M	They ran long pipelines from a sinkhole above the northern part of the cave to nearby rice paddy fields. Despite ongoing rains, water levels started to drop. A 3D map showing the extent and direction of water flow on the hill in relation to the cave below helped to pinpoint the placement of dams and pipes that greatly reduced the rise of water.
M	Responders set up a rescue operation war room at the Geohazard Operation Center. From this central location, they planned and coordinated activities using a digital twin of the cave. As the world watched, the clock kept ticking, rain continued to fall, and oxygen inside the cave started to run out.
M	Help from within Thailand turned out in force. His Majesty King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun of Thailand declared it a national priority.
M	More than 10,000 volunteers and workers from Thailand responded including 2,000 soldiers, 150 Thai Navy SEAL divers, and representatives from more than 100 government agencies. Cave diving and logistics experts flew in from around the world, with individuals and teams from Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, India, Israel, Japan, Laos, the Netherlands, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. With so many responders and experts assembled, and water levels safely lowered, the dive team was ready to set out in search of the missing boys.
5	They first studied maps depicting the cave’s twists, turns, and dimensions to help navigate difficult passages and mentally mark their progress inside the cave. Then they laid out guide ropes and spare oxygen tanks along the path they would take.
M	In the maze of passageways and chambers, divers checked every dead-end of the cave network and marked off each one on their maps. Meanwhile, on the surface, the Royal Army searched for alternative cave entrances using topographic terrain maps and high-resolution aerial photos from the Royal Thai Survey department. Engineers, hoping to find a place to drill, explored 3D cross-section maps to calculate the distance to the center of the cave from multiple angles.
3	Nine days into the search, British cave diving experts found the team gathered on a muddy shelf more than two miles from the cave entrance and one mile underground. The boys’ discovery kicked off a frantic phase of extraction plans as rain kept pouring and the team waited in jeopardy. Initially, one government official suggested the boys might have to remain in place for four months until waters receded.
M	But, map-based calculations revealed that cave oxygen levels would not sustain them that long. Despite the urgent situation, the boys’ soccer coach kept his team calm using Buddhist techniques of meditation and slow breathing—a feat that also conserved energy and air.
M	As the mission shifted from search to rescue, the mapping team collected sensor readings on water and oxygen levels at the cave entrance, at 300 meters, and at 1,500 meters. Hourly map updates showed current water depth and air quality, alerting rescuers to changing conditions. The mapping team also monitored weather radar feeds to forecast and understand the volume of rain falling at the surface.
M	Six days after the boys were located, divers continued to stage the rescue under nearly impossible conditions. They needed a way to reduce their travel time from the surface to the cave shelf where the team stayed huddled. The trip was taking an average of nine hours and few of the boys knew how to swim or dive.
6	One courageous Thai Navy SEAL diver working on the oxygen supply problem lost his life. Meanwhile, Army teams and volunteers continued to search the surface for alternate entrances, and engineers planned for the drilling contingency.
M	It was July 9 and, by then, the plight of this soccer team and the intense rescue mission had become a major news story. After trying many extraction ideas, divers devised a solution that combined a clever sled and the use of full-face dive masks.
7	To resounding relief, they guided the first four boys out of the cave. On July 12, a full 18 days since the team first entered the cave, divers led the final group of boys and their coach to the surface.
M	Their ordeal finally ended. And just at the last boys left the cave, a water pump failed flooding the area and intensifying the drama.
X	Hear from those involved in mapping Cave and Karst terrain via this GeoNet community. Learn more about how location technology informs all types of emergency management operations. Following is a gallery with a timeline, indicating how the events unfolded alongside a description of the map products that were created. June 23, 2018:
M	Rising water trapped 12 children and their coach in a cave in Thailand, a country with one of the world’s most concentrated collections of caves. This map, made using cave data from the Caves and Caving in Thailand website, puts the country’s caves into context. 24 – 27 June 2018: Thailand's government and private agencies formed search and rescue teams.
M	Many maps were distributed via social media, but mapping experts knew they lacked accuracy. June 27, 2018: Esri Thailand and GIS Company joined the search and rescue mission, aiding the Department of Mineral Resources.
M	A staff member digs into the work at the Geohazard Operation Center in the image above. The search-and-rescue team first attempted to pump the water out of the cave, but there was no significant reduction of the water level.
M	June 28, 2018: The mapping team could not find accurate and reliable data of the hilly topography.
M	So, they generated a digital elevation model and gathered aerial imagery as well as cave survey data from a 1986 French cave survey mission. This data informed a variety of maps, including a 3D map and a cave cross-section map. The traditional topographic map, above, puts 3D heights and distances into context. June 29, 2018:
M	Heavy rainfall caused rising water levels inside the cave, hindering the dive rescue team. The mapping team analyzed drainage basin details, water flow direction, and flow accumulation to determine locations to divert water flow.
M	The Royal Irrigation Department conducted an electrical resistivity survey to reveal geology around the cave. This underground detail appears in the image above.
M	Teams translated the book, Caves of Thailand: Volume 2: Northern Thailand by Martin Ellis. Details from a cave survey by British surveyors from 2015 were added to the map. June 30 to July 1, 2018: Rescue teams built a stone diversion dam above the northern part of the cave, but water levels didn’t diminish.
M	Martin Ellis sent the team a more detailed cave map with passage cross sections. The team georeferenced this map (a section is seen above) to provide real-world dimensions of passages and distances between sections. The dive team used this map for context when planning and operating the search mission. July 2, 2018: On this day, the 12 kids and their coach were found within the cave in the area called Nom Sao Hill.
M	Water levels continued to rise due to heavy rainfall. The field team diverted water above the southern part of the cave. Experts, pictured above, gather around a map to discuss diversion strategy.
M	July 3-4, 2018: The field team diverted water flow by building more stone dams upstream above the southern part of the cave. Hourly monitoring of water levels in the cave (shown in the report above) indicated a reduction in water depth.
M	However, oxygen readings indicated dangerously low levels. July 5-8, 2018: 3D analysis supported distance and angle calculations for a possible rescue by drilling an escape shaft (see image above). Ongoing efforts monitored water levels and rainfall intensity.
8	July 9, 2018: The first four boys were rescued. July 10, 2018:
8	The second group of four boys was rescued. July 11, 2018: The final four boys and their coach were rescued. Esri Thailand created this interactive story map to reveal the geological details of the area and describe the mission.

7	Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand have been freed in a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday.
7	The first two boys emerged from the cave wearing full-face scuba masks just after 5.30pm local time (11.30 BST) on Sunday, and were embraced by the divers who led them out, said Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation. Two hours later, another two boys were brought out about 10 minutes apart – hours ahead of even the most optimistic predictions authorities had given earlier that day. The four received preliminary health checks at the scene and were taken to a hospital in Chiang Rai, the nearest major city, he said. One was airlifted and three arrived by ambulance.
7	Osatanakorn did not name the boys who were rescued first, or reveal the basis on which they were selected. Parents waiting at the cave site did not know which boys had undertaken the dangerous two-mile journey out.
7	Namhom Boonpiam, the mother of Mongkhol, 14, said she was tracking unconfirmed reports on social media that her son was the first boy freed. “I just heard his name, Mongkhol, and I was happy enough,” she said. She is sleeping at the cave site along with many other parents awaiting the next stage of the rescue operation, scheduled to begin some time after 7am on Monday.
7	Osatanakorn was applauded at a press conference on Sunday after announcing the four boys had been brought out, but he said: “Our job is not completely done. He said rescuers needed between 10 and 20 hours to rest and prepare their equipment.
7	“Air tanks and systems have to be put in place again,” Osatanakorn said. Osatanakorn had earlier referred to Sunday as “D-Day” for the 16-day rescue operation.
5	Heavy monsoon rain overnight and the sudden exclusion of journalists from the cave site in the morning had led to rumours that almost a week since divers found the boys, they were launching the operation to retrieve them. He said water levels inside the cave had dropped by 30cm on Saturday, allowing the boys to walk about half the jagged, muddy path from the slope where they have been sheltering with their 25-year-old coach for 15 nights. An elite group of 10 international cave divers, working with five Thai navy Seals, entered the cave at about 10am, with some heading for the boys’ chamber and others stationed a few hundred metres away at an area called Monk’s Junction. A second group of three foreign divers entered at about 2pm “to support diving efforts”, according to a statement issued by the command centre, with additional rescuers in place helping operate a rope system in a difficult middle stretch of the track.
7	Richard Harris, an Australian doctor with extensive cave-diving experience, went into the chamber on Saturday, examined the boys and approved them for the operation, authorities said. He was also part of the rescue.
5	Authorities had spent the week in a race against time, trying to drain as much water from the cave as possible to give the children the easiest possible path to the exit before the arrival of monsoon rains at the weekend. On Sunday morning, Osatanakorn said the one-mile path from the cave entrance to the third chamber that has been a staging ground for the operation was not completely dry but mostly walkable. “Yesterday the water levels were the lowest they had been,” he said.
5	He declined to say whether the boys would need to dive at all in the 1.1-mile journey from where they are sheltering to the third chamber. “What I can tell you is that there are many parts that they can walk,” he said. Divers had said the return journey to the boys had been taking about 11 hours during the week – six to reach them and five to return.
5	A 25-year-old Thai navy Seal, who declined to be named, described one of the most difficult parts of the journey. “The hole is really small, I have to take off my air tank to crawl through it. As I do, I feel the edges of the hole on both my back and chest,” he said.
7	Authorities had predicted no boy would emerge before 9pm at the earliest, but about three hours earlier, journalists posted outside the cave site began reporting the movements of ambulances and aircraft. Soon after, divers and Thai navy officials at the site began confirming two boys had been released – and then, hours later, potentially more. At 9pm, Osatanakorn called a second press conference and confirmed four boys had been freed. “The operation was more successful than we expected,” Osatanakorn said.
M	The former governor of Chiang Rai province has emerged as the public face of the rescue operation, which has captivated and unified Thais for more than a fortnight. Osatanakorn had officially been transferred to a governorship in the smaller, neighbouring province of Phayao since the boys became stuck in the cave on 23 June. But his training as an engineer and his management skills earned him a continuing role as head of the command centre.
M	His leadership has won him national popularity, including calls on social media that he become prime minister. Thailand’s navy Seals have also been in the spotlight, posting a picture on their official Facebook page after the start of the operation of three men gripping each others’ wrists. “We, the Thai team and the international team, will bring the Wild Boars home,” they wrote, in reference to the boys’ football team.

M	MAE SAI, Thailand (AP) -- Authorities overseeing the rescue operation for 12 boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave in northern Thailand said they have a "limited amount of time" to get them out, as they raced against worsening weather and lessening oxygen underground.
M	The massive operation inside and around Tham Luang Nang Non cave suffered its first death Friday when a former Thai navy SEAL passed out underwater and could not be revived. Oxygen levels are decreasing because of the amount of workers inside the cave and workers were trying to run an oxygen line into the chambers in addition to the oxygen canisters used by divers, Chiang Rai province Gov. Narongsak Osatanakorn said late Thursday.
4	A senior army commander, Maj. Gen. Chalongchai Chaiyakam, said the most pressing mission is the oxygen line. It is tied to a telephone line to provide a channel of communication for the kids, who are stuck deep in the complex but are being looked after by four SEALs, including a medic.
M	The boys, aged 11-16, and their 25-year-old coach went exploring in the cave after a soccer game June 23. Monsoon flooding cut off their escape and prevented rescuers from finding them for almost 10 days as the only way to reach them was by navigating dark and tight passageways filled with muddy water and strong currents.
5	Authorities have been racing to pump out water from the cave before more storms in the coming days raise the water levels again. At this time though, diving is the only possible method of escape, even though cave rescue experts warn it is extremely dangerous even for those with experience.
6	Friday's death of the former SEAL underscores those risks. The diver was working in a volunteer capacity and died during an overnight mission in which he was placing oxygen canisters along the route divers use to get to the children, Arpakorn said. The strategically placed canisters allow divers to stay underwater for longer during what is about a five-hour trip to reach the stranded team.
6	While underwater, the rescuer passed out and efforts to resuscitate him failed, Arpakorn said. Another navy official said he didn't believe the man's oxygen tank ran out.
M	"Despite this, we will continue until we accomplish our mission," Arpakorn said. The governor has said the 13 may not be extracted at the same time, depending on their condition.
5	They boys are weak but for the most part physically healthy. They've practiced wearing diving masks and breathing, in preparation for the diving possibility. Officials prefer to get the boys out as soon as possible because heavy rain is expected by Saturday.
M	They are hoping that an upgraded draining effort can lower the water in an area where it is still at or near the ceiling. The idea is to get some headroom so the boys would not be reliant on scuba apparatus for a long stretch and could keep their heads above water. Cave rescue experts have said it could be safest to simply supply the boys where they are, and wait for the flooding to subside.
M	That could take months, however, given that Thailand's rainy season typically lasts through October. And without proper oxygen levels, staying put could also prove deadly.

8	An elite team of Thai navy SEALs and foreign rescue divers brought out the final four boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave near the Thai-Myanmar border, extracting the team through a labyrinth of tight passages after they spent two weeks trapped in darkness.
7	The operation on Tuesday moved quickly, raising hopes that all 12 boys and their adult coach from the Wild Boars soccer team would be at the surface by the end of the day. "We are not sure if this is a miracle, a science, or what.
8	All the thirteen Wild Boars are now out of the cave," the Thai navy SEALs team, which is helping to lead the operation, said on its Facebook page. One by one, the last of the remaining four boys were carried to ambulances that whisked them to evacuation helicopters and finally, on to the hospital.
M	Also emerging from the cave: a doctor who has treated the 13 stranded people after they were found last Monday, and several Thai navy SEAL divers who helped to carry out the complicated and precarious rescue operation. The boys, ranging in age from 11 to 16, and their coach, 25, set out to explore the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system on June 23, but they became trapped after heavy rains quickly flooded passages. Divers finally located them on July 2, allowing emergency crews to send them food and supplies. Eight boys had been taken out in the past two days — four on Sunday and another four on Monday.
M	The operation included stashing tanks of air on the long route to safety, a process that took hours to set up between rescue missions. Dr. Richard Harris, an Australian anesthetist who is also well-known as an expert cave diver, has been helping to treat the boys and ensure their safe removal.
M	As The Sydney Morning Herald reports, Harris remained in the cave after the last boy left on Tuesday. For more than a week, officials have been pumping millions of gallons of water out of the cave, trying to combat heavy rains on Sunday and Monday. They also worried about dwindling oxygen levels in the cave. Acting Chiang Rai Gov. Narongsak Osottanakorn, who is also head of the joint command center, said that 18 divers and a support team of 100 took nine hours in the second phase of rescues at the Tham Luang cave on Monday, as opposed to 11 hours on Sunday.
7	"We have more expertise than yesterday," he said on Tuesday. The boys rescued so far are in good overall health despite spending two weeks in the dank cave system, said Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, permanent secretary of the ministry of public health, at a news conference in Chiang Rai.
7	Jesada said the first four boys who were taken out are now eating well. The parents were allowed to see their children through glass at the hospital, according to the BBC's Jonathan Head.
M	Describing the rescue operation's final phase, Narongsak said that divers were resting and replenishing air tanks — and hoping for good weather. "If the rain god helps us, then we may be able to work fast," Narongsak told reporters earlier on Tuesday. The boys' ordeal has transfixed millions of people, as a massive rescue effort was planned and mounted. "Although his technology is good and sophisticated, it's not practical for this mission," Narongsak said of Musk's mini-sub.

M	The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand spent another night almost a kilometer underground, after officials coordinating the rescue said they won’t attempt to move them before Thursday.
M	New video released by the Thai Navy SEALs Wednesday showed the boys wrapped in foil blankets for warmth, as they speak up one by one, introducing themselves and saying “I am healthy.” One said “thank you” to everyone who is waiting for their rescue.
M	Claus Rasmussen, who is part of the rescue team, said the boys have told divers they heard dogs barking, a rooster crowing and children playing. That information now has teams looking at whether there is a chimney or hole they can access instead of trying to get the boys out through the water.
M	At least one plan to bring the boys back to the surface include having the teammates, aged 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach, dive through the narrow flooded tunnels in full-face diving masks. The plight of the boys and their coach has captured the world’s attention.
M	Former Real Madrid and Brazil soccer legend Ronaldo spoke to CNN at an event in Russia about the soccer team. Saturday, June 23 Twelve boys and a coach from the Wild Boars soccer team go missing.
1	Search and rescue missions begin after officials suspect they are trapped inside a cave complex by floods caused by monsoon rains. Sunday, June 24 A search and rescue team finds bags and sandals 3 km inside the cave but are forced to suspend the search because of rising waters.
1	Monday, June 25 Thai Royal Navy Seal divers reach the cave and find handprints on the wall, but pause the search again because of flooding. Rescue operations begin pumping out water.
2	Tuesday, June 26 Heavy rains stop helicopters from searching for other entrances to the cave. Wednesday, June 27 Approximately 1,000 army & navy troops along with local volunteers join the search.
2	By nightfall, help from rescue specialists from the US military and the UK also arrives. Thursday, June 28 Heavy duty pumps are brought in to combat the floodwaters, but heavy rains force rescuers to pause for five hours. Friday, June 29 Teams from China join the multinational rescue effort.
2	Saturday, June 30 Australia also sends in experts. Sunday, July 1 Experts from at least six countries, led by Thai Navy Seals continue working to reach the caves.
3	More equipment is flown in by plane. Monday, July 2 Contact made: Two British divers find all 12 boys and their coach alive, perched on a shelf above the floodwaters deep inside the cave.
4	Tuesday, July 3 Thai Navy Seals bring medical help, fresh water, food and blankets to the team. Wednesday, July 4 Experts debate how best to evacuate the boys, while officials begin evacuation drills to prepare the team for when its time to leave the cave.
M	“It’s terrible news and the world of football hopes that someone can find a way to take these kids out of there,” he said. Austria and Leicester City star Christian Fuchs sent a video message of support Wednesday.
M	Fuchs won the Premier League title with Thai-owned Leicester in 2016. In a press conference Wednesday morning, Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said it would be “difficult” to bring them out Wednesday.
M	He said he didn’t want to give an estimate on when they could be brought out and be reunited with their families. “All I can say is everyone is working very hard here.
M	Everyone is working their hardest. They haven’t rested since day one,” he said. To keep the boys’ spirits up, authorities are attempting to set up phone lines inside the cave to allow them to talk to their parents.
M	However, attempts to install the cables have been unsuccessful so far, Maj. Gen. Bancha Duriyaphan said. One cable suffered water damage as divers transported it “around small passages.”
M	Teams are attempting to take in a new one. “When the telephone line is ready, we will have relatives talk to them. The pressure will be immensely reduced,” Maj. Gen. Chalongchai Chaiyakum, another military spokesman, said.
4	It’s now been over 48 hours since the boys were first located by two British divers, and while SEAL divers have been able to reach them with food and medicine, conditions mean it’s currently too risky to bring them out the same way the divers came in. It’s is a long, hazardous dive, even for the experienced Navy SEAL divers. Eight members of the navy team, as well as a doctor and nurse, are staying with the kids and their coach in the cave overnight, the Thai Royal Navy said in a Facebook post early Thursday.
4	The insignia of the SEALs has been etched onto a rock face in the cave, video from the group’s Facebook page shows. Initial medical check-ups showed the boys to be in good health.
4	Video showed some being treated for scrapes and mild rashes. The doctor, Lt. Col. Park Loharachun, hasn’t left the boys’ side since diving into the cavern.
5	The divers are making the complicated dive back and forth to the small, cramped shelf where the boys have sheltered within the flooded cave complex. The group has been given high-protein gels to rebuild their strength.
4	After the initial contact with the British divers – two volunteer specialists who flew in to help with the search – the SEAL team returned to give the boys a meal of grilled pork and sticky rice, along with milk. The focus now is on getting the teammates ready for the journey ahead.
5	On Wednesday, the children – some of whom can’t swim – practiced wearing the full-face oxygen masks they’ll need to wear to survive the journey out. They’ve tried using the equipment and breathing with it, but haven’t been submerged in the flood water, Osottanakorn said, as currents are too strong. The plan is to bring them out at different times, depending on their strength.
5	“They don’t have to leave all at once. Those who are ready can come out first.
5	We are reassessing the situation daily. We have to see they are ready.
5	Therefore if we found any risk we won’t carry out the (evacuation) plan,” he added. A sense of urgency persists with unpredictable weather and the threat of more rain that could further flood the chambers. The governor said water is still being pumped out of the cave “at full speed” to reduce water levels.
7	Days of relatively fine weather have given rescuers a window to prepare for the moment the boys eventually emerge from the cave. Soldiers dressed in green fatigues practiced evacuation drills, linking arms to form a human wall around the mouth of the cave.
M	Debate remains over the best way to bring the boys to safety. Given their weakness after a week with no food, trapped in the dark, and their unfamiliarity with scuba systems, some experts say it’s too difficult to bring a group of novices through a cave system that has made even caving experts nervous. The rescue in Thailand is “one of the toughest I’ve seen,” Anmar Mirza, national coordinator of the National Cave Rescue Commission and a rescue diver with 30 years’ experience, told CNN.

M	It's a race against time and mother nature to drain the partly flooded cave. With heavy rains forecast for this weekend, rescuers are racing against time and mother nature to drain a partly flooded cave in northern Thailand where 12 boys and their soccer coach have been trapped for days.
5	Thai officials had said earlier this week that the boys were practicing breathing in diving masks in case heavy rain forces the group to swim and dive out the same way rescuers entered. But on Thursday, authorities told ABC News that they are no longer pursuing that option amid concerns that something could go awry or the boys could panic underwater.
7	Instead, authorities said rescue crews will focus on pumping out water from flooded passageways leading to the chamber inside Tham Luang Nang where the boys and their coach were found on July 2. They are also drilling into the rock inside the cave to widen some of the narrow passageways while crews outside continue scouring the region's rugged jungle-covered terrain for any natural shafts that connect to the cave network below.
7	Thai officials are working with engineering experts to build a stone dam at a stream located south of Tham Luang Nang Non to divert the flow of water into the vast cave complex. Thai Public Broadcasting Service (TPBS), a public and independent broadcaster in Thailand, reported that officials expect the water level inside the cave to decrease by approximately 30 to 50 centimeters per hour within the dam. Pumping can reduce the water level by 1 to 2 centimeters per hour.
1	The boys, between the ages of 11 and 16, hiked into Tham Luang Nang Non, Thailand's longest cave, with their 25-year-old soccer coach after practice on June 23. It's believed that the coach often brought his team to the popular tourist site in mountainous Chiang Rai province for fun excursions.
3	But as the group ventured deeper into the complex, the sky opened up and it began to rain, flooding the cave and cutting off their escape. The group forged ahead before finding a raised, dry chamber where they were stranded in total darkness.
2	Thai officials launched a massive search and rescue operation in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park involving more than 1,000 people, including specialists drafted from various nations such as Australia, China, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. The search and rescue teams tried anything they could to locate the boys and their coach -- deploying ultrasonic sensors into the cave, drilling through the rock and dropping survival packages down holes they found above ground in hopes the supplies would reach the group. More than a week later, two British cave divers found all 13 alive on a slope called Nern Nom Sao that's about three miles from the cave's main entrance. It took the divers, John Volanthen and Richard Stanton, nearly six hours to navigate through a treacherous maze of caverns and tunnels, both dry and flooded, with some barely wide enough for their diving equipment.
4	Thai authorities said Royal Thai Navy members, a medical doctor and a nurse have been looking after the group ever since, providing them with high-protein drinks and medical assessments. While they were in relatively good shape, some of the boys complained of being weak from stress and lack of food while others suffered from minor injuries, such as scrapes and cuts.
4	Crews are also working on installing electricity and a fiber optic phone line in the cave so the boys can speak with their families waiting anxiously outside. "Currently, all 13 are regaining physical strength while the water level is continuously decreasing. Thirteen sets of life-saving equipment have been prepared for them," the Thai government said in its statement Thursday.
7	Rescuers took advantage of the relatively dry weather this week by pumping out as much water as possible from the cave. Thai authorities said Thursday that the pumping has been "carried out efficiently," with only one chamber adjacent to Nern Nom Sao slope under water. Thai groundwater specialist Tsanet Natisri told ABC News his team is focused on pumping out groundwater as well as surveying the surrounding area to locate and divert any water sources flowing into the cave complex.
7	"We got to do it before the rain comes. When the rain comes, the water in the cave is going to fill up and it is going to be hard to take the kids out," Natisri told ABC News in an interview Thursday. An official with Thailand's National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission told ABC News that rescuers want to wait until the water level inside the cave recedes so the boys can float out in life jackets.
X	Monsoon rains are forecast to pummel the region Sunday as Thailand enters its wet season. It's unclear how much more time rescuers need before attempting an extraction. ABC News' Brandon Baur, Matt Gutman and Anthony Trotter contributed to this report.

M	Last week, the world was riveted by the successful rescue of a youth soccer team as they and their coach were pulled out of a flooded cave in Thailand. The team had been stranded on a narrow rock shelf in the dark for two weeks, the way out blocked by turbid stormwater.
M	The rescue involved far more than a few divers putting on gear and heading into the cave—it required a tremendous amount of technical skill and posed extreme danger. I’m a professional diver with 16 years of dive experience, including safety diving and cave diving, and I have trained numerous scuba instructors. I also work full-time in a safety diving role, so answering the first question from a technical perspective is easy enough.
M	The short answer is that all cave diving is dangerous (we'll dig into why below). But to answer the second question, I decided to open my logbook and go back to a dive from many years ago—well before I was diving professionally. As a few select passages below highlight, this was a dive where things almost went fatally wrong.
M	My first experiences in cave diving were incredible. Once I slid under the surface and into a cave, I entered an alien world filled with incredible rock formations, strange sounds, and a darkness so complete as to defy imagination. My dive buddy and I had made several scuba dives in fully flooded caves and were truly enjoying our new-found sport. There was just one problem: while we were both experienced divers, with hundreds of logged dives under our belts, neither of us was actually certified to dive in a cave.
M	And in a cave, things can go wrong—quickly. Since these rules were introduced in the late 1970s (first as only three rules, later expanding to five), fatalities per number of dives have dropped among the cave-diving community.
M	Today, the largest segment of fatalities in underwater caves comes not from certified cave divers but from divers not specifically trained by a professional cave instructor to be in that environment. The first of these rules is therefore simple, and one that I broke badly: never dive beyond your certification level. This rule alone would have made the rescue a challenge.
7	The boys trapped in the Thai cave had no diving—and in some cases no swimming—experience when they had to dive into the waters blocking their passage to the surface of their dark prison. Their first experience underwater in a cave was probably terrifying, with very low visibility, buffeting from high rates of water flow, strange booming and rumbling sounds from their expelled breathing gas moving across the ceiling, and the glowing orbs of their rescuers' lights. On one dive soon after starting to cave dive, we were 100 feet (about 30 meters) into the cave and about 100 feet underwater—well beyond where natural light penetrated in that particular cave but not terribly far from the entrance. Suddenly, I noticed my buddy’s light beginning to move erratically.
7	I was on one side of a restriction, a part of the cave that narrows such that only one diver can fit through at a time; my buddy was on the other side. I turned around and poked my head through to see what was going on.
7	One of the major technical challenges in the Thai cave was to get the boys through a 15-inch-wide (about 38cm) restriction in the cave that exited the water on an incline. The rescue divers reportedly stationed themselves in front of and behind each boy during the underwater portion of the rescue, which is standard practice in an emergency situation. Unfortunately, due to the small size of the restriction, the divers had to remove their tanks and push them ahead or drag them behind while also tending the victim and the victim’s scuba tank. This would have been extremely claustrophobic for all involved (seriously—grab a tape measure, reel it out to 15 inches, and imagine squeezing yourself through an irregular hole about that wide at its widest point).
7	For a while, all the boys would be able to see would be rock right in front of their faces while feeling rock scraping along their bodies on all sides. During their time in the restriction, the rescue divers would also lose some ability to check on the victim.
7	After poking my head out of the restriction, I saw my buddy signaling that he was out of breathing gas. In that instant, the cave turned from a fun place to seek new things into a claustrophobic and confusing labyrinth. I rushed to my buddy and found that he had already switched to a tiny tank of breathing gas used for such emergencies (a so-called “pony bottle”).
7	But the pony bottle, too, was reading low—we had forgotten to fill it before starting our dive. We spent a few moments assuring each other that everything was OK, then decided to return to the cave entrance.
M	It was then that I noticed I was running low on air as well. Another rule of cave diving is to use only one-third of your entire gas supply on the way into a cave—leaving another third to exit and the final third for handling emergencies. Unsurprisingly, this is called “The Rule of Thirds.”
M	This approach also leaves enough gas to help a diver who has experienced an equipment failure breathe off a dive buddy’s gas tanks, making it back to the cave entrance even from the furthest point in the dive. In Thailand, one of the first things needed after the soccer team was discovered was to deal with the logistics of supporting all of the dives required to effect a rescue. This would mean having support divers cache breathing gas tanks ahead of the main rescue divers so they would have enough breathing gas to make it to the boys’ perch in the cave and back out. Every time a dive was completed, the support divers would have to clear the used tanks and place new ones for the next set of dives, dragging tanks in and out of the cave repeatedly. Even these support dives were fraught with danger, as evidenced by the loss of one of the support divers who ran out of breathing gas on his way out of the cave after placing tanks for the main rescue divers.

3	Thais reacted with relief and jubilation after rescue teams reported that they’d found all 12 boys and their soccer coach alive in a cave in Thailand nine days after the group went missing.
3	Rescuers at the scene outside Chiang Rai in northern Thailand cheered, exchanged high fives and slapped each others’ backs as it emerged that British cave divers had made contact with the boys deep withing the cave complex, after navigating tight, flooded passages to reach them. The Thai Navy released a video on Facebook apparently showing the moment the group were found.
3	In the almost 5-minute clip, the boys are illuminated by torchlight while a diver can be heard speaking to them. In the tape of the encounter, one of the British rescuers asks, in English, how many were in the group.
3	Thirteen, the boys report. “Thirteen, brilliant!”
3	the diver replies – the number accounts for the entire missing party. “We are coming, many people are coming. Many people, we are the first.”
3	The dazed boys, unaware of how long they’ve been trapped deep underground, ask what day it is. The boys, who are between 11 and 16 years old, are all members of the Wild Boar soccer team.
3	They entered the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system on Saturday, June 23 but became stranded in the dark tunnels by a sudden and continuous downpour. International rescue teams – which include the Thai Navy SEALs as well as experts from the US, China, Australia and the UK – had been working to reach a large, deep chamber, informally known as Pattaya Beach, where the missing boys were believed to have taken refuge. “I confirm they are all safe,” Narongsak Osottanakorn, governor of the local region Chiang Rai, told reporters on Monday night.
3	Family members greeted the news with relief and tears of happiness, punching the air when they heard that their boys were alive. “I was happy to hear the cheering from the rescue workers.
3	I felt that I have hope that I am going to get to see my son alive,” said Adisak Wongsukjan, whose 14-year-old son Ekarat is one of the boys seen huddling in the cave. In the days following the boys’ disappearance into the vast network of tunnels, rescuers had focused on reaching Pattaya Beach, on the assumption that boys and their coach would go there to escape rising flood waters. However, Osottanakorn said when rescuers reached Pattaya Beach they found it too was underwater.
3	Divers continued a further 300 to 400 meters where they found the team perched on a muddy incline. The boys were found around two kilometers (1.24 miles) into the cave and somewhere between 800 meters to one kilometer below the surface, according to a British Cave Rescue Council briefing note.
M	The briefing warns, however, that the danger has not abated. While Monday was relatively dry, by Tuesday the rains had started to steadily fall once again and while huge pumps are working overtime to bring the water levels down in the cave complex, any downpour could potentially set back efforts to bring the children out safely.
5	Amid the emotional discovery, Osottanakorn warned that the mission is “not done yet” and medical experts need to enter the cave to assess the boys. “We will drain all water out from the cave then we will take all 13 people out of the cave.
5	We are now planning how to send (a) nurse and doctor inside the cave to check their health and movement. We will work all night,” he said.
5	Capt. Akanand Surawan, a commander with the Royal Thai Navy said additional divers will accompany the doctor and nurse. Rescuers will also pump air into the cave to improve conditions. The next phase of the operation involves supplying the team with four months’ worth of food and teaching the boys how to dive, Surawan said.
5	Pat Moret, a rescue consultant, said the team will likely need a lot of medical treatment before they can be moved. Even after that, the kids and their coach may need to dive to get out of the cave, Moret added.
5	“Worst case scenario is that they have to dive them out. So they’re being fully immersed in water, wearing what we know is a full face mask or maybe even some sort of commercial dive helmet to make it a little less stressful for them. But it will be a truly terrifying experience,” Moret said.
M	Thais across the country, who have been following every twist of the nine-day long saga, reacted to Monday night’s news with joy and relief. One Thai twitter user said that he was “crying in (a) taxi” at the news. Many had been posting cartoons of the rescue attempts, and by Tuesday the drawings had changed into pictures of gratitude.
M	Thai-language papers uniformly led with the boys’ rescue in their Tuesday morning editions. Thai Prime Minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha, said he was delighted with the news, according to Thai state media. In an article published in the National News Bureau of Thailand, the Prime Minister thanks the army, police, volunteers, the general public and the media for working together and making the rescue operation a success.
M	“This incident has shown the unity of the Thai people… Today is a good day for all Thai people, including the families of the children,” Prayut said.
1	A park officer first sounded the alarm on June 23 after spotting the boys’ bicycles near the entrance to the off-limits cave complex. The cave is popular with tourists who venture into the cavernous entrance, however the tunnels narrow to the point that it’s only possible to crawl through them. The tunnels open into wider chambers, and it’s in one of those chambers that the boys were found.

X	Nearly a fortnight ago, the boys of the Wild Boar football club finished football practice and started riding their bikes to the Tham Luang Nang Non cave for a picnic.
X	Two members of the team stayed behind. Songpol Kanthawong, 13, did not take a bike to practice that day.
X	Thaweechai Nameng, 13, was ordered by his parents to return home to catch up on his homework. Both narrowly avoided the fate of their 12 teammates, who have spent the past dozen days stranded several kilometres inside the Tham Luang cave while an entire country rallies behind the effort to free them.
X	Around 9pm on the day the boys left for the caves, Kanthawong got a call from his uncle, one of the team’s coaches. “Do you know where Ekk is?”
X	he asked, in reference to the 25-year-old assistant coach stuck along with the boys. The next morning, Kanthawong went with his parents to the cave as rescue crews were arriving.
X	The three of them sat by the entrance for hours, quietly praying. He tried to go back to school on Monday, but was too overwhelmed with worry to study. His parents took him back to the cave on Tuesday morning, where again he prayed until the evening.
X	Kanthawong showed the team’s Facebook Messenger group, which has been inundated with messages for stricken members of the team. “We miss you,” one says. “We wish we could meet you all now,” says another.
X	No teams from the club, who mostly belong to Thailand’s Akka and Thai Lue minorities, have played since the boys vanished. He says the area where rescuers found the boys’ backpacks and snacks is the furthest he has ever been, a passage where the path narrows so much that squeezing through with bags becomes extremely difficult – especially if you are rushing. “It’s scary and it’s dark,” he said.
X	He says widespread reports that the boys cannot swim are wrong, showing a recent picture of the team at a swimming pool, some wearing football jerseys in the water. Kanthawong was asleep on Monday night when British divers found the boys.
X	His grandmother was shouting with joy – he thought there might have been a fire. “I was so happy,” he said, showing some of the jubilant messages on the club’s Facebook Messenger thread. He is worried but feels a twinge of relief that his family is not experiencing what those of his teammates are undergoing. “My mum says if I was one of the kids in the cave she would have been in the ICU right now,” Kanthawong says.
8	The boys are already planning their celebrations for when their friends are freed. “We will have a BBQ pork party,” they agree.

M	The rescue operation will resume on Tuesday. It is not yet over and is still fraught with danger. But people here are daring to believe what seemed impossible a little over a week ago - that all the boys and their coach will come out of the cave alive.

X	“Make sure you ride your bicycle behind them when you are travelling around, so you can keep a lookout,” he wrote in a Facebook message to the children.
X	Ekapol coaches the younger boys, so Nopparat told him to bring some of the boys from the older team for additional eyes. Nopparat Khanthavong, the 37-year-old head coach of the Moo Pa (Wild Boars) soccer team, had an appointment that morning. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, was to take the younger boys to a soccer field nestled by the Doi Nang Non mountain range, a formation with numerous waterfalls and caves that straddles the Thai-Myanmar border. The head coach of the Thai soccer team spent the morning of June 23 preparing his young assistant for an important task: looking out for the boys by himself. “Take care,” he wrote.
M	The hours that followed kicked off a chain of events that has riveted the world: a dramatic search and rescue that found the boys alive nine days later, huddled on a small, muddy patch surrounded by floodwaters. Attention has focused on the only adult, 25-year-old former monk Ekapol, and the role he has played in both their predicament and their survival. Efforts underway to extract the boys have involved a swelling team of thousands of divers, engineers, military personnel and volunteers from all over the world – including Elon Musk’s SpaceX – with no clear plan in sight.
M	Diving, the most probable method, is seen as too risky for now given the boys’ lack of swimming experience, pitch-black muddy waters through narrow passageways, and the death this week of a retired Thai Navy Seal who was among those readying the cave for the boys’ dive. Engineers have been searching for a way through the mountain’s surface, hoping to drill down and reach them within the cave, but acknowledge it could take months and alter the cave’s geography in the process.
X	As the rush to figure out how to rescue the group continues some have chided Ekapol for leading the team into the cave. A large warning sign at the cave’s entrance raises the risk of entering so close to the monsoon season, they say, and he should have known better.
X	But for many in Thailand, Ekapol, who left his life in the monkhood three years ago and joined the Wild Boars as an assistant coach soon after, is an almost divine force, sent to protect the boys as they go through this ordeal. A widely shared cartoon drawing of Ekapol shows him sitting cross-legged, as a monk does in meditation, with 12 little wild boars in his arms.
X	According to rescue officials, he is among the weakest in the group, in part because he gave the boys his share of the limited food and water they had with them in the early days. He also taught the boys how to meditate and how to conserve as much energy as possible until they were found. “If he didn’t go with them, what would have happened to my child?” said the mother of Pornchai Khamluang, one of the boys in the cave, in an interview with a Thai television network. Ekapol was an orphan who lost his parents at age 10, friends say.
X	He then trained to be a monk but left the monastery to care for his ailing grandmother in Mae Sai in northern Thailand. There, he split his time between a working as a temple hand at a monastery and training the then newly-established Moo Pa team.
X	He found kindred spirits in the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand. “He loved them more than himself,” said Joy Khampai, a long-time friend of Ekapol’s who works at a coffee stand in the Mae Sai monastery.
X	He helped Nopparat, the head coach, devise a system where the boys’ passion for soccer would motivate them to excel academically. If they got certain grades in school, they would be rewarded with soccer gear, such as fresh studs for their cleats or a new pair of shorts. The two spent time looking for sponsors and used the Moo Pa team to prove to the boys that they could become something more than their small town would suggest – even professional athletes.
X	“He gave a lot of himself to them,” Nopparat said. He would ferry the boys to and from home when their parents could not and took responsibility for them as if they were his own family. He also kept the boys on a strict training schedule, according to physical education teachers at the school field where they practised.
1	That included biking across the hills that surround Mae Sai. On that Saturday two weeks ago, Nopparat did not know where Ekapol would be bringing the young soccer team but thought it would be a learning experience for him to manage them on his own. The older Wild Boars were having a match in the evening, he said, so he put his phone away. When he checked it at 7pm., there were at least 20 calls from worried parents, none of whose sons had come home. He frantically dialled Ekapol and a number of the boys in quick succession but reached only Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training. He told Nopparat that the team had gone exploring in the Tham Luang caves.
M	The coach raced up there, only to find abandoned bicycles and bags at its entrance and water seeping out the muddy pathway. Information had slowly started to come out about the boys’ nine-day ordeal before they were eventually found on Monday night, through letters and limited communication between the coach, the team and the rescuers who have been with them in a small cave chamber. The rush of euphoria that ran through the town of Mae Sai and across the world when the group was found has settled into a grim reality that neither Ekapol nor the 12 in his care may see daylight for days or even weeks.
5	Officials said Saturday that they have about a three- to four-day window in which conditions will be “most favourable” for the boys to attempt to dive out before monsoon rains hit and continue for months. Urgent concerns include the amount of oxygen in the section of the cave that the group is taking refuge in, which had fallen below healthy levels. Officials are now limiting the number of rescuers who can travel into the cave to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide that builds when they exhale. Rising water levels, too, could force a quick extraction, but authorities say the boys are not ready to make the dive.
X	Friends, meanwhile, grow worried for Ekapol. He had the boys’ complete trust, and it is unlikely that they would have set off exploring in the cave’s chambers without him. “I know him, and I know he will blame himself,” said Joy, his friend at the monastery.
X	On Saturday morning, the Thai Navy posted photos of letters that the group had written to their family and the outside world. Ekapol’s, scribbled on a yellow-stained piece of paper, torn out from a notebook, was brief, but included a promise and an apology.

M	MAE SAI — The 12 boys and coach of the Wild Boars soccer team who were rescued from a cave in Thailand last week share a characteristic with many of the professional European clubs its youthful members idolize: They are a multiethnic, cross-border crew. But while the stars of the major European leagues, no matter what their origins, can stake a claim to fame and fortune, some of the Wild Boars cannot even count on a permanent home.
M	Three of the players — Mongkol “Mark” Boonpium, 13, Adul Samon, 14, and Pornchai “Tee” Khamluang, 16 — and 25-year-old assistant coach Ekapol “Ake” Chanthawong are stateless, their lack of citizenship not only restricting their upward mobility, but even their right to travel outside of Chiang Rai, the northern province where they live. It is no anomaly that four of the 13 trapped in the cave are not Thai citizens, the Wild Boars’ head coach, Nopparat Kanthawong, said in an interview. Of the 70-80 boys in the team’s four age brackets, around 20 are stateless.
M	The cave ordeal should help put a spotlight on the issue of statelessness in Thailand. Nopparat hopes it will advance his players’ sporting ambitions.
M	He explained that the most glaring problem is that if his stateless players want to travel outside the province, they must get a pass with official permission, whether for personal affairs or a soccer competition. Getting a passport to take up various European clubs’ invitations to watch them play is an even bigger task.
M	There are 488,105 stateless people registered in Thailand, according to government statistics. The actual number could be as high as 3.5 million, according to the International Observatory on Statelessness.
M	The group says that stateless people in Thailand are unable to vote, buy land, seek legal employment, work in certain occupations or travel freely. Northern Thailand, whose porous borders have long been a boon to migrants, refugees and smugglers, is a melting pot of ethnic groups, including the Akha, Lahu, Lisu, Yao, Shan, Hmong and Karen.
M	In neighboring Myanmar, the frontier regions are dominated by ethnic minority groups, but underdevelopment and conflict make opportunities scarce. Some people flee for their lives to Thailand; others just seek a better life.
M	It is not necessarily an uncomfortable transition. There are settled communities of minority groups on both sides of the border, and Thailand generally takes a laissez-faire attitude.
M	Adul’s parents sent him from Myanmar to get a decent education in Thailand, which is impossible in his home state, Wa, which is plagued by armed conflict and instability. He is a star pupil, and a bit of a celebrity for being the sole English speaker among the 13 trapped in the cave. He also is reported to speak Thai, Burmese and Chinese.
M	She said those seeking to gain Thai citizenship must enter a verification process to prove that they either have Thai parents or were born in Thailand. The process can be difficult and complicated, she added, as officials also have to be vigilant over the many fraudulent and corrupt methods that are used to gain citizenship. Activists say the naturalization process is too difficult, especially for less educated rural migrants who were never documented in their country of origin and who are outsiders as far as local Thai authorities are concerned.
M	Navigating the paperwork is arduous at best, and corruption is a hazard. In late 2016, Thailand’s military government agreed to a plan under which an estimated 80,000 stateless people would be eligible for citizenship. Applicants would have to be born in Thailand to parents from ethnic minority groups, registered by the Interior Ministry and have lived in Thailand for at least 15 years, or be born in Thailand to foreign residents and be university graduates.
M	Coach Nopparat said he is particularly keen to help the stateless boys who were rescued from the cave. Associated Press journalists Jason Corben in Mae Sai and Tassanee Vejpongsa in Bangkok contributed to this report.

0	BANGKOK (THE NATION/ASIA NEWS NETWORK) - Two of the 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach who were rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand will receive legal assistance in the nationality verification process and if all goes well, they could expect to receive Thai citizenship in six months. Thailand's Interior Ministry and the Children and Youth Department have confirmed that coach Ekkapol Chantawong and two of the boys, Pornchai Kamluang and Adul Sam-on, are stateless following media reports of their plight and the difficulties faced by 500,000 stateless people living in Thailand.
0	The authorities have promised to provide the trio legal assistance in the nationality verification process. If everything goes smoothly, all of them will have Thai nationality within six months.
M	The stateless people, mostly ethnic minorities living near the border areas, have to endure restrictions in many aspects of their life because they are denied some rights and opportunities. Activists said many stateless people have to wait for a decade to get Thai citizenship because of the slow verification process. Surapong Kongchantuk, a prominent activist on human rights and nationality issues, said that although the Thai government has provided basic rights including compulsory education and healthcare for all people in Thailand, the lack of citizenship meant that stateless people are denied access to many fundamental rights, such as travelling abroad, getting higher education or employment in some careers. As a result, they do not have many opportunities to improve their lives.
0	According to Surapong, stateless people can ask for nationality verification at their local administrative organisation in order to acquire Thai citizenship. They must provide proof of their birth and lineage and that they were born to a Thai national parent. Ethnic minorities born in Thailand are eligible to get Thai nationality.

X	The coach and three of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week are officially stateless, but could be granted fast-track Thai citizenship in the wake of their 17-day ordeal. Relatives and friends described Ekkapol Chantawong, 25, as a kind and humble young man with a passion for sports and a dream to one day become a citizen of the country of his birth. Authorities in Bangkok confirmed that Mr Chantawong and three of the trapped boys were “not Thai citizens”, but officials have now promised to provide them legal assistance and say that, if there are no complications, all will have Thai nationality within six months. As a member of the Tai Lue minority, rights groups say Ekkapol may otherwise have faced a wait of up to 10 years to achieve citizenship, in a process that involves proving his Thai lineage and which is seen as so laborious that many members of minority groups simply give up.
X	The Tai Lue are just one of a number of ethnic groups who, for generations, have moved across regions and borders in the remote hills between China, Myanmar, Laos and Thailand. They are among the estimated 500,000 people living in Thailand who are officially stateless.
X	Mr Chantawong, a former Buddhist monk, has received many plaudits for the way he looked after the boys after they became trapped by floodwaters during a visit to the Tham Luang caves on 23 June. Also on Friday, members of the boys’ families told reporters that the team had only planned to spend “about an hour” in the caves before heading home on their bicycles. Mr Chantawong has expressed remorse for taking the boys into the cave after a football match, in spite of warnings that they can be dangerous during monsoon season, writing in a letter to the boys’ parents that he only wanted to take “the very best care” of the Wild Boars team.
X	The International Rescue Committee (IRC), directed by former Labour politician David Miliband, and perhaps better known for its work with the Rohingya community in Myanmar, is also supporting displaced peoples along the Thai-Myanmar border, helping them to understand and assert their rights. IRC’s regional vice-president for Asia, Sanna Johnson, told The Independent the boys’ story offered “hope of a better life for all stateless people in Thailand”, who are unable to legally work or open a bank account, and therefore perpetually vulnerable to forms of exploitation like forced labour and sex trafficking. “We are hopeful that this tale will shine a light on the dreadful challenges faced by stateless peoples both in Thailand and across the region,” Ms Johnson said. The boys are not the only ones being recognised by the Thai authorities in the wake of the dramatic cave rescue operation, which gripped audiences around the world.
X	According to an announcement on Thai TV Channel 3, all of the foreign volunteers involved in the rescue will be awarded with prestigious Thailand Elite cards by the country’s interior ministry. The cards grant the holder unlimited, visa-exempt travel to the kingdom for five years, and can cost up to a million baht (£22,800) depending on their level. Those rescuers who have not left the country after their successful mission were also invited on a free tour of Chiang Rai and Bangkok before they go, Thai media reported. And the rescuers have also been invited to return to visit Thailand, for an all-expenses-paid week-long holiday, at any time they like within the next five years.
X	The attention brought upon Thailand by the Chiang Rai cave story has not been lost on the authorities, and plans are in motion to turn the cave complex itself into a museum and tourist destination. But for Santiphong Moonphong, chairman of a charity working to provide legal status to Thai minorities, the issue of the boys’s statelessness should be the take-home message from the saga. He told Thailand’s

3	Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks were granted Thai citizenship on Wednesday.
8	Their coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, who was trapped in the cave with them throughout their ordeal also gained citizenship. The boys were stateless, despite having been born in Thailand and their lack of citizenship deprived them of some basic benefits and rights, including the ability to travel outside of Chiang Rai, the northern province where they live.
3	The area is home to ethnic minorities with roots in neighbouring Myanmar. The boys and coach were among 13 people who were trapped in the cave for several weeks, surviving by drinking water that dripped from the walls of the cave, until they were found by scuba divers after a round-the-clock international rescue effort.
M	“Today all of you get Thai citizenship,” Mae Sai district chief Somsak Khanakham said in a ceremony on Wednesday at a local office, as they were handed national ID cards. Somsak told AFP that the “Wild Boars incident” had nothing to do with the development and said they had merely qualified. The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai had all applied for it before the cave incident, and all had the required documentation for the change in status, said Somsak.
M	“There are many people who are born in Thailand but haven’t received citizenship yet,” he said. Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team, said they received official Thai ID cards along with another team member who had not been in the cave but also applied for citizenship.
M	“I’m happy,” he said. “If they have Thai citizenship, in the future, if they don’t want to play football they can take exams to become public officials or find good work that is related to their field of studies,” he said.
M	There are 488,105 stateless people registered in Thailand, according to government statistics. The actual number could be as high as 3.5 million, according to the International Observatory on Statelessness. The group says stateless people in Thailand are unable to vote, buy land, seek legal employment, work in certain occupations or travel freely.

2	A team of US military personnel and British divers joined rescue efforts at a flooded cave in northern Thailand where 12 children and their football coach have been trapped for five days as heavy overnight rains hampered the search. Flood waters seeped into a second chamber of the Tham Luang cave in Chiang Rai province forcing some of the rescue divers to turn back, according to officials. The children, aged between 11 and 16, went into the cave on Saturday and were trapped when heavy rains clogged the main entrance. Three British cave diving experts arrived at the scene late on Wednesday and entered the cave in full kit before emerging about an hour later. "We've got a job to do," diver John Volanthen said as he went into the tunnel, declining to speak further. According to the BBC, the British team is exploring possible entrances to the northern section of the cave as efforts so far have been focussed on the southern side. With the search hampered by heavy flooding at the main entrance, the rescuers are now attempting to find other ways into the cavern complex. Experts believe there is a good chance other entrances could be concealed by thick forest.

2	A team of 36 U.S. troops from Okinawa, Japan, has been dispatched to Thailand to assist in efforts to rescue 12 boys and their soccer coach stranded for nearly two weeks in a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border, according to a report by Task & Purpose. The troops include a search and rescue team, a survival expert and support personnel.
2	They were deployed by U.S. Indo-Pacific Command from Kadena Air Base in Okinawa after the Royal Thai government requested U.S. assistance on June 26, Army Lt. Col. David Eastburn told T&P. The U.S. service members are working alongside the Thai military and an international search and rescue team to devise methods to rescue the children and their coach from the Tham Luang Cave complex.
M	All 13 members of the soccer team, including the 25-year-old coach, were found alive by two specially trained volunteer British cave divers on Monday. They have been in the cave since June 23. Incessant rains continue to complicate rescue plans, making it unlikely that the boys and their coach will be able to escape the cave through the main entrance.
2	The Thai military has considered drilling into the roof of the cavern to reach the team, but the British Cave Rescue Council warned on Monday that such a rescue would be difficult given the small size of the space where the team is located. The U.S. troops — including airmen from the 353rd Special Operations Group and the 31st Rescue Squadron — arrived in Thailand on June 28.

M	This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

3	Specialist British radio equipment flown to Thailand played a key role in locating the trapped boys, it emerged yesterday. The Derbyshire Cave Rescue Organisation sent four Heyphone radios to northern Thailand which can transmit through hundreds of metres of solid rock. The kit was used by the two British cave divers who found the 12 boys and their football coach on Monday.
3	Rick Stanton, 57, and John Volanthen, 47, who are among the best rescue divers in the world, have taken part in similar operations in Ireland, Norway and France. Mr Stanton once helped to save British cavers who had been trapped underground in Mexico for more than a week.

M	PHUKET: Since late on June 23, virtually the entire nation has been gripped by the saga of 12 young boys and their football coach trapped inside the Tham Luang cave in the northern Chiang Rai province. However, late on Monday night (July 2), what was originally anticipation – waiting to hear news on the boys and their coach – turned to jubilation after it was announced that all 13 had been found safe and well in the depths of the northern Thai cave.
2	Since Monday’s announcement there have been several names of foreign rescue workers mentioned in national and international media, one of those names being Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket. After returning from Chiang Rai on Tuesday (July 3), and despite having very little sleep for the previous five days, Reymenants was kind enough to speak to The Phuket News about the rescue mission and his involvement in it. It was on the evening of June 27 that Reymenants received a call from a liaison officer to the Royal Thai Navy asking if he could come to support them with the rescue operation. “I was called because of my cave expertise, if you can call it that,” Reymenants explained.
2	“We run a technical diving training facility in Rawai and specialise in deep cave exploration using specialised compact life-support systems that allow us to go further and deeper than conventional scuba,” he said. “I guess I was the closest to the site [so that’s why I was called]. AirAsia kindly organised flights for myself and 85 kilograms of dive gear,” he added.
M	Once he arrived at the site, Reymenants said his and his team’s main objective was to lay a thick static climbing rope to cover the 2.5km stretch from Camp 3 to the area called “Pattaya Beach”, where they presumed the kids were. “This was of course pure speculation as they had no idea if the team actually got to one of the dry rooms in time as the cave started flooding because of sudden rainfall. “There were basically two options: if they had made it in time, they would be either in Pattaya Beach, or another smaller chamber 200 metres further. These chambers are known to stay dry during monsoon and contain enough oxygen for several months.
M	There is also fresh water dripping from the stalactites on the cave’s roof,” Reymenants explained. At first, there was a feeling of nervousness and frustration amongst the team members because it was very hard to make headway. “The Royal Thai Navy and local electricity authority had laid lines to set up radio communication and lights at the restricted area 800m from Pattaya Beach.
M	However, more rain made the water rise suddenly at a rate of 30 centimetres an hour and they had to hastily retreat about one and a half kilometres to an area now called Camp 3,” Reymenants added. Turning his attention to conditions inside the cave, Reymenants said that the first days were especially tough going. “It felt like hauling gear up Mount Everest,” he said. “Pulling yourself through raging rapids followed by multiple climbs up rocky muddy slopes.
M	“When we finally got to the water at Camp 3 the visibility was 5cm, barely enough to read our instruments. There was also strong flow and I only made about 200m of headway.
M	Then I got stuck in a restriction with an inwards flow, so I decided to turn around,” he said. “On my way back I met the British cave team, who also had doubts, and we decided to report that the rescue would be unsafe in these conditions. However, when we heard the next day that the Navy SEALs would try anyway, using conventional scuba gear and having little cave experience, I decided it would be better if I pushed ahead, against the advice of the British cave divers, who were already packing their bags.
M	“Surprisingly, the water level had dropped, the current was less and the visibility had improved to about a metre. The Thai Navy SEALs had just come out but they had ended up in a dead end. I decided to give it at least a try with my dive buddy Maksym Polejaka.
M	“We found another passage and managed to lay 200m of static line in the right direction. Motivated by this, the British divers decided to go back in and they also laid several hundreds of metres of line,” Reymenants explained to The Phuket News.
M	“The next day, with the help of a 30-year-old map drawn by French explorers and some hint from a local expat Briton geologist, we managed to connect the T-section, connecting the main tunnel to the passage to Pattaya Beach. We ran out of line a few hundred metres before Pattaya Beach,” he said.
3	Late Monday evening, Reymenants exited the cave and during a brief break away from on-site media spoke to The Phuket News, he was hopeful that a team would reach the kids and coach either that night or early the next day. He was right. “Right after we made the connection to the final lap, the British team went in and they managed to bridge the last gap, swam a bit farther than Pattaya Beach and found the kids in the last chamber.
3	They shot the video and immediately returned with the good news. “I was still in my wetsuit and immediately returned to site where I found, what I can only describe as a rave party full of cheering and crying people.
M	Happiness all along. Even the Navy General gave me a hug,” Reymenants said. Reymenants modestly said that what he and the team had achieved was just a small step but the biggest task was yet to come: safely getting the boys out.
M	“Half a dozen countries have sent their military experts with equipment, full-face masks, communication systems, food, etc, but the question still remains; do we teach them to dive – they can’t even swim – and guide them out of what is rated an extremely complex and dangerous cave system, or just hope for the rain to stop and keep pumping so they can be floated out in a life jacket. “The last and least desirable option, should the rain start and flood the entire cave system, is to have them hibernate three to four months until the rain stops and the water resides,” he said.
4	“Two Royal Thai Navy medics have volunteered to stay with the kids with enough food and medication to outlast the rainy season, a remarkable sacrifice. “As we speak, Navy SEALs have visited the kids and provided first aid and are slowly giving them special nutrition. They can’t have any solids as they did not have food for 10 days nor did they see any light for all that time.

M	Дайвер из Украины Всеволод Коробов участвовал в спасательной операции в Таиланде, где 12 детей и их тренер оказались в затопленной пещере.
M	Они провели там девять дней, пока к ним не добрались спасатели. Коробов, который работает инструктором по дайвингу в тайском городе Пхукет, прошел сложный трёхкилометровый участок в затопленной пещере и рассказал об этом ВВС News Украина.
M	"Группа инструкторов, в частности, два человека из Украины - я и мой друг Максим прилетели в минувшую пятницу в качестве волонтеров. Нашей задачей было научить тайских морских котиков нырять в таких сложных пещерах, поскольку выяснилось, что у них нет опыта такого погружения. Мы помогали им в этом.
M	Увидев, что мы можем быть полезны, тайские военные включили нас в команду поддержки. Мы проходили сложный трёхкилометровый участок в затопленной пещере, помогали нести оборудование, прокладывали веревки для дайверов.
M	В этой пещере работать очень сложно. Непосредственно дайвинг начинается в трех километрах от входа.
M	Там есть часть, где можно нырять - это место с экстремальными условиями даже для очень подготовленных кейв-дайверов (пещерных дайверов). Там очень плохая видимость, вы не можете иногда даже видеть показания приборов, вплотную поднеся их к лицу.
M	Можно запутаться или застрять - очень много узких проходов. Кроме того, сложность заключается в том, что от последней сухой комнаты до места, где находятся дети, - 2 километра 300 метров. Приходится плыть против течения, и только возвращаться по течению.
M	Спасателям нужно пройти большую дистанцию ​​и пронести тяжелое дайверское оборудование. Первый участок к затопленному месту - это три километра. Сначала 500 метров двигаешься, поднимаясь по скользким ступенькам, потом спускаешься с тяжелым оборудованием, потом плывешь 30-40 метров против очень сильного течения в подводном тоннеле.
M	В нем нельзя грести, используя ласты, приходится подтягиваться на руках с помощью проложенных морскими котиками веревок, которые успели их проложить, пока пещеру полностью не затопило. Периодически по щиколотку или по колено на этом пути проваливаешься в глину или песок.
M	В воде ты находишься иногда по колено, иногда по шею, так и двигаешься к следующему сухому участку, по которому тянешь баллоны или другой груз. Затем ныряешь в следующий проход, где уже нет такого сильного течения, там немного легче двигаться.
M	И самый сложный участок - последний километр, когда тебе нужно затянуть весь груз на гору - очень скользкую, среди сталактитов и сталагмитов. Это по сути мокрый глиняный склон, на который нужно выбраться и не упасть.
M	Иначе пролетишь 15-20 метров и упадешь на камни. После подъема на гору нужно аккуратно между трещинами пройти и спуститься в узкое место, втиснуть туда себя самого, баллоны, проплыть еще один проход при нулевой видимости.
M	И только потом оказываешься в камере, "сухой комнате", от которой идти еще 2 с копейками километров к детям .... Это маршрут, который под силу преодолеть тольку людям с подготовкой.
M	После того, как британские дайверы вчера нашли детей, ночью к ним отправились двое армейских медиков, привезли продукты, доставили медикаменты, один из морских котиков остался с ними. Нужно отдать должное тренеру, который их организовал, сплотил в коллектив и помог выжить. Потому что находиться девять дней в таких условиях, без еды ... У них конечно было немного еды с собой, была вода, но совсем немного.
M	Изначальной целью детей был teambuilding, нужно было дойти до места под названием "пляж Паттайя", написать на стене свои имена и вернуться обратно. Это около 5,5 км, и для этого достаточно трех часов в одну и другую сторону. Но начался настолько сильный дождь, что детям отрезало путь к выходу.
M	Они поднялись в то место, которое не затапливается, чтобы переждать дождь или дождаться помощи. Хорошо, что в этой пещере достаточно тепло - температура около 23-24 градусов.
M	Но в целом условия непростые для выживания. Тайцы работают в нескольких направлениях, чтобы спасти детей.
5	Обсуждается вариант научить их нырять. Еще несколько дней назад это было невозможно, потому что было очень сильное течение, видимость вообще нулевая была. К счастью, сейчас течение идет из пещеры.
5	Чтобы доплыть до детей, ребятам нужно более 3 часов, а чтобы приплыть обратно - 50 минут. Если сейчас не усилятся дожди, туда отправят инструкторов, которые будут обучать ребят. Они могут покинуть пещеру с маской для ныряния и регулятором.
5	Выводить их смогут по одному - один ребенок плюс спасатель, или один ребенок плюс два спасателя. Учитывая то, что дети находятся в на удивление хорошей форме, как физической, так и психической, два дня уйдет на восстановление сил.
5	За это же время их могут научить базовым навыкам ныряния. Если они будут плыть, спасатели сделают все сами, детям нужно будет только дышать. Если погода не ухудшится, детей могут вывести таким образом.
M	Тайцы также пытаются пробурить альтернативные ходы в сухую комнату, где находятся дети. На гору высаживают рейнджеров и спасателей, они обследуют каждую щель.
M	Туда также с помощью вертолетов доставили бульдозеры, расчистили площадку, завезли буровые установки. Однако бурить не очень получается, потому что вглубь пещеры известняк заменяется гранитом. Чтобы обеспечить детей продуктами, спасатели сверху по течению через все доступные трещины, подводные реки забрасывают плавучие пакеты, в которых находятся энергетические гели, глюкоза, различные пищевые продукты.
M	Параллельно тайцы откачивают воду рукавами диаметром в 15-30 сантиметров. Сначала откачивали по 5 кубов в минуту, сейчас 40 кубов в минуту.
M	Понимая, что этого недостаточно, спасатели начали осушать источники и озера внизу, чтобы воде из пещеры было куда бежать. Возле пещеры находится огромное количество техники, которая постоянно работает.
M	Благодаря тому, что последние три дня не было дождей, удалось добраться до детей. Уровень воды упал, стало проще двигаться. И если в первые дни вода прибывала по 30 см в час, то, когда мы там были, вода упала на 1,5 метра.
M	Худший вариант - из-за сильных дождей дети вынуждены будут оставаться там несколько месяцев. Сегодня утром начался дождь, и если их максимально быстро оттуда не вывести, то придется на ближайшие 4-5 месяцев забыть о варианте эвакуации водным путем.
M	В таком случае в пещеру отправят морских котиков-медиков, которые постоянно будут находиться с детьми. Спасатели будут дальше бурить гору и пытаться найти альтернативный выход.
M	Тайцы боятся использовать микровзрывы, поскольку порода может обвалиться. Сначала тайские морские котики пытались спасать детей максимально своими силами, чтобы избежать потерь среди гражданских, но потом обратились за помощью ко всему миру.
M	Поэтому сейчас в операции участвуют полицейские дайверы из Австралии, которые помогают забрасывать оборудование вовнутрь, из американской военной базы на Окинаве, китайские спасатели, которые помогли с баллонами, израильские специалисты, которые наладили подводную связь.
M	Всего около трех тысяч человек, идет постоянная ротация. К сожалению, очень мало людей, которые могут в этой пещере двигаться, и поэтому наша помощь была нужна.
M	Я верю, что тайцы справятся с этой сложной задачей. Вся нация сплотилась, и люди помогают всем необходимым.
M	В распоряжении спасателей резиновые сапоги, каски, батарейки, фонари, одежда, дождевики, гидрокостюмы, огромное количество продуктов. Если в первые дни местность вокруг горы напоминала поле, где можно было провалиться чуть ли не по колено в грязь, но за 2-3 дня все засыпали гравием.
M	Эта местность напоминает большой восточный базар, а люди - цепочка муравьев. Постоянно передают продукты питания, баллоны, снаряжение. 24 часа в сутки функционирует огромный лагерь.
M	Я никогда не видел подобных спасательных операций. Не знаю, сколько миллиардов батов потратил Таиланд на эту операцию, но эти усилия поражают".

M	MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Saturday afternoon June 23rd.
M	Twelve boys and their soccer coach head into the rugged mountains of Northern Thailand for a trek. They pose for photos before riding to the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. They are expected to return home to their nearby village later that day.
M	UPSOT REPORTER: A massive rescue effort is being launched. UPSOT REPORTER:
M	Investigators believe the teenage boys and their coach crawled into the cave and they never came out. UPSOT REPORTER:
M	It's believed the team has been trapped by a flooded stream near the cave entrance. MARK WILLACY REPORTER:
1	Within 24 hours of the boys going missing, a search operation is underway. The boy's bikes and backpacks are found near the entrance to the cave, which becomes ground zero in the search.
M	Distraught family members gather. UPSOT MOTHER OF MISSING BOY [THAI]: My son, come on out.
M	I am waiting for you here. UPSOT MOTHER OF MISSING BOY
M	[THAI]: Please hurry up and come home. My son, let's come home together.
M	UPSOT MEMBER OF RESCUE TEAM [THAI]: It's up to the Navy SEAL team to find them. We suspect they are still in the cave alive.
M	UPSOT NAMHOM BOONPIAM, MOTHER OF MISSING BOY [THAI]: I hope they are safe.
M	I still have hope. I hope that all 13 boys will come out safely. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER:
M	The Tham Luang cave is a 10-kilometre long limestone cave system with deep recesses and narrow passageways. Most of the year it's relatively dry, but when the monsoon comes it quickly fills with water and when that happens the caves become impossible to enter or leave. The water levels are now rising and the boys cannot swim.
1	The night after the boys are reported missing, the Thai Navy's elite SEALs diving team join the search. Working around the clock, in pitch darkness, they wade, swim and dive through the black waters.
M	At the same time, agencies and volunteers begin the mammoth task of pumping water from the cave and surrounding area. UPSOT VERN UNSWORTH, CAVE EXPERT: If they're in the right place they can survive for 5-6 days. But the water now, the floodwater, is getting higher and higher, so there will be a point in time where this cave here, even the entrance will close.
M	MARK WILLACY REPORTER: By day three, the search has escalated into a major military operation.
M	Hundreds of searchers scour the mountain for alternative entry points into the cave. UPSOT RESCUE WORKER [THAI]: One of the holes we explored today was about 600 or 700 meters in depth vertically.
M	But there are floors on the way descending through that depth. MARK WILLACY REPORTER:
M	The hope is the boys and their coach have made it to a location clear of the rising water. CHALONGCHAI CHAYAKAM, DEPUTY COMMANDER THIRD ARMY
M	[THAI]: We still haven't reached the target area in the third hall in the cave that everyone calls 'Pattaya Beach'. To dive through the water each oxygen tank can take us through only 200 metres but the distance is several hundred metres.
M	We'll keep on going by rotating the workforce. We are not going to stop.
M	All the relatives can do is pray. UPSOT BRAHMA PRIEST, CHIRASIT PLOYDAM [THAI]: We pray asking for the safety of the children because we believe the children are still alive.
M	MARK WILLACY REPORTER: After four days, there's still no sign that the boys are alive.
2	The Thai navy SEALS are unable to navigate the labyrinth of tight passages filled with murky floodwater. Thai authorities call for international help.
2	MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: Yeah so it was a Wednesday morning. I was still at the house.
2	It was about 5:45 in the morning, and my director of operations, uh, my number two guy in the squadron called and said, "hey, sir, I'm sure you're tracking that there's a soccer team stuck in a cave in Thailand. And, uh, and I thought, "Awesome. That's exactly the type missions that, uh, we want to be called up for.
2	CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER: The next thing I knew, you know, we're all loading onto an MC-130. Uh, it's one of our aircraft and we're- we're flying to Thailand.
2	MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: Landed about one o'clock in the morning on the 28th of June, and then, uh, key leadership pushed straight to the cave site. CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER:
M	So we go into the cave, and it was completely dark. And like I'm walking in thinking like, this is so surreal.
M	I mean it's- it's so dark.
M	A few of us had headlamps. I did not, so I'm trying to tag along as close as I can to some of the other members of the team.
M	But I could just sense like, oh my gosh, there's like 12 children and a coach in here, and I'm just in the entrance way, and I'm spooked out. I can't even imagine. MARK WILLACY REPORTER:
3	Two British cave divers have also been called in by the Thais. Rick Stanton and John Volanthen are considered the best in the world and are the first to dive deep into the cave.
3	They brief the Americans on the daunting task ahead. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK
3	ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: The technical experts from the United Kingdom, they had begun diving much sooner than us, and uh, getting their feedback was also invaluable.
5	You know, those were when the rain levels were the highest, and they were saying, "Hey, you know, in cave diving, you, you have to be able to lay line, you have to be able to have a way out, if you're going in," and they were saying, "the currents right now are not manageable, you know, we've battling, trying to move forward. The rains are still falling, the flows are getting higher, the visibility is zero, the water's cold, like, let's, let's take a minute, everybody take a deep breath and let's come at this from a collective perspective of how can we tackle a really complex problem, that I think over the next few days and even weeks, we realized, like, has never been done before.
3	MARK WILLACY REPORTER: On Sunday July first, a break in the rain allows the rescue dive team to set up a base inside one of the cave chambers. The British divers forge deeper into the cave.
3	Far below the surface they swim against strong currents for 1.5 kilometres. And then the moment that seems like a miracle.
3	UPSOT DIVER: We found them, we found them. MARK WILLACY REPORTER:
M	Almost 10 days since they first entered the cave. DIVER: Raise your hands. BOY: Thank you.
M	Thank you. BOY:
M	Thirteen. BOY:
M	Yeah, yeah. DIVER: Brilliant.
M	No, not today. Just two of us.
M	We have to dive. BOY
M	[IN THAI]: Diver says not today. DIVER: We are coming.
M	It's OK. Many people are coming.
M	DIVER 2: Many, many people. We are the first.
M	Many people come. DIVER 1: Tomorrow.
M	They are asking. Monday. Monday.
M	OK, but one week...uh, Monday. You have been here for 10 days. You are very strong. BOY
M	[IN THAI]: Who knows English? Translate for us. BOY 2
M	[IN THAI]: I can't catch up with the words. DIVER:
M	Lets go up, ok go back, we come, we come. BOY: We are hungry. DIVER:
M	I know, I know. I understand. We come, ok, we come.
M	BOY 1 [IN THAI]: Go up the top together. They will take our photos first.
M	BOY 2 [IN THAI]: Tell them we are hungry.
M	Boy [IN THAI]: I've told them. They know.
M	DIVER: We come here, we have been diving here for what...tomorrow, we'll help tomorrow.
M	DIVER 2: The Thai Navy, the Navy, Navy SEAL will come tomorrow. With the food, the doctor and everything. Today, a light?
M	You have a light. We'll give you more light.
M	DIVER: You go up, Ok? Up, up.
M	BOY [THAI]: Come up. Brother, rush up. BOY:
M	Yeah, yeah. I am very happy. DIVER:
M	We are happy too. BOY:
M	Yes, thank you so much. Thank you.
M	DIVER: England, UK.
3	MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER:
M	Initially it's a huge sigh of relief. Okay, the boys were able to find a high enough ground, they've survived this long, you know, with some of the higher flood levels in the cave. But then it was, it was scary, because we realized how far back they were in.
5	MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: There have been diving rescues that are done consistently and cave rescues that are done consistently, but cave diving rescues are very rare, and none of them have ever been done with 13 people 2.4 kilometres into the Earth.
M	MARK WILLACY, REPORTER, PTC: The families feel like their prayers have been answered, but it turns out the ordeal has only just begun.
M	The boys and their coach have been without food for a week. They're tired and afraid. The only way out is by diving.
M	But as far as we know the boys can't even swim. MARK WILLACY REPORTER:
3	After locating the boys, the British divers Stanton and Volanthen call in reinforcements from home. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: I'm a member of the British Cave Research Council Diving- Diving Team.
3	So, um that's how I got called in. John and Rick came out first and they required extra assistance, so I was called in.
5	JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH DIVER: The first thought is they're not going to get out.
5	I mean the kids, we've done recoveries before with live people and it's all about panic under water. Um you can't, you can tell a kid whatever you want, but in an actual situation where you've got a kid in the water, th-they're more than likely going to panic.
M	So, at first, we thought it's not possible to actually dive them out. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER:
5	Jason Mallinson's first dive into the cave confirms his fears. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER:
5	You're swimming against the current on the way in. So, usually on the way in, the- visibility is not too bad. You're usually fine, the first diver.
5	But the first diver is finning, and that finning creates eddies in the water, which stirs up the silt. And then the second diver doesn't get such a bad, ah such good visibility, and then the third diver gets even worse.
5	So, by the time you've got a fifth or a sixth diver in there, they're down to nil visibility. And then when you get to the end of the cave and y-you turn around and come out, you're with the current. So, anything that you stir up at the end of the cave is going to flow all the way out with you.
5	So, you tend to have a much worse visibility on the way out. So, it's ah a bit of a sort of combat course on the way out, in sort of sometimes it's you can only just feel the line; sometimes you can see a, a foot in front of you. Other times, it's just nothing, it's all by brail and you're trying to remember all these line traps.
5	So, it's quite a sort of mentally exhausting experience to go there and back. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER:
M	The unfolding drama is now a major international story. Hundreds of journalists are here in a make shift muddy village at the foot of the Nang Non Mountain. Thai people have also flocked to the site from all over the country to do whatever they can to help. A 24-hour tent city in the middle of this remote location is feeding and supporting thousands of people involved in the operation.
M	Almost everything is being freely supplied. ARCHIVE CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER: Everyone coming here working long hours, hauling dirt, trying to feed everyone and volunteer their time and probably their money and their expertise.
M	MARK WILLACY, REPORTER: It's a sign that when the chips are down, I suppose people of many nations can come and work together. ARCHIVE CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER: It's beautiful to see that.
M	I can't even speak to the Thai leadership that we saw here in this operation, as well as to the people. I mean, it's such a beautiful culture. All the volunteers out there, you know, giving their time and their resources and never losing hope.
M	MARK WILLACY REPORTER: The operation has shifted from search to rescue.
4	A party of Thai Navy SEALs including a medic reaches the stranded boys, bringing food, water, heat blankets and medical supplies. UPSOT RESCUER (THAI): Very good, everyone is very strong.
M	They're coming but I don't know when.
M	Two fingers, two fingers. MARK WILLACY REPORTER:
M	Surprisingly they only have minor injuries. UPSOT RESCUER (THAI): This will kill the infection first, then once you are out we will find you a beautiful nurse.
M	MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Waiting above ground, the boys' mothers are overjoyed as they watch the video of their sons. UPSOT MOTHER [THAI]: I am so glad he is still alive and safe.
M	I am speechless. I want to thank everyone who helped.
M	Thank you very much. UPSOT MOTHER
M	[THAI]: I am dying to see him. I miss my son.
4	JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: Um the first time, it was quite interesting, they all seemed you know in good spirits. Um where they were was quite a desolate place.
4	Um they've nowhere to go but that chamber. They've got to go to toilet there, they've got to eat there, so the smell is quite bad. Um it's quite warm.

X	Untrained volunteers may have set back frantic efforts to pump out water from the Tham Luang cave in Thailand’s northern Chiang Rai province, as experts race to free 12 young boys and their football coach from a two-week ordeal trapped underground.
X	An army of volunteers descended on the site after the plight of the boys, aged 11 to 16, gripped the Southeast Asian nation. But the authorities revealed on Thursday that unauthorised actions had actually obstructed the professional operation to extract the team.
5	Some unregistered volunteers had started pumping water back into the ground and it had returned to the cave, said Narongsak Osatanakorn, Chiang Rai’s governor. “They may have some belief that their technique is effective for ground water drainage, but anything that is not in the plan must be discussed with us first,” he added, according to the Bangkok Post.
5	The rapid draining of the cave complex is the crux of the rescue plan. Navy Seals spent Thursday training the boys how to use scuba gear in the event that they may be forced into an emergency dive through terrifying submerged tunnels if approaching monsoon rains cause floodwaters to rise to dangerous levels in the muddy chamber where they are sheltering.

M	The distraught parents of 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach, have not been told whether their children are among those rescued, a family member told CNN. Four of the boys were pulled out of the cave in northern Thailand late Sunday night and are recovering from their ordeal in a newly converted isolation ward at a nearby hospital.
M	But they have yet to see their parents. Four more boys were carried out of the cave on stretchers Monday, an eyewitness told CNN.
M	The boys, all part of a youth soccer team known as the Wild Boars, were found last Monday after going missing more than two weeks ago. Operations to rescue them from a narrow shelf of rock deep within the flooded Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex are still underway. Instead of being reunited with their children, the boys’ families have agreed to remain at the cave site until all of the boys and their soccer coach are brought out of the cave, a relative of one of the Wild Boars told CNN.
M	Last week, ahead of Sunday’s complex operation to rescue the boys, Thailand’s Health Secretary, Dr. Jessada Chokedamrongsook, warned that they would have to be quarantined for a short period of time before being allowed to see their families. Doctors are monitoring them for any illnesses they may have picked up in the cave and their quarantine will reduce the risk of infection. Following his visit last week to the Chiang Rai Prachanukroh hospital, where the rescued boys have been taken, Chokedamrongsook said that the children would “be kept away from the parents for one to two days and will stay in the care room,” before a further evaluation by doctors for five to seven days. While attending to their physical health is currently the priority, the boys are also likely to develop short-term psychological symptoms after their rescue.
M	Dr. Jennifer Wild, associate professor of experimental psychology and consultant clinical psychologist at the University of Oxford, said that it will be important for the boys to focus on the fact that they’ve gotten out safely, that their teammates still in the cave are being helped and that they will soon be reunited with their families. Authorities have refused to confirm names reported in local media, but speculation about the identities of the four boys who have been successfully evacuated from the cave is rife in surrounding areas. In the small town of Mae Sai where the cave is located, it’s all anybody is talking about it, along with details of the second search – which began at 11 a.m. local time (midnight ET).
X	On Saturday, the boys were able to write letters to their parents. In the personal messages, written in faint blue ink on lined paper, many boys told their parents they loved them.
M	The youngest member of the team, 11-year-old Titun, said in his note that he wanted to eat fried chicken. His father told CNN that when the soccer-mad boy comes home he can have anything he wants. In the short term after their escape, the kids may develop one of many psychological symptoms, said Dr. Andrea Danese, head of the Stress & Development Lab at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience at King’s College London in the UK, in a statement.
M	“They may become fearful, clingy, or jumpy; they may fear for their safety; they may become very moody or easily upset (or, in contrast, they may become detached or numb); or they may develop headache and stomach-ache related to the intense distress,” he said. A wide range of factors might influence how the boys cope with the ordeal, and return to normalcy, added Dr. Neil Greenberg, professor of defence mental health at King’s, in a statement. “It is also likely, given their age, that the nature of their communication with their families will also affect the children; anxiety expressed by their families could easily erode a child’s resilience,” Greenberg said.

3	Two volunteer British cave divers who are believed to be the first to locate 12 Thai boys and their coach after nine days of searches are world leaders in cave rescue, and have frequently worked together on major search and rescue operations around the globe. The group, who went missing during an excursion with their football team coach, were found on Monday night on a small ledge inside a vast cave system in northern Thailand.
4	In footage of the moment the divers arrived in the chamber, a rescuer with an English accent is heard trying to reassure the group that help is coming. Bill Whitehead, vice chair of the British Cave Rescue Council (BCRC), said Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen spearheaded the mission. “They were pushing ahead with the other divers following on behind, creating dumps of air bottles,” he said.
3	Stanton, aged in his mid-fifties, is a firefighter who hails from Coventry and is regarded as one of Britain’s foremost cave divers, with more than 35 years experience. Stanton combines expertise in dry caving and technical diving.
3	In 2013 he described his numerous search and rescue missions as “my hobby”, telling divenet that his participation on missions had been on an “entirely voluntary” basis. Stanton was awarded an MBE in 2012 for services to cave diving, and is often described as the face of British cave diving, and the best cave diver in Europe.
3	Volanthen, who brushed off reporters when entering the cave six days ago, saying only “we’ve got a job to do”, started out as a dry caver who has helped pioneer new equipment that allows cave divers to stay underwater for longer and at greater depths. Volanthen’s technical skills include pushing the limits of rebreather technology, thought to be used by the pair as they navigate the six-mile (10 kilometres)
3	Tham Luang Nang Non network in northern Thailand. Volanthen is a computer engineer who runs marathons in his spare time and lives in Bristol.
3	In 2010, the pair attempted the rescue of accomplished French diver Eric Establie, who was trapped by a silt avalanche inside the Ardeche Gorge, near Marseille. It is believed the French government requested Stanton and Volanthen by name.
3	The duo received medals from the Royal Humane Society for their eight-day effort to save Establie, whose body they recovered from the cave. British diver Neil Bennett of NZ Diving said the pair were brought together in Thailand because of their technical skills and experience using rebreathers; a type of diving equipment that allows air to be recirculated and reused. “In this situation where it is completely extreme and hostile you have to work with a partner who you know well, and is trained to a similar level as yourself.
3	You can’t go down on your own – that would be suicide – you work as a team,” said Bennett. The BCRC said Stanton and Volanthen were working in Thailand in a voluntary capacity, and were “experts in low-visibility cave dives within small passages”. A third British cave diver, Robert Harper, was also sent to Thailand by the BCRC, and the team has been joined by Vern Unsworth, a British cave explorer based in Chiang Rai, Reuters reported.
3	Diving lines laid down by the British cave divers will now allow essential supplies to be ferried to the trapped boys, the BCRC said. In February 2014, both men were asked by the Norwegian police to help rescue the bodies of two cavers who died more than 100 metres underground in a caving network know as Steinugleflaget in Norway.
3	Stanton told the BBC at the time that despite the British team trying their best; the rescue mission was too dangerous and could not be safely executed. “It was evident that it was going to be quite a protracted affair, lots of dives, down deep and cold – and that was really beyond our remit,” Stanton told the BBC, recounting the aborted mission.

3	John Volanthen, from Bristol, was one of a number of foreign expert divers drafted in for the rescue of 12 boys and their football coach who had been trapped in a Thai cave for nine days.
3	He tells BBC Points West about the moment he and his fellow divers first discovered the children alive. Mr Volanthen, a member of the South and Mid Wales Cave Rescue Team, said they knew they had found them due to the smell in the cave.

M	CHIANG RAI, Thailand (Reuters) - Rescuers battled intensifying rain to furiously pump water from a cave in Thailand on Tuesday, as officials thrashed out plans to extract a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days.
M	Seven members of a Thai navy SEALS unit, including a medic and a counselor, were staying with the group after its dramatic discovery on an elevated rock late on Monday by divers who had struggled for hours through narrow passages and murky waters. News of the survival of the “Wild Boar” team sparked jubilation in a nation gripped by the harrowing drama, with news websites, social media and the prime minister celebrating the event and hailing the rescuers as heroes. “Thank you all Thais, thank you all foreigners, everybody is a hero and everybody helped each other,” Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha told reporters.
M	A video shot by the rescuers in flickering torchlight 4 km (2.5 miles) from the mouth of the cave in Thailand’s northernmost province showed boys clad in shorts and red and blue shirts sitting or standing on the rock above an expanse of water. “Thank you,” responded one of the boys. Aged between 11 and 16, the boys and their 25-year-old coach went missing on June 23, after they set out to explore the caves in a forest park following a training session.
5	Rear Admiral Apakorn Yuukongkaew, commander of the SEALS unit, said rain was still a challenge but the boys would be taken out safely as soon as sufficient water could be pumped out of the cave. “But if that doesn’t work, with the seasonal rain, we’ll do it another way,” he told reporters.
5	The 13 have been given a gel with high calorie and mineral content to sustain them while rescue plans are worked out. Officials declined to say what plans ‘A’ and ‘B’ were, but said they aimed to bring the boys out the same way they had entered. Options included teaching the group to use smaller diving apparatus and guiding them out of the caves, from which 120 million liters of water had been pumped continuously for 75 hours by Tuesday evening. The SEALS tried to get phone lines into the cave to allow the boys to speak to parents and families staying at a nearby shelter throughout what could be Thailand’s most high-profile rescue mission.
3	At the Tham Luang cave complex in Chiang Rai, security personnel turned away scores of people who came to show support, while more journalists joined hundreds of media representatives who have covered the drama blow-by-blow. Two British divers experienced in cave rescues, John Volanthen and Rick Stanton, were first to reach the boys, accompanied by the SEALS divers. Their search targeted an elevated mound they believed could have provided a refuge, but that was already flooded, so they went 400 meters (1,312 ft) further, and found the team.
M	News of the discovery sparked jubilation among relatives and rescuers and spread swiftly enough to figure on the front pages of Tuesday’s newspapers. “Found the 13 ‘Wild Boars’, safe and preparing to come out,” was the headline in the country’s biggest daily, Thai Rath.
M	Caricatures of smiling volunteers, rescue workers and media spread on social media and messaging platforms, applauding a search mission that involved citizens of Australia, Britain, China, Japan, Myanmar and the United States, among others. “Take our hearts - thank you,” read one cartoon, while another read “You are our heroes,” followed by “Thank you,” in eight languages.
M	His deputy, Passakorn Bunyalak, dismissed rumors that the mission could last up to four months, but said the boys’ safety was paramount and their extraction should not be rushed. Sura Jeetwatee, a doctor involved in the operations, said the team survived by staying put and drinking water that dripped from stalactite formations. SEALS commander Apakorn said the flow of a cave stream had slowed and water once at head level was now at shin level. He said the boys were in relatively good condition.

3	The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach, moments after they were found inside the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand, on July 3.
3	Still wearing their soccer uniforms and huddled on a rock ledge in the dark cave, the boys didn’t know what day it was and seemed uncertain that the men who’d emerged from the water were there to rescue them. The youths said they were hungry, one chanting “Eat, eat, eat” in English.
3	The dramatic discovery late Monday in northern Thailand of the 12 missing boys and their soccer coach brought cries of relief from relatives who had gathered at the mouth of the cave, and ended a desperate and often frustrating search that drew international help and captivated the nation. The discovery of the boys was captured on video and posted on the Thai Navy SEAL Facebook page.
M	The youths appeared alert, chatty even and seemed anxious to see daylight again. But their ordeal is not over.
M	Officials said the boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach need to first be examined by navy doctors and fed before they can be extricated from the partially flooded cave, and even that could pose difficulties if the water level begins to rise, as it did earlier in the search. “First we need to drain the water and then we need to send the doctor to assess their health before we can take them out,” said the governor of Chiang Rai province, Narongsak Osotthanakorn.
M	He offered no time frame for when the group might be brought out the cave. They have so far been given energy gels and basic medication.
3	The governor said the group was found by a pair of British divers about 300 yards from the patch of elevated dry land that has been at the center of a desperate rescue mission that drew experts from the United States, Australia, Israel, Britain and other nations. Upon hearing the news, relatives of the missing leaped from makeshift beds in a room where they have been sleeping about 150 yards from the mouth of the cave.
X	Some wept and hugged one another. The group went missing June 23.
X	The boys and their coach roamed through a lush mountain range near the Mae Sai river before entering the Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex. The cave is a popular site among locals but one that is considered treacherous during the rainy season, which runs from May to October.
M	It is thought that the group walked deep inside the 5-mile-long cave complex before heavy rain partially flooded the cavern and prevented the 13 from turning back. Rescue teams led by elite Thai navy divers pumped out muddy water and set up lights to illuminate the darkened cave complex, while locals and Buddhist monks flocked to say prayers and give offerings to spirits believed to watch over the site.
M	The rescue mission was delayed by rainfall that continued to fill up the cave, forcing divers to turn back repeatedly. With no signs of the missing boys except bicycles by the entrance and a few handprints and footprints inside the cave, many were beginning to fear the worst. Chaiyon Sirsamott, a local politician who has observed the drama since the second day, said even some experts he spoke with on-site were pessimistic that the group would be found alive.
M	As the week progressed and experts arrived from international agencies — including U.S. military search-and-rescue personnel based in Okinawa, Japan — some officials voiced a sense of progress. But it wasn’t until Sunday, after several days of dry weather, that the water inside began to recede and become clearer, making it easier for divers to navigate.
4	Chaiyon said that he spoke to divers earlier Monday who said they had finally been able to pass a T-junction that was just before the area where the boys were thought to have taken refuge. Thai Rear Adm. Arpakorn Yookongkaew said the boys appeared to be in good spirits, some jumping into the water when divers approached them. But Arpakorn said that “it will take time” before the group can leave.
X	Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha issued a statement hailing “the tremendous efforts of all international units” involved in the search, the Associated Press reported. Styllis is a special correspondent. Times staff writer Shashank Bengali in Islamabad, Pakistan, contributed to this report.
X	8:50 p.m.: This article has been updated with additional comments from the governor of Chiang Rai province. 4:45 p.m.: This article was updated with details from a video of the rescue.
X	1:35 p.m.: This article was updated throughout with staff reporting. 10 a.m.: This article was updated with additional details about the search and reports from Narongsak.
X	9:15 a.m.: This article was updated with a quote from Chiang Rai provincial Gov. Narongsak Osatanakorn, and the ages of the boys and coach. This article was originally published at 9 a.m.

M	Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses, poses with the Moo Paa football team at Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital in Chiang Rai province.
4	The picture is among many pictures he posted on his Facebook page together with a message about the football team who had been trapped in flooded Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai, for more than two weeks. The army doctor who stayed with 12 young footballers and their coach trapped in Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province, after they had been found praised them for their optimism and good morale, spirits and discipline. "The qualities of the Moo Paa [Wild Boars] team that impress me are their optimism and great morale in the wake of the ordeal," Lt Col Dr Pak Loharachun, commander of the 3rd Medical Battalion, wrote on his Facebook page Monday.
4	Dr Pak, who had been chosen to stay with the team due to his medical and diving skills, also wrote that the kids were well disciplined -- they always put garbage in black plastic bags after every meal. He also praised Coach Ek, Ekkapol Chanthawong, for devoting himself to protecting the young.
4	"I saw from the first day that Ek waited for the boys to satisfy their hunger first. He gave his meal to the young," Dr Pak wrote. The coach had taken good care of the boys before rescuers met them because the physical and mental health of the boys was much better than expected, Dr Pak wrote.
4	The coach always told the boys not to take anything from the cave, he added. "All the boys of the Moo Paa team are aware of all rescuers' dedication to the search for them. And I am confident that the Moo Paa boys will grow to become excellent citizens, contribute to the country and bring good reputation to it in the future," Dr Pak said, recalling the 17-day attempts to save the team.
8	The army doctor had been with the 13 trapped people since rescuers had found them in Tham Luang cave on July 2. He was the last one to dive out of the cave after the extraction of all trapped people at the Tham Luang-Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park in Mae Sai district completed. The 12 boys, aged 11-16, and their 25-year-old coach had visited the cave after their regular football practice on June 23 and been trapped by floodwater.
M	Their extraction started on July 8 and took three days to finish. The team was expected to be discharged from Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital on Thursday. Authorities organised a religious ceremony at Tham Luang to boost spirits and morale and pray for good luck Monday.

3	Wrapped in emergency blankets and appearing visibly frail, 12 boys and their adult coach said hello to the outside world in a brief video message Wednesday from deep inside a cave in northern Thailand where they have been trapped for eleven days.
3	A video shared by the Thai Navy SEALs leading the rescue mission shows them introducing themselves and stating their age. “Sawadee krap,” each boy says with his palms together in wai, the traditional Thai greeting.
3	A second video shows a medic treating their feet and gaunt legs. One boy asked if he could have some food. “You guys are about to get a meal,” the cameraman assured him as the medic checked his watch.
3	Cheers erupted at a camp outside the Tham Luang cave’s entrance when they had all been found alive. Relatives, who had been sleeping on plastic chairs and cots under a tarpaulin tent since their disappearance, burst into tears. For a few short hours the nation rejoiced that the search had ended, but the rescue is only beginning.
5	Authorities are racing to find a way to get them out of the cave before monsoon season, which began in May, hits full swing. Heavy rains are expected to resume this week.
M	A Belgian diver assisting the search said none of the boys know how to swim, yet teaching them to dive is one option for their escape. Narongsak Osottanakorn, the governor of Chiang Rai province where the cave is located, said the boys are in stable health condition and that a communications system is being installed to allow them to speak with their families soon for the first time since their disappearance. The boys are believed to have entered the cave after practice on June 23 with their assistant coach, Ekkapol Chantawong, on what was meant to be a half-day trek.
M	But monsoon rains flooded several chambers and blocked their exit. The saga of the trapped team has gripped the nation as search efforts snowballed from a small local team to a multinational emergency response.
M	U.S. and Australian military personnel came to support Thai authorities, as well as technical experts from the U.K., China, Japan and elsewhere. Rescuers initially believed they had likely taken shelter in a large chamber known as Pattaya Beach, roughly 3.5 miles from the cave’s entrance. A pair of British divers assisting the Thai SEALs found them some 1,300 feet further into the complex after discovering Pattaya was also flooded. A video shared by the Thai Navy captured their first contact.
X	“How many of you?” a man’s voice asked as a flashlight scanned the young boys huddled in a corner. “Thirteen,” a voice rang out. Contact us at letters@time.com.

3	Authorities are now working to get a 5km (3 mile) cable into the cave to supply the group with air. They are also trying to feed a fibre optic cable through to the group, to connect them to their families for the first time in nearly two weeks.

M	On Saturday, the governor of the Chiang Rai region, where the cave is located, said the next three to four days were "the most favourable time for the operation in terms of the water, the weather and the boys' health".

X	One of the British divers who helped rescue the Thai soccer team just confirmed what many suspected about Elon Musk's somewhat bizarre attempt at helping: It was never going to work. Unsworth, who according to CNN played a "pivotal" role in the rescue, appeared exasperated when asked about Musk. The Tesla and SpaceX CEO caused a stir on social media last week, when he essentially live-tweeted his plans to aid with the massive rescue effort.
X	That plan culminated with a kid-sized submarine, which Musk himself delivered to officials in Thailand. Unsworth, a local cave expert who was one of the first on the scene, shot that notion down. He said the Musk-designed metal tube was far too big and inflexible to make it around the narrow passages of the cave. "It wouldn't have made the first 50 meters into the cave," he said.

