M	Last week images of Hong Kong citizens storming the Legislative Council dominated the international press. Global audiences love a revolution, especially when it fits neatly into a David and Goliath narrative: Goliath, in this case, is the authoritarian Chinese state, the ineffectual chief executive and her government, and the police, whose excessive use of force was found by Amnesty International to be a violation of international law.
M	The protesters’ objective: oppose the government’s proposed amendments to a law that would allow any person in Hong Kong to be extradited to and face trial in China, a country whose legal system has been criticised for pervasive human rights abuses and procedural unfairness. They also demanded that the government retract the designation of a previous protest as a “riot”, hold the police accountable for their unreasonable use of force, and enact universal suffrage and democracy.
1	Brian Leung, the only protester to take off his mask, read out these demands in the form of the Admiralty declaration. On 9 July, Carrie Lam announced in a press conference that the extradition bill was “dead” – but she has been criticised for failing to invoke a formal legal procedure of withdrawal and to meet the protesters’ other demands. The storming of the legislature is the latest in a series of actions starting from a march in the first week of June attended by 1.3 million people.
M	On 16 June, 2 million Hong Kongers – more than a quarter of the population – took to the streets in an unprecedented show of solidarity. Why is this so significant? It’s because unity has not come easily.
M	After the 2014 umbrella movement failed to secure universal suffrage for citizens – who to this day have minimal say over the choice of Hong Kong’s top leader – the pro-democracy camp fractured seemingly beyond repair. Radical activists criticised traditional democratic parties for their protests commemorating the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre and 1 July 1997 handover, which they saw as ritualistic and ultimately ineffectual. They insisted on an “any means necessary” approach to achieving their political goals of revolution and even independence. In turn, party politicians and more moderate factions criticised direct action campaigners for alienating moderate sections of Hong Kong society as well as international audiences in pursuit of inchoate goals.
M	Many Hong Kongers found themselves disillusioned about the possibility of change – exacerbated by the disqualification of democratically elected lawmakers, the politicised imprisonment of pro-democracy and pro-independence activists, and the building of a railway station that chipped away at Hong Kong’s legal and territorial jurisdiction. The anti-extradition law movement has put at least a temporary end to this stasis.
M	From the hundreds of petitions circulated by secondary schools and civil society groups, to a rally organised by housewives and mothers, to the buying of ad space in newspapers before the G20 Osaka summit, Hong Kongers in the city and around the world have shown their creativity and resilience in resistance. This is not to say that the rifts of the past have been completely healed, or that Hong Kongers have transcended despair and helplessness; we are far more pragmatic than that. Instead, against the chief executive’s attempt to separate protesters who committed “violent acts and vandalism” from peaceful demonstrators, and some commentators’ characterisation of our movement as “divided”, we have developed a common understanding that, though we may pursue different strategies, we will never walk alone. This was a defining moment of the movement – a demonstration of the unity principle: “I may not agree with what you do, but I promise that I will be there for you when you need it.”
M	It’s in a similar vein as the message chains that spread through Hong Kongers’ Telegram groups and Facebook pages after three people died in suicides related to the extradition bill – of lists of local helplines, of contact information for counselling services offered by trained volunteers. In the face of rising authoritarian rule, we Hong Kongers will no longer allow our judgments of each other’s capacities and strategies tear us apart. We will also take responsibility for one another, including providing support when some of us refuse help. We know that we will only succeed if we can survive as a collective; as a collective we will only survive if we cover every frontline and care for all in our corner.

M	This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

4	Civic Passion chair and lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai has been arrested by Hong Kong police, amid a round-up of pro-democracy figures.
4	Cheng Chung-tai. File photo:
4	In-Media. Cheng’s party Civic Passion said on Facebook that the lawmaker was arrested for “conspiracy to commit criminal damage,” in relation to the storming of the legislature on July 1.
4	Civic Passion added that Cheng did not participate in or incite any clashes, and he did not damage or tell others to damage objects in the legislature: “Today [the police] arrested Cheng on trumped-up charges, the purpose is to create terror and to make the public afraid to speak up for justice,” the party wrote. His detention comes after the arrest of several high-profile activists over the space of 24-hours, including Joshua Wong, Agnes Chow, Andy Chan and Althea Suen.
X	Since June, the police have arrested more than 900 people in relation to the ongoing anti-extradition law protests. The ill-fated bill would have allowed case-by-case fugitive transfers to China.
M	Large-scale peaceful protests have morphed into – sometimes violent – displays of dissent over Beijing’s encroachment, democracy, alleged police brutality, surveillance and other community grievances. Hong Kong Free Press relies on direct reader support. Help safeguard independent journalism and press freedom as we invest more in freelancers, overtime, safety gear & insurance during this summer’s protests.

M	Organisers have said 550,000 attended the annual July 1 democracy march, as protesters storm Hong Kong’s legislature after breaking into its rear entrance. The largely peaceful march on Monday was organised by the Civil Human Rights Front, a coalition of 50 pro-democracy groups, who said that over half a million people attended. Police put the turnout figure at 190,000. Photo: Todd R. Darling/HKFP.
M	The event saw thousands pour into major thoroughfares in central Hong Kong on the 22nd anniversary of the city’s 1997 Handover. Many attendees held up signs calling for democracy and the withdrawal of the controversial extradition bill, which was suspended on June 15 but not axed. Other protest demands included for political prisoners to be released; for the characterisation of the June 12 anti-extradition protest as a “riot” to be retracted; for Chief Executive Carrie Lam to resign, and for the police to be investigated for apparent misconduct after using crowd control weapons.
M	The government said in a statement on Monday evening that it respects the public’s right to peaceful freedom of assembly: “The government clearly understands that members of the public have concerns and doubts about the proposed amendments to the Fugitive Offenders Ordinance, and has put a stop to the legislative amendment exercise. The bill will lapse after the current term of the Legislative Council ends in July next year,” a spokesperson added.
1	However, a separate demonstration at the rear of the Legislative Council (LegCo) Complex escalated as masked protesters broke into the facility after upturning metal gates, spray-painting its interior and defacing portraits of current and former LegCo presidents. Police appeared to retreat to areas deeper within the building as protesters entered. Photo: Todd R. Darling/HKFP. The complex was evacuated at around 6pm after a red alert was issued for the first time in history. The government condemned the unrest as “extremely violent,” saying it has never tolerated such actions: “Protesters who resort to violence must stop their acts immediately. The police will take appropriate enforcement action to protect public order and safety,” a spokesperson said.
X	The Hong Kong Free Press #PressForFreedom 2019 Funding Drive seeks to raise HK$1.2m to support our non-profit newsroom and dedicated team of multi-media, multi-lingual reporters. HKFP is backed by readers, run by journalists and is immune to political and commercial pressure. This year’s critical fundraiser will provide us with the essential funds to continue our work into next year.

3	HONG KONG (Reuters) - Hong Kong police fired tear gas early on Tuesday to disperse hundreds of defiant protesters, some of whom had stormed and ransacked the city’s legislature hours earlier on the anniversary of the city’s 1997 return to Chinese rule.
1	Police arrived in a convoy of buses near midnight as about 1,000 protesters, furious at a proposed law that would allow extraditions to China, were gathered around the council building in the former British colony’s financial district in a direct challenge to authorities in Beijing. Earlier, protesters wearing hard hats, masks and black shirts had used a metal trolley, poles and scaffolding to charge again and again at the compound’s reinforced glass doors, which eventually gave. Scores of them poured into the building.
3	Police fired several rounds of tear gas as protesters held up umbrellas to protect themselves, trying to block their advance. Plumes of smoke billowed across major thoroughfares and between some of the world’s tallest skyscrapers.
M	The extraordinary violence marked an escalation in the weeks-long movement against the extradition law, which the city’s leader, Carrie Lam, had argued was necessary but suspended in mid-June after protest marches that drew hundreds of thousands of people onto the streets. Lam called a news conference at 4 a.m. (2000 GMT) to condemn what were some of the most violent protests to rock the city in decades. It was not clear if any arrests were made.
M	Umbrellas, metal barriers, hard hats, water bottles and other debris lay strewn across major roads near the legislative council, known as Legco. Police and work crews removed metal barriers and other blockades from some thoroughfares in a bid to clear them ahead of businesses reopening on Tuesday.
2	Inside Legco, protesters smashed computers and spray-painted “anti-extradition” and slurs against the police and the government on chamber walls. Other graffiti called for Lam, Hong Kong’s chief executive, to step down, while pictures of some lawmakers were defaced. “HK Is Not China” was painted in black on a white pillar.
M	The government called for an immediate end to the violence, saying it had stopped work on amendments to the suspended extradition bill and that the legislation would automatically lapse in July next year. “This kind of violent behavior affects the core value of the rule of law, and I felt angry and upset about this, and need to seriously condemn it,” Lam later told the media. On Monday - a public holiday - the protesters, some with cling film wrapped around their arms to protect them from pepper spray and tear gas, again paralyzed parts of the Asian financial hub as they occupied roads near the government. Riot police in helmets and carrying batons earlier fired pepper spray.
M	Lam has stopped short of protesters’ demands to scrap the extradition bill, although she has said the suspension would effectively kill the proposal because of the lawmaking schedule. The Beijing-backed leader is now clinging to her job at a time of an unprecedented backlash against the government that poses the greatest popular challenge to Chinese leader Xi Jinping since he came to power in 2012.
M	News of the protests in Hong Kong has been heavily censored in the mainland. “The kind of deafness that I see in the government this time around despite these protests is really worrying.
M	The complete disregard for the will of the people is what alarms me,” said Steve, a British lawyer who has worked in Hong Kong for 30 years and declined to give his last name. Opponents of the extradition bill, which would allow people to be sent to mainland China for trial in courts controlled by the Communist Party, fear it is a threat to Hong Kong’s much-cherished rule of law.
X	The Legislative Council Secretariat released a statement cancelling business for Tuesday. The central government offices, which are adjacent to Legco, said they would close on Tuesday “owing to security consideration”, while all guided tours to the Legislative Council complex were suspended until further notice.
M	Hong Kong returned to China under a “one country, two systems” formula that allows freedoms not enjoyed in mainland China, including freedom to protest and an independent judiciary. Beijing denies interfering, but for many Hong Kong residents, the extradition bill is the latest step in a relentless march toward mainland control. China has been angered by criticism from Western capitals, including Washington and London, about the legislation. Beijing said on Monday that Britain had no responsibility for Hong Kong any more and was opposed to its “gesticulating” about the territory.
M	The European Union on Monday called for restraint and dialogue to find a way forward. A U.S. State Department spokeswoman urged all sides to refrain from violence.
M	“Hong Kong’s success is predicated on its rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms, including freedoms of expression and peaceful assembly,” she said. While thousands of demonstrators laid siege to the legislature, tens of thousands marched through the center of town in an annual handover anniversary rally. Many clapped as protesters held up a poster of Lam inside a bamboo cage.
M	Organizers said 550,000 turned out. Police said there were 190,000 at their peak.
M	More than a million people have taken to the streets at times over the past three weeks to vent their anger. A tired-looking Lam appeared in public for the first time in nearly two weeks, before the storming of the legislature, flanked by her husband and former Hong Kong leader Tung Chee-hwa. Pro-democracy lawmakers and the protest march organizers said Lam had ignored the demands of the people and pushed youngsters toward desperation, despite pledging to listen to people’s demands. Beijing’s grip over Hong Kong has tightened markedly since Xi took power and after pro-democracy street protests in 2014 that ultimately failed to wrestle concessions from China.
M	Tensions spiraled on June 12 when police fired rubber bullets and tear gas at protesters near the heart of the city. The uproar has reignited a protest movement that had lost steam after the failed 2014 demonstrations that led to the arrests of hundreds. The turmoil comes at a delicate time for Beijing, which is grappling with a trade dispute with the United States, a faltering economy and tensions in the South China Sea. The extradition bill has also spooked some Hong Kong tycoons into starting to move their personal wealth offshore, according to financial advisers familiar with the details.

1	Shortly before 9pm on July 1, Hong Kong protesters broke through the final barrier separating them and the interior of the city’s Legislative Council Complex.
1	Many of the glass panels lining the building’s exterior had already been smashed in the afternoon, but it took another hour or so before protesters were able to breach the metal shutters. At Public Entrance 1, next to the protest zone nicknamed the “bottom of the pot,” protesters walked into a conspicuously empty lobby.
1	Police officers armed with riot gear had been standing guard on the other side of the shutters for hours. But they had apparently retreated and left the building just moments before.
2	Photo: Holmes Chan/HKFP. Within minutes, protesters began spray-painting slogans onto the corridor walls and vandalising the portraits of Legislative Council presidents. The main legislative chamber on the first floor, a space normally reserved for lawmakers, was broken into and occupied by 9:30pm.
M	The unprecedented scenes on Monday were the culmination of a month-long escalation of protests against the extradition bill proposed by the Hong Kong government. Protesters have condemned Chief Executive Carrie Lam for failing to respond to any of their demands, which resulted in historic mass street protests and acts of wildcat civil disobedience.
M	Photo: Todd R. Darling. The discussions, which ironically took place in the same room where lawmakers decide the affairs of Hong Kong, also represented a microcosm of the so-called leaderless style of the recent protests. Many of the decisions were made in small groups without a central coordinator, with protesters encouraged to decide for themselves what course of action to take.
M	In a rare move, activist Leung Kai-ping removed his own mask and allowed himself to be photographed. “I took off my mask because I want to let everyone know that we Hongkongers have nothing more to lose,” he said, addressing other protesters. He urged more people to join the occupation, saying that a larger turnout could guarantee the personal safety of protesters, and gain legitimacy in the public eye.
2	Photo: Todd R. Darling. Between 9pm and midnight, protesters took over the lower floors of the Legislative Council Complex, entering the antechamber, meeting rooms and various offices.
X	Some left after hearing rumours that the police were on their way, only to return after finding out the messages were fake. “We are not thieves we don’t steal,” reads the sign.
2	Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
M	In the Telegram channels used by protesters, some said that it should be up to those inside the legislature to decide what statement – if any – to make. Inspiration arrived in the form of crowd-sourced manifestos, which were posted by netizens across social media and especially in the Reddit-like discussion forum LIHKG.
M	Photo: Todd R. Darling. An hour after the statement was first published, a version of it was read aloud in the legislative chamber, in front of the podium where the Legislative Council president would sit. Photo: Todd R. Darling.
M	Protesters made five core demands: withdraw the amendments to the extradition laws completely, do not classify past demonstrations as riots, drop all charges against those arrested in relation to the protests, set up an independent commission to investigate the use of force by the police, and call for fully democratic elections for the Legislative Council and the chief executive. Photo: Todd R. Darling.
M	Those behind Monday’s occupation may have aspired to create Hong Kong’s equivalent of the Taiwanese movement – but that was not to be. At 10:21pm, the police issued a video saying they would clear the area surrounding the Legislative Council “shortly,” a move that spurred protesters into debating their options for the next hour. Only about 20 were left in the legislative chamber, vastly outnumbered by reporters who were in yellow vests.
M	“Why are we staying here? The pan-democrat [lawmakers] have said they would not help us… Why are we staying here to help them win ballots?”
M	one said. Others also argued that it was futile to face riot police, and that it was better to fight another day.
M	Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. Protesters arrived at a consensus that people need to make a decision for themselves before midnight: those who wanted to leave should leave before then, and those who remained would be committed to staying for the long haul. In theory, each protester could choose their level of participation, but this strategy quickly ran into a problem.
M	Only a minority of people wanted to continue occupying the legislative chamber, but they would become vulnerable if everybody else left. Photo:
M	Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP. Minutes from midnight, one of the four final remaining occupiers told Apple Daily that he expected to “go to jail for eight or 10 years, and getting injured all over.” He said that he did not blame his fellow protesters for leaving, though he added that he depended on those staying downstairs in the protest zone for support.
M	“From June 9 till now, we have done so much, should we just let the movement cool down? Go home to sleep and declare the movement over?” he said.
M	Photo: Todd R. Darling. But before the four occupiers could make their last stand, events took a dramatic turn.
M	One minute past midnight, a swarm of people burst into the legislative chamber – protesters, not police. They repeatedly shouted “leave together” and took away the four men by force.
M	One of the final occupiers clung to a wooden bannister, and had to be wrestled away and carried out. “We decided to come up together, and leave together with them.
M	If they don’t leave, we don’t leave,” one of the new arrivals told Stand News. She said that protesters downstairs were afraid to come up, since police action was imminent and they could be blocked in.
3	However, they took the risk to retrieve the occupiers out of solidarity. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. Arriving from their headquarters in Wan Chai, police officers in riot gear had made it to the Legislative Council Complex by 00:15am.
3	They fired tear gas as protesters moved back towards Harcourt Road in Admiralty and then later dispersed. After securing the premises, police conducted a search of the building to root out any lingering protesters. None remained.
4	The Hong Kong Free Press #PressForFreedom 2019 Funding Drive seeks to raise HK$1.2m to support our non-profit newsroom and dedicated team of multi-media, multi-lingual reporters. HKFP is backed by readers, run by journalists and is immune to political and commercial pressure.

1	Hundreds of demonstrators stormed the Legislative Council Complex on the evening of July 1, marking a turning point for political protest in Hong Kong. Without a traditional figurehead to speak on behalf of protesters, many found their own ways of expressing their demands and beliefs.
2	HKFP surveys the messages and symbols left at the scene. Protesters partially defaced the city’s official emblem in what became one of the night’s most symbolic scenes.
2	Photo: May James. Shielding themselves with an array of umbrellas, they spray-painted over the white bauhinia flower.
2	The Chinese characters for “People’s Republic of China” were blackened out, but those for “Hong Kong Special Administrative Region” were spared. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP.
M	The National Flag and National Emblem Ordinance, passed in 1997, states that anyone who “who desecrates the national flag or national emblem by publicly and wilfully burning, mutilating, scrawling on, defiling or trampling on it” could be fined up to HK$50,000 and face three years in jail. Among the most common slogans spray-painted onto the walls were the five core demands, which protesters have insisted on since the anti-extradition law protests escalated in June.
2	Slogans scrawled on the wall reads: “Release the martyrs,” “Carrie Lam step down” and “garbage.” Photo: May James.
M	They include: complete withdrawal of the extradition bill, stop classifying the June protests as “riots,” unconditional release of those arrested in relation to protests, investigate abuses of power by police, and Chief Executive Carrie Lam stepping down and electing her successor democratically. Slogans on the wall read “withdraw,” referring to the extradition bill.
2	Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
2	Later in the night, protesters also erected placards that show the demands printed onto pictures of the faces of Hong Kong’s top officials. Photo: May James.
2	The graffiti reads “black cops.” Photo: May James.
2	Around 9:40pm, a protester draped the flag of colonial-era Hong Kong at the podium of the legislative chamber. The flag was later removed. Protesters unfurl the flag of colonial Hong Kong at the podium in the occupied legislature.
2	Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
2	There was debate on the Reddit-like forum LIHKG over whether displaying the colonial flag would cause more harm than good. Protesters defaced the emblem of Hong Kong, spray-painted slogans, and unfurled the colonial-era flag. Slogans on the wall read “released the righteous [protesters]” and “retract [extradition bill]”.
2	Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP. While the main target of the protesters’ ire was Carrie Lam and her administration, some also took issue with the Legislative Council.
2	Photo: May James. The portrait of LegCo president Andrew Leung was taken down and defaced.
2	Photo: May James. The framed photos of presidents Jasper Tsang and Rita Fan were also targetted. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. The portraits of pre-1997 legislature presidents were untouched.
M	Photo: Todd R. Darling. Protesters also spray-painted the slogan, “abolish functional constituencies” in multiple locations. Functional constituencies refer to the 30 seats in the 70-person legislature that are not openly contested, but are elected by members of specific professions or interest groups.
2	Slogan reads “abolish functional constituencies”. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP.
2	In another symbolically significant moment, a protester ripped up a copy of the Basic Law while standing at the podium of the legislative chamber. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP.
M	Some protesters told media that the escalation was necessary because people had “given their lives for the movement.” This was in reference to the three people who took their own lives, in incidents linked to the recent political crisis. The slogans read: “indefinite occupation” and “Have you repaid the debt of blood?”
M	Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
M	Photo: Tom Grundy/HKFP. This was sometimes accompanied by calls for the release of the “martyrs,” meaning those who had been arrested or charged in relation to the protests.
2	A bench was spray-painted with “Hong Kong is not China, not yet” while in the background the wooden walls were covered with profanity. Photo: Todd R. Darling.
2	Slogans on the wall read: “Release Edward Leung”, “revolution of our time”, “release the righteous”, “black cops go to hell”, “anti-Chinese colonialism”. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. Slogans elsewhere also called for Leung’s release.
M	The graffiti on a column in the legislature reads: “It was you who taught me peaceful marches are useless.” Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
M	Slogan on the wall reads: “The government forced us to revolt”. Photo: Kris Cheng/HKFP. Slogans on the wall read: “Murderous regime” and “There are no rioters only a tyrannical regime.”
M	Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
M	Graffiti reads: “The government forced us to revolt” and “Withdraw [the extradition bill].” Photo: May James.
X	Another widely circulated photo showed a small tray in the fridge which was filled with cash – payment for the drinks taken. Protesters left a notice on the freezer reading: “We are not thieves, we won’t take things without asking.”
X	Photo: Thammakhun John Crowcroft/HKFP.
X	The vast majority of messages left by protesters referred to local issues, but one made reference to China’s treatment of Muslim Uyghurs in Xinjiang. Photo: Tom Grundy/HKFP.
X	“China will pay for its crimes against Uighur Muslims,” the graffiti read. Up to one million members of mostly Muslim Turkic-speaking minority groups are held in internment camps, according to estimates cited by a UN panel. The photo of the graffiti has been shared by Uyghur activists on social media.
2	Outside the legislature, protesters raised the “black bauhinia” flag in the early hours of July 1. A riff on the official flag of Hong Kong, the design features a half-wilted bauhinia flower stained with blood, presented on a black background. The black bauhinia flag, with the red colour symbolising blood stains.
2	Photo: Isaac Yee/HKFP. The original HKSAR flag hung next to the black bauhinia flag outside the legislature, but protesters lowered it to half staff.
X	Participants of the 2014 pro-democracy Umbrella Movement often cite the song “Do you hear the people sing?” from the musical Les Misérables. Photo: Tom Grundy/HKFP.
X	In 2019, many have cited a popular line from Suzanne Collins’s Mockingjay, which is part of the science fiction Hunger Games series. Photo: May James.

1	Hundreds of Hong Kong protesters have stormed the headquarters of the city’s legislative council, spray-painting graffiti and smashing pictures. The development followed an hours-long standoff that saw the building’s reinforced glass windows smashed with metal trolleys and poles, in a culmination of growing anger over an extradition bill.
3	The council, a mini-parliament, issued a red alert, ordering the protesters to leave immediately. It did not say what would happen if they did not, though police did not immediately intervene. An annual protest march was already scheduled for Monday, as the territory marks the 1 July 1997 anniversary of the handover to China from British rule. In a statement, police said 13 officers “experienced difficulty in breathing and had swollen and itchy skin” after having an unspecified liquid thrown on them during an earlier clash where they reportedly baton-charged protesters.
M	The violence forced an alteration to the 1 July march, an annual tradition that shows defiance towards what critics say is the encroachment of Hong Kong’s autonomy by mainland China. But clashes started particularly early on Monday and became unusually heated amid a backdrop of anger against city leader Carrie Lam’s attempts to force through an unpopular extradition bill.
M	More than a million people have taken to the streets at times over the past three weeks to vent their anger. Police fought to keep back hundreds of helmeted protesters who tried to advance down closed streets towards the official harbour-front venue marking the anniversary. Attendants were asked to be seated inside a huge convention centre rather than gather outside as they have in previous years, with the government blaming light rain for the change.
M	During the event, Chinese and Hong Kong flags were raised together and two helicopters and a small flotilla passed by. In a five-minute speech, Hong Kong chief executive Ms Lam said the protests of recent weeks had taught her she needs to listen better to the youth, and to people in general. “This has made me fully realise that I, as a politician, have to remind myself all the time of the need to grasp public sentiments accurately,” she said.
M	Security guards pushed the pro-democracy lawmaker Helena Wong out of the room as she walked backwards shouting at Ms Lam to resign and withdraw the “evil” extradition legislation. She later told reporters she was voicing the grievances and opinions of the protesters, who could not get into the event.
1	Perhaps the most dramatic scenes were at the legislative council building, however, where police in full riot gear stood lined up inside the plate glass windows as protesters tried to gain entry, repeatedly ramming and cracking the windows with anything they could find. The standoff lasted well into the sweltering evening, and the Reuters news agency reported the protesters had breached and stormed the building late on Monday.
M	Fearing a repeat of the heavy-handed police tactics from the bloody 12 June protest, pro-democracy politicians urged the public to demonstrate peacefully. Opposition politicians including Lam Cheuk-ting, Hui Chi-fung, Roy Kwong Chun-yu and HK First’s Claudia Mo were at the scene at the council headquarters, attempting to discourage the crowd from violence, CNN reported. Police, who had been working to secure the harbour front since 4am, requested protest leaders cancel or postpone the handover anniversary march, with attendance swelled by the recent unrest. That request was denied.

X	This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

4	Last month, the legislature’s president Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen said the cost of repairing the damage done during the storming would be more than HK$40 million (US$5 million).
2	Hours after Hong Kong celebrated the 22nd anniversary of its return from British to Chinese rule, dozens of mostly young protesters ransacked and defaced the complex. They broke more than 60 glass doors and panes, spraying graffiti on the walls, daubing the city’s official emblem with black paint and damaging the chamber’s fire-prevention and security systems.
4	The three arrests were the first made for “entering or staying in the chamber area” during the attack the city’s legislature on July 1. Hong Kong police on Tuesday arrested three men for their alleged roles in storming the Legislative Council building – and denied accusations of carrying out a humiliating strip-search on a detained female protester.
4	One of the suspects, a 20-year-old, was on Tuesday accused of criminal damage and of “entering or staying in the chamber area”. The other two, aged 19 and 29, were accused of conspiracy to commit criminal damage, as well as facing the accusation relating to the chamber.
M	Separately, police officials dismissed a woman’s accusations that officers ordered her to take off her clothes for a body search. Superintendent Chik Hsia-yu said officers had found records and CCTV footage that showed the woman was not asked to remove all her clothing. Chik did not disclose to what extent the woman was asked to disrobe, saying it was inappropriate to make the woman’s personal details public. “During the body search, our colleague did not use any object to point or pat the woman’s body,” she said in a press conference.
M	She said the CCTV footage of the corridor outside the room indicated the body search took about four minutes, rather than between 15 and 30 minutes as was claimed. The footage also did not show a group of more than 10 officers standing outside the room, according to Chik.
M	She said the Complaints Against Police Office had so far received no complaint. She also said the woman could file a complaint to allow a fair and open investigation, or compare her story against the force’s records. “Then it will be fair to everyone,” she said.
M	Last Friday, the woman, who identified herself as Ms Lui , held a news conference in which she said she had suffered from depression after her arrest. She was accompanied by lawmaker Tanya Chan and two lawyers. She said that while she was in police custody two female officers searched her, during which they ordered her to squat and rise three times, while one officer patted her thighs with a pen, instructing her to open her legs.
M	Chief Superintendent John Tse Chun-chung of the Police Public Relations Branch (PPRB) defended the officers’ conduct, saying “our baseline is that we always respect the dignity, privacy and rights of people under police custody”. Chik also denied recent online claims that an arrested woman had been raped by police officers.
4	As of Monday night, the police had arrested 883 people in the anti-government protests and charged 136 with various crimes. Police said they sent more than 50 people arrested during the protests on August 11 to San Uk Ling Holding Centre, and about 30 of the detainees had sought medical treatment.
4	Six were later found to have suffered broken bones and one of them was sent to hospital immediately. Kong Wing-cheung, senior superintendent with the PPRB, rejected accusations of any delay in sending them to hospital. He said he believed the injuries were caused when officers were making the arrest – and before they were sent to San Uk Ling.

4	HONG KONG (AP) — Police said they had arrested 13 people after the protests on Monday’s anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to China, including one man accused of storming the legislature building in a break-in involving hundreds of pro-democracy protesters who vandalized offices and the main chamber.
4	The local man surnamed Poon was arrested in Mong Kok and accused of assaulting police, criminal destruction, misconduct in public places and forced entry of the Legislative Council Complex, police said late Wednesday night. Eleven men and a woman were arrested in connection with a different protest that took place Monday morning. They face various charges including possession of offensive weapons, unlawful assembly, assaulting a police officer, obstructing a police officer and failing to carry an identity document.
M	The brief statement did not describe the offensive weapons or provide further details. Pro-democracy protesters rushed police barricades around the time of a morning flag-raising ceremony marking the 22nd anniversary of the former British colony’s handover to China in 1997.
1	Police used shields, batons and pepper spray to drive them back. That afternoon, while hundreds of thousands of people were participating in a peaceful march marking the anniversary, a few hundred protesters began trying to break into the locked legislative building by smashing thick glass walls and prying open metal security curtains. When they poured into the building late that night, they spray-painted slogans on the walls and caused extensive damage.
2	In shocking scenes Monday and early Tuesday, the protesters vented their anger and frustration at a government that hasn’t responded to their demands. They stood on the desks in the legislature’s main chamber and climbed high to cover the city’s official emblem with black spray paint.
2	On Wednesday, workers boarded up shattered windows and police carted away evidence for the criminal investigation. The government showed journalists the extent of the damage on a tour of the first two floors of the building. At almost every turn, slogans had been spray-painted on the walls in Chinese and English.
2	“Destroy the Chinese Communist Party,” read one. “Hong Kong is not China” said another. Papers, rubbish and umbrellas — a protest symbol in Hong Kong used to ward off sun, rain and pepper spray — were strewn in lobbies and rooms.
4	Parts of wooden picture frames were all that remained of portraits of legislative leaders that hung on the wall. Steve Vickers, a former head of criminal intelligence for the Royal Hong Kong Police, predicted a severe crackdown that will result in long jail terms.
X	Police also announced two other sets of arrests Wednesday. They said five men and one woman were arrested for various incidents during a public meeting on Sunday, when supporters of police staged a large rally. Some clashed with anti-government protesters and members of the media.
X	They were charged with possession of offensive weapons, assault causing bodily harm, common assault and fighting in a public place. Also Wednesday, police said six men and two women had been arrested for posting personal data about police officers on the internet. Officers and their family members have been threatened since their addresses and official ID card numbers were published, Superintendent Mohammed Swalikh of the Cyber Security bureau said.
M	He did not say whether police believe the disclosures were related to the protests, which were set off by proposed legislation to change Hong Kong’s extradition laws and have broadened into a demonstration of Hong Kong residents’ fears of growing Chinese control in the territory. Protesters also are demanding an independent investigation into a crackdown on demonstrations June 12 in which officers used tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse crowds blocking major city streets. The tactics used were harsher than usual for Hong Kong, which police have said were justified after some protesters turned violent.
M	Dozens were injured in the clashes, both protesters and police. The extradition legislation would allow criminal suspects to be extradited to mainland China to face what critics fear would be unfair and politicized trials and would target opponents of China’s ruling Communist Party. The law’s opponents see it as an erosion of the rights guaranteed to Hong Kong for 50 years after the handover.
M	Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam suspended the bill and apologized for how it was handled, but protesters want it to be formally withdrawn and for Lam to resign. In Beijing, the Chinese government lashed back at remarks by British Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt on the causes of the anti-government protests in Hong Kong.
M	Geng said Britain has no authority to discuss matters in the territory. He noted Hong Kong was under British rule for 155 years, run by governors appointed by the British crown, rather than being an autonomous democracy. The protesters in Hong Kong are demanding direct election of the city’s leader. Lam was chosen by an elite committee of mainly pro-Beijing electors.

1	On Monday night, Hong Kong protesters broke into their parliamentary building, occupying the main chamber of the Legislative Council and vandalizing property. As the protesters entered the building, police initially retreated to avoid confrontation and give the demonstrators the run of the building.
2	For a few hours, protesters defaced portraits of lawmakers and spray-painted pro-democracy phrases in the chamber before being evicted by security forces. The graffiti was vast and profound, but the messages left behind express a great deal about the changing characteristics of these protests. On the central wall of the main chamber sits Hong Kong’s emblem.
2	It reads "Hong Kong" in English, but in Chinese, it says: “The Regional Emblem of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China”. Protesters spray-painted over the emblem, covering the portion which read “People’s Republic of China”, only leaving Hong Kong’s section on the emblem unscathed. This act of vandalism portrays the demonstrators’ eagerness to keep Hong Kong autonomous from mainland China, saving its freedoms, judicial independence, and its own legislature and economic system.
M	Inside the Legislative Council building, protesters draped a Hong Kong colonial-era flag over a podium. The message serves as a tribute to Hong Kong’s history as a former colony to British rule, calling on its former colonizers to confront China regarding the recent events.
M	For 156 years, Hong Kong existed as a British colony until it was formally handed back to China in 1997; yesterday was the 22nd-anniversary celebrating independence from British rule. While some believe the flag is a desire to return to British rule, Hong Kong journalist Alan Wong refutes the belief.
M	Protestors also spray-painted “Hong Kong’s sunflower” on the wall in black, referring to the Sunflower Movement protests which occurred in Taiwan in 2014. During that time, students and activists in Taiwan occupied Taiwan’s parliament to stand against Beijing’s growing influence over Taiwan. Hong Kong protesters believe the same is happening to their region right now.
M	A demonstrator spray-painted a slogan on a column inside the Legislative Council building which read, “It was you who told me peaceful marches did not work.” This message was directed towards Carrie Lam, who despite witnessing the massive turnouts for the recent protests, refused to listen to her citizens.
M	Starting out peacefully demonstrating, Hong Kong citizens are growing anxious that efforts in expressing their voices through civil means remain unheard; they are thus resorting to violent methods as depicted last night. Spray-painted on a computer screen inside the Legislative Council building reads the Chinese characters for “freedom” to show people in Hong Kong are protesting to preserve their region’s unique sense of liberty, a characteristic absent from the mainland.
M	China promised Hong Kong it would be able to preserve its freedoms until 2047, after the British handover in 1997; after 22 years of autonomy, many in Hong Kong believe they cannot live without those rights. Fox News' Morgan Cheung and the Associated Press contributed to this report.

M	It encapsulated the feeling of the protest and how far the mood has shifted since the optimism of the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful.
M	During those protests, there was a real sense that true change was possible, that the city’s long demand of democracy was on the verge of being met. When the Umbrella Movement failed, things began to turn. Two years later, protesters clashed violently with police over an attempt to crack down on an open-air food market, in what became known as the “Mong Kok fish ball riot.”
M	The government responded with a barrage of prosecutions and ejected several pro-democracy lawmakers from the legislature. Last month, a bill that would allow extradition to China galvanized opposition from a wide swath of society and uncorked the anger and frustration that has been bubbling under the surface since 2014. For weeks, hundreds of thousands of people have marched against the bill, leading to it being shelved though not formally withdrawn, while smaller – but still substantial – protests have clashed with police.
3	Tear gas and rubber bullets were used to clear a major occupation on June 12, leading to allegations of police brutality and even angrier protests, several of which targeted the police headquarters and blocked officers inside. A growing divide in the protest camp became clear Monday, as a peaceful pro-democracy march passed by the legislature where a splinter group of protesters was clashing with police and attempting to break in to the government headquarters. With police nowhere in sight, the anger among the breakaway protest group exploded, as the mostly young, masked protesters smashed windows of the government building, forced their way inside through metal shutters and then trashed nearly everything in sight, including the legislative chamber.
4	While protesters beat a tactical retreat late Monday – some were forcibly carried out by fellow demonstrators who wanted to stay out of the building – they promised they would return if their demands were not met. Watching the chaos inside the legislature Monday were several grim-faced, pro-democracy lawmakers, who had earlier attempted to stop protesters storming the building, only to be shouted down and blamed for their previous failure to block the extradition bill.
M	“This is really not what we like to see,” said pro-democracy Labour Party lawmaker Fernando Cheung. He blamed the violence on the “lack of positive response to the public” after weeks of demonstrations and noted that Chief Executive Carrie Lam had refused to meet with opposition lawmakers ahead of Monday’s protests.
M	Images of three people whose suicides have been linked to the protests were everywhere Monday, and protesters have made them martyrs, often ignoring warnings about suicide contagion by doing so. The mood among many protesters at the government headquarters – all of whom wore masks but appeared to be in their mid-to-late teens and early twenties – was often bleak.
M	The fear for many is that the territory is turning into just another Chinese city. They worry that time is running out to shore up democratic reforms and political freedoms before the handover agreement that the British struck in 1997 expires in 2047 and Hong Kong truly becomes part of China.
M	While there are advantages to a leaderless model – not least that there aren’t obvious targets for prison sentences – there are risks, too. With no one in charge, angry protests can quickly escalate without a plan for what comes next, as many protesters admitted was the case yesterday.
M	Being a young Hong Konger isn’t easy. Housing prices and living costs rise each year, while youth employment rates have been largely stagnant and many young graduates struggle to find work. The younger generation also lacks many of the reasons for optimism that previous ones did.
M	Many older Hong Kongers, who grew up in a British colony, strongly identify with China and saw a point of pride in the city returning to Chinese rule, even pro-democrats. Today, the number of people who express pride in being a Chinese citizen is at a record low, with a significant number of young people identifying as Hong Kongers rather than Chinese, according to the Hong Kong University Public Opinion Program. This stronger sense of identity with the city and opposition to China, has created a generation of protesters for whom this really is an all or nothing fight. Their ties are not to country, but to city and each other, as seen when protesters returned to the legislature minutes before the police clearance to drag out some who wanted to stay and face the consequences, determined that all would share the same fate. And if they’re doomed to lose, many now appear intent on doing so with a fight.

M	Half a million had peacefully marched against the extradition bill that day.
2	Even the splinter group who broke into the building, spray-painted slogans and hung the British colonial-era flag had their limits. They put up signs urging others not to damage antiques and left cash for drinks from the cafe.
M	Force was directed at property rather than people. But the angry, destructive scenes nonetheless reflect a hardening of feeling. The occupation and vandalism will alienate some ordinary residents as well as risking retaliation.
M	One pro-democracy legislator described the ease with which protesters gained entry as a trap; there are fears that it plays into the hands of the Chinese government, which has already described events as “intolerable”. Yet many of those who opposed the takeover, and in some cases tried to physically prevent it as police stood aside, nonetheless blame authorities rather than those who stormed the building. Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, halted the new legislation after huge demonstrations, but her refusal to withdraw it or to apologise for harsh policing (including the firing of teargas and rubber bullets and beating of protesters posing no apparent threat) has fuelled the anger and sense of hopelessness.
X	“We already tried everything else,” the activist Joshua Wong wrote on Twitter. He was not among those who broke in.
M	When Hong Kong was returned to China 22 years ago this week, Beijing promised that the region’s way of life would be safeguarded until 2047. But hopes that the mainland would become more like Hong Kong were destroyed long ago. Beijing has made clear its determination to bend the region to its increasingly repressive will. Residents have seen the attempts to push through anti-sedition laws and patriotic education; the harsh sentences for protest leaders and activists; the disqualification of pro-democracy legislators; the muzzling of the region’s media.
M	If the unease in 1997 was prompted by uncertainty, one analyst observed, some of it now comes from certainty. Jeremy Hunt’s clear support for Hong Kong’s freedoms is welcome after the muted approach of previous foreign secretaries. Britain has a particular duty as the other signatory of the legally binding treaty on the region, which Beijing has dismissed.
M	But it is Hong Kong’s residents who are rallying as never before to defend their rights. As many as one in four turned out to oppose the bill allowing people to be extradited to the mainland, many regarding it as the last line of defence for the region’s freedoms. The proportion of residents feeling proud to have become citizens of China has plunged to a quarter, the lowest since the handover. Only two in five are confident in the region’s future.
M	One in six now support independence, even if few think it possible. The trade war has made Beijing more anxious than usual about disrupting Hong Kong’s economy, but this is merely a question of patience: in the end, politics trump economics for the Communist party. The underlying dilemma has not changed.
M	Do nothing, and the encroachments will continue; resist, and prompt retaliation. That fear of retaliation has shaped this leaderless movement, whose advantages are real but whose perils are equally evident. Its participants are drawing different conclusions from the same underlying calculation: Hong Kong cannot overturn this dynamic. The question is how best to prolong it, hoping that China one day changes.

2	The grounds were strewn with barricades, helmets, umbrellas, placards, broken glass and rubbish. Most of its metal fence was stripped away.
2	A day after a mob stormed the city’s political centre – crashing through glass panels and trashing security systems – the Legislative Council building was in disarray and sealed off by police. In a matter of hours, Hong Kong’s legislative headquarters was smashed open, ransacked and defaced with graffiti in a shocking takeover by young protesters on Monday that could cost “more than HK$10 million” and take weeks to repair.
M	Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen, president of the Legislative Council, on Tuesday expressed sorrow and deep regret over the incident. He said the Legco building, built in 2011, was vandalised during the chaos and its entrance, meeting facilities, and security system had been damaged. After inspecting the building for about an hour, Leung said a full restoration would take a long time.
M	He said it was not realistic for the council to hold meetings in rooms that were undamaged, or at other venues. Lawmaker Chan Kin-por said the damages could amount to “more than HK$10 million” (US$1.3 million) and said the Legco building was not insured. Post reporters on Monday observed graffiti being scrawled over the walls of the Legco chamber and its antechamber.
M	The spray-painted words reiterated the protesters’ demands : withdraw the extradition bill, [Chief Executive] Carrie Lam must step down, release all protesters.
2	One slogan was “We want genuine universal suffrage”. Inside the Legco chamber, the city’s official emblem was smeared with black paint, and a British colonial flag was draped over the president’s podium. Copies of the Basic Law, belonging to Leung and other lawmakers, were rifled and torn into pieces.
2	Voting buttons and computer monitors were smashed. Protesters pummelled and defaced hanging portraits of Leung and two former Legco presidents – Rita Fan Hsu Lai-tai and Jasper Tsang Yok-sing.
2	The portraits of the former leaders were missing. Legco’s security office and public complaints department suffered the worst damage .
2	Hard drives and handheld radios were taken, and security guards said their personal lockers had been pillaged. “Just occupy the Legco chamber, but why search through my locker?” said one security guard.
2	In large letters “Useless Council” was sprayed across the logo of the complaints office. At one point, protesters smashed the glass doors of the library. In this case, however, they put up a sign that read “Protect the books, and don’t do any damage”.
M	Similar signs urged protesters to spare the artefacts on display. Protesters paid for drinks from the Legco canteen. The sign they put up there read “We’re not thieves, we won’t steal”.
M	In response to a Post inquiry, a spokeswoman for the Legislative Council Secretariat said they had contacted the insurance company regarding the scope of protection. The secretariat said it would report the situation to the Legislative Council Commission in a special meeting.

M	It encapsulated the feeling of the protest and how far the mood has shifted since the optimism of the 2014 Umbrella Movement, when Hong Kong protesters were lauded worldwide for being peaceful and respectful.
M	During those protests, there was a real sense that true change was possible, that the city’s long demand of democracy was on the verge of being met. When the Umbrella Movement failed, things began to turn. Two years later, protesters clashed violently with police over an attempt to crack down on an open-air food market, in what became known as the “Mong Kok fish ball riot.”
M	The government responded with a barrage of prosecutions and ejected several pro-democracy lawmakers from the legislature. Last month, a bill that would allow extradition to China galvanized opposition from a wide swath of society and uncorked the anger and frustration that has been bubbling under the surface since 2014. For weeks, hundreds of thousands of people have marched against the bill, leading to it being shelved though not formally withdrawn, while smaller – but still substantial – protests have clashed with police.
1	Tear gas and rubber bullets were used to clear a major occupation on June 12, leading to allegations of police brutality and even angrier protests, several of which targeted the police headquarters and blocked officers inside. A growing divide in the protest camp became clear Monday, as a peaceful pro-democracy march passed by the legislature where a splinter group of protesters was clashing with police and attempting to break in to the government headquarters. With police nowhere in sight, the anger among the breakaway protest group exploded, as the mostly young, masked protesters smashed windows of the government building, forced their way inside through metal shutters and then trashed nearly everything in sight, including the legislative chamber.
4	While protesters beat a tactical retreat late Monday – some were forcibly carried out by fellow demonstrators who wanted to stay out of the building – they promised they would return if their demands were not met. Watching the chaos inside the legislature Monday were several grim-faced, pro-democracy lawmakers, who had earlier attempted to stop protesters storming the building, only to be shouted down and blamed for their previous failure to block the extradition bill.
M	“This is really not what we like to see,” said pro-democracy Labour Party lawmaker Fernando Cheung. He blamed the violence on the “lack of positive response to the public” after weeks of demonstrations and noted that Chief Executive Carrie Lam had refused to meet with opposition lawmakers ahead of Monday’s protests.
M	Images of three people whose suicides have been linked to the protests were everywhere Monday, and protesters have made them martyrs, often ignoring warnings about suicide contagion by doing so. The mood among many protesters at the government headquarters – all of whom wore masks but appeared to be in their mid-to-late teens and early twenties – was often bleak.
M	The fear for many is that the territory is turning into just another Chinese city. They worry that time is running out to shore up democratic reforms and political freedoms before the handover agreement that the British struck in 1997 expires in 2047 and Hong Kong truly becomes part of China.
M	While there are advantages to a leaderless model – not least that there aren’t obvious targets for prison sentences – there are risks, too. With no one in charge, angry protests can quickly escalate without a plan for what comes next, as many protesters admitted was the case yesterday.
M	Being a young Hong Konger isn’t easy. Housing prices and living costs rise each year, while youth employment rates have been largely stagnant and many young graduates struggle to find work. The younger generation also lacks many of the reasons for optimism that previous ones did.
M	Many older Hong Kongers, who grew up in a British colony, strongly identify with China and saw a point of pride in the city returning to Chinese rule, even pro-democrats. Today, the number of people who express pride in being a Chinese citizen is at a record low, with a significant number of young people identifying as Hong Kongers rather than Chinese, according to the Hong Kong University Public Opinion Program. This stronger sense of identity with the city and opposition to China, has created a generation of protesters for whom this really is an all or nothing fight. Their ties are not to country, but to city and each other, as seen when protesters returned to the legislature minutes before the police clearance to drag out some who wanted to stay and face the consequences, determined that all would share the same fate. And if they’re doomed to lose, many now appear intent on doing so with a fight.

1	Police stand outside the Legislative Council building in Hong Kong on July 2, 2019, a day after protesters stormed the building. Only four protesters were left in Hong Kong’s legislative chamber as midnight approached.
2	The rest of several hundred people had finished spray-painting the building, issued their demands to the government and retreated, knowing police were closing in. At least one of the four remaining protesters had already written a will, according to legislators who were in the room begging them to leave. The chant reflected growing concerns over the safety of demonstrators, some of whom fear that a culture of martyrdom has settled over Hong Kong’s democracy movement.
3	The protesters dragged the four holdouts out of the chamber. One protester wept as she ran with the group downstairs, telling a local reporter on live television news that they’d come back despite fear of being trapped in the building when police arrived. Minutes later, armored police squads began firing tear gas and dispersing the crowd outside.
1	When police reached the legislative building, the chamber was clear. The temporary seizure of Hong Kong’s legislative building late Monday at the end of the 22nd anniversary of the former British colony’s handover to Chinese control took the city by surprise.
M	It came after hundreds of thousands of peaceful marchers protested an extradition bill that would allow the semiautonomous territory to send suspected criminals to mainland China for trial. Opponents of the bill say it reflects Beijing’s growing influence over Hong Kong.
M	Leung Kai Chi, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who studies community identity and mobilization, said he and friends were confused by the protesters’ actions at first. There was no legislative meeting taking place at the time.
2	Then, Leung said, he thought of three protesters who had died in the last two weeks after leaving suicide notes in support of the anti-extradition bill movement. The legislative chamber takeover, he said, appeared to be an extension of such drastic measures.
2	“There’s a sense of desperation. They don’t know what else they can do,” Leung said.
M	When police used tear gas and rubber bullets during mass protests on June 12, many of the young people didn’t go home, said local pastor Wong Siu-yung. Four churches had opened their doors to protesters that night, where pastors and social workers had tried to counsel crying, scared demonstrators, many in their teens and 20s.
2	Some analysts fear that glorification of the recent deaths will have a contagious effect among already emotionally strained protesters. They have tried to prevent dramatization of the suicides, to little avail.
2	The more protesters made heroes of those who died, the more others suffering mental health problems and feelings of helplessness might try to copy them, misled into thinking their deaths would have meaning, said Paul Yip, director of the Center for Suicide Research and Prevention at the University of Hong Kong. Protesters such as Brian Leung Kai-ping, 25, who was among those who charged into the legislative building Monday, disagreed, saying a way to pay respect was to inform others about conditions in Hong Kong.
2	“If someone sacrificed their life just to make some message heard by other people, I think the correct way to respect and honor them is to spread their message, instead of covering it up,” he said. By Monday, mental health and martyrdom had become dual themes of the movement.
2	Along the marching route and at the legislative building complex, candles flickered over white flowers and origami cranes at shrines to the three people who died, often referred to as “martyrs.” Volunteers set up psychological support stations and spread the word about mental health hotlines seeking to prevent suicides.
2	A therapist scrawled her phone number on the ground. Fernando Cheung, one of several legislators who pleaded with the protesters to remain peaceful before they charged the building and who begged them to leave once inside the chamber on Monday, said one protester told him that if only the demonstrations had done more faster, maybe the three who died might have lived. “He felt his hand was stained with blood,” Cheung said in an interview.
1	Cheung had reasoned with the protesters on Monday that storming the building would be counterproductive. It would give the government fodder to label them rioters, he said, which meant potential arrest and up to 10 years in prison.
1	The group of protesters that wanted to charge told him they knew and accepted the consequences. Hong Kong’s protests are now famously leaderless.
M	No central leadership also means that small groups can use tactics with which others disagree. But the protesters have also pledged to support one another despite disagreement over tactics. “If we argue, then we’re just not a team, and then we will fall….
M	So we remind each other all the time that we leave no man behind, and we just work toward this,” said Rachael, 24, a protester who asked that her last name not be published for fear of arrest. She believes in peaceful protest, but went to the legislative building to support those charging in on Monday.
M	“I totally understand them and I wouldn’t say they are wrong,” Rachael said. Her parents thought China brought economic benefit to Hong Kong, which Rachael said didn’t matter.
M	“I’m trying to defend my values. It’s not about how you can bribe me with money or benefits,” she said.
M	For many, the extradition bill has become a symbol for a deeper, growing sense of helplessness in a political system that prioritizes Beijing’s wishes over citizens’ voices. China’s central government this week condemned Hong Kong protesters who smashed their way into the legislative chambers, while demonstrators used social media to illustrate their fears of dangerous confrontations with police.
4	Beijing officials said they supported the Hong Kong government and its police, including an investigation of Monday’s protest and the treatment of some participants as criminals for illegal acts of violence. Police said Wednesday at least 13 people had been arrested on suspicion of involvement in the pro-democracy protest Monday and face such charges as possession of offensive weapons, unlawful assembly and assault of a police officer.
1	Legislative Council Chairman Andrew Leung said Tuesday that the legislature’s two remaining meetings before summer recess were canceled. ”
2	Right now LegCo is a big crime scene,” he said to reporters, standing outside the building as police collected evidence inside. Pro-Beijing legislators in Hong Kong said the damage to the legislative chamber by those who charged the building was stunning.
M	“No slogan, no demand can justify this violence,” lawmaker Regina Ip said at a news conference. Legislator Martin Liao dismissed the idea that desperation could justify the legislative building takeover. Pro-democracy legislators outside the building Tuesday said that they didn’t condone vandalism, but also appealed to the public to try to understand the desperation felt by some protesters.
M	Legislator Claudia Mo asked protesters to drop their martyr mentality. Some observers sympathized with protesters, especially after seeing images such as that of protesters dragging their comrades out of the legislative chamber in apparent attempts to protect them from potential harm. “It is the culmination of several years of injustice: a legislative council that is not performing its function; a government that listens only to pro-Beijing parties and ignores the rest of Hong Kong people,” Chan said.

X	A murder on vacation: In February 2018, a Hong Kong couple were vacationing in Taiwan.
X	While they were there, 20-year-old Chan Tong-kai allegedly murdered his 19-year-old girlfriend Poon Hiu-wing, according to local media reports. The alleged killer headed back to Hong Kong and in March 2018, Poon’s decomposed body was found on the outskirts of Taipei.
X	The killer escapes extradition: Hong Kong authorities charged Chan with money laundering for stealing Poon’s property, and he was sentenced to 29 months in jail – but because Taiwan and Hong Kong do not have an extradition agreement, Chan could not be sent to Taiwan to face a murder trial. Murder case turned political battle: In February 2019, Hong Kong’s leader Carrie Lam proposed an extradition bill, which would allow fugitives to be sent to territories where Hong Kong doesn’t have formal extradition deals – such as Taiwan, Macau and mainland China.
M	It was met with criticism from the start. Critics said they were worried about being subjected to China’s opaque legal system – and the effect it could have on Hong Kong’s role as an international finance hub.
M	Many marched in opposition, and even Taiwan said it would not cooperate with the bill if it was passed. In June, Lam suspended the bill – but she still hasn’t responded to demands to withdraw it entirely.

1	At the time, more and more people, wary of police countermoves, started to leave the Legco chamber. I skipped another major rally to stay around the Legislative Council complex for nearly eight hours, keeping a close eye on every move.
1	Like most protesters, we had been waiting for this opportunity to make a statement inside Legco. There was of course no clear consensus at the time how long we should occupy it, which underlined the very nature of the extradition bill movement – decentralised, leaderless and spontaneous. We were improvising.
4	In an exclusive interview with the South China Morning Post, via a Telegram phone call – the social networking tool widely used in the movement – he explained his actions and why he had no regrets. The storming made international headlines and marked a “quantum leap” for the entire movement against the extradition bill and the city’s push for democracy, he said. Brian Leung Kai-ping, 25, was among those who entered the legislature – and the only one who has openly revealed his identity that night.
1	Hundreds of protesters stormed Hong Kong’s Legislative Council on the 22nd anniversary of the city’s handover to Chinese rule on Monday, breaking glass panels, windows, dismantling furniture, daubing graffiti in the chamber and attempting to put up the British colonial flag. Some protesters warned me not to remove my mask, but I felt it was the defining moment of the night.
1	I felt we ought to appeal to the crowds to join in and form a barrier and support those inside the Legco complex. No one could tell when we would step foot in Legco again.
M	As police were drawing closer and closer, after some deliberation, most decided to end the siege. I volunteered to be in front of the camera to read out the key demands of protesters in the chamber.
M	The last thing I wished to see, after all the action taken, was to have no clear demands put on the table. If we didn’t do that, the public might only remember the vandalism and point fingers at us as a mob.
2	That would also hand the government a convenient reason to prosecute each and every one of us, which would mark yet another setback to civil society like in the 2014 Occupy movement. Be clear that any damage was only done to the Legco building or properties within, not so much to any person or even police officers.
M	Protesters have been restrained in their use of force. They even paid for their drinks in Legco’s canteen.
2	It is worthwhile to note the graffiti was not merely vandalising. For instance, protesters spray-painted and covered up “People’s Republic of China”, leaving behind only “Hong Kong Special Administrative Region”. That is a clear mistrust of the two-systems principle.
M	Most of the other graffiti was about commemorating the three lives lost in this movement. It is time to see past the short burst of “violence” committed, and read deeper into what people, particularly the younger generation, are really thinking about.
X	Or, the government could choose not to charge protesters arrested earlier, which we saw happened to those in Taiwan’s Sunflower movement. Or, it could task an independent inquiry into police’s excessive use of force.
X	Any of these would be welcomed by the civil society, but the government refused to take these calls on board. At the outset of the protests against this bill, people called for Carrie Lam to step down.
X	But gradually, we came to realise the root of the problem stems from the undemocratic system in selecting the chief executive. Whether Lam remained in office became a secondary issue.
X	If there was universal suffrage, when 2 million people – almost one-third of the population – took to the streets, any leader would have no choice but to step down. Also, the government needs to realise that even by improving livelihoods or setting up more consultation platforms to absorb the opposition from our generation, it would do little to help.
M	It was evident that protesters were so outraged that three lives were sacrificed throughout this movement, when peaceful means were almost all exhausted. Young protesters were at a point of desperation. We were not in a position to pass any judgment on their decisions but what the protesters could do was to honour their faith.
X	One may well argue that time is supposed to be on young people’s side. But with the disqualification and jailing of pro-democracy lawmakers and activists after 2014 “umbrella movement”, the entire generation was banned from the political system. Young people felt burnt out after the defeat of the 2014 movement.
X	We do not have the luxury of our parents to settle down in another place. Nor do we have the burden of a 30-year mortgage to worry about.
X	Young people have nothing to lose, their only hope is to stay safe to see the sun rise, and hope to join protest another day. We want democracy, now.
X	Hong Kong’s social movement has always inspired my academic study. After graduating from the University of Hong Kong with a dual degree in law and politics, I chose for my master’s thesis the topic of how civil society could help democratic transition and prevent authoritarian regimes. I have always aspired to become a professor and return to teach Hong Kong students to be socially aware in the future.
M	I really don’t want to mention my family, as I don’t think that’s helpful. Civil society has already exhausted every possible peaceful means, and it is not trying to exercise violence for the sake of violence.
M	The government needs to reflect on its response. I believe there could be more actions to come, maybe protests.
X	But it’s too early to say. For my own part, I am not sure whether I can fly to the United States this September to continue my PhD studies in political science at the University of Washington. I am still considering various options, and seeking as much advice as I can.
4	While I am not yet a political dissident in exile, that is a real threat ahead of me and my peers if the government chooses to press charges against all those who entered Legco, who played their part in this protest. I am blessed to receive legal advice and other recommendations from my social network, while remaining financially independent through a role as a teaching assistant. For those who may be 17 and 18 years old, there could be real consequences and it is worrying.

M	There were hundreds of protesters in the legislative chamber that night, but only one face.
4	Brian Leung Kai-ping had dressed carefully for the day’s protests against a Beijing-backed extradition bill, donning the new uniform of Hong Kong’s young activists: black T-shirt, yellow hard hat, goggles to protect against tear gas, and a disposable surgical mask. But after entering the Legislative Council building, watching as others spray-painted anti-government messages, Leung decided that anonymity could hurt the movement.
4	He jumped on a table and pulled off his mask. “We are at the point of no return,” he cried, as everyone else in the room swerved to see his face, cameras clicking away.
4	Leung’s bold unmasking on Monday, the anniversary of Hong Kong’s handover from British to Chinese rule, looked dangerously impulsive. Even as Leung spoke, one of the other protesters tugged at his shirt, urging him to cover his face again.
4	But Leung said he had acted in full knowledge of the likely repercussions. It was a moment reflecting not a rash youngster’s rush of emotion, but the moral clarity of a generation that has come of age in a culture of dissent.
M	The protesters are demanding the scuttling of an extradition bill, now postponed, that would allow the semiautonomous territory to send suspected criminals to mainland China for trial. For many in Hong Kong, the bill represents the growing influence of Beijing over Hong Kong, and the local government’s tepid response to a month of mass protests had pushed some into desperation.
1	Protesters wore masks to hide their identities as some smashed the legislative building’s glass walls and dismantled metal fences. Others tried to protect them, stopping onlookers from taking photos that might expose anyone’s face. Hong Kong citizens had never taken over a government building like this.
M	The movement had surged into uncharted territory, and this moment would decide whether they went down in history for creating damage or for their democratic demands. Leung pleaded with fellow protesters to stay and occupy the chamber, or at least make a statement before dispersing.
M	If no one stepped up to articulate the protesters’ demands, he thought, Beijing could define the swirl of anger and energy and vandalism however it wanted — likely as criminal riots. A month of peaceful protests, midnight vigils and million-person marches might be dismissed.
M	“Hong Kongers have nothing left to lose. Hong Kongers cannot lose any more,” he said.
4	As police approached, they drafted and read a list of demands including withdrawal of the extradition bill, investigation of alleged police violence and, in a reach toward deeper change, universal suffrage in Hong Kong. Two days later, the arrests began. Authorities have so far rounded up dozens of protesters who took part in this summer’s pro-democracy movement, seen by Beijing as a direct challenge to its rule.
4	Leung has not been arrested so far, though he appears to be an easy target. He could face up to 10 years in prison, or even abduction and secret detention in China, as has happened to others in Hong Kong. But he took the risk in order to claim his voice.
M	In doing so, he reflected the heart of what protest means for many in Hong Kong: standing before terrifying power, and speaking clearly about who they are. Leung is part of a generation born around the time Hong Kong was handed over from British to Chinese control in 1997.
M	He grew up reading Chinese books and celebrated Chinese holidays. In 2008, he cheered for the Beijing Olympics alongside many Hong Kongers who felt proud of their motherland’s new place on the global stage. But that same year, 2008, writer and activist Liu Xiaobo was arrested for co-writing a manifesto on human rights in China.
M	Tens of thousands of babies were hospitalized with kidney stones from ingesting contaminated milk powder. Tens of thousands of people also died in an earthquake in Sichuan, including children in shoddily constructed schoolhouses, and when their parents protested, they were pressured to stop, some of them detained.
M	Mainland media censored most of these incidents, but in Hong Kong, where freedom of the press is protected by the special region’s semiautonomous legal system, teenagers were watching. In 2010, Hong Kong’s government announced a coming change in school curriculums to adopt “Moral and National Education,” including material that praised China’s Communist Party and distorted historical narratives in the Chinese government’s favor.
M	Activist Joshua Wong, then 15, co-founded Scholarism, a student group dedicated to fighting the education reform. In 2012, the group occupied a park by the government headquarters and started a chain of hunger strikes.
M	Tens of thousands of civilians joined their demonstrations, and eventually the curriculum reform was withdrawn. Leung said that was when he and many of his peers began to wrestle with questions of identity. He said rejection of Chinese identity was about political institutions, not culture. By 2014, Leung was a university student and editor of the University of Hong Kong’s student union magazine, which became a space for him and his peers to build a Hong Kong-centric identity.
M	The book became a best-seller. Leung’s union had to order thousands of extra copies to meet demand.
M	Then came the Umbrella Movement. Tens of thousands of mostly young protesters occupied major roads in Hong Kong for 79 days, demanding direct election of the chief executive without having to pick from candidates approved by Beijing.
M	Students held yellow umbrellas to fend off tear gas fired by police. The movement’s demands were not met. Most of its leaders were arrested.
M	Participants started new, youth-dominated political parties and elected their own legislators — only to have them disqualified for irreverent behavior in their oath-taking ceremonies. Leung graduated and left Hong Kong, entering a doctorate program in political science at the University of Washington in Seattle. He wanted to study why authoritarianism is so resilient and how civil society can spur democratic transition.
M	They used pithy, emotional posts on Instagram and Snapchat instead of writing long essays on Facebook like Leung had done. They were decentralized and spontaneous, planning actions ad hoc from online forums rather than following a central leader.
M	Young Hong Kongers have lost patience with older generations’ hopes of waiting for slow change in China to trickle into Hong Kong, Leung said. Critics may call them foolish, taking on an authoritarian superpower with spray-painted ideas. But he felt that if they didn’t act now, they might never have a chance again. By the time he stepped into the legislative chamber on July 1, Leung had figured out what mattered most to him, which values he wanted for Hong Kong, how to fight for them and why.
M	He’d processed that with companions and classmates through years of marches and occupations. They’d read books and published journals, held candles and shared umbrellas, debated and discussed their beliefs and methods online and in person on the streets. Masks muffle your voice, he thought.
4	They obscure your identity. They let someone else define you, which is not how his generation works. So he pulled off his mask.

3	Police finally sprang into action shortly after midnight, with hundreds of officers moving in on the protesters from different directions.
M	There were clashes in the streets near the legislature and police fired tear gas. Despite the escalation on the 22nd anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to Chinese rule, analysts believed the police continued to adopt controlled tactics with only minimal action as they sought to avoid more conflict with the public while letting people differentiate between violent protesters and peaceful ones. Around 9pm
M	, hundreds of anti-extradition bill protesters finally broke into the legislature after many hours of attacking the public entrance and ransacked the building, including displaying the colonial Hong Kong flag in the chamber. Police sources said the force continued with its restrained approach and did not take any clearance action while the annual July 1 march along major roads on Hong Kong Island was still going on at night to avoid affecting the majority who protested peacefully. As protesters stormed Hong Kong’s legislative complex on Monday, police took little action in what analysts said was a change of tactics to win public support.
3	Tensions deepened at about 6pm as some protesters continued to ram the Legco building’s glass doors with steel bars. About 1,000 riot police stationed in the legislature retreated when radicals broke into the Legco complex, the Post was told.
3	Officers in riot gear stood behind glass doors and gates as protesters used metal gates, mill barriers and metal poles to smash windows and glass doors. Officers did raise banners warning police would use force if protesters charged.
3	Officers pepper-sprayed protesters from inside but none came out to disperse them. The Post was told 5,000 riot police were deployed on Monday.
M	Tensions started to escalate at about 4pm when a large number of protesters began to amass and dashed onto Lung Wo Road, Tim Mei Avenue and Harcourt Road in Admiralty, blocking roads and obstructing traffic with mills barriers and other items. “At the same time, some protesters stole iron poles and bricks from a nearby construction site and guard rails from nearby roads. They also pried bricks on Lung Wo Road and transported them towards the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre,” said Senior Superintendent Kelvin Kong Wing-cheung from police public relations.
3	At about 7.30pm, thousands of protesters poured onto Harcourt Road with some charging police lines and hurling objects. Police used pepper spray to disperse the crowd with more than 200 officers from the Special Tactical Squad in a stand-off with protesters on Lung Hop Street and Lung Wo Road. But two hours later some protesters changed tactics by splashing unidentified liquid believed to be drain cleaner at officers during violent clashes around the city’s legislative and administrative centre.
3	Thirteen officers were taken to hospital after suffering minor injuries such as swollen and itchy skin at their arms and having breathing difficulties. They were later discharged.
M	At around 1pm, about 1,500 protesters gathered around the Legco building with some using a metal cart to smash the complex’s glass door for about two hours. Despite condemning the violence, police did not take action.
4	Kong said the Organised Crime and Triad Bureau (OCTB) had taken up the cases. “For all the illegal behaviour, we will strictly follow up and investigate every suspected case,” he said.
M	Security consultant and former police superintendent Clement Lai Ka-chi believed the force took a tolerant approach as it learned a lesson from its heavy-handed crackdown on June 12 when tear gas, rubber bullets and beanbag rounds were fired into crowds surrounding the legislature. “I think the police have learned a lesson.
M	Society has changed. If they overreact, they may easily cause a public backlash. They need to change their tactics to appease the public,” he said. The crackdown caused a public outcry culminating in a massive march four days later that organisers said drew nearly 2 million protesters against the now-suspended bill, which would have allowed the city to send fugitives to jurisdictions with which it did not have an extradition agreement, including mainland China.
M	However, Steve Vickers, CEO of risk consultant SVA and former head of the police’s criminal intelligence bureau, warned that if the force did not move in a much more determined manner then matters might eventually be taken out of its hands. He said the violent protesters had lost public support as they ruined the progress made by the wider peaceful movement. “The flying of the colonial flag inside Legco is stupid and ignorant and deliberately calculated to inflame the central government and its supporters and to provoke some form of intervention for extra tough action on the ground,” he warned.
M	Lai said there was a clear differentiation between peaceful protesters and rioters on Monday with the latter being a well-organised group intending to cause damage. “I think the police have so far withheld their action because they want to have an accurate assessment of the situation and the rioters’ intentions.
M	They also want the public have a clearer picture about who the rioters are and the drastic actions they can take. Then when the police finally take action against the rioters they can easily gain the understanding of the public,” he said.

1	Protesters against a contentious extradition bill stormed the Legislative Council in Admiralty for more than 11 hours, including a three-hour rampage inside the building that left a trail of damage.
4	“If someone breaks the law, we, as police officers, must deal with it as fast as possible. It is a simple logic,” a senior officer said, on condition of anonymity.
4	Police restraint as protesters rampaged through Hong Kong’s legislature on Monday earned praise for avoiding bloody clashes but others, including frontline officers, called it “negligence” that sacrificed force morale and the rule of law the city takes pride in. A clearance operation began at midnight, during which 3,000 officers dispersed thousands of protesters inside and outside Legco within an hour. The officer said the inaction was “negligence” in policing work.
4	“Protesters were deliberately allowed to ram the glass doors and windows of Legco in front of cameras and television crews for hours because no action was taken to stop them,” he said. He called the tolerant approach a “PR show” after officers were accused of using excessive force against protesters in June.
4	Police have adopted a controlled approach and kept a minimal presence since June 12, when officers fired tear gas, rubber bullets and beanbag rounds to disperse protesters, some of whom used sharpened metal poles, bricks and barriers to storm officers’ defence lines outside the legislature and government headquarters in Admiralty. From 1pm on Monday, protesters used a metal cart to pound the legislature’s glass door and rammed the building’s windows and glass doors with metal bars for about eight hours – while about 1,000 officers in riot gear stood guard inside. When protesters broke in at about 9pm, police retreated, allowing the invaders to tear down political leaders’ portraits, spray slogans on the wall and smash furniture.
4	“It appears police had no intention to make any arrests during the clearance operation in a move to avoid bloody clashes,” another officer said. “High-ranking commanders feel it is a good tactic and successful because no casualties were reported.
4	But a lot of our colleagues feel disappointed and dissatisfied with the strategy as it hit our morale and image,” he said. He said the force’s management had won public support this time, but “sacrificed us”. He added that it was not their task to do a public relations job and “our duty is to enforce the law and maintain order”.
4	A spokesman of the 25,000-member Junior Police Officers’ Association said that the overall morale among his colleagues remained high, but that some might find the enforcement not strong enough. “Our determination to defend law and order in Hong Kong is still strong and this does not change,” he said.
3	The association on Tuesday jointly condemned the protesters’ violence along with three other groups representing officers of various ranks. The police chief, Stephen Lo Wai-chung, at a 4am news conference on Tuesday, rejected the notion police retreated to play games for public support and to set a trap for protesters. He said police had “no choice” but to retreat temporarily and rethink their strategy. He cited several incidents that prompted police to retreat, including protesters’ throwing unknown white smoke into the building and the fear of a total blackout and stampede after demonstrators tampered with an electricity box, causing some lights to go out. Lo added there were 30,000 protesters outside Legco at around 9pm, including those who had used violent tactics to smash an inner door at the main entrance.
3	The confined indoor environment would also have made it difficult for police, he added. A law enforcement source said the force was worried a larger crowd outside Legco would join if any arrests or clearance action were made.
4	The police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Council, said on Tuesday it would launch a study into police actions during the protests on June 9, 12 and Monday. IPCC Chairman Dr Anthony Neoh said that a report would be ready in six months for submission to Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, with recommendations on how police procedures could be improved. It would not seek to find who should be held responsible for any possible deficiency in the operations. He conceded the council had no investigative powers nor the ability to summon witnesses, but said Lam and Lo had vowed their “full support” and “full cooperation”.
M	He added the public and media could also provide information. But he said the original idea to appoint a judge to help the review was dropped as it may clash with the appointee’s judicial duties. Former IPCC member and lawmaker Kenneth Leung Kai-cheong questioned the police retreat. While the third law enforcement source said the illegal acts would be followed up, a veteran detective said an investigation would be difficult, as protesters wore masks and gloves at the time of the siege. Nelson Lee Ka-kiu, a political scientist at Chinese University, said the unexpected retreat showed the government was trying to reuse a tactic to divide its opponents that had been employed during the Occupy movement in 2014. “The government hopes to move more moderate members of society to stand against the violent acts and weaken opposition to the administration,” he said.
M	Pro-establishment lawmaker Michael Tien Puk-sun said the force deserved “high praise” for its restraint. “I can’t imagine the consequences had police ramped up efforts to clear them out,” he said.

M	The consistently peaceful mass demonstrations for democracy in Hong Kong have won international acclaim. But this record was somewhat tarnished by the storming of the legislature by protesters in the evening of July 1. Nevertheless, public opinion in Hong Kong society remains divided. Condemnations of violence went parallel with sympathy for the young protesters. Photo: May James.
0	Some local critics, including father of democracy Martin Lee, opined that the incident was a trap prepared by Beijing and the embattled leaders of the Hong Kong government, aimed at recovering lost ground against the anti-extradition bill movement. Observers thought it would have been easy for the police to clear the protesters before the legislature was stormed. The passiveness of the police, unlike the aggressive behaviour displayed on previous occasions, aroused suspicions that the authorities intentionally allowed the intrusion to demonise the protesters.
0	Martin Lee added that these are familiar tricks adopted by the Chinese Communist Party when faced with mass movements. Besides throwing piles of money to organise forces to support the government, tricky ways may include collaboration with triad gangs to infiltrate the opposition camp, cause chaos and smear the mass movement. After taking the ethical high ground, the government can suppress the mass movement and even clear it by force. This sort of screenplay was witnessed during the Umbrella Movement in 2014 and the Mong Kok Riot in 2016.
1	Immediately after the storming of the legislature, Chief Executive Carrie Lam held an urgent press conference at 4am to denounce those storming the legislature as rioters. Other senior government officials, including the Commissioner of Police and Secretary for Security, quickly grasped this opportunity to denounce the violent incident. Carrie Lam. Photo: GovHK. The counterattack on the anti-extradition bill movement will be followed by high-profile arrests of protesters and intimidation of civil society, in the hope that the anti-extradition bill movement will fade away as discouraged protesters succumb to despair and helplessness. The pro-establishment camp joined the condemnation as they thought it was a chance to win back support of their voters.
M	Hong Kong’s Pro-Communist Party newspapers Ta Kung Pao and Wen Wei Po published much coverage, criticising protesters as rioters and blaming the incident on Apple Daily, the only one out of ten print newspapers to speak for Hong Kong people. However, public opinion in Hong Kong society remains divided. The deep anger among Hong Kong citizens towards the chief executive extends well beyond the extradition bill to her poor governance in recent years. Even though storming the legislature may not be acceptable to the general public, Hong Kong citizens are not necessarily going to support a government which ignores their views.
M	Opinion polls suggest that the government is still in trouble. A survey conducted by Ming Pao, a leading Chinese newspaper in Hong Kong, during the July 1 march, found that 76% of respondents supported future non-cooperative action, and more than 90% of respondents thought Carrie Lam should step down. Some Hongkongers phoned into radio shows to express their support for the occupation of the legislature; comments and opinions showing sympathy to the protesters appeared on many social media sites. Many Hong Kong people understand that without the sacrifice of the young protesters who risked their personal safety on June 12 to say no to the government, the extradition bill would already have been passed.
2	Slogans scrawled on the wall reads: “Release the martyrs,” “Carrie Lam step down” and “garbage.” Photo: May James. Putting aside the government’s role in the matter, the invasion of Legco was strikingly restrained. The protesters only targeted the government; no shops, cars or passers-by were damaged or hurt.

4	A Hong Kong street artist was charged on Friday with assaulting a police officer and criminal damage, the first prosecution against an anti-government protester since the city was rocked by unprecedented demonstrations. Sparked by a law that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China, the city has witnessed three huge peaceful rallies as well as civil disobedience and violence from a hard core of younger protesters who have besieged the police headquarters and on Monday stormed the city’s parliament.
X	Pun Ho-chiu. Photo: Isaac Yee/HKFP.
4	Authorities have vowed to hunt those behind the unrest that has plunged the semi-autonomous city’s Beijing-backed government into crisis. Pun Ho-chiu, 31, appeared in court on Friday over his alleged involvement in the blockade of the city’s police headquarters on 21 June.
4	He was also charged with disorderly behaviour for throwing eggs at police outside the headquarters during the six-hour siege. A well-known activist nicknamed “Painter” for his street art, Pun was remanded in custody and faces up to ten years in jail if convicted.
X	He was one of the only protesters during the police siege to show himself unmasked. In court his lawyer said he was assaulted by police who spoke to him in Mandarin — the predominant language on the Chinese mainland.
2	A slogan on the wall reads “Defend our Hong Kong’s freedom and human rights”. Photo: Todd R. Darling.
4	The judge said the court could not investigate the claims and directed him to the police complaints procedure. Forensic investigators have been combing through the trashed parliament for fingerprint and DNA evidence to help identify protesters who stormed the building and left its walls daubed with slogans such as “HK is not China” and a colonial-era flag pinned to the legislature’s podium. An AFP tally shows at least 66 arrests have been announced by police since the protests began.
M	But it is not clear how many of those people have been charged and police did not respond to requests for a breakdown. The unrest presents the most severe challenge to Beijing and Hong Kong’s leaders since the city’s handover to China. Critics say Beijing has ratcheted up control over the city in recent years, stamping down on dissidents and refusing calls for universal suffrage.
M	Photo: Isaac Yee/HKFP. While the current protests were sparked by huge public opposition to the extradition bill they have since morphed into a broad anti-government movement.
X	On Friday evening thousands of Hong Kong mothers rallied at a park in the commercial district of Central in support of those who ransacked parliament. Didi Cheng, who has a 25-year-old daughter, told AFP the protesters who stormed the building “had no other choice”.
M	“After two mass rallies, the cold-blooded government had no response,” the 53-year-old said. City leader Carrie Lam has postponed the extradition legislation but has failed to quell public anger.
X	Protesters have demanded she withdraw the bill entirely, launch an independent inquiry into police use of tear gas and rubber bullets, and step down. Chief secretary Matthew Chueng — Lam’s de facto deputy — held talks with pro-democracy lawmakers which he said were “constructive” but there was no suggestion of a breakthrough. “My meeting with the pan-democrats just now was very useful in the sense that it’s the first time we’ve really had an opportunity to sit down and talk candidly and frankly over the issues,” he told reporters.
X	Since the parliament siege Beijing has vocally thrown its support behind Lam, calling on Hong Kong authorities to pursue all those involved in the ransacking. Multiple university student groups have rejected a request by Lam’s administration for closed-door talks, saying they would only meet if the government granted an amnesty to those arrested and held the dialogue in public.

