4	There were about 5,000 people protesting in Ala-Too square, and the demonstration was largely peaceful for most of the day.
1	But at about 20:10 local time (14:10 GMT), a smaller group of protesters splintered off and went to the parliament building. When they got there, they reportedly tried to break through the gates.

M	Kyrgyz police used tear gas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demonstrating against the result of a parliamentary election, after some protesters tried to break into the government headquarters. Gunshots and stun grenades could be heard on Monday as riot police with dogs, backed by several vehicles, moved into the central square in the capital Bishkek and the protesters retreated. The health ministry said in a statement that 16 people were receiving treatment in Bishkek hospitals while Janar Akayev, an opposition leader, sustained an injury to his leg from a rubber bullet, his Ata-Meken party said. According to preliminary data published by the Central Asian country’s election authority, the Birimdik (Unity) party of President Sooronbay Jeenbekov’s closest supporters led the count with 24.53 percent of the vote. Just behind it with 22.2 percent was Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Motherland Kyrgyzstan), whose ticket includes former coalition members and ex-opposition MPs, and which has avoided positioning itself as either allied with or opposed to the president. “It seems like utter chaos here in Bishkek,” said Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford, reporting from the capital Bishkek. “We’ve seen protesters gathered there [outside parliament] throughout the day, estimates of numbers anywhere between five and ten thousand people crammed in the main square protesting over these elections results. Just four out of the 16 parties contesting the elections appeared to have crossed the 7-percent barrier for election – the two others being Kyrgyzstan and Butun Kyrgyzstan. The Central Election Commission said turnout was 55 percent. “There are questions over whether rivalries in pro-government parties may start to appear, which may add a new dimension to these protests and potential greater political instability,” Stratford added. While Birimdik’s ticket includes Jeenbekov’s brother Asylbek, Mekenim Kyrgyzstan has drawn attention by including on its list Iskender Matraimov, who, according to observers, represents another powerful local clan. “The main conflict in this election is between the Jeenbekov and Matraimov clans, which is played out through the competition of the parties they are backing,” Central Asia-focused analyst Alexander Knyazev told AFP news agency. While the clans have avoided public confrontation, there was a risk of greater tension if Mekenim Kyrgyzstan supporters viewed the election results as too skewed in favour of the president’s allies, he said. The country of 6.5 million people has a history of political turmoil. In the past 15 years, two presidents have been toppled by revolts and a third is in prison after falling out with his successor.

0	BISHKEK (Reuters) - Kyrgyz police used teargas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demonstrating on Monday against the result of a parliamentary election, after some protesters tried to break into the government headquarters. Gunshots and stun grenades could be heard as riot police with dogs, backed by several vehicles, moved into the central square in the capital Bishkek and the protesters retreated. Two establishment parties supporting closer links between the former Soviet republic and Russia look set to dominate the new parliament after Sunday’s election, which Western observers said had been marred by vote buying.
4	Supporters of several parties that failed to win any seats, according to preliminary results, had rallied in the central square to denounce the vote as fraudulent. They said more people were heading to Bishkek to join the protests.
0	Some of them then tried to break the gates leading to a building housing both the president and parliament, which overlooks the square, at which point the police started dispersing the rally. Some protesters hurled rocks at the police and the health ministry said two policemen were hospitalised with concussion.
M	The Central Asian country of 6.5 million people has a history of political turmoil. In the past 15 years, two presidents have been toppled by revolts and a third is in prison after falling out with his successor, the current president Sooronbai Jeenbekov. The confrontation, should it develop into a prolonged stand-off, could add Kyrgyzstan to the growing list of Russian allies - along with Belarus and Armenia - facing political or security crises.

1	В Бишкеке участники митинга против результатов парламентских выборов заняли площадь «Ала-Тоо».
1	Они также окружили здание парламента. Вести прямую трансляцию с места событий не представляется возможным вследствие полного отсутствия мобильной связи.
1	Камеры на площади показывают, что демонстранты контролируют всю центральную площадь. Стычек с силовиками непосредственно на площади нет. Пользователь «Фейсбука» Арген Алымкулов ведет прямой эфир, подключившись к Wi-Fi сигналу одного из кафе недалеко от площади.
0	По его словам, столкновения происходят у здания «Белого дома». По его словам, граждане на своих личных автомобилях забирают раненых. Проигравшие партии заявляют о массовом подкупе и применении административного ресурса на выборах.
1	На центральной площади в Бишкеке 5 октября весь день проходил митинг против результатов парламентских выборов. Участники требовали аннулирования прошедших 4 октября выборов и проведения новых.
0	Ближе к 9 вечера отдельные участники митинга выломали ворота с южной стороны «Белого дома», которые выходят на проспект Чуй. Спустя несколько минут прозвучали выстрелы.
0	Милиция начала разгонять митинг с применением спецсредств. Сначала силовые органы полностью оттеснили митингующих от площади «Ала-Тоо» и здания «Белого дома», затем разгон продолжился на некоторых улицах.
0	Позже митингующие вновь начали наступление. Стычки в городе продолжаются.

1	BISHKEK, KYRGYZSTAN (AFP) - Protesters seized Kyrgyzstan's seat of government and freed a jailed former president on Tuesday (Oct 6) after demonstrations against an election marred by vote-buying accusations spiralled into violent clashes with police. Opposition supporters hit the streets of the capital Bishkek the previous evening to demand the resignation of pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov and a re-run of Sunday's poll.
3	Police used water cannon, stun grenades and tear gas to disperse protesters attempting to force their way through the gates of the building that houses the former Soviet republic's parliament and presidential offices. Photos published by Radio Free Europe later showed protesters strolling around the building unhindered. A crowd of around 2,000 people then forced their way into the nearby National Security Committee building, where former president Almazbek Atambayev was jailed.
3	Adil Turdukuov, an activist and ally of Atambayev who witnessed the release said the ex-leader was freed "without force or use of any weapons" and that national security officials had not attempted to halt protesters. "They surrendered," he added.
M	Footage posted on social media showed Atambayev, 64, greeting supporters after he left jail, where he was serving an 11-year-sentence for his role in the illegal release of a mob boss. Atambayev was once close with his successor Jeenbekov, but the pair fell out shortly after the 61-year-old won the country's last presidential election in 2017.
M	Both men are viewed as loyal allies of Russia, whose strategic position in the country is likely to remain unaffected despite the unrest. Russian leader Vladimir Putin tried to broker a peace between the pair last year but could not prevent Atambayev's arrest.
M	The two parties that swept Sunday's poll are supportive of the current president and hostile towards his predecessor. But both were viewed by rival parties of coordinating a massive vote-buying campaign.
0	Monday's clashes began after an initially peaceful rally held by losing parties spun out of control. Police attempted to disperse protesters when they first attempted to force their way to the main government building, known as the White House, on Monday evening. At one point a Radio Free Europe live feed showed police throwing stun grenades as they struggled to push back protesters, who appeared to have set several bins on fire in one particularly fierce exchange. Health authorities said at least 120 people were being treated for injuries, but there were no reports of deaths by late Monday.
2	Opposition supporters had called for a re-run of Sunday's election after an international monitoring mission organised by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe called "credible allegations" of vote-buying. The preliminary count showed two pro-presidency parties, Birimdik and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan, who both favour deeper integration with Moscow, together taking around half of the vote. Birimdik, which includes the president's younger brother Asylbek Jeenbekov, said it was open to a re-run of the vote on Monday, but by that time police were already struggling to bring protesters under control. Opposition parties earlier distanced themselves from the first attempt to storm the government complex.
M	Ata-Meken member Elvira Surabaldiyeva told AFP her party had no role in the incident, which she blamed on "provocateurs". But she added that her party would "stand with the people to the end". Mobile phone and mobile internet connections were poor or non-existent as the night unfolded.
M	Eyewitnesses told AFP that shop owners in the vicinity of the protest had begun removing goods from their stores in anticipation of possible looting. Looting was a feature in two popular uprisings that overthrew authoritarian presidents in 2005 and 2010, but the former Soviet country has enjoyed relative stability for the last decade. Dissatisfaction with corruption and the domination of politics by powerful clans has increased with the economic challenges of the coronavirus fallout.
0	Thousands had gathered in central Bishkek for Monday's protest to denounce the results of the latest vote. Popular singers joined politicians in addressing the crowd, who responded with chants of "Jeenbekov out".
2	"The president promised to oversee honest elections. He didn't keep his word," one opposition candidate, Ryskeldi Mombekov, told the protesters.

M	Vote buying and the use of administrative resources looked like the early winners in Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections, although it quickly became apparent it might be a temporary victory. Officials initially signaled that preliminary figures showed only four of the 16 parties competing had reached the 7 percent threshold needed to win seats.
M	Two parties seen as pro-government -- Birimdik (Unity) and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) -- took 24.53 and 23.9 percent of the vote, respectively. Though President Sooronbai Jeenbekov repeatedly said he did not favor any party in the run-up to the vote, his younger brother Asylbek's candidature for the Birimdik party suggested to some that the president might not be impartial.
M	There were many accusations of school directors, factory owners, landlords, and local town and village chiefs telling their employees, tenants, and fellow community members to vote for a certain party. That's one of the most common violations in elections throughout Central Asia.
M	Such stories were told during the first elections the five newly independent countries held in the 1990s and continue to surface with every new election. But in Kyrgyzstan, where elections are far more competitive, it can dramatically alter the results.
M	Many of the accusations of local pressure being applied to voters ahead of these elections appeared to have Birimdik's fingerprints on them. Aside from the president's brother, the party boasts several members of the government among its candidates, some of whom were accused of putting the squeeze on local leaders.
M	Similarly, allegations of vote buying were made against several of the 16 parties involved in the parliamentary elections, but the party most often mentioned was Mekenim Kyrgyzstan. Mekenim Kyrgyzstan is widely viewed inside the country as being allied with Raimbek Matraimov, a former deputy chief of the Customs Service and a reputed crime boss.
M	Matraimov is the subject of several in-depth reports on corruption published by the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP), Kyrgyzstan's independent Kloop media outlet, and RFE/RL's Kyrgyz Service, known locally as Azattyk, and Bellingcat. Matraimov's brother Iskender ran as a Mekenim Kyrgyzstan candidate.
M	There were numerous messages issued ahead of the vote urging people not to sell their votes, but these are especially hard economic times in Kyrgyzstan due to the economic downturn that accompanied the spread of the coronavirus. Many Kyrgyz are desperate to feed their families and pay bills.
M	There were credible reports of cash payouts for people's votes in the weeks leading up to the elections: part of the payment up front and the remainder once the ballot was cast. There were dozens of videos and photographs posted on social networks on election day that showed people photographing their marked ballots, seemingly as proof they had fulfilled their part of the vote-buying bargain and were eligible for the balance of their payment.
M	Vans and minibuses turned up outside polling stations across the country, fueling suspicions that parties were ferrying their paid voters between multiple polling stations. Several hours before the polls were closed, lawmaker Irina Karamushkina, who was a candidate for the opposition Social Democrats, was calling for these "most cynical and dirtiest elections" to be declared illegitimate.
M	Besides Birimdik and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan, another party seen as pro-government, the Kyrgyzstan party, also appeared to have won seats, with 8.73 percent of the vote. Initially, a lone opposition party, Butun Kyrgyzstan, was said to have met the parliamentary threshold, with 7.13 percent.
0	By the time the preliminary election results were announced in the evening on October 4, Social Democratic supporters had already started a protest rally on Bishkek's central Ala-Too Square. Supporters of the Meken Yntymagy (Homeland Security) party and the Chong Kazat (Great Crusade) party were also demonstrating outside the headquarters of the Central Election Commission (BShK). The Ata-Meken (Fatherland), Reforma, Respublika, Zamandash (Contemporary), Ordo (Horde), and Bir Bol (Stay Together) parties had also released statements vowing not to recognize the election results.
0	Even the religious-based Yyman Nuru (Ray of Faith) party cast doubt on the results. Meanwhile, Mekenim Kyrgyzstan and the Kyrgyzstan party, both of which won seats in parliament, boldly asserted that they thought they should have received more votes.
0	Virtually all of the opposition parties called for rallies the day after the vote. On October 5, more than 1,000 supporters of five parties -- Reforma, Meken Yntymagy, Chong Kazat, Yyman Nuru, and Ordo -- gathered in Bishkek, and some of the first speakers were participants in the April 2010 revolution that toppled then-President Kurmanbek Bakiev.
0	Supporters of the Ata-Meken, Respublika, Bir Bol, and Zamandash parties gathered outside the Opera and Ballet Theater in the capital before marching to Ala-Too Square, where the crowd had grown to several thousand. Mekenchil (Patriotic) party leader Kamchybek Tashiev soon joined the rally, too.
0	People chanted slogans against "thieves" in government and vowed they would not accept the election results. There were similar demonstrations involving hundreds of people in the cities of Naryn and Talas.
0	All these groups are pledging to continue their rallies until the results are annulled. Some demonstrators on Ala-Too Square set up yurts to emphasize their determination to stay until their demands were met.
2	The Butun Kyrgyzstan party, which was among the parties that won seats in the elections, also sided with the demonstrators and -- together with the 11 parties represented in the October 5 demonstrations -- backed a memorandum demanding that the BShK annul the results of the elections by midnight. The group did not say what it intended to do if its demands were not met.
M	That leaves one to wonder whether Birimdik and Mekenim overplayed their hands. But the public anger could entangle others.
M	President Jeenbekov's efforts to appear aloof from the campaign and elections could work against him. He had pledged that administrative resources would play no role in the outcome of elections.
M	But there are widespread accusations that such tools played a significant role in the success of his brother's party, Birimdik. And Jeenbekov repeatedly responded to questions about vote buying by saying he had not seen any concrete evidence to support the claims -- never mind that such evidence would mean someone filing a complaint with police and risking reprisals from anyone trying to buy the votes.
M	It now appears that many people fear that vote buying played a key role in these elections, and there is now substantial evidence on social networks that it did take place. As a result, critics are probably hoping that Jeenbekov’s performance as president over the past three years receives a lot more public scrutiny.
M	Eleven of the 12 parties that initially failed to win parliamentary seats are now protesting the results. Even by the official tally so far, they account for a combined 32 percent of the vote in these elections. Some 43 percent of eligible voters, or about 1.5 million, did not cast ballots, and many of them might also protest the election results, not to mention the almost 3 million more Kyrgyz citizens who were not registered to vote.
M	By midday on October 5, there were already accusations that the Central Election Commission was working to manipulate the vote count to allow another opposition party to win seats, although that threatens to make the results appear not more but less legitimate. Many predicted that there would be cheating in these elections, but it seems no one imagined it would reach the levels that the opposition is now claiming.
M	Kyrgyz authorities might not have much time to propose a credible solution. Independent Kyrgyzstan has seen two revolutions already, and many Kyrgyz might believe there are more and better reasons to be angry now than during either of those two upheavals.

M	He said he had "so far... taken all the possible measures to prevent an escalation of the situation" and urged opposition parties to "calm their supporters down and take them away from areas of mass gathering".

1	BISHKEK (Reuters) - Opposition groups took control of most of Kyrgyzstan’s government apparatus on Tuesday after storming buildings during post-election protests, but the president clung to power as unrest risked tipping the Central Asian state into chaos.
4	Protests spread throughout the country, where two presidents have been overthrown in the past 15 years, halting some foreign gold mining operations and prompting an expression of concern from Russia, a longtime ally. President Sooronbai Jeenbekov called for calm and ordered security forces not to open fire on protesters after unrest in which one person had been killed and 686 wounded by Tuesday afternoon, according to the health ministry.
3	Officials said Sunday’s parliamentary election, which protesters condemned as illegitimate, would be rerun, while the opposition took charge of the key post of parliament speaker. Fresh clashes remained a serious risk however, as protesters stayed on the streets and a crowd armed with rocks and stones broke into a hotel where members of parliament had convened, forcing the newly proposed interim prime minister, an opposition figure, to flee, according to a report by news website Akipress.
1	Shop owners in the capital Bishkek, fearing looting, installed metal shields against marauders. Burnt-out cars littered the city after protesters stormed the main government building, known as the White House, early on Tuesday. It briefly caught fire before emergency services put out the blaze and debris from inside, including government papers, and office furniture, was strewn outside.
M	Kyrgyzstan, which borders China, has long been a platform for geopolitical competition between Moscow, Washington and Beijing. It houses a Russian military base and its leaders and main opposition groups have traditionally backed close ties with Russia.
1	Yet unidentified intruders torched a Russian-operated factory at Kyrgyzstan’s second-largest gold deposit Jeruy on Tuesday, forcing its owners to suspend development of the site. Russia’s military base was put on high alert.
1	London-listed miner Kaz Minerals KAZ.L said it had suspended production at its Bozymchak copper and gold mine and protesters showed up at smaller mines developed by Chinese and Turkish companies and demanded they halt operations, according to local news website Akipress. State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn said it had repelled an attempted attack on its office. Another group appeared to have broken into its gold refinery. Canada's Centerra Gold CG.TO, which operates the country's biggest gold deposit, said its operations were continuing uninterrupted.
3	The opposition said it had set up a coordination council and was discussing the line-up of a provisional government. Opposition groups also freed Almazbek Atambayev, a former president jailed on corruption charges after falling out with Jeenbekov. Atambayev was not named to any role, however, and Jeenbekov showed no immediate signs of relinquishing power.
2	The central election commission said it had annulled the results of the election and a new one would be called shortly. Following calls to legitimise a transfer of power, the outgoing parliament elected opposition politician Myktybek Abdyldayev as speaker.
3	It also proposed Sadyr Zhaparov as interim prime minister, online media outlet 24.kg quoted Abdyldayev as saying on Tuesday evening. Other media previously reported that he was elected as interim prime minister. Protesters sprang Zhaparov earlier in the day from a prison where he was serving a sentence on charges of hostage-taking in 2013 unrest.
1	Interior Minister Kashkar Junushaliyev did not show up for work on Tuesday, a ministry spokesman said, saying that Kursan Asanov, an opposition politician and a former senior security official, had taken over as acting interior minister. The Russian embassy said it supported resolving the situation in the country through legal means while ensuring stability and people’s safety.
1	Trouble erupted on Monday after police used teargas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demanding the election be annulled. Western observers said the election, which appeared to have handed most seats to two establishment parties supporting closer links between the former Soviet republic and Russia, had been marred by vote buying.
M	One of the parties was close to Jeenbekov, who insisted in an interview with the BBC on Tuesday night that he remained the legitimate president and that it was his job to consolidate the positions of various factions through negotiations. As well as storming the White House, which houses both the president and parliament, protesters took over several other buildings, including the mayor’s office. They appointed their own acting head of national security, acting prosecutor general and a commandant of Bishkek, although it was hard to judge how much power they wielded.

X	Some observers claimed to have seen, during the first hours of voting, some citizens with marked masks being handed filled-out ballots. There were also allegations of voters being bribed and bussed in to places where they could swing the result.

X	The two-month countdown to Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections has started, and President Sooronbai Jeenbekov has been clear the elections will take place despite the huge problems the coronavirus is causing for the country.
X	Such Kyrgyz votes have traditionally been energetic and controversial affairs. But the October 4 vote promises to be the most interesting to date, since for the first time there are no front-runners. While that should make for spirited competition, it always raises questions about the role money might play in parties’ victories at the polls.
X	As of July 9, Kyrgyzstan’s Central Election Commission (CEC) said 44 parties had presented preliminary documents indicating their intention to participate. More than half of those parties are new, and probably only about one-quarter of them will actually appear on ballots.
X	In the last elections, in 2015, 14 parties competed. Two of the six parties that have seats in the current parliament – Ata-Jurt and Onuguu-Progress – are not participating.
X	Respublika, which ran in a coalition with Ata-Jurt in 2015, is participating. But its onetime leader, former Prime Minister Omurbek Babanov, has withdrawn from the party and politics in general in order to avoid legal entanglements that emerged when he ran for president against Jeenbekov in the 2017 presidential election. The Respublika-Ata-Jurt coalition, which officially split in November 2016, still maintains a unified faction in parliament, where it has the second-largest number of seats, 28. Onuguu-Progress did not submit the documents to field candidates this time.
X	There are reports that party leader Bakyt Torobaev and other members of Onuguu-Progress will run as candidates of the new Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Is Kyrgyzstan) party. The Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan (SDPK), which former President Almazbek Atambaev helped found, has fallen into disarray since Atambaev stepped down as president, started criticizing his successor, Jeenbekov, and created ever more legal problems for himself. Atambaev has already been convicted of corruption and sentenced to 11 years and two months in prison, and he is on trial on other charges, including murder.
X	His SDPK party has splintered into several groups. Two of them -- the Social Democrats and the SDPK faction led by Sagynbek Abdrakhmanov that was the first to split from Atambaev’s group -- have announced their intentions to participate in these elections. The CEC initially refused to accept the documents from Abdrakhmanov’s faction, dubbed the SDPK Without Atambaev faction, but the Supreme Court overruled that decision and forced the commission to clear Abdurakhmanov’s SDPK to run.
X	The SDPK has the most seats in the current parliament, 38. The SDPK is the party that nominated Jeenbekov for the presidency. But his public feud with Atambaev reportedly fueled the split in the party, and it is unclear whether any of the SDPK factions are on favorable terms with the president.
X	Bir Bol also has seats in the current parliament, but a scandal could be mounting over the party’s alleged ties to former President Kurmanbek Bakiev, who was chased from power in the April 2010 revolution. For 25 years, there have been waves of political parties merging prior to Kyrgyz elections. The Respublika and Ata-Jurt parties did so before the 2015 vote. In 1999, the former vice president and future prime minister, Feliks Kulov, formed the Ar-Namys (Dignity) party, which was quickly refused registration for elections in 2000.
X	There are already signs of similar alliances forming for these elections. Omurbek Tekebaev is the leader of the Ata-Meken (Fatherland) party.
X	At the moment, it does not appear that Tekebaev, a former parliamentary speaker, will be a candidate in October, since he is under house arrest. Tekebaev was a vocal critic of former President Atambaev, and when Tekebaev went abroad seeking evidence for suspicions that Atambaev had funneled money out of Kyrgyzstan, Tekebaev suddenly faced charges of corruption and fraud in what critics said was a politically motivated case. In August 2017, Tekebaev was convicted and sentenced to eight years in prison, which was commuted to house arrest in August 2019 but which also disqualifies him from running for office.
X	Ata-Meken and the Liberal Democratic Party each handed in documents on their intentions to compete in these parliamentary elections. Tekebaev said Akaev would head the Ata-Meken party list. And on August 5, Ak-Shumkar leader Sariev said his party was withdrawing from a coalition with Ata-Meken, the Liberal Democratic Party, and the others for reasons that were not immediately clear.
X	The nationalist group Kyrk Choro, named after the 40 companions of the Kyrgyz people’s legendary hero Manas, has also floated the possibility of joining a political party. Its founder, Kubanychbek Duysheyev, said in March that Kyrk Choro would compete in the elections and was in discussions with 10 political parties, none of which Duysheyev named. As mentioned, Kamchybek Tashiev’s Ata-Jurt party is not competing this time.
X	But Tashiev is an established personality in Kyrgyzstan’s political world and personality is what drives the country's political parties. Several parties would like to attract Tashiev to their ranks. Maksat Mamytkanov, a leader in the Chong Kazat (Great Crusade) party, said in mid-June his party was in talks with Tashiev, but Tashiev said at the end of June he would be a candidate for the Mekenchil (Patriotic) party.
X	The primary concern that hangs over the parliamentary campaign and elections is the coronavirus, whicih has hit Kyrgyzstan hard. By August 7, Kyrgyzstan had registered more than 39,000 infections and 1,450 COVID-19 deaths, by far the highest reported death toll in Central Asia, where every government is suspected of drastically underreporting their true figures. CEC Deputy Chairman Abdyzhapar Bekmatov said parties are being encouraged to do their campaigning online and, “if it is essential to organize meetings with the voters, then it must be done under strict observation of rules” on social distancing and limits on mass gatherings.
X	This change requires parties to be active and savvy on social networks, and any rules are still unclear on advertising for parties on the Internet. Many people in Kyrgyzstan are already on Facebook and other social networks, so the audience is already there. Political parties have also been active on social networks, but this time they will be depending on such sites to allow them to get their message out to voters.
X	Money will play a big role in such advertising, money has already played a large role in previous elections, and money will be more important than ever in these parliamentary elections. Many Kyrgyz, such as former lawmaker Bektur Asanov, are worried that those with significant financial backing will dominate the elections and create an “oligarchy-clan” system.
X	An August 4 report by vesti.kg noted that 41 of the 44 parties planning on running have already opened bank accounts to allow the CEC to track their contributions and expenses. Only four of the parties had received money, but the Mekenim Kyrgyzstan party had a significant lead in fundraising -- of 3.35 million soms (about $43,500), followed by Bir Bol with 676,000 soms (about $8,800), and then the Social Democrats and Green Party of Kyrgyzstan far behind that with 103,450 soms (about $1,345) and 200 soms (about $2.60), respectively.
X	In a May 5 article on Russia's Nezavisimaya Gazeta website, Kyrgyz political analyst Asilbek Egemberdiev said Mekenim Kyrgyzstan was one of two parties that could be positioning themselves to be pro-government parties, the other being Birimdik. As mentioned above, President Jeenbekov came from the now-shattered SDPK. He has not given any indication so far of favoring any particular party.
X	The Matraimov brothers are Raimbek, a former deputy chief of Kyrgyzstan's Customs Service, and Iskender, currently a deputy in parliament. Raimbek Matraimov has been at the center of a scandal that involves allegations of murder and hundreds of millions of dollars taken out of Kyrgyzstan contained in an investigative report released by Azattyk, the Kloop.kg news website, and the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project.
X	Bir Bol has changed its political council and said it will have “new faces” as candidates for the 2020 elections. A recent report noted there was talk of ties between Bir Bol and ex-President Bakiev’s family when posts on social networks drew attention to Symbat Maratbek, a daughter of Bakiev’s brother Marat, who currently occupies an important post at party headquarters and handles its financial matters.
X	Kyrgyzstan’s elections, presidential and parliamentary, have been plagued by allegations of vote-buying. In January, Bir Bol’s Altynbek Sulaymanov even jokingly advised that if people were ready to sell their vote, they should at least demand 20,000 soms (about $260) rather than 1,000 soms.
X	Sulaymanov’s comment drew criticism from some, Omurbek Tekebaev among them. Vote-buying is always a serious concern in Kyrgyz elections. But with so many people out of work or only working part-time because of the coronavirus, the temptation could be greater than usual for many in Kyrgyzstan. Parties have until August 25 to conduct a party congress, assemble a list of candidates, hand over the list for the CEC to confirm, and pay the 5 million som fee to compete.

M	Kyrgyzstan has been called an "island of democracy" in Central Asia, and parliamentary elections on October 4 were contested by a wide variety of political parties. Nevertheless, voting was marred by complaints of irregularities, and videos appearing to show vote-buying were sent to RFE/RL.

X	Voters in Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia -- will go to the polls on October 4 to vote in parliamentary elections.
X	Following the revolution in 2010 that ousted President Kurmanbek Bakiev, the country’s constitution was rewritten, transforming the country from a presidential to a parliamentary system of government. Kyrgyzstan has a unicameral parliament with 120 seats, of which 30 percent are supposed to be filled by women.
X	According to the party lists presented to the Central Election Commission on August 24, there were 1,209 candidates (though some have dropped out and others were disqualified since then) from 16 parties competing. All deputies are elected through party lists and a party must receive at least 7 percent of the overall vote to make it into parliament. The most seats one party can win in the elections is 65.
X	The Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) party was founded after the parliamentary elections in 2015. In August, the Ata-Jurt party, which currently has seats in parliament as part of the Respublika/Ata-Jurt union, merged into Mekenim Kyrgyzstan.
X	Mekenim Kyrgyzstan is believed to be receiving financial support from Raimbek Matraimov, a former deputy chief of Kyrgyzstan’s Customs Service who is alleged to have used that position to make hundreds of millions of dollars in ill-gotten wealth. Among the party’s candidates are Matraimov’s brother and current parliament deputy Iskender Matraimov, former Bishkek Deputy Mayor Mirlan Amanturov, and deputy speaker of parliament Mirlan Bakirov. A September 10 report from kloop.kg noted 221 of the 1,209 candidates on party lists have prior convictions and among those, Mekenim Kyrgyzstan had the most: 29.
X	The Kyrgyzstan party was founded in 2015 and won 18 seats in parliamentary elections that year. The party’s leader is Kanat Isaev.
X	In the 2015 elections, the Kyrgyzstan party was seen as a stalking horse for the Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan, but with the recent disintegration of that party, Kyrgyzstan has emerged as the veteran pro-government party. The Butun (United) Kyrgyzstan party was founded in 2010.
X	It competed in the 2015 parliamentary elections but failed to win any seats. Among its candidates are party leader Adakhan Madumarov, former deputy chief of Kyrgyzstan’s Security Council Omurbek Suvanaliev, the former Communist Party head Iskhak Masaliev, and former Jalal-Abad Governor Bektur Asanov.
X	The Respublika party was founded in 2010 by businessman Omurbek Babanov, who later served as prime minister. Babanov made an unsuccessful run for president in 2017 and fled the country due to dubious charges against him.
X	He returned after vowing to leave politics, though he has released campaign advertisements for Respublika in the run-up to elections. The party’s leader is Mirlan Jeenchorov.
X	The Meken Yntymagy (Homeland Security) party was founded in 2010. The party is led by Temirbek Asanbekov, who ran for president in the 2011 election. Meken Yntymagy participated in the 2010 and 2015 parliamentary elections, failing to win any seats in those elections. On the party’s list of candidates, under the category of occupation, the third, fourth, and fifth candidates (Sharali Tabyldiev, Jaynagul Nurmambetova, and Azamat Aytbekov, respectively) are listed as “unemployed,” as are nine other candidates in the top 20.
X	The Yyman Nuru (Ray of Faith) party was founded in 2020 by Aybek Osmonov, but he stepped down as party leader and Nurjigit Kadyrbekov, a young religious leader who studied in the United States and Japan, took over as Yyman Nuru’s head going into the elections. The Chong Kazat (Great Crusade) party was founded in 2012.
X	The current leader is Maksat Mamytkanov, a former member of Kyrgyzstan’s State Security Committee. Chong Kazat is seen as a nationalist party.
X	The Mekenchil (Patriotic) party was founded in 2010. The party’s leader is Sadyr Japarov, but he is currently in prison for his role in fomenting unrest in the northeastern town of Karakol in October 2013. The current leader is Kamchyek Tashiev, the former leader of Ata-Jurt.
X	The Party of Afghan War Veterans and Participants in Local Conflicts was founded in 1994. The party’s leader is Akbokon Tashtanbekov. The party won two seats in the 2000 and 2005 parliamentary elections.
X	The Zamandash (Contemporary) party was founded in 2007. The party’s current leader is Jenish Moldokmatov. The party was originally created to support Kyrgyz migrant laborers in Russia.
X	Among Zamandash’s candidates are former Deputy Interior Minister Melis Turganbayev and Almurza Satybalidiev, a former prosecutor-general, later adviser to former President Kurmanbek Bakiev. Satybalidiev was convicted for the deaths of protesters in the 2010 revolution but was released in 2016.
X	The Ata-Meken (Fatherland) party was founded in 1992. The party’s leader is Omurbek Tekebaev, a former parliamentary leader and veteran opposition politician.
X	Tekebaev will not participate as a candidate in these elections, however. The top spot on the party’s list was given to young politician Janar Akaev, a former presidential press secretary and current parliament deputy (and former RFE/RL employee).
X	The Reforms party was founded in 2020. The party is led by a former judge in the Supreme Court’s constitutional chamber, Klara Soronkulova, but most party members are young activists and academics.
X	Reforms’ candidates have the second lowest average age (38). Reforms has relied on crowdfunding for much of its finances, including the 5 million soms (about $63,000) needed to register for the elections.
X	The Bir Bol (Stay Together) party was founded in 2010. The party’s leader is Altynbek Sulaymanov. It is one of the three parties competing that have seats in the current parliament (12), but prior to the party congress in August the party restocked itself with young members and its candidates for the 2020 elections have the lowest average age (37).

1	Opposition groups took control of most of Kyrgyzstan’s government apparatus on Tuesday after storming buildings during post-election protests, but the president clung to power as unrest risked tipping the Central Asian state into chaos.
2	Protests spread throughout the country, where two presidents have been overthrown in the past 15 years, halting some foreign gold mining operations and prompting an expression of concern from Russia, a longtime ally. President Sooronbai Jeenbekov called for calm and ordered security forces not to open fire on protesters after unrest in which one person had been killed and 686 wounded by Tuesday afternoon, according to the health ministry.
3	Officials said Sunday’s parliamentary election, which protesters condemned as illegitimate, would be rerun, while the opposition took charge of the key post of parliament speaker. Fresh clashes remained a serious risk however, as protesters stayed on the streets and a crowd armed with rocks and stones broke into a hotel where members of parliament had convened, forcing the newly proposed interim prime minister, an opposition figure, to flee, according to a report by news website Akipress.
1	Shop owners in the capital Bishkek, fearing looting, installed metal shields against marauders. Burnt-out cars littered the city after protesters stormed the main government building, known as the White House, early on Tuesday. It briefly caught fire before emergency services put out the blaze and debris from inside, including government papers, and office furniture, was strewn outside.
M	Kyrgyzstan, which borders China, has long been a platform for geopolitical competition between Moscow, Washington and Beijing. It houses a Russian military base and its leaders and main opposition groups have traditionally backed close ties with Russia.
X	Yet unidentified intruders torched a Russian-operated factory at Kyrgyzstan’s second-largest gold deposit Jeruy on Tuesday, forcing its owners to suspend development of the site. Russia’s military base was put on high alert.
X	London-listed miner Kaz Minerals said it had suspended production at its Bozymchak copper and gold mine and protesters showed up at smaller mines developed by Chinese and Turkish companies and demanded they halt operations, according to local news website Akipress. State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn said it had repelled an attempted attack on its office. Another group appeared to have broken into its gold refinery. Canada’s Centerra Gold, which operates the country’s biggest gold deposit, said its operations were continuing uninterrupted.
3	The opposition said it had set up a coordination council and was discussing the line-up of a provisional government. Opposition groups also freed Almazbek Atambayev, a former president jailed on corruption charges after falling out with Jeenbekov. Atambayev was not named to any role, however, and Jeenbekov showed no immediate signs of relinquishing power.
2	The central election commission said it had annulled the results of the election and a new one would be called shortly. Following calls to legitimise a transfer of power, the outgoing parliament elected opposition politician Myktybek Abdyldayev as speaker.
3	It also proposed Sadyr Zhaparov as interim prime minister, online media outlet 24.kg quoted Abdyldayev as saying on Tuesday evening. Other media previously reported that he was elected as interim prime minister.
3	Protesters sprang Zhaparov earlier in the day from a prison where he was serving a sentence on charges of hostage-taking in 2013 unrest. Interior Minister Kashkar Junushaliyev did not show up for work on Tuesday, a ministry spokesman said, saying that Kursan Asanov, an opposition politician and a former senior security official, had taken over as acting interior minister.
1	The Russian embassy said it supported resolving the situation in the country through legal means while ensuring stability and people’s safety. Trouble erupted on Monday after police used teargas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demanding the election be annulled. Western observers said the election, which appeared to have handed most seats to two establishment parties supporting closer links between the former Soviet republic and Russia, had been marred by vote buying.
M	One of the parties was close to Jeenbekov, who insisted in an interview with the BBC on Tuesday night that he remained the legitimate president and that it was his job to consolidate the positions of various factions through negotiations. As well as storming the White House, which houses both the president and parliament, protesters took over several other buildings, including the mayor’s office. They appointed their own acting head of national security, acting prosecutor general and a commandant of Bishkek, although it was hard to judge how much power they wielded. This story has been updated.

M	На третий день после захвата Белого дома в Кыргызстане продолжается противостояние между народными дружинниками и мародерами: ночью жителям Бишкека удалось отстоять несколько торговых центров, кафе и госрезиденцию.
M	По всей стране продолжаются захваты золоторудных и угольных месторождений, телеканалов и аэропортов. Протестующие в регионах сменяют руководство и самовыдвигаются на должности. В Оше развернулась борьба за должность мэра.
4	После аннулирования результатов парламентских выборов часть депутатов Жогорку Кенеш выдвинула кандидатуру экс-депутата Садыра Жапарова, освобожденного из заключения во время протестов, на должность исполняющего обязанности премьер-министра Кыргызстана. Но часть протестующих против того, чтобы к власти приходили старые политики и выступает за люстрацию.

M	This cookie is used to distinguish between humans and bots.
M	This is beneficial for the web site, in order to make valid reports on the use of their web site. Remembers the user's selected language version of a website. Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Used by Google Analytics to throttle request rate.

0	BISHKEK (Reuters) -
2	The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan slid deeper into chaos as rival opposition factions jostled for power on Wednesday, a day after they stormed government buildings, forcing the prime minister to quit and a parliamentary election to be annulled. Left isolated by the resignation of Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov’s government late on Tuesday, President Sooronbai Jeenbekov called for all-party talks in a statement on Wednesday, reiterating his willingness to mediate. Representatives of eight parties gathered at government headquarters on Wednesday evening to try to iron out their differences, but several large factions were absent while two rival candidates for the premiership emerged.
M	Two presidents have been overthrown in Kyrgyzstan in the past 15 years, and longtime ally Russia expressed concern as protests spread across the country in the wake of Sunday’s vote. Kyrgyzstan borders China and hosts both a Russian military air base and a large Canadian-owned gold mining operation. Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday Moscow was in touch with all the sides in the conflict and hoped that democratic process would be restored soon. China’s foreign ministry said it was highly concerned about the situation. Kyrgyzstan’s State National Security Committee said in a statement that Omurbek Suvanaliyev, a veteran security official who has taken over as its acting head, spoke on Wednesday to Alexander Bortnikov, head of Russia’s Federal Security Service to discuss the situation in the country.
2	A total of 16 parties took part in Sunday’s election and 11 refused to accept the results, which had handed victory to two establishment groups. As protests grew, the election commission annulled the vote.
M	At least three distinct groups have now attempted to claim leadership. The first was the Coordination Council set up on Tuesday and largely made up of established political parties opposing Jeenbekov. Another group calling itself the People’s Coordination Council surfaced on Wednesday, uniting five lesser-known opposition parties whose leaders have not held any senior government positions and calling for a purge of the elite. Three more parties accepted that group’s invitation to a meeting on Wednesday to work out a joint statement, while 30-year-old businessman Tilek Toktogaziyev said the faction would back him as an interim PM.
M	Finally, the Ata Zhurt political party has tried to outmanoeuvre competitors by getting parliament to nominate its candidate Sadyr Zhaparov - freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier - for prime minister on Tuesday night. However, an angry mob then broke into the hotel where parliament convened, forcing Zhaparov to flee through a back door, according to Kyrgyz media. It was not clear when parliament might convene again to confirm him or his rival as premier.
M	One MP posted a video on Facebook showing about 40 deputies discussing the idea of impeaching Jeenbekov in a conference room on Wednesday night. Making a late night appearance on television, Zhaparov said he would propose a constitutional reform before holding presidential and parliamentary elections in two to three months.
4	While opposition parties have made rival claims to power, the establishment parties that claimed initial victory in the election have largely kept quiet, accepting the decision to annul the vote. Jeenbekov has told his supporters not to confront the protesters to avoid escalation. But the split among opposition parties and power grabs by competing factions have pitched the nation of 6.5 million people into uncertainty. Kyrgyz security forces appeared to avoid siding with any of the factions although their support could eventually help decide the winner. Rallies by different parties’ supporters continued in Bishkek throughout Wednesday, with minor scuffles reported between backers of rival politicians.
M	Residents in the capital Bishkek quickly formed vigilante neighbourhood watch units to reinforce police, having suffered during violent revolts followed by looting in 2005 and 2010. There were also scuffles overnight between vigilantes and protesters who tried to force their way into government buildings or attacked businesses such as shops and restaurants, according to a report by local news website 24.kg. Kyrgyzstan’s central bank, in turn, said it had disabled SWIFT and other cross-border money transfer systems to prevent capital flight until the situation stabilises.

9	Kyrgyz lawmakers have launched an impeachment procedure against President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, Kanybek Imanaliev, a parliamentarian from opposition party Ata-Meken, said.
9	"Some of the parliamentarians signed an impeachment. There is a very complicated procedure, but we can say that it has been launched", he said. The parliamentarians gathered for a meeting on Wednesday evening at the call of their colleagues who are on the Coordination Council of Popular Trust.
M	They keep the gathering place secret so as not to be pressured by the protesters. It is not known whether a sufficient number of lawmakers is present at the meeting to announce the impeachment procedure. Elvira Surabaldiyeva, a lawmaker from opposition party Ata-Meken, turned off the broadcast at the request of fellow parliamentarians.
0	Opposition protesters have taken to the streets of Bishkek since the announcement of results of the 4 October parliamentary elections, which saw only four political parties surpass a 7 percent vote threshold to gain seats in the Kyrgyz parliament. On 5 October, about 2,000 supporters of parties that failed to gain seats in the republic's parliament in Bishkek gathered on the central Ala-Too square.
2	They demanded to cancel election results and hold a repeat vote. Clashes between protesters and security officials started toward the evening on the same day leading to a series of events that forced the Kyrgyz Central Election Commission to annul the results of the vote.
3	In the early hours of 6 October, protesters managed to break into the building, which hosts the Central Asian country's parliament and the presidential office. They then moved toward the State Committee for National Security, where Almazbek Atambayev, the country's former leader was being held and freed him.

M	Amid political impasse, Russia describes situation in Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, as ‘messy and chaotic’.
M	Kyrgyzstan slid deeper into a political crisis, with several people barred from leaving the country while Russia described the current situation, with the country lacking clear leadership, as “chaotic”. Border guards were given a list of people barred from leaving the country, ostensibly to ensure security amid unrest that has toppled the government. Russia’s Tass news agency described the people in that list as “high-ranking” officials.
M	The closures on Thursday came as Russia, which has an airbase in Kyrgyzstan, said Moscow had obligations under an existing security treaty to prevent the situation from totally breaking down. Alexander Bortnikov, the head of Russia’s FSB security service, spoke to Kyrgyzstan’s new acting security chief on Wednesday.
M	“The situation looks like a mess and chaos,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a briefing. The former Soviet republic, landlocked and bordered by Kazakhstan, China, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, has seen thousands protest against the results of the October 4 parliamentary election. The results of that election, which handed victory to establishment parties, have now been annulled, something the opposition had been calling for.
2	But the demonstrations peaked when, soon after the vote, opposition protesters seized government buildings and freed jailed ex-President Almazbek Atambayev. The rallies have forced the Kyrgyz cabinet to resign, leaving the country with no clear leadership. Three opposition groups have each proposed candidates for an interim prime minister who would need to oversee a repeat vote in the coming months, local media said.
M	In addition to Sadyr Zhaparov, an opposition politician who was released from jail and appointed acting prime minister, businessman Tilek Toktogaziyev has also made his ambitions clear. Omurbek Babanov, a former prime minister, has also emerged as a contender.
M	Meanwhile, the outgoing parliament has itself split into two groups that were meeting separately outside the headquarters ransacked by protesters. The group that met overnight in a hotel only included 40 MPs, whereas important decisions such as naming a cabinet require a 61-vote majority.
M	MP Elvira Surabaldieva posted a video from the meeting online, saying it had failed to pass a motion to impeach President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who has clung to power despite the resignation of Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov’s administration. The embattled president has not appeared in public in recent days, although his office said he remained in the capital, Bishkek. He has appealed for calm and issued several statements calling for talks between rival political factions. One person has been killed and more than 1,000 have sought medical help since the unrest broke out, as Bishkek residents scuffle with protesters and looters.
M	Kyrgyzstan’s central bank allowed financial institutions to reopen on Thursday since their closure on Tuesday, as business associations warned the nation of 6.5 million could face food shortages if banks and tax offices remained shut and public safety could not be guaranteed. Kursan Asanov, the acting interior minister who took over this week after running in the election as an opposition candidate, said police, boosted by vigilante groups, had managed to prevent mass looting in the capital. He promised to stop any attempts to further destabilise the country where violence killed hundreds after the removal of President Kurmanbek Bakiyev in 2010 in another revolt. Kursanov also urged parliament to convene and install a legitimate cabinet, describing the current situation as stable but tense.

X	BISHKEK (Reuters) - Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov declared a state of emergency in the capital Bishkek on Friday and ordered the military to end days of unrest, as supporters of rival political groups fought on the streets.
X	A Reuters journalist in the capital heard gunshots and saw demonstrators from rival groups throwing rocks and bottles at each other and scuffling. One opposition politician was reported to have been wounded.
5	“Today we are witnessing a real threat to our statehood,” Jeenbekov said, explaining the move, a day after the Kremlin said it needed to prevent chaos in the former Soviet republic. Earlier the president had said he was ready to resign once a new cabinet was appointed - which could happen on Saturday, when parliament plans to convene in his residence, according to a deputy speaker quoted by local news website Akipress. The country is facing a power vacuum, with opposition groups quarrelling among themselves since seizing government buildings and forcing the cancellation of results from Sunday’s parliamentary election which they denounced as fraudulent.
4	Two leading opposition figures reached an agreement to join forces on Friday, and won the backing of Jeenbekov’s predecessor as president, Almazbek Atambayev. But their followers and followers of other groups held rival rallies, which politicians said posed a danger of violence.
5	Jeenbekov’s office said in a statement the state of emergency, including a curfew and tight security restrictions, would be in effect from 8 p.m, on Friday until 8 a.m. on Oct. 21. His order did not say how many troops would be deployed but they were instructed to “take the situation under control” and use military vehicles, set up checkpoints, and prevent armed clashes.
X	However, a local NGO said the order required a confirmation from parliament. Russia has described the situation in Kyrgyzstan, which borders China and hosts a Russian military base, as “a mess and chaos”. The crisis tests the Kremlin’s power to shape politics in its former Soviet sphere of influence, at a time when fighting has erupted between Armenia and Azerbaijan, and Belarus is also engulfed in protests.
4	The opposition is divided between 11 parties which represent clan interests in a country that has already seen two presidents toppled by popular revolts since 2005. Rival candidates for the premiership Omurbek Babanov and Tilek Toktogaziyev joined forces on Friday, with Toktogaziyev agreeing to serve as Babanov’s deputy. They were backed by four parties, local news website 24.kz reported.
3	They were joined at a rally in Bishkek by the former president Atambayev. A few thousand followers chanted “I am not afraid” and “Kyrgyzstan” to the rhythmic beating of large drums. Followers of another candidate, Sadyr Zhaparov, also numbering a few thousand, held a demonstration nearby.
4	Some of Zhaparov’s supporters later rushed into the square, leading to scuffles between the rival groups until the Babanov and Toktogaziyev supporters withdrew. News website Akipress said Toktogaziyev was rushed to a hospital with blunt head trauma after the confrontation where he then regained consciousness and was in stable condition.
X	Separately, an aide to Atambayev said a shot had been fired at his car which did not wound anyone. Jeenbekov’s allies swept Sunday’s parliamentary vote in the official results that have now been discarded. They have kept a low profile as the opposition parties have taken to the streets.
M	Western observers said the election was marred by credible allegations of vote-buying. So far, veteran officials who supported the revolt have been in control of the security forces. On Friday, self-appointed provisional heads of the interior ministry and the state security service left their respective buildings and handed over the leadership to their deputies. The two state bodies said the move was meant to ensure security forces remained apolitical.

0	Opposition politicians targeted as protesters clash in the capital, Bishkek, hours after emergency rule announced. This story was corrected to remove a reference in the final paragraph to Kyrgyzstan buying gas from Russia.
M	The former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev, survived an assassination attempt in Bishkek when his car was shot at, Russia’s RIA news agency cited an aide as saying. Friday’s apparent assassination attempt against Atambayev, who was freed from prison amid unrest following a disputed October 4 parliamentary vote, marked a new escalation of violence in the Central Asian country.
2	Hours earlier, President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who is facing calls to step down, declared a state of emergency in the capital and ordered troops to quell unrest. Chaos has gripped the capital since the controversial parliamentary election held less than a week ago, with supporters of rival political groups taking to the streets. The results of that election have now been annulled.
3	Atambayev was once close with his successor Jeenbekov, but the pair fell out shortly after the 61-year-old won the country’s last presidential election in 2017. Atambayev was out among the crowds on Friday supporting Omurbek Babanov, a former prime minister who has emerged as a contender for the new PM role after the government of Kubatbek Boronov resigned. Supporters of Atambayev and Babanov had gathered in the capital’s east, and were ready to watch them give speeches at the Ala-Too Square. Proceedings started solemnly, with people honouring a 19-year-old protester who was killed in clashes days ago.
4	But a rival group of protesters, who support Sadyr Zhaparov, an opposition politician who was also released from jail and also wants the PM position, took to the stage, prompting a mass brawl. There were clashes between the crowds for the next 10 minutes and Atambayev fled the scene.
M	Shots were reportedly fired at Atambayev’s car. Tilek Toktogaziev, a businessman who is also vying to be the next prime minister, was also present – he was wounded by a flying rock.
M	Al Jazeera has seen video footage taken from Friday’s unrest showing bloodied protesters and was working to independently verify the images. Since October 4, as well as the 19-year-old who was killed in protests, 700 people have been injured.
5	As the capital unravelled, Jeenbekov imposed a curfew and tight security restrictions that would be in effect from 8pm local time on Friday until 8am on October 21. Jeenbekov’s order did not say how many soldiers would be deployed but they were instructed to use military vehicles, set up checkpoints and prevent armed clashes.
5	Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford, reporting from Bishkek, said the vice-speaker of parliament had released a statement later on Friday saying that assembly has to vote on the state of emergency for it to be legal. “We understand that an emergency session of parliament will be held [on Saturday] to do exactly that,” Stratford said.
M	The news of the emergency rule came after Jeenbekov signed an order formally dismissing Boronov and his cabinet. Jeenbekov also offered to resign on Friday in an address published on the presidential website, but only once a date for fresh elections had been set.
M	The opposition is divided between 11 parties which represent clan interests in a country that has already seen two presidents toppled by popular revolts since 2005. The Central Asian nation has a history of political volatility – two of its presidents have been toppled by revolts in the past 15 years.
M	Russia has described the situation in Kyrgyzstan, which borders China and hosts a Russian military base, as “messy and chaotic”. Moscow is a key foreign power with interests in Kyrgyzstan and has attempted to broker internecine disputes in the past. But it was unclear if the Kremlin could help stabilise a fluid situation in the republic.
M	Stanislav Zas, the secretary general of the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) – a Moscow-led security bloc, suggested that it could play a “mediating role”. The crisis tests the Kremlin’s power to shape politics in its former Soviet sphere of influence, at a time when fighting has erupted between Armenia and Azerbaijan, and Belarus is also engulfed in protests.
M	“This is an incredible turnaround of events here,” said Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford. “Seems like [Russian President] Vladimir Putin is very concerned about how the situation here could deteriorate. And it seems as if he’s reined Jeenbekov in,” he said. Aigerim Turgunbaeva contributed to this report from Bishkek.

X	The move comes amid a disputed parliamentary vote that has sparked a fresh crisis in the Central Asian nation, triggering mass protests.
5	Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov has signed an order dismissing Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov and his cabinet on Friday, his office said in a statement. Boronov tendered his resignation after opposition groups on Tuesday seized government buildings in response to protests against a controversial parliamentary election which has since been annulled.
9	The disputed vote sparked a fresh crisis in the Central Asian country, triggering protests and unrest that have killed at least one person and injured hundreds. The rallies forced mass resignations that included the prime minister, the cabinet and several governors and mayors, leaving a political vacuum. Jeenbekov also offered to resign on Friday in an address published on the presidential website once a date for fresh elections had been set and changes in government had been confirmed by parliament and his office.
M	The statement comes hours after Jeenbekov’s press chief said the president’s resignation was not “under question” in talks he was holding with national political leaders. Jeenbekov has made no public appearances since the unrest broke out.
M	Opposition parties claim Sunday’s election was rigged by significant vote-buying in favour of parties close to Jeenbekov. Despite the annulment of the vote, tensions in the country continue as rival politicians and their supporters press claims to leadership posts and state institutions are in chaos. Omurbek Suvanaliyev, who has claimed the title of national security chief in the aftermath of clashes between police and protesters, is one of several politicians who claimed titles.
M	Meanwhile, Russia has described the current situation as “chaotic”. The country, which has an airbase in Kyrgyzstan, said it had obligations under an existing security treaty to prevent the situation from totally breaking down.
M	“This is an incredible turnaround of events here,” said Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford, reporting from the capital Bishkek. “Seems like [Russian President] Vladimir Putin is very concerned about how the situation here could deteriorate.
M	And it seems as if he’s reigned Jeenbekov in,” he said. “Let’s not forget Russia has big interests here in Kyrgyzstan – geopolitically and in terms of investments. Jeenbekov said he wanted to “legitimise ongoing appointments” before his potential resignation.
3	He also called on law enforcement to ensure legislators, whose building is not under state control, are able to hold a session to approve the changes. After Boronov’s resignation, politician Sadyr Zhaparov positioned himself as his replacement after he was released from jail by supporters following the violence on Monday.
8	Zhaparov’s candidacy was approved by some legislators in an extraordinary session in a three-star hotel after the parliament building was seized by protesters, the parliamentary press service said. Kyrgyzstan, which borders China and is a close ally of Russia, has long been a platform for geopolitical competition between Moscow, Washington and Beijing. The Central Asian nation has a history of political volatility – two of its presidents have been toppled by revolts in the past 15 years.

1	Power in Kyrgyzstan today is about controlling a building.
M	Or a microphone. Or a mob.
M	The country entered its third day of institutional disorder on October 7 as fierce political rivals advanced competing claims about who should get to run a government, whenever one is formed. And an argument can seem stronger if it is made in the right premises.
1	The White House, which hosts both the president and parliament, has been rendered unusable by a fire that was set at the height of unrest triggered by the weekend’s tainted elections. That place’s symbolic authority has instead been reassigned to the Government House, a stolid and impregnable Soviet-vintage construction about 10 minutes away on foot.
1	But maybe nowhere in Kyrgyzstan is freighted with so much political importance as Ala-Too, the square adjacent to those buildings and the site of two revolutions, in 2005 and 2010, and the starting point for this ongoing turbulence. That place was, accordingly, picked as the pitching platform by one of the proto-revolutionary camps aspiring to take charge in a vacuum of authority created by the disappearance of President Sooronbai Jeenbekov.
4	To be exact, the rowdy gang that assembled on the tribune in the middle of Ala-Too determined that Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week, not be made prime minister. Japarov effectively appointed himself on October 6 in a strange and secretive meeting of parliamentarians – it is not known quite how many – at a mid-range Bishkek hotel. “There are people who are not happy that yesterday, some so-called members of parliament picked Sadyr Japarov, who was just sprung out of prison, and his conviction is still outstanding by the way, as the new prime minister,” Seitek Kachkynbayev, a member of the Ata-Meken party told Eurasianet.
M	Sixteen parties were in the running in the October 4 election and they all have varying and shifting roles in the confounding drama paralyzing Kyrgyzstan. A good many of their representatives addressed a lively audience of a few hundred on Ala-Too, shouting loudly about what should happen next.
1	Dozens were crowded on the platform at any given time, jostling for space, often tugging the microphone out of one another’s hands, and sometimes climbing precariously on a thin ledge only to be pulled back in an action-filled tableau as if modeled on Michelangelo’s lost Battle of Cascina. A three-line-deep human chain stood behind them to halt the arrival of provocateurs or antagonists.
4	It wasn’t enough to stop members of the populist Chon Kazat party trying, and occasionally succeeding, to barrel through. One of their ranks was only seconds into a speech before he was pelted with empty plastic bottles thrown by listeners and forced to surrender. The animus for Chon Kazat may stem from insistent talk that their toughs are busily going around Bishkek claiming control over businesses and government bodies.
4	This kind of mayhem has become the new normal since the weekend. Nobody has proven so enthralling or loud an orator as Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old. This dynamism earned him the approbation of the crowd and a proposal that he instead be put forward as a prime minister-nominee instead of Japarov. Giving that initiative a gloss of institutional legitimacy required endorsement from any kind of representative body, even one that was self-appointed.
M	The transition-management Coordinating Council confabulated at the start of the week in a rare burst of opposition unity has fallen apart as its chairman has gone to ground and its members never appeared especially comfortable in one another’s presence. A streamlined People’s Coordinating Council made up of only a section of the anti-Jeenbekov coalition was cooked up in its place.
4	Toktogaziyev was delivered by his burly supporters to a session summoned by this People’s Coordinating Council at the Government House. Getting into that building, however, required negotiating the clusters of Japarov backers itching for a fight.
4	Image Supporters of Tilek Toktogaziyev, center, try to help him enter Government House. First Toktogaziyev’s host and supporters tried a western side entrance, blocking the advance of furious Japarovites by their sheer physical presence as they crowd-surfed Toktogaziyev toward a door that proved unresponsive to his furious knocking. They then tried the eastern entrance, where somebody decided to let in Toktogaziyev and his acolytes.
4	Other People’s Coordinating Council participants gradually made their way in later. After some hours of discussion in the People’s Coordinating Council – an assembly no less self-appointed than Jeenbekov’s hotel cabal, although it did at least grant journalists full access – Toktogaziyev’s nomination as prime minister was sealed. Despite concerns from a security detail that Japarov supporters might manage to hurl stones up a height of three stories, Toktogaziyev relayed the news to his waiting followers below from a window in the room where the People’s Coordinating Council meeting was held. Image A member of the People’s Coordinating Council Pointing his finger at Tilek Toktogaziyev.
M	The Government House is not even a matter of control. Japarov and his ally, Kamchibek Tashiyev, were in the building earlier in the day and sauntered out without incident. The threat of serious violence hangs heavy over these small farces of impromptu constitutional procedure.
M	Japarov supporters are not bluffing with their intimations of bodily harm. In person, though, Japarov adopted an insouciant pose, insisting he was too busy with the business of becoming prime minister to worry about what his rivals were doing elsewhere. In all the drama, it was hard to pay attention to President Jeenbekov, who assured the public in a video message that he was doing everything possible, from his secret hideaway, to resolve the crisis.
M	By the evening, the drama had proceeded elsewhere altogether, to a suburban resort on the southeastern edge of Bishkek. That was the appointed venue for yet another secretive conference of assorted parliamentarians. It was mostly by dint of the mobile phone camera-filming of Surabaldiyeva, the Ata-Meken member, and other leaked video footage that the public learned what happened there.
1	It was nothing dramatic in the event. The main outcome was that consensus would be as elusive as ever. Even after midnight, civil defense brigades comprised of young volunteers were standing guard around the Government House to ensure that no self-declared state official would be able to march in on the back of the mobs.

M	Kyrgyzstan's former president has been rearrested as the country's incumbent leader tries to shore up his power after days of unrest over a disputed election. Security forces detained ex-leader Almazbek Atambayev in a raid on Saturday.
M	He had been freed by supporters days earlier in protests against last Sunday's contested parliamentary poll. The election has triggered a political crisis in the Central Asian country. On Saturday Kyrgyzstan's parliament named nationalist politician Sadyr Zhaparov as new prime minister, after his predecessor stepped down, opening up a power vacuum.
3	Mr Zhaparov is also among the several prominent politicians who were freed this week during the protests. He had been serving a prison sentence on charges of taking a government official hostage in 2013.
9	The unrest began after demonstrators took to the streets of the capital Bishkek and stormed government buildings on Tuesday, demanding a new vote and the resignation of pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov. They said the election results had been rigged - claims international monitors said were "credible" and a cause for "serious concern". President Jeenbekov has said he will resign when a new government is formed and the rule of law is restored.
0	In the meantime, the president has declared a state of emergency, after demonstrations on Friday spiralled into violence and clashes with police. Fist fights broke out among groups supporting rival politicians who were vying to become the country's new prime minister. More than 1,200 people have been injured and one person has been killed in street clashes since protests erupted.
5	Police have reportedly used water cannon, stun grenades and tear gas to disperse protesters. Now, a curfew and strict military restrictions have been imposed, including controls on who can travel in and out of the capital.
M	The landlocked country, which borders China, was part of the Soviet Union until independence in 1991. It has a reputation for holding semi-free and fair elections in comparison with some of its neighbours, but uprisings in 2005 and 2010 swept previous presidents from power. The latest political instability has concerned Kyrgyzstan ally Russia, which has played a role in mediating recent crises in other post-Soviet states, including Belarus.
6	A spokeswoman for Mr Atambayev told AFP news agency that "special forces stormed his compound" on Saturday. The state security service said it had detained Mr Atambayev on charges of inciting unrest. The ex-president is one of Mr Jeenbekov's fiercest political enemies. Mr Atambayev's supporters had on Tuesday secured his release from prison where he was serving a lengthy sentence on corruption charges.
2	A disputed parliamentary election led to a violent uprising this week as protesters refused to accept the outcome. The Central Election Commission later annulled the results. The clashes created a power vacuum and spread mob rule across the country, with people storming government offices and installing their own leaders.
8	Former Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov stepped down on Wednesday. In an extraordinary session of parliament on Saturday, Mr Boronov was replaced by Mr Zhaparov, who is backed by nationalists.
M	Seen as an ally of the president by opposition factions, Mr Zhaparov told MPs he would keep the cabinet line-up unchanged. It is not clear whether this appointment will satisfy demonstrators, who cannot agree on who should lead the new government. Each group wants their own leader to take power.
M	Earlier, President Jeenbekov sacked top security officials who supported the opposition or failed to intervene when it was seizing power. The parliamentary vote was held last Sunday.
M	Only four political parties out of 16 won enough votes to gain seats in parliament - three of the four had close ties to Mr Jeenbekov. None of the established opposition parties secured a seat, and on Monday all 12 opposition groups jointly declared they would not recognise the results. They accused parties close to the president of vote-buying and voter intimidation. Some observers claimed to have seen, during the first hours of voting, some citizens with marked masks being handed filled-out ballots.

M	MOSCOW (AP) — Kyrgyzstan’s president on Monday ordered a new, week-long state of emergency in the country’s capital after parliament failed to consider and approve his previous order within the legally required three days.
7	The confusion reflected the chaos that has engulfed the country after a disputed parliamentary election triggered mass protests. According to the office of President Sooronbai Jeenbekov, the state of emergency in Bishkek is to last from 8 p.m. Monday to 7 a.m. on Oct. 19 and implies a curfew, a ban on rallies and other public events, and travel restrictions. The new decree also reiterates the order to deploy troops to the capital to enforce the measure.
M	Jeenbekov’s previous decree declaring a state of emergency in Bishkek was signed Friday, when a protest in the city turned violent and gunshots were fired at several political leaders. It became void Monday, as lawmakers didn’t consider it within three days.
2	Kyrgyzstan, a country of 6.5 million located on the border with China, plunged into chaos last week after mass protests erupted the day after a parliamentary election appeared to show parties connected to the ruling elite winning. Protesters stormed and seized government buildings, looting some offices, and the Central Election Commission responded by nullifying Sunday’s balloting.
4	Members of some opposition parties announced plans to oust Jeenbekov and form a new government. An emergency parliament session on Oct. 6 named former lawmaker Sadyr Zhaparov as a new prime minister, but the move was immediately contested by other opposition groups. Lawmakers voted on Saturday to seal Zhaparov’s appointment, but Jeenbekov, who said he may consider stepping down only after the political situation in the country stabilizes, is yet to sign a decree confirming it.
5	Protests in Bishkek continued most of last week, with supporters of rival factions occasionally clashing with each other. Jeenbekov declared a nearly two-week state of emergency in Bishkek on Friday and ordered the military to send troops to the capital in a bid to end the turmoil.
M	Convoys of military trucks were seen driving into the city, but it wasn’t immediately clear whether police and the military would comply with the presidential order. A curfew in Bishkek was announced on Saturday and amended Monday, following Jeenbekov’s new decree, to last from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m.

5	MOSCOW (AP) — Kyrgyzstan’s president on Monday ordered a new, week-long state of emergency in the country’s capital after parliament failed to consider and approve his previous order within the legally required three days.
5	The confusion reflected the chaos that has engulfed the country after a disputed parliamentary election triggered mass protests. According to the office of President Sooronbai Jeenbekov, the state of emergency in Bishkek is to last from 8 p.m. Monday to 7 a.m. on Oct. 19 and implies a curfew, a ban on rallies and other public events, and travel restrictions. The new decree also reiterates the order to deploy troops to the capital to enforce the measure.
5	Jeenbekov’s previous decree declaring a state of emergency in Bishkek was signed Friday, when a protest in the city turned violent and gunshots were fired at several political leaders. It became void Monday, as lawmakers didn’t consider it within three days.
M	Kyrgyzstan, a country of 6.5 million located on the border with China, plunged into chaos last week after mass protests erupted the day after a parliamentary election appeared to show parties connected to the ruling elite winning. Protesters stormed and seized government buildings, looting some offices, and the Central Election Commission responded by nullifying Sunday’s balloting.
M	Members of some opposition parties announced plans to oust Jeenbekov and form a new government. An emergency parliament session Tuesday named former lawmaker Sadyr Zhaparov as a new prime minister, but the move was immediately contested by other opposition groups. Lawmakers voted on Saturday to seal Zhaparov’s appointment, but Jeenbekov, who said he may consider stepping down only after the political situation in the country stabilizes, is yet to sign a decree confirming it.
5	Protests in Bishkek continued most of last week, with supporters of rival factions occasionally clashing with each other. Jeenbekov declared a two-week state of emergency in Bishkek on Friday and ordered the military to send troops to the capital in a bid to end the turmoil.
5	Convoys of military trucks were seen driving into the city, but it wasn’t immediately clear whether police and the military would comply with the presidential order. A curfew in Bishkek was announced on Saturday and amended Monday, following Jeenbekov’s new decree, to last from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m.

5	BISHKEK -- Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov has rejected a decision by a group of lawmakers to appoint Sadyr Japarov, a convicted kidnapper released from prison last week in the wake of mass protests that ousted the government, to the post of prime minister. Jeenbekov's office said he rejected the nomination because of the lack of a quorum at the session of a group of lawmakers at which the decision was made after thousands poured into the streets on October 5, throwing the country into chaos over contested parliamentary elections. He asked parliament to vote again on a new prime minister after he met Japarov and told him he would not approve his appointment, the statement said.
M	The move came shortly after Dmitry Kozak, Russian President Vladimir Putin's deputy chief of staff, visited Kyrgyzstan for talks aimed at resolving the current political crisis. The visit was Moscow's first visible intervention in the crisis. Unrest in Kyrgyzstan has worried its ally, coming as postelection protests rock neighboring Belarus and fighting persists over the breakaway Nagorno-Karabakh region between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The Russian Embassy said on October 13 that the "key role of the head of state" in ensuring Kyrgyzstan's future development was emphasized in Kozak's meeting with Jeenbekov.
8	Members of parliament and other political activists have questioned the legitimacy of the rump parliament session that selected Japarov, which at the time looked like the latest twist in a sometimes violent power struggle in the aftermath of the elections. Meanwhile, lawmakers on October 13 elected Kanatbek Isaev as the new speaker of parliament. In the wake of protests, then-parliament speaker Dastan Jumabekov resigned and a group of lawmakers named Myktybek Abdyldaev as the new parliament chairman.
M	But Abdyldaev resigned from the post on October 10 amid statements by some political parties and lawmakers questioning the legitimacy of his appointment. The U.S. Embassy in Bishkek voiced support for Jeenbekov's move in a statement issued on October 13 and warned about the threat that organized crime poses to Kyrgyz democracy.

9	Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov, has resigned after violent protests erupted over parliamentary election results, saying he had no desire to go down in history as a man who brought bloodshed to his country. The central Asian country has been in crisis since the start of the month when parties loyal to Jeenbekov won a parliamentary election that the opposition said was tainted by vote-buying. Clashes between protesters and police in the capital, Bishkek, left at least one dead and more than 1,000 injured.
5	Demonstrators stormed government buildings and freed from jail the opposition lawmaker Sadyr Japarov, who was later appointed by Jeenbekov as prime minister in an attempt to quell the unrest. Jeenbekov also offered to step down once new parliamentary elections could be held, but protesters continued to demand his immediate resignation. Jeenbekov kept a low profile in the first few days after the vote, to the extent that some were left wondering who was actually running the country. He introduced a state of emergency in the capital that was endorsed on Tuesday by parliament. Authorities deployed troops to Bishkek over the weekend and introduced a curfew.
M	The move eased tensions in the city, where residents, fearing a repeat of looting that had accompanied previous uprisings, began forming vigilante groups to protect property. Shops and banks that were closed last week have reopened. Kyrgyzstan has been dogged by political volatility for much of its three decades of independence.
M	A landlocked republic of 6.5 million people, three presidents have now been unseated by unrest since it gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. The chaos has worried its ally Russia, with post-election protests also rocking Belarus and clashes continuing over the breakaway Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. Vladimir Putin’s deputy chief of staff, Dmitry Kozak, flew in for talks with Jeenbekov and Japarov this week, with Moscow emphasising that the chaos must be brought to an end.
3	Jeenbekov came to power in 2017 as the handpicked successor of the previous president, Almazbek Atambayev, who reportedly expected to be able to control him and continue to rule from behind the scenes. But the new president turned on his former mentor, who was arrested and sentenced to 11 years in prison in June. Atambayev was freed by protesters this month but later rearrested.

M	The EU on Tuesday (6 October) said it has “taken note” of the declaration made the same day by the Central Electoral Commission that the results of the elections held on Sunday are not valid.
0	Kyrgyz police used teargas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demonstrating on Monday against the result of a parliamentary election, after some protesters tried to break into the government headquarters. Gunshots and stun grenades could be heard as riot police with dogs, backed by several vehicles, moved into the central square in the capital Bishkek and the protesters retreated. Two establishment parties supporting closer links between the former Soviet republic and Russia look set to dominate the new parliament after Sunday’s election, which Western observers said had been marred by vote buying.
0	Supporters of several parties that failed to win any seats, according to preliminary results, had rallied in the central square to denounce the vote as fraudulent. They said more people were heading to Bishkek to join the protests. Some of them then tried to break the gates leading to a building housing both the president and parliament, which overlooks the square, at which point the police started dispersing the rally. Some protesters hurled rocks at the police and the health ministry said two policemen were hospitalised with concussion.
2	The Central Asian country of 6.5 million people has a history of political turmoil. In the past 15 years, two presidents have been toppled by revolts and a third is in prison after falling out with his successor, the current president Sooronbai Jeenbekov. The confrontation, should it develop into a prolonged stand-off, could add Kyrgyzstan to the growing list of Russian allies – along with Belarus and Armenia – facing political or security crises. The EU called on all political forces in the country to act within the framework of the constitution and to settle their disagreements peacefully.

5	Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov resigned on Thursday after days of protests over a disputed parliamentary election, saying he wants to prevent clashes and bloodshed between security forces and protesters.
9	“For me, peace in Kyrgyzstan, the integrity of the country, the unity of our people and tranquility in society are above all. There is nothing dearer to me than the life of each of my compatriots,” Jeenbekov said in an announcement published on the presidential website.
M	Jeenbekov is the third president of Kyrgyzstan, a small country in Central Asia bordering China, to be removed from office after a popular uprising since 2005. Demonstrations kicked off on October 4, when the opposition rejected the results of a parliamentary election in which Jeenbekov’s allies claimed victory.
3	In the statement, Jeenbekov addressed Sadyr Japarov, one of the opposition leaders who was appointed prime minister on Wednesday, urging him to remove his supporters from the capital Bishkek and restore peace in the city. Japarov was previously in exile but returned to Kyrgyzstan in 2017, according to Russian state news agency RIA Novosti. He was then arrested and jailed for 11 years but freed by the protesters a few days ago.
8	Following Jeenbekov’s resignation, parliament speaker Kanatbek Isayev would assume presidential powers. Should he also resign, the powers would pass to Japarov, Reuters reported. The prime minister’s spokesman declined to comment on whether Japarov would now press the speaker to stand down.
M	Kyrgyzstan hosts both a Russian military base and a large Canadian-owned gold mine. Moscow, which considers the former Soviet space to be its sphere of influence, had said it would be responsible for ensuring stability in Kyrgyzstan and warned that it could slide into chaos. Russia is also dealing with instability in three other ex-Soviet states: Belarus, where a disputed election has triggered protests against President Alexander Lukashenko, and Armenia and Azerbaijan, which are fighting over control of an enclave.

9	Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's declaration came hours after President Sooronbai Jeenbekov announced his resignation via his official website in the face of mass protests against the official results of parliamentary elections on October 4 that handed victory to political parties associated with Jeenbekov and his government. "Former President Sooronbai Jeenbekov has resigned.
M	The parliament speaker said it was impossible to perform [the president's] duties and resigned. Today, the duties of the acting president and the prime minister have passed to me," Japarov told the early evening crowd in downtown Bishkek. It was initially unclear how protesters who have mobilized in recent weeks to support various factions would respond to the declaration, or whether other senior officials would accede to Japarov's move.
X	Parliament was expected to convene on October 16. Jeenbekov made no public appearances on October 15.
9	He would be the third Kyrgyz president in 15 years to be pushed out of office during a popular upheaval. Jeenbekov also called on supporters of Japarov and other political figures to stop ongoing rallies to ease tensions.
M	Japarov was released from a prison in the initial days of mass protests sparked by allegations of vote-buying and other improprieties during the October 4 parliamentary elections. Japaraov was serving a lengthy term after being convicted of kidnapping in 2017. They were also demanding parliament's dissolution and the resignation of legislative speaker Kanatbek Isaev.
9	Isaev was voted in as parliament speaker on October 13 in what appeared to be a move to make way for a transition to ease the postelection tensions. According to the Kyrgyz Constitution, before the election of a new president, parliament's speaker is to run the country as acting president. But Isaev told the online media outlet 24.kg that he had "no moral right" to the presidency because of the lame duck status of the parliament, which faces a rerun of the disputed election.
M	Some lawmakers suggested on October 15 that they would believe the president had stepped down only after he appeared in public to confirm that he resigned of his own free will. They said their skepticism was fueled by the insistence of about a dozen politicians, who met with Jeenbekov early in the morning on October 15, and said he told them that he was not going to step down and planned to stay in office until a new parliament was elected. Japarov's October 14 confirmation as prime minister moved Kyrgyzstan toward resolving the crisis sparked by the demonstrations over the official results of October 4 parliamentary elections.
M	The election results were annulled after protesters -- angry at signs of vote-buying and other improprieties during the election -- seized government buildings on October 6. Jeenbekov, in one of his first statements after the mass protests ousted the government and parliament's speaker, said he was willing to resign after a new cabinet was formed and the situation in the country had calmed. It is the third time in 15 years that public protests have brought down a president in the former Soviet republic in Central Asia.

M	Kyrgyzstan’s president has in a shock development tendered his resignation, citing his reluctance to shed blood as a way of emerging from the country’s ongoing political crisis. By the end of the day it seemed his rival, with the help of unruly mobs of supporters, has seized all the levers of power.
3	Sooronbai Jeenbekov announced his departure on October 15 as supporters of newly appointed prime minister Sadyr Japarov, threatened to mount an assault on the presidential residence. Jeenbekov’s words were a clear allusion to the 2010 uprising that toppled President Kurmanbek Bakiyev, whose troops killed almost 90 people during anti-government unrest. Anti-Jeenbekov crowds planning to march toward the president’s residence broke into cheers of jubilation upon hearing the news.
4	By caving into the demands of Japarov, a former MP, fervent nationalist, and convicted kidnapper widely said to have close links to organized crime groups, Jeenbekov may have done too little and too late, however, to temper his opponent’s ambitions. Late in the evening, Japarov declared himself acting president. The office of the presidency should, according to rules laid down in the constitution, pass to the speaker of parliament, Kanat Isayev, who was appointed to his post on October 13.
8	But Japarov’s backers on the streets signaled they wanted Isayev out too. In a written statement, Isayev declined to assume the role of acting president, after signaling he may be reluctant to take up a job that will put a target on his back.
3	Japarov has had a remarkable 10 days since being sprung from prison amid riots that erupted after a protest rally against discredited parliamentary elections was broken up by police. Within hours of him being released, Japarov’s supporters drove him to Bishkek’s central Ala-Too square to acclaim him as their favored candidate to take over the country. On the following day, October 7, a rump parliament convened at a mid-range hotel to appoint Japarov as prime minister.
5	This effort was rejected by a wide range of other opposition forces, who decried the opaque nature of the gathering of a minority section of the legislature. Japarov always appeared to have the upper hand, however, by virtue of his willingness to deploy violence through allied mobs roaming around government buildings in downtown Bishkek. When another pretender to the prime minister’s seat, multimillionaire and one-time presidential candidate Omurbek Babanov, tried to hold a rally on Ala-Too square along with several other prominent politicians, the gathering came under vicious assault. One of the politicians, former President Almazbek Atambayev, was shot at as he fled the scene in a car.
9	When Japarov was finally confirmed as prime minister on October 14, it appeared initially that a compromise had been reached that would appease all sides. It became clear by the evening, as his supporters continued to press for more concessions, that that was not to be, however. The following day started with news that more negotiations were set to take place between Jeenbekov and Japarov on how to proceed with transition. Just to confuse matters further, Japarov’s camp announced at one stage that he had fallen ill and could not attend the talks.
9	Once Jeenbekov resigned, that mystery illness had cleared. “Sadyr Japarov is not ill. Everything with him is fine,” his long-time ally Kamchybek Tashiyev told reporters.
M	This development is likely to be greeted with dismay among Kyrgyzstan’s international partners. The U.S. Embassy in Bishkek earlier this week issued an unusually frank statement to lament “the attempt by organized crime groups to exert influence over politics and elections.”
M	The European Union had expressed concern at the ways in which Japarov’s supporters were trying to crowbar him into the prime minister’s seat, and they are unlikely to be impressed by the same group’s now-successful plot to topple the president through intimidation. Russia, an important economic and strategic partner for Kyrgyzstan, will be no more enthused. The fudge from earlier this week that left Jeenbekov weakened but in place, Japarov heading the executive, and Isayev in the speaker’s seat came about after the visit to Bishkek of President Vladimir Putin’s deputy chief of staff, Dmitry Kozak.
M	That compromise has been thrown entirely out of the window. In a development that preceded Jeenbekov’s resignation, Moscow-based daily RBK reported that Russia’s Finance Ministry was suspending all financial aid to Kyrgyzstan until the political situation stabilizes. RBK noted that the last such transfer was a payment of $30 million in 2019.
M	Since 2005, Russia has wiped off debts owed by Kyrgyzstan amounting to more than $700 million. Japarov, a man with almost no experience in any kind of government, now finds himself taking over a country on the precipice of economic collapse – a situation only being compounded by a fresh wave of COVID-19 infections tearing through the population. The National Statistics Committee has reported that Kyrgyzstan’s gross domestic product over the first nine months of 2020 had shrunk by 6 percent as compared with the same period last year. And that did not account for the period covered by the current season of unrest, which has seen the functions of government largely frozen and a number of important foreign-run mining assets assaulted by mobs.

0	Anti-government protesters scuffled with vigilante groups in Kyrgyzstan’s capital of Bishkek overnight, after authorities in the Central Asian nation annulled parliamentary election results, local news website 24.kg reported.
3	Opposition groups took control of most of the government apparatus on Tuesday after storming buildings during post-election protests, but President Sooronbai Jeenbekov clung to power as unrest risked tipping one of Russia’s close allies into chaos. Late on Tuesday, Kyrgyzstan’s parliament agreed to nominate opposition politician Sadyr Zhaparov – freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier – for prime minister, but an angry mob then broke into the hotel where it convened, forcing Zhaparov to flee through a back door, according to Kyrgyz media.
M	Bishkek residents, who went through violent revolts followed by looting in 2005 and 2010, quickly formed vigilante neighborhood watch units to reinforce police. The vigilantes scuffled with protesters who tried to force their way into government buildings or attacked businesses such as shops and restaurants, according to the 24.kg report. On Wednesday morning, news website Akipress quoted Bishkek police as saying that the situation in the city was calm. Protests broke out on Monday after early results showed two establishment parties, one of them close to President Jeenbekov, had swept Sunday’s parliamentary election, in a contest that was marred by allegations of vote buying.
2	Authorities annulled the results on Tuesday, necessitating a rerun of the vote in the nation of 6.5 million which borders China and hosts a Russian military airbase and a large Canadian-owned gold mining operation. Making a late-night appearance on television, PM nominee Zhaparov said he would propose a constitutional reform before holding presidential and parliamentary elections in two to three months. However, Zhaparov said he did not yet have the backing of the coordination council formed by several major opposition groups, suggesting there were tensions between the allies. It was unclear when parliament could convene to approve his appointment as prime minister.

