M	This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
X	BOULDER, Colo. (KDVR) — A mass shooting in a Tennessee grocery store that left one person dead and 12 others seriously injured is stirring up emotions for survivors of the Boulder King Soopers shooting. On March 22, Emily Giffen, a former King Soopers employee, was taking a break when she heard gunshots and saw the gunman. “It was a lot of shock, really hard to understand or comprehend,” Giffen said.
X	She says the shooting still affects her daily life. “Just walking down the street instantly I’m looking at peoples’ hands.
X	When I’m at work it’s like I don’t trust people who come in who I don’t know,” Giffen said. Giffen says the situation in Tennessee brings back the emotions she felt in the days and weeks after the Boulder shooting. “It’s really devastating to hear because it makes me remember how scared I was and remember calling my friends and not knowing if they would answer,” Giffen said.
X	Boulder Mayor Sam Weaver is also reminded of the struggles his city faced immediately following the shooting, and still to this day. “It was certainly not something I had thought through how to respond to,” said Weaver. Weaver reached out to Collierville’s mayor and city administrator Thursday afternoon, offering condolences and any type of help they might need.
X	Part of Boulder’s healing process included setting up the Boulder Strong Resource Center. The facility is now in a permanent location, offering walk-in services to anyone in the community.
X	“The needs change, it’s kind of unpredictable what people need and when they need it. We plan to be here for however that fluctuates for people. What we know is some days are harder than others,” Karen Schweihs, supervisor of the Boulder Strong Resource Center said.

3	A gunman who killed a woman and wounded at least 14 other people at a western Tennessee Kroger before apparently killing himself this week was a third-party vendor for the store, police said Friday. UK Thang, 29, was the man who shot 10 employees and five customers Thursday afternoon at the Kroger in Collierville, some 30 miles southeast of downtown Memphis, police said.
4	Investigators are still trying to determine a motive, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said at a news conference Friday morning. “We all want to know the ‘why.’ But today, less than 24 hours (in), we’re not ready to tell you that,” Lane said.
1	The gunman opened fire around 1:30 p.m., sending numerous people running for cover in freezers, offices and elsewhere, police said. The woman who died was Olivia King, Lane said Friday. She was a customer, according to Kroger.
X	Three shooting victims were in critical condition Friday at Regional One Health Medical Center in Memphis, said Dr. Andrew Kerwin, the hospital’s trauma and critical care director. Some of the injured have been released from hospitals, Lane said. The names of the survivors were not immediately released.
M	The shooting was over minutes after police received a 911 call, and investigators believe the gunman fatally shot himself “as we were pulling up to the scene,” Lane said. Police and Kroger officials have not said what service the gunman had performed as a third-party vendor. The incident was one of at least 517 mass shootings in the United States so far this year, according to the Gun Violence Archive. CNN and the GVA identify a mass shooting as a shooting that injured or killed four or more people, not including the shooter.
X	Wes King, Olivia’s son, said his mom was shot in the chest. “This type of crime needs to stop being glossed over and sanitized. No one deserves this,” he wrote on his Facebook page.
2	Police said earlier the gunman had killed one person and shot and wounded 13 others, and a separate person checked into a hospital with an anxiety attack. Witnesses and police described scenes of chaos and desperation at the store. Jason Lusk told CNN he was leaving a tool store beside Kroger when he saw people running out of the store screaming there was a shooter.
1	When he didn’t see anybody initially, Lusk said he began walking toward his car. “That’s when I heard about 10 to 15 shots fired. Sounded like they were directly over my head.
1	Very close proximity. Sounded to me to be a high-powered semi-automatic rifle,” he said.
2	Another witness, Brignetta Dickerson, was working a cash register when the shooting began in the deli section, she told reporters Thursday. She and some coworkers and customers ran to the back of the store and through the receiving department. But the shooter eventually moved behind them and began firing, she told reporters with CNN affiliates WMC and WHBQ. Dickerson, who said she has been working at Kroger for nearly 32 years, was scared and shaky after the shooting, but overall was feeling OK.
2	When police arrived, “we were pulling people out of freezers; we were pulling people out of closets,” Lane told CNN on Friday. Some people “were (down on the ground) pretending to be shot,” and an employee who ran to the roof was eventually escorted down, he said.
M	“They were doing what they had been trained to do: Run, hide, fight,” Lane said Thursday. “In the hours since the shooting, we’re learning of truly heroic acts that included associates, customers and first responders selflessly helping to protect and save others,” Kroger said in a prepared statement. “We will remain forever grateful to the first responders who so bravely responded to protect our associates and customers. The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, which represents the workers at the Kroger supermarket, said it’s working with the local chapter to help those affected by the shooting. Shootings have happened in at least two other grocery stores this year.
M	In March, a mass shooting in Boulder, Colorado, left 10 people dead. And one person was killed in a supermarket shooting in West Hempstead, New York, in April.

2	COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. (WREG) – A longtime Kroger employee in Tennessee said she thought someone was popping balloons in the floral section of the Collierville store Thursday afternoon, but she soon realized it was gunfire.
4	“I look up, and I see all the employees running. Well, customers also.
4	This is up front. They’re running from the front,” said Jean Kurzawski.
4	The shooting broke out at a Kroger grocery store in Collierville, a suburban community 30 miles (50 kilometers) east of Memphis. Kurzawski said she was at the back of the store at the salad wall when the gunman fired. She said employees and customers were running in her direction.
4	She headed toward the nearest exit as the gunfire continued. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said there were 44 Kroger employees inside the store at the time of the shooting. He could not say how many customers were there.
1	One person was killed, and 12 others were wounded and taken to hospitals, some with very serious injuries. Lane said it appeared the shooter took his own life. Dispatch received a call about an active shooter at about 1:30 p.m., according to Lane.
M	He said there was an officer nearby who arrived at the store immediately. Kroger employee Brignetta Dickerson told WREG-TV she was working a cash register when she also heard what she first thought were balloons popping. Authorities are saying little about the shooter. Investigators were searching the shooter’s car and planned to search a residence.

3	On Facebook, one of King’s sons, Wes King, wrote that he had spoken to the trauma surgeon and learned his mother was shot in the chest.
3	Lane identified the woman who was killed as Olivia King. Friends told The Commercial Appeal she was a widowed mother of three.
1	The victims included 10 employees and five customers, police said. On Friday, some of the wounded were still in critical condition and fighting for their lives, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said at a morning news conference.
3	The shooter was identified by police as UK Thang, a “third-party vendor” who police said worked at the Kroger in Collierville on a daily basis. He died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound within a couple of minutes of police arriving at the Kroger in the upscale suburb outside Memphis. A gunman who killed one person and wounded 14 others in a Tennessee grocery store worked in a sushi business at the store and was the son of refugees from Myanmar who had settled in Nashville, a family friend said Friday.
3	Police searched the shooter’s home Thursday and removed electronic devices. The shooter’s parents live in Nashville and are part of a community of Christian refugees from Myanmar who have settled there, according to Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday. Kyaw said Thang had a sushi business that operated inside the Collierville Kroger, though he was not sure what the arrangement was with the grocery store chain.
3	Kyaw said Thang’s parents were “very upset” about their son’s involvement and were praying for all the people involved. Kyaw came to the door of the parents’ home at the end of a cul-de-sac in the Antioch area of Nashville. On Friday morning there were cars spilling out into the street, and more than a dozen pairs of shoes were scattered on the landing outside the door.
1	Kyaw said he did not know the son personally. The shooter, acting alone, did not appear to target anyone specifically as he rampaged through the building on a sunny Thursday afternoon, police said. The entire shooting was over within minutes as first responders swarmed the scene.
4	Lane said the outcome could have been worse. Police received a call around 1.30pm about the shooting and arrived almost immediately, finding multiple people with gunshot wounds upon entering the building, he said. He said officers of every rank ran into the building and were joined by off-duty firefighters.
1	Jason Lusk, 39, had just left a tool store beside Kroger when he heard some women screaming in the car park about a shooter. He did not see the gunman, but heard 10 to 15 rounds in rapid succession at the grocery store.
1	“It sounded like they were directly over my head,” he said, adding he could feel the concussion of every shot and knew the weapon was powerful. “As the firing started, I dove in front of my vehicle onto the ground to provide the most cover for myself and instructed the people around me panicking, trying to get into the cars, not to get in their cars, but to actually hide,” he said.

M	This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
3	COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. — Uk Thang, 29, was identified as the gunman at the Collierville Kroger shooting. Police say he took his life as police closed in a few minutes after the shooting began.
3	Police confirmed his identity Friday without saying his name, instead holding up the written words on a legal pad to avoid giving him any notoriety. He was a third party vendor for Kroger, said Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane.
0	Witnesses say Thang worked in the sushi department. Police haven’t given a motive in the shooting, but Kroger employee Lawanda Clark recalls overhearing managers talking about firing Thang the night before.
M	She describes Thang as quiet, only conversing with the other sushi workers and sometimes arguing with other co-workers. “I never said much to him. I think he was pretty off to himself. People had said he don’t like people to speak with him,” said Clark. Vivian Harris thinks she ran into Thang at another Kroger store in Whitehaven earlier in the day, talking to him as he was making a delivery to the sushi department.
M	“He didn’t look too happy. But he didn’t look like he was angry. But he definitely perked up a bit while I was talking to him about his sushi,” said Harris.
4	It was two hours before the Collierville Kroger shooting. After the tragedy, investigators were seen taking evidence from Thang’s Collierville apartment.
M	Nashville station WKRN reported Friday that the FBI visited a home in Antioch, in Middle Tennessee. Neighbors said the home belonged to the suspect’s parents.
M	For Kroger employees, it’s all too frightening, knowing a co-worker who had several run-ins with others was responsible for this tragedy. “This guy, he showed signs something wasn’t right. We should never turn a blind eye to something like that,” said Clark. Police say Thang had no violent criminal history and just a few misdemeanors.

3	COLLIERVILLE, Tennessee—The shooter who killed one person and injured 15 at a Kroger supermarket in Collierville, Tennessee before turning the gun on himself has been identified by authorities as 29-year-old Uk Thang. Thang was a third-party vendor who worked in the store, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said at a press conference on Friday morning.
4	Lane declined to name Thang on live TV but shared his details with reporters after the cameras stopped rolling. “I’m not going to give him notoriety in this platform,” Lane said. “We’re just not going to do it in this venue.” No motive has yet been given.
M	The shooting occurred at the Collierville store shortly after 1:30 p.m. Thursday. The number of people injured was revised up to 15 on Friday—10 employees and five customers.
M	Friends and relatives said that Olivia King, originally from San Antonio but a longtime resident of Collierville, was killed. She was a widow with three adult sons—one in the Navy, one in the Army, and one who had just completed his Ph.D. King had worked as a financial secretary at a nearby school. Her son Wes wrote on Facebook, “No one deserves this.” He said King had been shot in the chest.
3	Uk Thang’s cousin, Pang Cing, who lives in Utah, told The Daily Beast that Thang’s parents called him on Friday morning with the news, but he was still in the dark about what exactly had occurred. He said he hadn’t seen Thang for about 10 years, and didn’t realize his cousin was involved in yesterday’s shooting until his phone started ringing on Friday.
3	Bawi Thang, who is not related to Uk Thang, knew the suspect when he lived in Utah before moving to Tennessee but hasn’t heard from him since. He said he was “in shock” when he heard his former friend was behind yesterday’s mass shooting.
4	Juanita Ford, 66, lives one floor above the suspect and was ordered to vacate her residence when police arrived at the complex yesterday to search Thang’s apartment. The apartment complex where Thang lived was a five-minute drive from the Kroger supermarket, off a four-lane road surrounded by well-trimmed trees, grass, and white picket fences. Several neighbors told The Daily Beast they didn’t know Thang, only that they’d seen him occasionally come and go.
M	Xayasack Saysoembath said he came home from work on Thursday evening to see the complex swarming with police and SWAT teams. His children attend Collierville High School, which went into lockdown during the shooting. Saysoembath, who is originally from Laos and lived in Thailand for almost two decades before moving to the U.S., said he feels less safe than when he first moved to Collierville.
1	Memphis resident Tawana French hadn’t yet set foot inside the market when she realized something was very wrong. “I was getting ready to enter the store, and at the door I was rushed by a lady with her five kids,” French, 56, told The Daily Beast. “She was pushing them, dragging them, screaming at them, ‘Run!
1	Run! Run!’
1	I didn’t know what was going on. ”A split-second later, French heard gunfire, she said.

1	Investigators have learned that the shooter identified in an attack Thursday at a Tennessee Kroger, which killed at least one person and wounded 14, was asked to leave his job that morning, according to an update provided by the Collierville Police Department on Monday. The shooter, identified by police as 29-year-old U.K. Thang, moved into Collierville in the summer of 2020 and was a third-party vendor working inside Kroger, the update said.
4	Collierville Police are processing electronic evidence, as well as the crime scene vehicles, and interviewing other potential witnesses in the case, the update said. “With active police investigations, many of the case details cannot be shared until the investigation is complete,” the release added.
4	When the shooting began Thursday, 44 employees were working in the store, Police Chief Dale Lane said. By the end, at least one person, customer Olivia King, was killed in the chaos, Kroger said. The shooter was found dead, apparently of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, Lane said. In the coming days, officials from the town and Kroger are expected to meet to discuss the re-opening of the Kroger store, as well as next steps involving employee and community support, the update said.
X	Kroger spokesperson Teresa Dickerson said the grocery chain is providing counseling for store workers. Shootings have happened in at least two other grocery stores this year. In March, a mass shooting in Boulder, Colorado, left 10 people dead. And one person was killed in a supermarket shooting in West Hempstead, New York, in April.
2	Around 1:30 p.m. CT on Thursday, the Collierville Communications Center received a 911 call about an active shooter at the Kroger, Lane told reporters outside the store. There actually was a patrol car near the store when the 911 call came in, Lane said.
1	Brignetta Dickerson was working the cash register when she said the shooting began in the deli section. She told WMC she ran with some of her coworkers to hide but the gunman came right behind them and started shooting.
1	Dickerson, who has worked at Kroger for 32 years, said she was OK but a little scared and shaky. When officers entered the store, they found people who had been shot.
4	A SWAT team, patrol officers and other command staff members went aisle to aisle and room to room, bringing out employees who were hiding and helping the injured victims, Lane said. Some people “were (down on the ground) pretending to be shot,” and an employee who ran to the roof was eventually escorted down, he said.
4	Several employees were found hiding in freezers or locked in offices. “They were doing what they had been trained to do: Run, hide, fight,” Lane said. The shooting was over minutes after police received a call, and investigators believe the gunman fatally shot himself “as we were pulling up to the scene,” Lane said.

M	COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — A gunman attacked a grocery store in an upscale Tennessee suburb on Thursday afternoon, killing one person and wounding 12 others before he was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound at the store, authorities said. Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said the shooting broke out at a Kroger grocery in Collierville, a suburban community 30 miles (50 kilometers) east of Memphis. He said the gunman shot 13 others and himself, and that 12 of the victims were taken to hospitals, some with very serious injuries.
4	Kroger worker Brignetta Dickerson told WREG-TV she was working a cash register when she heard what at first she thought were balloons popping. Lane said police received a call about 1:30 p.m. about the shooting and arrived almost immediately, finding multiple people with gunshot wounds upon entering the building. He said a police SWAT team and other officers went aisle to aisle plucking panicked people from hiding and taking them out safely.
4	He said the shooter, whom he described as male, was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot. “We found people hiding in freezers, in locked offices.
4	They were doing what they had been trained to do: run, hide, fight,” the chief said. The identities of the shooter and the victims were not immediately released. Lane declined to reveal more about the suspect at a news briefing Thursday evening, citing the ongoing investigation and search warrants that will be carried out.
4	“We’re going to carry this thing as far as we can to see and make sure that there’s no else involved,” Lane said, adding that there was “no credible evidence” that there was a second shooter. Dickerson, the employee, said her co-worker, who is in his 20s, was shot in the head and asked for his mother to be notified. “I left her a voicemail that he was alert and talking,” Dickerson said, unable to immediately reach her.
1	Another employee, Glenda McDonald, described the chaotic scene to WHBQ-TV. Jason Lusk, 39, had just left a tool store beside Kroger when he heard some women screaming in the parking lot about a shooter. He didn’t see the gunman, but heard 10 to 15 rounds in rapid succession at the grocery store. “It sounded like they were directly over my head,” he said, adding he could feel the concussion of every shot and knew the weapon was powerful. Even at a distance of some 40 yards, he said, he worried that he and others around him were in grave danger.
4	“As the firing started, I dove in front of my vehicle onto the ground to provide the most cover for myself and instructed the people around me panicking, trying to get into the cars, not to get in their cars, but to actually hide,” he said. Then police arrived within minutes and “they swarmed that place,” Lusk said.
4	He added that he used his phone to record at least two of the gunman’s final shots, and then a final gunshot on his last recording of the SWAT team on the scene. At a new briefing afterward, the police chief Lane called it a sad day for his department. “I’ve been involved in this for 34 years and I’ve never seen anything like it,” he said.
M	The suspect’s vehicle was in the store’s parking lot and remained part of the investigation, the chief said, adding investigators were trying to determine how events unfolded. Collierville is a growing suburb of more than 51,000 people with a median household income of about $114,000, according to U.S. census figures.
M	Set in a rural and historic area, the town square has largely become known for its boutiques and bed and breakfasts. Earlier this year, Tennessee became the latest state to allow most adults 21 and older to carry handguns without first clearing a state-level background check and training.
M	The measure was signed into law by Republican Gov. Bill Lee over objections from some law enforcement groups and gun control advocates concerned the measure would possibly lead to more gun violence. The Kroger Co., based in Cincinnati, Ohio, issued a statement that it was “deeply saddened” by the shooting and was cooperating with law enforcement. The company in 2019 asked its customers not to openly carry guns while visiting its stores. A Kroger spokesperson said the Collierville store will be closed until further notice.
4	Lights were still on in the store after nightfall, chrysanthemums set out front. The parking lot, entirely roped off with police tape, was still full of cars, with a heavy police presence.
4	Neighboring businesses, including a fast food restaurant and an auto parts store, were closed. Mattise reported from Nashville.

M	COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Two women who had been strangers prior to Thursday’s mass shooting at a Tennessee supermarket clenched each other’s hands and fought back tears Friday, as they gathered at a vigil to pray for healing from the previous day’s rampage at a Kroger where the shooter worked. Hollie Skaggs and Sara Wiles happened to be running errands at the same Kroger in Collierville.
3	A day later, after a gunman killed one person and himself and wounded 14 others, Skaggs called Wiles her guardian angel. The gunman, identified by police as UK Thang, worked in a sushi business at the store and was the son of refugees from Myanmar who had settled in Nashville, a family friend said. Police have described Thang as a “third-party vendor” who worked at the grocery store on a daily basis. He died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound within a couple of minutes of officers arriving at the Kroger in the upscale suburb outside of Memphis.
M	The victims included 10 employees and five customers, police said. On Friday, some of the wounded were still in critical condition and fighting for their lives, Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane said at a morning news conference. Lane identified the woman who was killed as Olivia King.
M	Friend Maureen Fraser said King was a widowed mother of three grown sons. King was a devout Catholic who attended Mass nearly every morning, including the morning of the shooting, Fraser said.
M	“She was a very generous person and would always do what she could to help people.” Fraser said. That included passing Fraser’s family an envelope of cash one year when her husband was out of work.
M	King was worried they wouldn’t be able to get Christmas presents for their children. Fraser said the money wasn’t necessary, but King insisted on helping.
M	On Facebook, one of King’s sons, Wes King, wrote that he had spoken to a trauma surgeon and learned his mother was shot in the chest. Police searched the shooter’s home Thursday and removed electronic devices.
3	The shooter’s parents live in Nashville and are part of a community of Christian refugees from Myanmar who have settled there, according to Aung Kyaw, a friend of the family who came to pray with them at their home on Friday. Kyaw said Thang worked at a sushi business that operated inside the Collierville Kroger, though he wasn’t sure what the arrangement was with the grocery store chain.
3	Kyaw said Thang’s parents were “very upset” about their son’s involvement and were praying for all the people involved. Kyaw came to the door of the parents’ home at the end of a cul-de-sac in the Antioch area of Nashville. Kyaw said he did not know the son personally.
1	The shooter, acting alone, did not appear to target anyone specifically as he rampaged through the building Thursday afternoon, police said. The entire shooting was over within minutes as first responders swarmed the scene.
M	Lane said the outcome could have been worse but said officers of every rank quickly responded and were joined by off-duty firefighters. Earlier this year, Tennessee became the latest state to allow most adults 21 and older to carry handguns without first clearing a state-level background check and training.
M	The measure was signed into law by Republican Gov. Bill Lee over objections from some law enforcement groups and gun control advocates concerned the measure could lead to more gun violence. Lee said Friday that the new law strengthened penalties that come into play when violent crime occurs. The Kroger Co., based in Cincinnati, Ohio, issued a statement Friday confirming that the shooter was a third-party vendor but declined to provide additional details.
M	The Collierville store will be closed until further notice but will continue to provide pay and other support to employees, the statement said. Mattise and Loller reported from Nashville, Tennessee. Associated Press writer Carrie Antlfinger in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and News Researcher Jennifer Farrar in New York contributed to this report.

3	A third-party vendor who shot 15 people, one fatally, at a Tennessee supermarket was asked to leave his job before the gunfire erupted, authorities said Monday in a statement.
3	Uk Thang, 29, was identified as the suspected shooter in Thursday's mass shooting at a Kroger on New Byhalia Road in Collierville, a suburb about 30 miles east of downtown Memphis, according to city police Chief Dale Lane. He died from what authorities said they believed was a self-inflicted gunshot wound.
4	The victims included 10 employees and five customers. Four people, all stable, remained at the Regional One Health Medical Center as of Monday afternoon.
X	Collierville Alderman Maureen Fraser identified the lone fatality in the shooting as friend Olivia King. "I will miss her terribly," she said Thursday in a statement.
2	According to Lane, the carnage was unlike anything he has ever seen. The police chief praised workers and shoppers, alike, for their own lifesaving actions as soon as gunfire erupted.
M	Officials at Kroger, the Cincinnati-based supermarket chain, said in a statement Friday that they were "horrified and heartbroken over the senseless violence" that left a customer dead. For Collierville's 51,000 residents, Thursday afternoon will be a moment they will never forget, Mayor Stan Joyner said.

M	This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
M	COLLIERVILLE, Tenn. – Kroger announced Friday that they will reopen their Collierville store next week, six weeks after a mass shooting that killed one person and injured more than a dozen. The remodeled store on Byhalia Road near Poplar Avenue will open Wednesday, November 10 at 9 a.m. “It has a different look and feel so the community can rally around.
4	We want to welcome them back and make sure it feels like home to them again,” Teresa Dickerson said. Dickerson, who is the corporate affairs manager of the Kroger Delta Division, held a press conference Friday along with Mayor Stan Joyner outside the new Collierville Kroger Associate Resource Center on Poplar.
M	“This is an exciting morning for the town of Collierville because this is just another step in the recovery process for the town as we move on from the tragic events that happened on Sept. 23,” Mayor Joyner said. Officials say a project like this nearly takes half a year, but they have managed to complete it just over one month. “We didn’t necessary have plans to remodel the store, didn’t have any budgeting approved for a remodel, but of course after this you want to make sure the store looks different, and our leadership team made it happen,” Dickerson said. Among the changes customers are expected to notice is security.
M	“The Collierville police department is gonna be out here and we were gonna do everything we can, just like we do any other day,” said Collierville Police Chief Dale Lane. The store has remained closed since the shooting, when one woman was killed and multiple people were injured.
1	Police say the gunman, Uk Thang, who operated the sushi counter, was asked to leave the store that morning after getting into an argument with another employee. He later pulled up to the front of the Kroger, armed himself with three guns, entered the store and started shooting at customers and employees, and taking his own life. Painted across the front of the store is the phrase “We are Collierville strong.”
M	It’s a message that embodies what officials say the reopening is all about. “A lot of times these incidents are drive fear and division in the community, and I’m so thankful here that we have seen the opposite.
M	We saw the worse in humanity and we also seen the absolute best,” Lane said. “Moving forward, we won’t talk about the shooting. We won’t talk about that day.
M	We’re only talking about the opening and how we’re rebuilding to heal,” Dickerson said. Dickerson said the store hours will remain the same as before. Prior to the opening, a ceremony will be held in honor of those impacted by the mass shooting.

M	The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day.

