M	At a Glance An expansive storm will spread a wintry mess across several regions.
M	This will lead to significant travel impact in parts of the Midwest, South and East. Key uncertainties remain in the forecast.
3	Check back with us at weather.com for updates. A major winter storm tracking out of the Midwest right now will sweep across parts of the South and East through the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday weekend with a mess of snow, ice and wind. Named Winter Storm Izzy by The Weather Channel, this sprawling storm will produce major travel headaches from North Dakota down to northern Georgia and up to Maine.
3	Izzy is currently producing snowfall in the Southern Plains, Midwest, and parts of the Appalachians. With cold air much more widespread and an active jet stream plunging southward across the eastern two-thirds of the nation during the heart of winter, the stage is set for this winter storm to take a U-shaped track from the Northern Plains to New England this weekend into Monday.
5	Winter storm warnings, winter storm watches and winter weather advisories have been issued by the National Weather Service for parts of the Midwest, South, Appalachians and interior Northeast. Additional watches and warnings will likely be issued along the path of this storm as the forecast comes into focus.
M	In general, the worst weather is expected in areas with winter storm watches and warnings. These areas are where driving will be dangerous.
M	There are still some uncertainties in the forecast, including exactly where low pressure tracks and where the below-freezing air near the ground will set up and for how long. This could lead to changes in the forecast in the next day or so, which is typical for most winter storms.
M	Check back frequently to weather.com and The Weather Channel app for frequent updates. Here's our latest forecast, beginning with timing, followed by snowfall and ice potential and possible impacts.
3	Saturday night, a mix of snow, sleet and freezing rain is expected to develop from parts of northeast Georgia into northern South Carolina, North Carolina and southwestern Virginia. Snow could be heavy in the southern Appalachians.
3	Meanwhile, snow will continue Saturday night from Arkansas and southern Missouri into Kentucky and parts of Tennessee. Some sleet or freezing rain could mix in at times over parts of Kentucky and Tennessee. Snow is likely Sunday from Kentucky and Tennessee across the Appalachians from the north Georgia mountains to West Virginia and southwestern Virginia.
3	In some of these areas, snow may be heavy at times. Some snow may also spread into the upper Ohio Valley and linger in parts of northern Mississippi and northern Alabama. Sleet and freezing rain is increasingly likely from northern Georgia to northern South Carolina and much of North Carolina into Virginia.
3	Areas closer to the coastal Carolinas and southeastern Virginia might see more rain than wintry precipitation. Snow, possibly mixed with sleet and freezing rain, will also spread into the mid-Atlantic states Sunday, then into much of the rest of the Northeast Sunday night.
3	This snow will become heavy in some areas. Closer to the Northeast seaboard, precipitation may change over to rain Sunday into Sunday night.
3	This includes the Interstate 95 corridor from Washington, D.C. to Philadelphia and New York City, where a period of snowfall could transition to rain. Strong winds are possible Sunday and Sunday night over parts of the Southeast, spreading into the mid-Atlantic and Northeast as low pressure strengthens with the storm.
3	Advertisement Heavy, wind-driven snow is likely in much of the interior Northeast, from parts of West Virginia, western and central Pennsylvania and New York state into New England. Areas closer to the coast and Interstate 95 corridor from Boston to Washington D.C. have a better chance to see precipitation fall as rain, but might change back to snow briefly before precipitation comes to an end.
3	Strong winds are possible over much of the Northeast, particularly New England during the day. The storm should exit into Atlantic Canada by Monday night, though gusty winds may linger in much of the Northeast.
3	The best chance for heavy snow accumulations will be over the Appalachians, but also the adjacent Piedmont from western Virginia into western North Carolina, upstate South Carolina and the north Georgia mountains. Some of these areas could pick up a foot of snow.
3	Locally heavy snow amounts are also possible from parts of southern Missouri and northern Arkansas into northern Tennessee and Kentucky. Otherwise, at least some snow accumulations are expected from central Arkansas into southern Tennessee, northern Mississippi, northern Alabama and northern Georgia. In addition to snow, accumulations of sleet or ice are possible from parts of northern Georgia into northern South Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia.
1	In some of these areas, accumulations could be enough to not only slicken roads, but also down trees and knock out power. The exact area that might see damaging ice is still somewhat uncertain since there are temperature differences in the forecast models, but the highest potential right now is from northeast parts of Georgia to northern South Carolina and central North Carolina, as depicted in the map below.
1	Furthermore, strong winds beginning Saturday night over the Southeast could heighten the threat of downing trees and power lines laden with ice and snow accumulations. Prepare now for the potential for power outages that could last at least several hours.
M	Major travel disruption is likely in these areas this weekend, and it could last into at least Monday morning, given forecast lows below freezing into the Deep South. If you have travel plans in these areas, you should consider canceling or moving them.
3	The best chance for heavy snow is expected to be generally north and west of the Boston-Washington Interstate 95 corridor, from parts of western Virginia to Maine. Some of these areas could see 6 to 12 inches of snowfall, with locally heavier totals possible.
3	Some sleet or ice accumulation is possible in some of these areas that could further slicken roads. Closer to the Northeast seaboard, precipitation may start as snow but could change over to rain, at least for a time, cutting down on snow totals, before changing back to a brief period of snow or ending.
3	Prepare for major travel disruption in the Northeast beginning later Sunday into Monday, including flight cancellations. Travel in areas of heavy snow could become difficult, if not impossible, for a period of time.
3	Strong winds are also possible Sunday night into Monday in much of the Northeast, particularly near the coast and over higher elevations. These winds may lead to power outages and tree damage.
3	Coastal flooding is also possible late Sunday night into Monday, particularly from the Jersey shore to southeast New England. Some coastal flooding could extend into eastern Virginia and eastern North Carolina.
M	The Weather Company’s primary journalistic mission is to report on breaking weather news, the environment and the importance of science to our lives. This story does not necessarily represent the position of our parent company, IBM.

3	At a Glance Flights are canceled at Charlotte, Atlanta and other airports in the storm's path. Airlines are waiving change fees.
X	Georgia, Virginia and the Carolinas declared emergencies ahead of the storm. Note: Our live updates have ended for the day. For Sunday's live updates page, click here.
7	Hundreds of flights are canceled, roads were left were covered in snow and ice and several states have declared emergencies as a winter storm moves across a wide swath of the country over this holiday weekend. The storm, named Izzy by The Weather Channel, is being blamed for multiple vehicle crashes and has prompted the opening of warming centers in some cities and the postponement of some Martin Luther King Jr. Day events. The sprawling storm will produce major travel headaches from Arkansas to northern Georgia and up to Maine.
3	Parts of northern North Dakota and western Minnesota picked up 8 to 12 inches of snow. A couple inches of snow blanketed parts of the Twin Cities.
3	Snow fell at the rate of 1 inch per hour Friday afternoon in Des Moines, Iowa, which ended up with more than 14 inches of snow by Saturday morning. Izzy is the biggest snowstorm in Des Moines since 1971. Much of Missouri and northern Arkansas have picked up at least 3 inches of snow, as of Saturday afternoon, with some spots seeing more than 6 inches.
X	Snowflakes have also been spotted in Oklahoma City and Dallas. Check our full forecast here, and click here for maps, radar and everything you need to track the storm.
1	As of Saturday evening, more than 1,000 flights had been canceled for Sunday at North Carolina's Charlotte/Douglas International Airport, according to airline tracker Flight Aware. More than 260 Sunday flights were so far canceled in Atlanta and more than 150 at Reagan National in the D.C. area. American, Delta, Southwest, JetBlue and Spirit airlines all issued travel advisories and waived change fees at those and dozens of other airports in Izzy's path. Other major cities affected include Baltimore, Boston, Nashville, New York, Philadelphia and Raleigh-Durham.
1	Officials in Gwinnet County, Georgia, said some Day of Service projects - community volunteer events to mark the Martin Luther King Jr. Day - were being postponed or rescheduled. They advised participants to check the event listings on the county website for the latest updates.
3	As a general rule of thumb, once ice accumulations reach about a quarter-inch, which is forecast in several areas, the weight of the ice on tree limbs and power lines can cause them to sag or snap, leading to increased tree damage and power outages. The storm will also generate strong winds in the same area where accumulating ice is forecast. The force of these winds will add to the stress on ice-laden trees and power lines, leading to more downed trees and power outages than otherwise would happen with much lighter winds. Click here to read the full story on Izzy's ice and power outage threat.
3	Advertisement State police in Iowa handled more than 100 crashes and 325 calls for service in a 24-hour period ending Saturday morning. No fatalities were reported, but at least two of those crashes involved police vehicles that were hit while responding to calls.
1	The governors of Georgia, Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina all issued emergency declarations on Friday. All advised residents to prepare before the storm moves in.
1	Gov. Jim Justice placed the state on alert to prepare for winter weather. The move signals the state Emergency Operations Center and related agencies to be ready to posture personnel and resources should an emergency develop. A portion of Interstate 80 was closed Saturday.
3	Part of I-35 shut down Friday at around 12:30 p.m. CST due to a sideways truck blocking both lanes. The road reopened about an hour later.
3	Travelers should check 511 for current road conditions. Des Moines Public Schools canceled classes Friday.
3	Several other school districts in Central Iowa also called off school or announced early dismissals. More than 200 plows were on the roads in Iowa Friday morning and operations continued throughout the day and evening, according to the Iowa Department of Transportation's road conditions map.
1	Roads were already slick in the early morning and the Iowa State Patrol asked motorists in affected areas to stay home if possible. Kansas City's snowplow map showed crews active on streets across the city Friday evening. Some schools in the region closed Thursday and Friday, but that was due to issues related to COVID-19. The Georgia Department of Transportation has more than 50,000 tons of salt and about 46,000 tons of gravel on hand, as well as 407 snow removal dump trucks.
M	Here are five things to know about snow and ice in the South. While shoppers stocked up on the usual bread, milk and other goods, one expert warned that the storm could impact the already stressed U.S. supply chain.
M	”From an impact perspective, with this kind of weather scenario, all it would take is an accident or two for major Interstate closures to occur," Francisco Alvarez, lead meteorologist for trucking network Convoy, told weather.com in an email Thursday. Alvarez cited Midwest highways as a major concern, for example. "Basically if you could make a box between Omaha, Sioux Falls, Minneapolis/St. Paul, and Des Moines, that will be the most dangerous travel area for truckers," as Izzy moves through the region, he said. The Weather Company’s primary journalistic mission is to report on breaking weather news, the environment and the importance of science to our lives. This story does not necessarily represent the position of our parent company, IBM.

3	A massive storm just left over a foot of snow across North Dakota and Iowa.
7	Some 75 million Americans in 33 states, from the Dakotas to Georgia to Maine, are under alert Saturday through Monday for a massive winter storm and chilling temperatures. At least 11 winter weather alerts and advisories are in effect, including a wind chill advisory for much of the Northeast, where wind chills -- what temperature it feels like -- were as low as minus 40 degrees F early Saturday. A winter storm watch also is in effect from Arkansas to Pennsylvania for a much-anticipated winter storm that's already dumped more than a foot of snow across North Dakota and Iowa.
7	As the storm heads southeast toward the mid-Mississippi states Saturday into Sunday, and then toward the Northeast Sunday into Monday, more snow, ice and rain are expected. Three to 6 inches of snow is possible in parts of the South, with Atlanta having the potential to see its first measurable snowfall in four years. Six to 18 inches of snow is possible in the mountains of Tennessee, North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia.
7	The interior Northeast up through New England is expected to get hit with 6 to 18 inches of snow. Coastal areas of the Northeast, including Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, New York City and Boston, could see up to 3 inches of snow, though that will likely get washed away as the snow changes to rain by early Monday. Wind chills Sunday morning will be in the single digits from Philadelphia to New York City to Boston and dip below zero in northern New England.
1	Strong, gusty winds are also a concern across a large swath of the South, with wind alerts in effect from Texas to the Carolinas, with the concern for isolated power outages and wind damage. FlightAware is already reporting more than 2,000 U.S. flight cancellations for Sunday, including nearly 1,100 at Charlotte Douglas International Airport in North Carolina -- more than 80% of the airport's flights that day. Other affected airports include Raleigh-Durham International Airport in North Carolina, Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport in Arlington, Virginia, and Chicago's O'Hare International Airport.
7	Dangerous road conditions, as well as power outages, are expected throughout the holiday weekend. The Interstate 95 corridor will likely see a wintry mix of rain, snow and ice Sunday into Monday.
1	North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper urged residents to gather essentials Saturday and stay off the roads Sunday and Monday as "significant impacts" are expected statewide. Significant ice accumulation is also possible across parts of the Carolinas, which could lead to numerous power outages, widespread tree damage and travel impacts. An ice storm warning is in effect for parts of northern South Carolina.
1	The state has also activated 200 National Guard members to assist with the transportation needs in western and central counties. More than 1,200 state Department of Transportation employees and contractors have spread 2.5 million gallons of brine on roads since Thursday and prepared over 400 trucks ready to respond after the storm hits, North Carolina Department of Transportation Secretary Eric Boyette said. Boyette warned of likely delays in response times due to the widespread impact of the storm across the state, as well as labor shortages due to COVID-19.
M	In Georgia, Gov. Brian Kemp said agencies are preparing to mobilize and deploy resources as needed in the state, as well as to aid neighboring states if needed. ABC News' Hilda Estevez, Melissa Griffin, Mina Kaji and Dan Peck contributed to this report.

7	While most of South Florida was spared from Sunday’s worst weather, Florida’s west coast was hit with a tornado that topped 100 mph and destroyed dozens of homes.
7	It was part of a winter storm that impacted the country’s broader southeast region. A tornado warning issued for central Broward and Palm Beach counties expired at 12:15 p.m. Sunday, according to the National Weather Service in Miami.
2	But a tornado tore through Naples, Fort Myers and surrounding communities. Local news outlets reported a handful of minor injuries, but 31 mobile homes were destroyed and 51 more had sustained serious damage.
7	The tornado was on the ground for almost two miles with a maximum path width of 125 yards, according to the National Weather Service. The severe weather came as showers and thunderstorms moved across the region ahead of a strong cold front. Broward and Palm Beach County mostly saw heavy rains throughout the day, but none of the damage Florida’s west coast experienced. Pedestrians run past a splash zone on the sidewalk of A1A just south of Sunrise Blvd., in Fort Lauderdale Sunday, Jan 16, 2022.
7	A line of thunderstorms caused a tornado warning and flooding in South Florida Sunday. Heavy rains cause ponding on Las Olas Boulevard in Fort Lauderdale on Sunday, Jan. 16, 2022.
2	The Florida Highway Patrol reported that a large tornado crossed Interstate 75 near Naples Sunday, causing a semi-truck to overturn. Minor injuries were reported.
2	The mobile home park impacted by the tornado, built in 1970, has nearly 500 homesites, with residents 55 and up, according to Naples Daily News. “The tornado took me off my feet blew me toward the east wall and buried me under the sink, refrigerator, kitchen chairs and everything else,” Edward Murray, 81, told Naples Daily News. Murray is a resident of Windcrest and Point Breeze in Cottage Point Trailer Park in Fort Myers, which was also damaged.
2	A large tornado crossed Interstate 75 near Naples on Sunday, causing a semi-truck to overturn, according to the Florida Highway Patrol. Florida’s weather was part of the same storm system that has walloped other parts of the Southeastern U.S. with snow and ice and knocked out power in parts of Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia, Kentucky and North Carolina, the latter being the most affected by lack of electricity, according to poweroutage.us.
3	Power outages in North Carolina, which initially totaled a quarter-million customers, had dropped to about 130,000 late Sunday. In North Carolina, the Highway Patrol had responded to 300 car crashes and nearly 800 calls for help as of Sunday afternoon, according to spokesperson First Sgt.
M	Christopher Knox. Knox said two people died Sunday when their car drove off the road east of Raleigh.
M	New York City was expected to be spared most, if not all, of the snow. Areas in upstate New York could see up to a foot of snow, forecasters said. The Associated Press contributed to this report.

X	This video is not available.
2	Multiple tornadoes touched down in Southwest Florida on Sunday morning as severe storms moved across the area. Lee County officials are providing an update on storm response and recovery efforts. You can watch it in the player below or by clicking here. Officials in Lee County say about 7,000 homes, or about 15,000 people, are without power due to the storms.
X	They say that so far they have only had four reported injuries. Officials say 28 homes were destroyed in Lee County and at least 62 homes are not livable. The National Weather Service confirmed that at least one tornado was sighted in Collier County. Winds from the storms in Collier County knocked over a tractor-trailer as it was traveling along I-75 North, before Mile Marker 96. Florida Highway Patrol says the driver of the truck was injured.
2	The highway has since been cleared. Florida Highway Patrol tweeted a video of the tornado as it passed over I-75 in Alligator Alley. Tornado passed over Interstate 75 in the area of the 96 mile marker (🐊 Alley) in Collier County at 9:34am. WINK News viewers shared videos of what appeared to be another tornado that moved through part of Fort Myers.
2	The Iona McGregor Fire Department says there is significant damage in its service area. The National Weather Service later confirmed that an EF2 tornado touched down in Iona. Some mobile homes in Iona were destroyed. The Iona McGregor Fire Department Deputy Chief Khalid Aquil estimates the storms have displaced 150 to 200 people. In Iona, several homes were severely damaged from the storms that moved through the area Sunday.
X	Those winds also damaged the sign at the Planet Fitness plaza along McGregor Boulevard. The wind turned over a trailer hitched onto the back of a pickup truck in a nearby parking lot. The Iona McGregor Fire Department is asking you to stay off the roads as crews clean up the debris left behind. Lee County Sheriff Carmine Marceno also asks that you stay off the roadways. Sheriff Marceno asks that you be patient as crews work to clear roadways of the damage from the storms.
X	The Red Cross says it is working closely with emergency crews on the ground in Fort Myers to provide assistance to those who need it, including helping people who have been displaced find a place to stay. The Wa-Ka Hatchee Park and Recreation Center in Lee County is where the Red Cross asks you to go there as the first step if you have been displaced or require assistance due to the storms. The winds in Charlotte County also left a large amount of damage in its wake. Video from WINK News viewer Nicole Conway Coy shows damage in the Village of Holiday Park community. Charlotte County Public Safety says a number of people have been displaced.
X	Charlotte County has opened the Ann and Chuck Dever Regional Park Recreation Center for those who need shelter. Governor Ron DeSantis took to Twitter to offer his prayers for those impacted by the storms. He says the Florida Division of Emergency Management response teams will be available to help.

M	At a Glance Flights were canceled at Charlotte, Atlanta and other major airports in the storm's path.
M	Portions of major interstates closed in Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee. More than 275,000 homes and businesses were without power. This page is no longer being updated.
3	Please click here for the latest on Winter Storm Izzy. Parts of major interstates were shut down, hundreds of thousands of people were without electricity and thousands of flights were delayed or canceled at major airports across the South as a winter storm barreled through Sunday on a path to the Northeast. The storm, named Winter Storm Izzy by The Weather Channel, unleashed snow, ice, wind and frigid temperatures in several states.
X	The roof of a residence hall collapsed at Brevard College Sunday afternoon in Transylvania County, North Carolina, about 17 miles southwest of Hendersonville. The college later confirmed that nobody was hurt in the incident.
X	I-81 northbound was shut down in Roanoke County due to at least two crashes, according to state police. As of 3:25 p.m. EST, traffic was backed up about 3 miles and was being detoured off the highway. Another crash in Montgomery County resulted in a minor injury.
X	Virginia state troopers responded to 142 traffic crashes and 162 disabled vehicles from midnight to 12:45 p.m. Sunday, according to The Associated Press. No fatalities were reported. Some areas in the southern and eastern parts of the state were expected to see heavy snow Sunday into Monday, according to the latest forecast.
X	A section of eastbound Interstate 40 closed at mile marker 136 in Humphreys County due to an overturned semi. As of 1:45 p.m. CST, one lane was open, according to a tweet from state Department of Transportation spokesperson Rebekah Hammonds.
X	At least four routes shut down due to high winds and other conditions, according to the state Department of Transportation. They are: Southport to Fort Fisher, Cedar Island to Ocracoke, Swan Quarter to Ocracoke and Currituck to Knotts Island.
M	Restrictions to limit travel including certain commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles, buses, cars towing trailers and motorcycles were being put in place Sunday afternoon and evening on several major highways in Pennsylvania. Impacted roads include interstates north and south of I-80, portions of the Pennsylvania Turnpike and parts of I-80.
M	The level of restrictions and timing varies. Drivers should check the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation's social media pages as well as 511PA.
X	A portion of the road in Robeson County, North Carolina reopened after being closed for several hours due to low-hanging power lines. Personnel pulled stuck vehicles including buses, semitrailers and cars on Interstate 85.
M	In all, about 120 National Guard members were mobilized for winter storm response as of Sunday afternoon. The most outages as of 12:45 p.m. EST were in South Carolina, with nearly 99,000, according to poweroutage.us.
M	That was followed by Georgia with about 70,000; North Carolina with 58,000; Arkansas with 10,000; and Tennessee with about 8,600. Florida, where Izzy's warm side spawned tornadoes, was reporting about 29,000 outages.
X	“As of this morning we have responded to 460 calls for service and 200 collisions in affected areas and those numbers continue to grow," North Carolina Highway Patrol Col. Freddy Johnson said in a noon news conference with the governor. Johnson asked drivers to refrain from calling 911 or the highway patrol unless they have a true emergency.
3	-Up to 12 inches of snow had already fallen in parts of western North Carolina. -In the Greenville-Spartanburg, South Carolina, metro, up to 4 to 6 inches of snow was reported Sunday morning, with snow falling at the rate of about 1 inch per hour, according to The Weather Channel meteorologist Mike Seidel.
3	This makes it their heaviest snowstorm in almost eight years. Advertisement -Up to 9 inches of snow was reported in Rankin County, Mississippi, just northeast of Jackson.
3	-At least flurries have fallen as far south as McComb, Mississippi, near the border with Louisiana. -Some flurries even flew in parts of the western Florida Panhandle Sunday, north of Pensacola. Click here for the latest on Izzy's snowfall, ice accumulation and forecast from weather.com meteorologists.
2	Tornadoes spawned by Izzy damaged several homes in Southwest Florida Sunday morning. The tornadoes caused damage across the Fort Myers metro area, the Lee County Sheriff's office confirmed, and injured at least one person.
X	Click here to read more. Interstate was is closed in both directions near mile marker 30 in Robeson County, North Carolina, due to downed power lines. The highway shut down around 9:30 a.m. It was expected to remain closed until about 2 p.m., Katie Webster, a state emergency management official, told The Weather Channel Sunday morning.
M	Webster road conditions were worsening. “We’re really starting to see those two hazards - snow and ice," she said.
M	Several cities have opened places for people to keep warm. In Nashville, Metro Social Services is running an extreme cold weather shelter through 7 a.m. Monday at 3230 Brick Church Pike.
M	It's open to anyone, including those with pets. In Charlotte, a warming center is open at the Hal Marshall Service Center, 700 N. Tryon Street.
M	It's scheduled to be open until noon on Wednesday. There are no beds or overnight accommodations, but shelters are open at other locations.
M	Those in need of a warm place to go should check with their local emergency management agency or social services. Duke Energy estimates that as many as 750,000 customers in North Carolina and South Carolina could be without electricity as Winter Storm Izzy moves through, and the company warns those outages could last for multiple days.
M	Some 10,000 workers were staged to respond, including crews from Texas, Oklahoma, Florida, Kentucky, Ohio and Indiana. Drivers in North Carolina were told to stay home as roads across the state were covered in snow and ice.
X	As of 10 a.m. EST, a portion of US 276 was closed in Transylvania County. Motorists should check DriveNC for the latest conditions. More than 600 employees worked Saturday night into Sunday treating interstates and state routes, according to the Georgia Department of Transportation.
M	More than 1.5 million gallons of brine and 2,600 tons of salt have been spread. Another 80,000 gallons of brine were set to go out. Officials warned that operations could pause depending on weather conditions.
M	Drivers should monitor Georgia 511 for road conditions. Some 250,000 homes and businesses were without power across the South Sunday morning, according to poweroutage.us. Georgia led the way with more than 100,000 outages, while South Carolina had more than 50,000 customers in the dark.
M	On the warm side of the system, more than 38,000 Florida homes and businesses lacked power due to stormy weather. More than 2,500 flights into and out of United States hubs were canceled Sunday morning, according to FlightAware. More than half of those cancellations were out of Charlotte and Atlanta.
M	American, Delta, Southwest, JetBlue and Spirit airlines all issued travel advisories and waived change fees at those and dozens of other airports in Izzy's path. The Weather Company’s primary journalistic mission is to report on breaking weather news, the environment and the importance of science to our lives.

M	The eastern United States was under a weather siege Sunday as a furious winter storm packing heavy snow, ice, gale-force winds and tornadoes rolled out of the Midwest and continued its unforgiving march across the nation.
7	Tens of thousands of customers were without power in Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. Highway patrols reported hundreds of vehicle accidents, and a tornado ripped through a trailer park in Florida. More than 1,200 Sunday flights at Charlotte Douglas International were cancelled – more than 90% of the airport’s Sunday schedule, according to the tracking website flightaware.com.
7	The impact of the storm varied greatly from neighborhood to neighborhood. Jackson, Mississippi, saw trace amounts of snow early Sunday while 25 miles to the northeast, the hamlet of Goshen Springs was blasted by more than 8 inches. Southern cities were on alert.
7	Nashville could get 3 inches of snow, other parts of Tennessee a foot of snow. A tractor-trailer crash near the Tennessee River closed I-40 eastbound in Humphreys County. The Tennessee Highway Patrol reported a backup stretching several miles.
7	The streets of Charlotte, North Carolina, were covered early Sunday, and the National Weather Service called for snow accumulations of 2 to 7 inches in parts of the state. Thundersnow was reported near Waynesville, North Carolina.
7	Accuweather said a strike of lightning was detected during heavy snowfall. Thundersnow is unusual but can happen in strong snowstorms, Accuweather said. Some of the state was blanketed in a foot of snow.
7	First Sgt. Christopher Knox, a spokesman for the North Carolina Highway Patrol, said that by midafternoon, the agency had responded to 300 car crashes and nearly 800 calls for service. Two people died Sunday when their car drove off the road and into trees in a median east of Raleigh, North Carolina. The driver and passenger, both 41-year-old South Carolina residents, were pronounced dead at the scene of the single-vehicle crash.
7	Knox said investigators believe the car was driving too fast for the conditions, described as mixed winter precipitation. Elsewhere, 1 to 4 inches of sleet, snow and ice was forecast for the Atlanta area as well as other parts of Georgia and South Carolina.
1	“Hopefully, the storm will underdeliver, but it could overdeliver. We just don’t know,” said Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp, who declared a state of emergency.
2	A tornado with 118 mph winds touched down in southwest Florida on Sunday and traveled almost two miles, the National Weather Service confirmed. Lee County Commission Chairman Cecil Pendergrass said 62 homes in the tornado’s path were suffered major damage to the point where they were unlivable.
2	Three minor injuries were reported. Edward Murray, 81, was in his mobile home at Windcrest and Point Breeze in Cottage Point Trailer Park on Sunday morning when a tornado picked up the structure and tossed it on top of a neighbor's home.
X	SHOULD I START MY CAR AND LET IT WARM UP? Experts explain the best way to tackle cold weather.
4	The storm, dubbed a "Saskatchewan screamer" because it originated in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan, left more than a foot of snow in Des Moines, Iowa, over the weekend. The Ozarks town of Canaan in Arkansas saw a foot of snow. The storm headed into the Northeast, dropping snow, sleet and rain around the densely populated Eastern Seaboard.
7	Washington was forecast to see up to 3 inches of snow followed by a round of ice. Parts of the metro area already saw more snow in one week this month than in the past two years.
6	Parts of Western Pennsylvania could get a foot of snow, forecasters said. Officials across New England warned residents to stay indoors Saturday as a blast of Arctic air drives wind chill temperatures as low as minus 35 degrees.

M	Lots of readers shared snow pictures with NorthEscambia.com on Sunday, but this was our favorite.
7	In the photo, the chilly early skies are blue after a passing snow shower left a white dusting in the pines and the ground at a barn west of Walnut Hill. Much of northern half of Escambia County had snow Sunday morning, but this was one of the few areas where there was any accumulation on the ground. Photo for NorthEscambia.com, click to enlarge.

M	Millions of people across the eastern US were digging out from heavy snow Monday after a massive storm system left its mark from Florida to Maine with tornadoes, freezing rain and snow. Areas of Ohio got the most snowfall, with more than 2 feet reported in Ashtabula on Lake Erie.
7	Grand Island, New York, just north of Buffalo, got 22 inches, according to the National Weather Service Eastern Region. Farther south, 20 inches were reported in Banner Elk, North Carolina.
M	The heavy snowfall on the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday in the Northeast followed widespread power outages, major road closures and myriad flight cancellations a day earlier across the Southeast. Air travel was still snarled by the wintry conditions, with more than 1,600 US flights canceled as of Monday evening, after nearly 3,000 US flights were canceled Sunday, according to FlightAware.com.
M	Monday evening, nearly 50,000 customers were without power in six states from Georgia to West Virginia. Earlier, there were 217,089 customers without power in 11 states, according to PowerOutage.
M	US. Gusty winds are expected to linger across the Northeast through Tuesday on the backside of the storm, CNN meteorologist Haley Brink said.
M	“These gusty winds could also lead to some lingering lake-effect snow downwind of Lake Erie and Lake Ontario into Tuesday morning,” Brink said. Cold air behind the storm system and a prior arctic plunge over the Northeast will keep temperatures below freezing until Wednesday in that region, CNN meteorologist Michael Guy said. While parts of the South and Mid-Atlantic will see temperatures recover by Tuesday, another round of bitter cold, possibly with snow, is shaping up for the end of this week, Guy said.
1	While the worst impacts of the storm shift Northeast, roads remained hazardous Monday across much of the Southeast, especially on overpasses and at higher elevations. The governors of South Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia activated members of the National Guard to help with storm response. North Carolina authorities responded to 631 crashes Sunday, State Highway Patrol spokesperson First Sgt. Christopher Knox told CNN on Monday.
1	Two people, both 41 and from Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, were killed Sunday morning on Interstate 95 in Nash County after their vehicle left the road and struck trees in the median, he said. In South Carolina, 120 service members were activated and many have been assisting stranded motorists, tweets from the South Carolina National Guard show. And in Virginia, 75 service members were staged for storm response, including “personnel with chain saws for clearing fallen trees and heavy duty tactical vehicles capable of traveling through deep snow at key locations,” the Virginia National Guard said in a news release.
1	Virginia State Police responded to nearly 1,000 traffic crashes and disabled vehicles Sunday across the state the agency said. The incidents were “mostly vehicle damage,” and there were no reported traffic deaths, it said in a tweet. Accidents also were reported Sunday across north Georgia, the National Weather Service office in Atlanta reported, and Gov. Brian Kemp asked residents to stay off roads.
3	The winter storm treated some residents of the Florida Panhandle to rare snow flurries Sunday. The National Weather Service in Mobile, Alabama, tweeted a Pensacola, Florida, resident’s video of flurries at his home and traces were reported in nearby Walnut Hill.
2	But the system brought much more dangerous conditions to southwest Florida, where at least two tornadoes destroyed at least 28 homes in Lee County and damaged others, officials said. At least 62 homes are currently “unlivable,” said Cecil Pendergrass, cochairman of the county’s board of commissioners, at a news conference.
2	One twister was an EF2 tornado with maximum winds of 118 mph. It may have completely destroyed 30 mobile homes of the 108 mobile homes damaged near Fort Myers, according to a damage survey by the National Weather Service. Four injuries were reported, but no one was taken to a hospital, officials said.
2	In Charlotte County, north of Fort Myers, an EF1 tornado with winds of 110 mph left behind a path of destruction, according to the weather service. “A waterspout moved across Gasparilla sound near Boca Grande Causeway before then moved ashore as a short-lived tornado near Placida damaging at least 35 homes and a marina storage facility,” the weather service said in a bulletin. No one was injured, but some residents have been displaced, the Charlotte County government said in a tweet.
5	Correction: An earlier version of this story gave the wrong state for a city that could face icing issues. It is Charleston, West Virginia.

X	At a Glance Two people were killed in a crash on Interstate 95 in North Carolina.
X	Water flowed into streets in Connecticut. Airport travel woes continued in Charlotte.
7	At least two deaths are being blamed on a wicked winter storm that barreled through the Southeast Sunday and is brought snow, high winds and coastal flooding into the northeastern part of the country Monday. The storm, named Izzy by The Weather Channel, unleashed snow, ice, wind and frigid temperatures in several states.
0	On Sunday, parts of major interstates were shut down and thousands of flights were delayed or canceled at major airports across the South. More than 11,000 homes and businesses were without power in Maine as of about 4 p.m. EST, according to poweroutage.us. Other ongoing outages included about 18,600 in West Virginia; 17,000 in North Carolina and 15,000 in South Carolina; and 13,000 in Georgia.
X	Photos posted to social media by police in Norwalk at about 11 a.m. EST showed water on downtown streets. Residents were asked to avoid flooded areas.
X	Video showed water flowing through a parking lot where a COVID-19 vaccine site was shut down due to the weather. Flooding was also reported in other parts of the Northeast. Click here to see more.
0	The National Weather Service in New York says wind gusts over 60 mph were recorded early Monday morning along the New York and Connecticut coasts. Among the highest were 69 mph at Fire Island and 68 mph in Greenwich.
X	More than 500 flights were canceled or delayed today at Charlotte Douglas International Airport, according to tracking website FlightAware. That's after more than 1,200 flights were affected there Sunday.
X	In an update posted at 11 a.m. Monday, airport officials said operations would continue to resume but flights could be affected by other areas. The update said 14 planes had so far been deiced today, and warned off the potential of dangerous driving conditions for those headed to the airport.
X	As of 9 a.m. EST, about 980 plows were on the road across Ohio, according to a tweet from the state Department of Transportation. Up to 20 inches of snow fell in some parts of the state. Advertisement Interstates and other major roads were covered in snow.
7	-Parts of the Cleveland metro area have seen more than 10 inches of snowfall. -Buffalo, New York, had picked up 13.8 inches of snow from Izzy as of early this morning.
7	-The top eastern snowfall total so far is more than 20 inches in northeast Ohio. -Parts of northern North Dakota and western Minnesota picked up 8 to 12 inches of snow from Izzy on Thursday and Friday. Click here to read the latest totals compiled by weather.com meteorologists.
X	Two people from South Carolina were killed in a car crash on Interstate 95 in North Carolina. The incident happened southwest of Rocky Mount in Nash County, WBTW-TV reported, citing the North Carolina State Highway Patrol.
1	The advisory remained in effect through Monday, and the city's fallen tree task force was activated. Hundreds of thousands of people were without power from Georgia to New York, according to poweroutage.us. Top outages as of about 9 a.m. Monday included more than 30,000 each in North and South Carolina; about 24,000 each in West Virginia and Georgia; more than 18,000 in Pennsylvania; about 14,000 in Kentucky and Virginia; and 11,000 in New York.
M	Here's a look at our Sunday live updates page. The Weather Company’s primary journalistic mission is to report on breaking weather news, the environment and the importance of science to our lives. This story does not necessarily represent the position of our parent company, IBM.

6	Featured Video The city of Toronto was brought to a halt by a rare blizzard, whiteout conditions and more than 35 centimetres of snow, which closed schools, vaccine clinics and two critical highways. A winter storm of rare proportions blanketed much of southern Ontario with heavy snow Monday, causing widespread school closures and travel disruptions, leaving some stuck on a major highway for hours on end.
6	Environment Canada issued snowfall, winter storm or blizzard warnings for a stretch of the province spanning from the Cornwall area to the east, the Algonquin region to the west, and the Niagara and London regions to the south. By early evening ET, only a handful regions remained under alerts, mostly for snow squall warnings. Toronto and Hamilton had been under a blizzard warning at one point early Monday, with between 40 and 60 centimetres of snowfall expected. "It's probably true that this is a once-in-a-decade kind of event, especially the scale of it," said Steven Flisfeder, lead meteorologist with Environment Canada.
6	It's also rare to see a blizzard warning issued for the Toronto region, he said. The snowfall forced the temporary shutdown of two of the city's major arteries, the Gardiner Expressway and the Don Valley Parkway. Police said the closures were to allow snowplows to clear the routes and help move any stuck vehicles. Those routes have since reopened.
6	While another major roadway, Highway 410, remained open, some drivers found themselves stuck for at least eight hours. "Customers will experience longer than normal wait and travel times," the Toronto Transit Commission said on its website.
6	Meanwhile, the wintry conditions led to the suspension of the UP Express train service that runs from Toronto's Pearson International Airport to the downtown core. Late Monday evening, Metrolinx tweeted that service on the UP Express and GO Transit would be affected again on Tuesday.
5	At a late afternoon news conference, Toronto Mayor John Tory said the city will have to declare a special "snowstorm condition" to ensure its crews can remove snow on city streets left by the storm. In the Ottawa-Gatineau region, Highway 7 was closed between Highway 417 and Kaladar because provincial police said plows couldn't keep it safe and multiple vehicles were blocking the road. WATCH | People in Ottawa-Gatineau spent the day dealing with at least 45 cm of snow: Record 45 cm of snow dropped on Ottawa Duration 1:52 Featured Video A record-breaking 45 centimetres of snow dropped on Ottawa created treacherous driving conditions, while the storm gave students in Montreal a snow day. Police had warned of "zero visibility" on major highways in the region and advised people against taking them, saying they couldn't guarantee help right away if drivers run into trouble. Ottawa was expected to see 30 to 50 centimetres of snowfall.
M	City officials warned that it will take days to clean up, given the magnitude of the storm. In the Kingston area, where total snowfall amounts of 25 to 40 centimetres were expected, Kingston Transit cancelled many routes on Monday. In Hamilton, meanwhile, the public transport agency said late Monday afternoon it was experiencing "significant delays" on routes across the city, including some detours for a time.
M	WATCH | Driving conditions 'treacherous' in parts of southern Ontario: A day to stay off the roads, Ontario police officer says Duration 3:48 Featured Video Saying driving conditions are 'treacherous' in southern Ontario due to a major winter storm, Sgt. Kerry Schmidt of the Ontario Provincial Police asked drivers to stay off the roads until the snow stops falling. Sgt.
M	Kerry Schmidt of the Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) told CBC's Heather Hiscox on Monday morning that vehicles were spinning out and losing control on Highway 401 near Pearson International Airport, adding that plows were trying to keep up but hampered by snowfall and traffic volumes. Meanwhile, Premier Doug Ford was on the streets of Toronto, where he told CBC News he was helping with shovelling and helping drivers who were stuck. WATCH | Ford commends people 'pitching in': Doug Ford commends people 'pitching in' during snowstorm Duration 1:06 Featured Video Ontario Premier Doug Ford spoke about helping motorists stuck in the snow and commended others for pitching in during storms that hit Ontario and Quebec on Monday -- while advising people to stay off the roads. A number of communities also called off COVID-19 vaccination clinics for the day in light of the weather.
6	Clinics were cancelled in Toronto, Niagara Falls, Stratford, Oshawa and across the Simcoe-Muskoka and Leeds, Grenville and Lanark health units. Air travellers were also impacted by the snowy conditions.
M	Dozens of flights to and from Toronto's Pearson airport were delayed or cancelled this morning, according to the airport's website. Environment Canada also issued winter storm warnings for most parts of Quebec, with 25 centimetres of snow expected in the areas of Montreal and for the provincial capital, while the Gatineau region, close to Ottawa, could see up to 40 centimetres of snow before the end of the day.
M	Driving conditions deteriorated rapidly Monday afternoon across Quebec as multi-vehicle accidents triggered road closures. The provincial police reported multi-car pileups, closing parts of three major highways around Montreal. Police said in a statement some people suffered injuries, but "none appear to be life-threatening at this time." Quebec Transport Minister François Bonnardel sent several tweets asking people to remain vigilant.
6	"Once again, I'm asking people to avoid travel," Bonnardel tweeted Monday. The blast of winter weather sparked widespread school closures and cancellations across Ontario.
6	The Toronto, York, Halton, Hamilton-Wentworth and Ottawa-Carleton district school boards were among those that cancelled the planned return to in-school learning on Monday because heavy snow forced a halt to school bus services. Students in the Toronto District School Board and the Toronto Catholic District School Board were still expected to attend classes virtually. Closures weren't just hitting public schools in Toronto — some post-secondary schools cancelled in-person classes on Monday and library branches were also closed due to weather conditions. In Ottawa, both the Ottawa Catholic School Board and the Ottawa-Carleton District School Board were also turning to remote learning on Monday.
6	Mail delivery was also put on hold in areas grappling with the storm. Canada Post said it was issuing a "red delivery service alert" for eastern and southern Ontario, meaning delivery would be suspended and agents wouldn't be sent out. "Delivery will resume once conditions improve and it's safe to do so. The safety of our employees is our number one priority," it said in a statement.

4	Digital Writers The Weather Network One of the most impactful snowstorms in years blasted parts of southern Ontario with 30-50+cm of snow through Monday.
6	Parts of southern Ontario are digging out after one of the most impactful winter storms in recent years powered through the region Sunday night and Monday. The storm shut down everything from businesses and schools to highways and an airport.
6	The end result was some areas shovelling out anywhere from 30-50+ cm of snow amid blizzard and winter storm warnings. More on how much snow fell and what's still to come for Monday overnight, Tuesday and beyond, below.
6	A potent low-pressure system that developed stateside and tracked south of the Great Lakes brought major snowfall and dangerous travel to much of Ontario on Monday. Here are some current snowfall totals (Sunday night to Monday) as of Monday evening.
6	The Niagara and Hamilton regions, as well as eastern Ontario, took the brunt of the heaviest accumulations, as was forecast. Oshawa has picked up 55 cm, with 52 cm for Whitby and Niagara Escarpment, 50 cm in St. Catharines, 48 cm in Ottawa, 43 cm in Oakville, 41 cm in Hamilton, 40 cm in Brockville, 33 cm in Toronto, and 36 cm in Peterborough, among some of the highest totals. Also of note is Ottawa airport's total of 48 cm claims its second snowiest one-day snowfall event since records began in 1938.
M	Monday started out with widespread school bus cancellations, with several schools opting to also close and cancel classes for the day. Others, however, including the Toronto District School Board, chose to remain online.

6	Digital Writers The Weather Network A substantial and impactful winter storm will bring widespread heavy snow to southern and eastern Ontario on Monday, with hefty totals also creeping into the Greater Toronto Area (GTA). Snowfall that began on Sunday evening will continue into Monday morning, threatening the morning rush-hour commute with rapid and heavy accumulations.
6	Travel will likely remain hazardous, if not impossible, through the afternoon with disruptions to major roadways. Avoid non-essential travel if possible.
6	The hardest-hit areas, including Niagara and Hamilton regions, as well as southeastern Ontario, could see 20-40+ cm of snow. Details and timing, below.
4	A low-pressure system that is tracking south of the Great Lakes will bring significant snowfall to Ontario on Monday. Winter storm and snowfall warnings, as well as special weather statements, are in effect.
6	Heavy snow will fall through Monday morning over parts of southern and eastern Ontario. Blowing snow and reduced visibility on the roads is expected on Monday morning, likely persisting into the afternoon. The snow will quickly cover the freezing roadways, making for treacherous travel conditions throughout the Golden Horseshoe in time for the morning commute.
6	Motorists should prepare for significant disruptions on the QEW, Highway 427 and 401, and the Don Valley Parkway, in particular. Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) says there may be a significant impact on rush-hour traffic in urban areas.
6	"Consider postponing non-essential travel until conditions improve. Surfaces such as highways, roads, walkways and parking lots may become difficult to navigate due to accumulating snow. Visibility may be suddenly reduced at times in heavy snow," says ECCC in the winter storm warning.

7	TAMPA, Fla.
7	(WFLA) — As winter storms rolled through the mid-Atlantic, there were some snow flurries in Florida on Monday morning. The Oklaloosa County Sheriff’s Office posted video showing some flurries in the Fort Walton Beach area.
2	“From 75 degrees at 3 in the afternoon to snow at 3 a.m,” the post said. It was 36 degrees in Oklaloosa County on Monday.
7	Tampa Bay also got a taste of winter with a cold front moving to the south. It was cool Monday morning with temperatures near 60 degrees. Highs will be in the mid 60s on Monday afternoon.
1	Elsewhere, people were feeling the impacts of a major winter storm. The storm was expected to bring 10 inches of snow to the District of Columbia, northern Virginia and central Maryland.
5	Snow was falling Sunday night in parts of Alabama, Kentucky and Tennessee. Portions of Alabama, southern Tennessee, and parts of Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina and West Virginia were under a winter storm warning.

2	Some parts of the Florida Panhandle saw snow flurries as temperatures plunged below freezing.
2	The Okaloosa County Sheriff’s Office shared a Facebook video of snowflakes falling overnight. The snow didn’t stick and didn’t cause any issues, a spokesperson for the sheriff’s office told The Associated Press.
7	Okaloosa County is home to Destin and Fort Walton Beach, which is known for its white sands and emerald waters. The county borders parts of Alabama, which also experienced rare snow showers overnight.
7	The National Weather Service in Mobile, Alabama, shared a cold weather alert on Twitter on Sunday, warning that temperatures could drop into the teens, 20s, or 30s across the region. The Okaloosa Board of County Commissioners posted a cold weather warning on Facebook Monday, saying that temperatures could once again dip below 40 degrees on Monday night.
7	The office noted that two cold weather shelters for the homeless would open in the evening. Several people shared clips on Twitter of the unusual snowfall across parts of Florida and Alabama. The Walton County Sheriff’s Office shared a clip of flurries that began swirling as a deputy made a traffic stop in Freeport, Florida.

X	STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. —
X	An overnight storm is expected to bring strong winds, heavy rain and the potential for flooding to New York City, but the area will be largely spared from heavy snowfall due to rising temps, according to the National Weather Service (NWS). The agency has issued a wind advisory from midnight to 8 a.m. Monday, and a coastal flooding advisory from 4 to 10 a.m.
X	“Some of the rain is going to be heavy overnight tonight and into first-thing tomorrow, which will likely cause poor-drainage flooding,” AccuWeather senior meteorologist Tom Kines told the Advance/SILive.com. “It’ll also get very windy overnight and into early tomorrow. A slight chance of snow is possible before 8 p.m. Sunday, with a mix of snow and rain expected between 8 and 10 p.m. before all precipitation changes to rain after 10 as the mercury ticks up, said NWS.
X	Temperatures will top out at 47 degrees by 5 a.m. Monday, reported NWS. According to Kines, the most significant precipitation will be done by late- to mid-morning on Monday, though there could be a few isolated rain showers in the afternoon. Later in the day, with temps falling to about 38 degrees, a mix of snow and rain is possible around 5 p.m., noted NWS.
X	In terms of wind, expect an increase in intensity after midnight on Monday, from 14 to 19 mph to 24 to 29 mph. Gusts could reach as high as 44 mph in the early morning hours, according to NWS.
X	Breezy conditions are anticipated during the day, with wind gusts as high as 39 mph. Parts of the Jersey Shore, Long Island and Southern Connecticut could see wind gusts as high as 50 or 60 mph on Monday, noted Kines. There is a 20% chance of snow before 8 p.m. Monday, with a low around 26 and wind gusts as high as 32 mph, according to NWS.
X	Save for Thursday, the rest of the week looks to be uneventful, according to NWS. Tuesday is expected to be sunny with a high of 32 during the day and a low of 23 at night. Wednesday will be mostly cloudy with a high near 43 degrees, while Wednesday night will drop to 29 degrees. There is a 40% chance for snow showers before 8 a.m. Thursday, with temps reaching 34 during the day and dropping to 16 degrees at night. Friday will see partly sunny skies and a chilly high of 26.

M	A winter storm warning was issued for much of western New York, including the Rochester region and Southern Tier, through 7 p.m. Monday. While the storm has ended, followed by a bout of lake effect snow, here are the latest snowfall amounts. The National Weather Service in Buffalo shared some storm totals around the Rochester region following Monday's storm. In all, 11.5 inches of snow fell at the Frederick Douglass Greater Rochester International Airport since the storm first started falling in Rochester Sunday evening, according to the Weather Service. During the same time frame, 19.2 inches fell at the Buffalo Niagara International Airport, as of 1 a.m. Tuesday. In addition, less than a half inch of lake effect snow fell overnight at the airport early Tuesday morning. The airport, said Weather Service Meteorologist Jon Hitchcock, had more sleet than some northern communities in Monroe County, which kept Rochester's snow total lower than some other parts of the county.
M	Irondequoit: 16 inches as of 5 p.m. Fairport: 14 inches as of 3:50 p.m. Victor: 13.4 inches as of 3:45 p.m. Churchville: 13.1 inches as of 5 p.m. Mendon : 12.1 inches as of 1:15 p.m. Pittsford : 12 inches as of 5 p.m. Brighton: 11.5 inches as of 5:30 p.m. Medina : 22 inches as of 5:15 p.m. Batavia : 17 inches at 2 p.m. Leicester : 17 inches at 9:30 a.m. Palmyra: 13.3 inches as of 7:45 p.m. Also, Rochester set two daily records on Monday: Snow from the storm, 10.4 inches of which fell on Monday, set a new daily snowfall record, surpassing the 1958 record of 9.5 inches for Jan. 17; and 1.15 inches of precipitation was measured at the airport, breaking the 2017 record of .81 inches, according to the Weather Service.
X	Contact Victoria Freile at vfreile@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter @vfreile and Instagram @vfreile. This coverage is only possible with support from our readers.

6	Toronto’s snow plows and salt trucks are still out on the streets a day after a major storm dumped more than 30 cm of snow in the city. Toronto Mayor John Tory declared a major snow storm condition on Monday night.
6	The declaration prohibits parking on designated snow routes for 72 hours. The snow will be collected from city streets and put in designated storage sites, according to a release from the City. Toronto’s live interactive snow plow map shows just how busy the City’s plows have been.
6	Most routes have been plowed in the last four hours, and the map is littered with little plow icons to show exactly where they are. The map is updated every 10 seconds, so you can see exactly when a plow is headed your way. The plows have plenty to clean up. According to Environment Canada, downtown Toronto saw 36 cm of snow, Downsview saw as much as 45 cm, and Pearson Airport saw 33 cm.

6	The City of Toronto says clean-up efforts will continue into the weekend following Monday’s major snowstorm.
6	In a bulletin issued by the city’s Transportation Services, the city said plowing and salting of major roadways have been completed and the snow removal process has begun. “The work involves dozens of crews using front end-loaders and dump trucks that collect snow and then remove it to the City’s network of five snow storage sites,” the bulletin read. However, the city said sidewalks and bike lanes are still being worked on, particularly in locations that were blocked or missed earlier in the week.
6	Toronto saw approximately 55 cm of snowfall Monday. The storm led to treacherous driving conditions throughout the region and caused cars and transit vehicles to get stuck for hours.
6	There is still no service on Line 3 on the TTC as a result of the storm. “TTC crews cleared, by hand, more than 14,500 cubic metres of snow along Line 3 (The Scarborough RT) from McCowan Yard Guideway to Kennedy Loop,” the bulletin read.
6	TTC spokesperson Stuart Green tweeted that shuttle buses will be operating. Toronto Mayor John Tory declared a “major snowstorm condition” Monday to help with the snow removal process. According to the condition, parking on roads designated as snow routes is prohibited for a period of 72 hours. On Friday, the City extended the major snowstorm condition until full clean-up is complete. According to Transportation Services, crews have travelled more than 350,000 km while salting and plowing expressways, arterial roads, neighbourhood roads and sidewalks.

M	The City of Toronto has declared what it calls a "major snowstorm condition" to ensure its crews can remove the snow on city streets left by a winter storm on Monday. Mayor John Tory said the declaration means parking is prohibited for 72 hours on designated snow routes.
6	Such routes are primarily in the downtown core and include all streetcar routes. All are clearly signed. Anyone who parks on a designated snow route during a major snow event could be fined up to $200.
6	The snowstorm condition could be in place longer than the normal 72 hours. Tory said the declaration is necessary because of the quantity of snow that fell on Monday and the impact it could have on public safety. He said the snowfall was "extraordinary" for the city.
6	Vehicles left on snow routes can receive "a friendly tow," he said, noting that could happen on local roads as well. "I will just say that we are doing our best in a challenging situation that is more challenging than normal," Tory told reporters at a news briefing on Monday afternoon.
6	Downtown Toronto had received 36 centimetres of snow by 2 p.m. on Monday, according to a summary from the Ontario Storm Prediction Centre. Ottawa, meanwhile, received 45 centimetres of snow. The snowfall recorded at Toronto Pearson International Airport on Monday — 32 centimetres — broke a daily record for Jan. 17, according to Environment Canada. The previous daily record at Pearson was set in 1994, when 7.6 centimetres of snow fell. The summary said the snowfall amounts reported at Toronto Pearson International Airport and Ottawa International Airport fell within the Top 10 highest snowfall totals reported in a single snowfall event.
6	The last time Toronto saw a storm with more than 25 centimetres was in 2019. The last time there was more than 30 centimetres was in 2008.
6	Toronto's largest single-day snowfall, recorded at Pearson Airport, was 45.5 centimetres in February 1965. Ray Houle, a severe weather meteorologist for Environment Canada, called Monday's storm a "significant" weather event. "The general consensus around here is that it was a pretty historic storm.
6	Not very often do we get a storm that brings snowfall amounts and blizzard-like conditions like that to the Golden Horseshoe and the GTA," said Houle. On Monday night, Toronto Hydro reported scattered power outages across the city. It said restoration efforts may be affected by current weather conditions. Meanwhile, local authorities are urging Toronto residents to continue to limit travel after the storm forced road closures and a delay to in-person learning for students. "Residents are encouraged to stay home during and after this snowfall," the city said in a news release on Monday.
6	On Monday night, four GTA school boards all announced via Twitter that their schools would also be closed to in-person learning on Tuesday, including Toronto District School Board, Toronto Catholic District School Board, Peel District School Board and Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board. Students that fall under the Peel boards will move to remote learning for the day. The TDSB said "students will not participate in live remote or virtual learning," while the TCDSB said it would only offer asynchronous learning.
M	For several hours on Monday morning, the weather agency upgraded its winter storm warning to a blizzard warning; the snowfall started to taper off around noon and the warning was then downgraded and later lifted. A blizzard warning means the agency expects at least four hours with visibility that is 400 metres or less and winds of at least 40 kilometres per hour, said Steven Flisfeder, lead meteorologist with Environment Canada. In comparison, a winter storm warning means a forecast of more than 25 centimetres of snow within 24 hours, along with other criteria, such as blowing snow and reduced visibility, he said.
6	Snow started coming down overnight on Sunday, with several centimetres quickly accumulating in much of Toronto and surrounding areas. By Monday afternoon, cars and transit vehicles were getting stuck throughout the city. Shortly after 10:15 a.m.
6	ET, Toronto police announced the temporary closure of the Don Valley Parkway and Gardiner Expressway, two of the city's major arteries. Those roadways have now fully reopened. Cadillac Fairview also announced it would be closing the Eaton Centre at 4 p.m. due to inclement weather.
M	The winter storm was due to a strong low-pressure system tracking south of the Great Lakes, Environment Canada said. 129 Peter St. 5800 Yonge St. Exhibition Place, Better Living Centre, 195 Princes' Blvd. Scarborough Civic Centre, 150 Borough Dr. Other parts of Ontario were hit even harder than the Greater Toronto Area. The heaviest snowfall was forecast for eastern Ontario, the Niagara Peninsula and parts of Simcoe County.
6	Snowy road conditions had led to dozens of collisions throughout the GTA, said ​Sgt. Kerry Schmidt, spokesperson for the highway safety division of the Ontario Provincial Police. "We've been going from call to call with this kind of situation — vehicles spinning out, losing control, either getting caught in the snowbanks, getting caught on the windrows and ending up in the ditch or into the wall," Schmidt told CBC News. A day to stay off the roads, Ontario police officer says Duration 3:48 Featured Video Saying driving conditions are 'treacherous' in southern Ontario due to a major winter storm, Sgt. Kerry Schmidt of the Ontario Provincial Police asked drivers to stay off the roads until the snow stops falling. Schmidt had said the snow was slowly dissipating on Highway 401 but there was still lots to work through.
6	The OPP advised anyone who can to stay home. The TTC warned its customers to expect delays on bus and streetcar routes as a result of the road conditions. The City of Toronto has 600 snowplows, 300 sidewalk plows and 200 salt trucks working to clear the roads, according to its website. Earlier on Monday, the snowfall added a wrinkle to Ontario's already-contentious school reopening plan.
M	Students across the province were supposed to return to school for in-person classes today after two weeks of virtual learning following the winter holidays. The Toronto District and Toronto Catholic District School Boards cancelled the planned return to in-class learning on Monday because of the weather, instead offering the option of remote learning. Similar announcements were made by York Region and Dufferin-Peel Catholic district school boards, along with both the public and Catholic boards in Halton, though remote learning was not offered as an option.
6	A full list of closures can be found here. All Toronto Public Library branches were closed Monday due to the weather conditions.
6	Vaccination clinics in Toronto, Peel and York regions were also forced to shutter as a result of the worsening weather. "With the significant snowfall continuing today, all vaccination appointments are being cancelled to ensure the safety of Toronto residents and staff," Toronto Public Health (TPH) said in a news release.
6	The health unit said anyone with a scheduled appointment on Monday should have received direct communication from TPH to let them know it has been cancelled. TPH is encouraging everyone to rebook their vaccine appointments, as a result of the cancellation. Similarly, all Peel and York Region Public Health-led COVID-19 vaccination clinics were cancelled and health units are also asking everyone impacted to rebook their appointments.

X	A week after a major winter storm pummeled Toronto, snow clearing efforts continue, even as Mother Nature sends a top-up.
X	It was a week ago today that a massive 55 cm snowfall brought Toronto to a standstill, stranding hundreds of transit buses and delaying a return to in-person learning at schools. City crews have been working hard to dig out, but with temperatures that have remained steadily below zero, there has been little opportunity for the massive snowfall to naturally melt away.
6	“Just to paint a picture for you, the snow we received in just 15 hours last Monday was more than all the snow we received each January for nearly the past two decades,” Gray said. She said it was also more than the combined total from January, February and March last year. “Any normal large snow event dumps about 10 centimeters of snow, and the snowstorm last Monday was five times that amount. So I'm just telling you that to give you the scale of this operation that we're dealing with,” Gray said.
X	Gray’s update came as snow continued to fall across the city. Toronto and many parts of southern Ontario currently sit under a winter weather travel advisory. Toronto is expected to see snowfall amounts of five to 10 centimeters by Monday night and Environment Canada is warning that there could be reduced visibility on the roads due to occasional snow and blowing snow.
X	Temperatures are also expected to remain chilly for the next few days. Overnight the temperature is expected to feel like -13 with the wind chill. On Tuesday a high of -6 C is expected.
6	Speaking alongside Gray, Vince Sferrazza, director of operations and maintenance at Transportation Services, said crews have been working around the clock since the storm struck last week. While the city had warned that it would give “friendly tows” to vehicles blocking snow routes, Gray said that has largely been unnecessary as people have taken care not to park their vehicles where it might block clearing equipment. In an update to Toronto City Manager Chris Murray, Gray noted that the city has already removed 17,346 tonnes of snow and dumped 5,782 loads of snow from across the city at storage sites. She said that work is expected to continue over the next dew days.

6	A union representing thousands of Toronto Transit Commission (TTC) workers is calling for a change to the way the agency operates in severe winter weather after hundreds of buses got stuck in Monday’s snowstorm.
6	In a statement, Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU) Local 113, which represents nearly 12,000 TTC workers, called on the transit agency to implement a plan that would see service paused in major snowstorms. “While the TTC doesn’t control the weather, the snowstorm revealed major gaps in how the TTC deals with severe winter weather conditions,” Marvin Alfred, ATU Local 113 president, said in the statement. “To protect workers and riders, ATU Local 113 calls on the TTC to be better prepared for snowstorms by implementing a service plan in which vehicle accumulation levels are assessed and a hazardous service level is determined.
6	A major winter storm moved through parts of southern Ontario Monday, prompting blizzard warnings for the Toronto area. The storm led to treacherous driving conditions throughout the region and caused cars and transit vehicles to get stuck for hours. ATU Local 113 said 540 buses became stuck. “The TTC’s communication system was ineffective.
6	Calls from trapped operators were left unanswered,” ATU’s statement said, adding that “many workers and riders” were “left stranded” for eight to 10 hours. Crews continued to work to clear hundreds of buses that remained stuck in the snow Tuesday. TTC spokesperson Stuart Green told Global News that as of around 3 p.m. Tuesday, 391 buses remained stuck. He said staff were working as quickly as possible to free the vehicles.
M	Green said the union suggestion that service be paused in severe weather events is not feasible. “As far as the union suggesting that we park service until the roads are clear, that’s just a nonstarter,” he said. “There are people that are relying on us to get them where they need to go.
M	Yes, there were delays yesterday. Yes, there are delays today.
M	But you know it was fewer than half of our vehicles that got caught up in any of those log jams or got stuck at any time. Green said there would have to be an “incredibly extreme” event to stop service entirely.
M	He said once service fully resumes, the TTC will look at possibly making some policy changes. “Our priority is getting service back and then we’ll do a deeper dive on what we could’ve done differently, if in fact there was anything we could’ve done differently,” he said.
M	He admitted that there were delays in reaching drivers who reported they were stuck and noted that the TTC was short some staff because of COVID and also individuals who simply couldn’t make it to work. “It all sort of came together at the worst possible time,” Green said. Regarding passengers, Green said that in some cases when a bus got stuck, another one may have came along and picked them up.
M	He said riders were also allowed to wait on a bus and stay warm until another one came along. “So, you know, people were able to get around or they might’ve made other arrangements themselves, but to just simply stop service until the roads are clear is a nonstarter,” he said. ATU Local 113 said when snowstorms happen in Toronto, it is a regular occurrence that buses get stuck on hills on York Mills Road, Avenue Road and other locations. “These are known areas that are affected by poor weather conditions and create hazards for operators and riders,” the union statement said.

M	The fallout from Monday’s treacherous storm has prompted several school closures and cancellations as roadways are still snow-covered and clean-up is expected to take several days.
6	Hamilton-Wentworth District School Board: All Hamilton-Wentworth District schools, child care and e-learning is cancelled for today. Administrative buildings are closed and transportation is not running. Hamilton-Wentworth Catholic District School Board: All Hamilton-Wentworth Catholic schools are closed today.
6	The elementary virtual school (for students who attend virtual regularly) will operate as per usual. The school board says in-person students can participate in asynchronous learning. Work will be posted by 10 a.m. District School Board of Niagara: All Niagara District schools are closed today.
6	Remote learning is also cancelled. Niagara Catholic District School Board: All Niagara Catholic District schools are closed today. Remote learning is also cancelled.
6	Halton District School Board All Halton District schools are closed. Administrative centres and transportation are also closed.
6	Halton Catholic District School Board: All Halton Catholic schools are closed. Administrative centres and transportation are also closed.
6	Conseil scolaire catholique MonAvenir: Schools in Toronto, Durham, York, Peel, Halton, Hamilton and Niagara are closed.
X	Students will participate in virtual learning from home. Providence Christian School:
X	School is closed today. Pathways Academy & Early Learning Centre: All programming in Niagara Falls is closed today. Milton Community Resource Centre:The centre is closed today due to inclement weather.
X	YMCA Child Care: All YMCA full day child care centres and school-age child care centres are closed throughout Hamilton and Burlington.
M	This list is updated as information is released. Please check back often or visit your local school boards website.

4	NEW YORK — A dangerous winter storm brought significant snowfall, strong thunderstorms and blustery winds to the northeastern U.S. on a holiday Monday.
7	A foot (30 centimeters) or more of snow fell in parts of New York state, Ohio and Pennsylvania Sunday night through Monday morning, and tens of thousands of customers in the region were without power. Forecasters in Buffalo, New York, said the snow was falling fast, dumping almost 17 inches (43 centimeters) by 10 a.m. The city advised people not to travel if they didn't need to on this Martin Luther King Jr. Day, while some surrounding towns instituted a travel ban.
7	The weather service said 17 inches (43 centimeters) or more of snow were reported in Ashtabula County in northeast Ohio. "We've had a very strong area of low pressure that's kind of moved up the coast, with pretty heavy snowfall accumulations from Tennessee, North Carolina all the way into the northeast," said meteorologist Marc Chenard at the weather service's headquarters in College Park, Maryland. New York City got less than an inch of snow, which was washed away by rain overnight.
7	The weather service said spotty showers and snow showers might continue through Monday night. Forecasters said wind gusts in New York City could top out around 45 mph (72 kph), and around 60 mph (97 kph) on Long Island. Sleet and rain were the main threats for much of Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island. Periods of snowfall transitioned to rain overnight.
7	NWS meteorologists in Boston said wind gusts could reach 70 mph (113 kph). The howling winds spread a fire that destroyed a motel and two other structures in coastal Salisbury, Massachusetts, early Monday. The storm forced the closure of many COVID-19 vaccination and testing sites in the northeast Monday.
1	The massive winter system brought similar conditions Sunday to the Southeast, where thousands were still without power Monday. Multiple states reported inches of snow, and two people died Sunday in North Carolina when their car drove off the road.
2	The roof of a dormitory partially collapsed in the state at Brevard College, with officials saying it broke under the weight of snow. There were no injuries. Severe thunderstorms in Florida spun up a tornado with 118 mph (190 kph) winds, destroying 30 mobile homes and majorly damaging 51 more.
7	Three minor injuries were reported. Wet roadways in the South were expected to refreeze Monday, creating icy conditions for motorists. Plow trucks were scattered along roads and highways up the East Coast, working to clear the way for travelers. Some crashes were reported in the early morning hours, including an ambulance involved in a wreck on Interstate 279 in Pittsburgh, KDKA-TV reported.

M	The storm dropped the first widespread significant snowfall of the 2021-22 season with a widespread swath of 6"-10" accumulations throughout the region west of the Hudson valley as well as in parts of southern Bennington and central and eastern Berkshire counties. Higher elevation locations in the Catskills, Adirondacks, the southern Greens and northern Berkshires came in with 10"-14" on average with much lighter amounts of 4"-6" in the Glens Falls, Saratoga, Capital Region and 2"-4" in the Hudson valley east of the Hudson river.
M	Albany came in with 4.4" making it the heaviest single storm snowfall of the season to date. Snowfall amounts were modulated across the region due to the frequently observed orographic effects of upslope and downslope flow which were particularly enhanced with this storm due to the lack of strong dynamical forcing for any long length of time due to the track of the storm just a little west of Albany. The conceptual physical process of orographic lift is pretty basic.
M	When a flow of moisture rich air encounters a mountain, that air is forced to rise (upslope flow) causing it to cool which forces the water vapor in the air mass to condense into either water droplets or snow crystals, depending on temperature, which subsequently leads to an enhanced area of precipitation along the windward slope of the mountain. Both the magnitude and duration of the flow ultimately governs how much precipitation falls.
M	Conversely, as the air continues along its path and flows down the leeward slope of the mountain (downslope flow,) it's compressed causing it to warm and dry which leads to a precipitation minimum or a shadow effect. The effects of upslope and downslope flow play out locally all of the time here, most notably in the winter because of the typically strong wind fields in place which enhance the effect. We observer orographic impacts on precipitation so frequently in our area because of the unique configuration of the east-west Mohawk valley intersecting with the north-south Hudson valley bounded by the Adirondacks to the north, Catskills to the southwest, Taconics, Greens, and Berkshires to the east, which allow for both precipitation and temperature impacts to occur in many wind direction scenarios.
M	In the case of this storm, the impacts of both enhancing and diminishing snowfall over the various parts of our region was more pronounced than we typically observe because of the storm's inland track which limited the upper level forcing for lift in the atmosphere across eastern New York and western New England which can often mask or mute orographic effects. In this case, the storm's most lasting dynamical lifting occurred over western New York in a zone west of the storm track where a quasi-stationary band (deformation zone) of heavy snow developed leading to widespread totals of 12" or more.
M	Locally, a period of widespread but short lived moderate to heavy snow did develop in response to a strong ESE wind on the front end of the storm between 8-9pm and midnight Sunday January 16 which transported warm moist air up and over the cold air that was in place at the surface where temperatures were observed in the 20s. Because the storm was intense (lowest barometric pressure at Albany of 28.97" around 1pm) the east to southeast wind fields around it were strong which not only created strong lift over the mid level warm front, which was responsible for a widespread couple of hour period of heavy snow between midnight and 3am, but also allowed for the continuation of significant snow after the synoptic scale lift had moved away through the wind's interaction with the local terrain.
M	This is why after 3-4am, precipitation rates decreased dramatically in the Hudson valley as strong downslope flow warmed and dried the air through compression which ultimately caused what snow remained to change briefly to sleet and then to rain or drizzle, especially from the Capital Region on south by 6-7am. However, where the flow was forced to rise over higher terrain areas in western New England and west of the Hudson valley, temperatures remained lower due to the upslope which allowed periods of moderate snow to continue through the morning leading to heavier accumulations.
M	The upslope flow weakened through the late morning and early afternoon in response to the storm moving practically overhead with the zone of strong wind shifting to the north and east of the the local area. By 6-7am most of the snow from the storm had accumulated in the Hudson valley and Capital Region with most of the rest of the accumulation done by early afternoon. There was some additional snow through the afternoon and evening as a lobe of weakening deformation snow moved through the Mohawk valley and Adirondacks with occasional snow showers across the remainder of the region through the evening. There were even a couple of cloud to ground lightning strikes in the Saratoga-Capital Region between 5 and 5:45pm with quick moving strong convective feature that was undergoing a transition from a rain shower to snow shower where there was considerable mixing of water and ice in a zone of rapid upward motion which is a favorable environment for cloud electrification.
M	Albany Doppler Radar Image around 4:30am Monday January 17, 2022: The Albany radar at this time showed widespread steady snow across most of the region with the exception of the Hudson valley, where in especially the circled region, a relative minimum was observed as strong east to southeast downslope winds were effectively drying up snowfall in the lee of the higher terrain of the Taconics and Berkshires to the east. Another shadow area at this time was occurring over western Otsego and western Delaware counties.
M	Albany Doppler Radar Image around 5:30am Monday January 17, 2022: The strong downslope flow precipitation shadow had lifted north into the upper Hudson valley at this time with a relative minimum of snowfall, in especially the circled area on the image. Widespread moderate snowfall, however continued outside of the Hudson valley shadow across western New England and throughout the region west of the Hudson valley, with the exception of western Otsego and Delaware counties where a downslope precipitation shadow was also observed. Albany Doppler Radar Image around 7:00am Monday January 17, 2022:
M	By 7:00am the strong lift created by the storm's flow over the mid level warm front had abated leaving mainly orographic effects to continue generating precipitation. Warming and drying in the Hudson valley due to downslope flow was pronounced at this time with any snow in the process of changing over to a light rain or drizzle. Areas of steadier moderate snow, however, continued where terrain both east and west of the Hudson valley forced it.
M	Albany Doppler Radar Image around 8:00am Monday January 17, 2022: For everyone in the Hudson valley the storm was largely over by 8:00am with only some nuisance fine light snow or drizzle as strong downslope flow continued to warm and dry this part of the region. (Temperatures ultimately warmed to 40 by the early afternoon at Albany)
M	Upslope snow, however, continued in areas west and east of the Hudson valley where it remained colder. Albany Doppler Radar Image around 9:00am Monday January 17, 2022:
M	The storm's dry slot was impinging on the region by mid morning with areas of rain showers in the Capital Region and mid Hudson valley and scattered pockets of heavier snow in higher elevation locations. The precipitation shield continued to break up through the remainder of the morning as the low centered ultimately passed just west of the Capital Region through the early afternoon.

6	This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content More than 150 OC Transpo buses were stranded in the blizzard on Monday, with some operators left in the disabled vehicles for more than eight hours, according to the transit agency’s largest union.
M	Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada. Exclusive sports coverage by Bruce Garrioch, Ken Warren and Tim Baines, in-depth crime and news from Gary Dimmock and city life coverage from arts writers Lynn Saxberg and Peter Hum.
M	Plus, daily newsletters and events. Unlimited online access to Ottawa Sun and 15 news sites with one account. Ottawa Sun ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on.
M	Daily puzzles, including the New York Times Crossword. Support local journalism. SUBSCRIBE TO UNLOCK MORE ARTICLES Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada. Exclusive sports coverage by Bruce Garrioch, Ken Warren and Tim Baines, in-depth crime and news from Gary Dimmock and city life coverage from arts writers Lynn Saxberg and Peter Hum.
M	Plus, daily newsletters and events. Unlimited online access to Ottawa Sun and 15 news sites with one account.
M	Ottawa Sun ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles, including the New York Times Crossword. Support local journalism.
M	REGISTER TO UNLOCK MORE ARTICLES Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience. Access articles from across Canada with one account.
M	Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments. Enjoy additional articles per month.
6	Article content Amalgamated Transit Union Local 279 accused OC Transpo of being unprepared for winter service and president Clint Crabtree called on the agency to revert to a special-service schedule for days with forecasts of winter storms. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. tap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or STUCK: Some bus drivers stranded in vehicles for eight-plus hours during storm: union Back to video We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Article content Where transit customers might balk at a reduced schedule on a storm day, Crabtree said the transit service wasn’t running the best it could on those days anyway since buses were getting stuck and not picking up customers.
6	Crabtree said “more than a handful” of bus operators were stranded for at least eight hours after their buses couldn’t move. One operator was stuck on Hunt Club Road between 11 a.m. and 7:30 p.m., he said.
6	Advertisement 3 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “They had no access to washrooms, they had no access to food,” Crabtree said.
6	“Some operators were stuck in the middle of nowhere.” According to Crabtree, there is no protocol for retrieving an operator on a stuck bus, though OC Transpo does its best to get to the employee. Sometimes, available Para Transpo buses are dispatched to get stranded operators, he said. However, operators were having trouble getting answers from the control room on Monday, Crabtree said.
6	About 48 centimetres of snow fell on Ottawa that day. OC Transpo reported the LRT system worked well during the blizzard with minimal delays under an 11-train operation, but the bus system struggled on snow-covered roads. Crabtree said the union had raised its concerns about bus operations in snowstorms before. He believes a “just-in-time booking” for snowstorms, resulting in schedule reductions for customers, is the best way to avoid a high number of stuck buses and outsourced towing assistance.
6	Advertisement 4 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “To have that many tow calls in one day, it’s unacceptable. There’s no need for it,” Crabtree said.
6	The City of Ottawa responded in a statement attributed to Troy Charter, its director of transit operations. “OC Transpo provides critical public transit to our residents so that they can get where they need to go, in all weather conditions. Due to the volume of snow that accumulated in a very short time on January 17, we experienced challenges with all bus types across the city,” Charter said.
6	Charter said the transit operations and communications centre maintained contact with operators and, if a bus became immobilized, the communications centre would dispatch help. “Acknowledging the unique intensity of Monday’s significant weather event, the safety of our customers and our staff was and always is OC Transpo’s number one priority,” Charter said.
M	Advertisement 5 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Read Next Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Latest National Stories Advertisement 1 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

6	Its been a tough Wednesday for Ottawa's light rail system, one day after OC Transpo praised the system for its handling of a record-breaking snowstorm. The morning launch on the Confederation Line was delayed due to snow removal operations, and then a train stopped at Cyrville Station over the lunch hour.
6	The problems began at 5:22 a.m., when OC Transpo's Twitter account reported the first trains were departing behind schedule, and service at the Rideau and Parliament stations was only on the eastbound platforms. "Some trains departed behind schedule this morning to allow for enhanced snow removal operations and so crews could clear a switch where trains access the mainline from the Maintenance and Storage Facility," said Troy Charter, Director of Transit Operations, in a statement to CTV News Ottawa and Newstalk 580 CFRA. Charter says all 11 trains were in service by 6:30 a.m.
6	There was another disruption in transit service in the east end over the lunch hour. At 12:01 p.m., OC Transpo reported a train was stopped at Cyrville Station, and service at the Cyrville and St. Laurent Stations is only at the eastbound platform.
6	The issue was resolved at 1 p.m. and full service was running on the track. "The operator attempted to troubleshoot the issue; however, a Rideau Transit Maintenance (RTM) technician was required to attend to the train and return it to the Maintenance and Storage Facility," said Charter.
M	The issues come one day after OC Transpo said it was "quite pleased" with the Confederation Line's performance during Monday's record snowfall. "That rapid snowfall and that rapid accumulation that affected the roads and all motorists alike, you know, the rail line ran smoothly and ran reliably throughout the day and throughout the entire event, so we're very pleased with what happened yesterday," said Charter.

M	Featured Video Airport taxi driver Sukhi Sidhu says he's been stranded on Toronto's Highway 401 since 7:15 a.m. ET. When airport taxi driver Sukhi Sidhu set out on Highway 401 in Toronto at about 7 a.m. Monday, he had no idea he'd be sitting there stranded, unable to move an inch, for more than eight hours.
M	Sidhu was on his way to pick up a customer in Scarborough, Ont., getting onto the highway heading east at about 7 a.m. It was "total whiteout conditions," he said.
M	But he had a client to pick up who needed to get to the airport. The smaller roadways were a write-off, he said, so he was certain the highway would be his best bet.
M	About 15 minutes into his trip, traffic came to a halt, and he was stuck in the same spot for more than eight hours. Sidhu used to drive a truck, so he's used to making sure to have a full tank of gas, but said he worried about those who might not be as prepared.
M	The Ontario Provincial Police says plows are trying to get through, but that there are vehicles snowed over and transport trucks blocked — and the loss of daylight will make the cleanup that much more difficult. "Help is coming, we're trying to get through there," but there's no way of knowing how long it could take to get people out, said highway safety division spokesperson Sgt. Kerry Schmidt.
M	As for how to clean things up, Schmidt said crews will have to start at the front of the gridlock, clearing out vehicles to create a path and then get others into that path so they can drive out. Drivers who can are urged to take off traction control and try to help push each other out where possible, he said.
M	"We're not stopping until we're done," Schmidt said. As of about 4 p.m. Schmidt said there was no access to Highway 400 northbound from Highway 401 eastbound because of transport trucks blocking the lanes. "The snow is drifting up and it's causing all sort of issues," Schmidt said.
M	Highway 401 eastbound collector lanes approaching Keele Street are also jammed up. The situation wasn't much better on many other routes, with several TTC and GO Transit vehicles seemingly ensnared in the snow.
M	Elsewhere in the city, strings of streetcars were seen stalled. At about 2:50 p.m., the Toronto Transit Commission said a majority of its fleet was stuck in the snow.
M	Earlier Monday, blizzard conditions forced the shutdown of two of Toronto's major arteries, the Gardiner Expressway and Don Valley Parkway. Both have since reopened. Around 10:15 a.m., police closed both routes, along with all connected ramps, to help clear them of heavy snow and stuck vehicles.
M	By about 12:35 p.m., the eastbound Gardiner had reopened entirely. By 2 p.m., the westbound Gardiner had opened fully as well, along with the southbound DVP.
M	By about 2:45 p.m., the DVP had fully reopened. The closures meant GO Transit buses serving the city's Union Station bus terminal were forced to change the start and end points of their trips, the transit agency said.
M	For trips to and from the west end, GO Transit said buses would pick up and drop off customers at Port Credit GO. Passengers could use the GO train to and from Union Station.
M	Buses would also drop off and pick up passengers at GO Transit's Highway 407 bus terminal. Customers could then use the TTC to and from Union Station.
M	GO Transit says passengers can find more detailed information about their routes here. The hazardous wintry conditions also forced the closure of the UP Express train that runs from Toronto's Pearson International Airport to the downtown core.
M	Meanwhile police have urged residents to "stay home and off the roadways" if possible. "If you have to travel, please take it slow. Make sure you have a full tank of gas, warm clothing and emergency supplies," they said in a tweet.

M	The Ontario Provincial Police say there are major delays all across highways in the Greater Toronto Area due to the aftermath of a winter snowstorm that hit southern Ontario. OPP Sgt.
M	Kerry Schmidt said that although the highways are plowed, there are still jackknifed transport trucks, stranded vehicles, collisions, and lots of vehicles on the road. Schmidt is urging drivers to stay home. “If you can stay home, just stay home. It’s not worth getting out here right now,” Schmidt said.
M	He said there are problems across Highway 401 in Toronto and Mississauga as well as the 410 in Brampton. There are dozens of calls for service, he added.
M	Highway 401 eastbound express at Islington Avenue is closed, and traffic is being forced off into the collector lanes, Schmidt said. Just before 9 a.m., OPP also tweeted about a serious collision on the southbound Highway 400 approaching Highway 401.
M	A photo posted by officials show a truck rear ended by a pickup truck. A driver has serious injuries and three lanes are blocked due to the crash.

4	The mid-January snowstorm that hit western New York on Monday, January 17, 2022, is closing the area's largest public school system for another day as Buffalo attempts to dig out.
7	After the confusion surrounding if schools were going to be open or closed on Tuesday, January 18, 2022; officials from the Buffalo Public School announced via their Official Facebook Account that in-person instruction is being halted on Wednesday, January 19, 2022, for the second straight day. While the physical school buildings will be closed to students, staff, and administrators; classes are set to resume using remote technology. Students are expected to follow their normal class schedule online using Microsoft Teams and the Schoology App.
7	Parents and students who have trouble using these tools can click here to find instructions from the Buffalo Public Schools on how to access the necessary programs. Many streets within the city of Buffalo remain clogged with snow after the storm, which dropped more than 16 inches of snow at the Buffalo-Niagara International Airport according to the National Weather Service. Unofficial totals have that snowfall with the city limits to around 20 inches.
7	In addition to the city of Buffalo Public Schools announcing the closing, other schools in Buffalo are following suit. You can get a complete list of current closures right here on our school closings page.
7	Snow removal crews better work fast because Accuweather is predicting another blast of cold snowy weather to hit the area starting late Wednesday night and going into Thursday afternoon. This storm is currently moving east from northern Canada and will sweep across much of New York State.
M	26 Worst Streets To Live On During a Snow Storm When the snow doesn’t let up, it makes you wonder if a plow has shown up — at least once? They most likely have, but nonetheless, these are the worst 26 streets to live on during a snow storm in Western New York. During a Buffalo snow storm, you will see... Top 40 Winter Restaurants in Buffalo The best winter restaurants in Buffalo and Western New York.

6	The winter storm hitting the Ottawa-Gatineau region has already broken a century-old record for snow for Jan. 17, and that snow coupled with the wind will make travel difficult for most of the day. Winter storm warnings continue to cover the entire region after light snow started off the storm early Monday morning in Ottawa, getting heavier after sunrise.
6	The snowfall is expected to continue through the day — with the worst in late morning — until this evening, petering out some time after sunset in the capital. About 12 centimetres fell in an hour at the Ottawa airport in the morning, according to CBC climatologist Ian Black.
6	The 43 centimetres recorded there by 1 p.m. has already broken a one-day record for snowfall on this date, Jan. 17, in Ottawa using data back to 1890. It's also more snow than the airport recorded for all 31 days of December. The previous record was 22.9 centimetres in 1920.
M	Winter storm leaves Ottawa-Gatineau residents digging out Duration 1:03 Featured Video A winter storm hit the region Monday, breaking a century-old record for the most snow in one day — 43 centimetres had fallen at the Ottawa airport by 1 p.m. Highway 7 has been closed between Highway 417 and Kaladar because Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) say plows can't keep it safe and multiple vehicles are blocking the road. Police are investigating a fatal crash between two large trucks and a passenger vehicle on Highway 417 around Maxville around 5:30 a.m. A closed stretch of the highway reopened around 2 p.m. By mid-morning, OPP in Ottawa said there were serious visibility problems on major highways and warned against taking them, saying they couldn't guarantee help right away if drivers run into trouble.
5	In Ottawa, the forecast called for anywhere from 20 to 30 centimetres of snow on Monday with wind gusts hitting 40 or 50 kilometres an hour. The Belleville area is another with widespread visibility problems and was the first to switch to a blizzard warning.
M	All blizzard warnings have turned back into winter storm warnings. Those problems were expected to improve, only slightly albeit, after 11 a.m. and will continue to present an issue until Monday evening. To the capital's north, Maniwaki's forecast predicts 30 centimetres of snow.
X	A bit less snow could fall along Lake Ontario compared to the capital. Kingston Transit has cancelled many routes today.
M	The forecast has led to many cancellations, including all school buses for the region's boards, and the closure of some community vaccine clinics. Ottawa's weather records don't include many cases of 30 or more centimetres of snow in a single day — just 16 days going back to 1890. Only five days have records of 40 centimetres or more.
X	Monday's high of –4 C is the warmest in a day in more than a week. Cold temperatures return Tuesday, resembling the weather that hit the capital last week, with a high of –16 C in Ottawa matching Monday's overnight low. Wednesday could be warmer and bring more snow.

X	Two people have died in separate crashes on Highway 417 in eastern Ontario.
X	The first crash happened around 5:30 a.m. Monday on the eastbound highway in North Glengarry, Ont. between Highland Road and County Road 23, police said. One person was pronounced dead at the scene.
X	The eastbound highway was closed between Highland Road and County Road 23 for the police investigation. The second crash took place on Highway 417 westbound underneath the White Lake Road overpass in Arnprior at around 12:25 p.m.
X	One person was pronounced dead at the scene. Highway 417 westbound is closed between County Road 29 and Campbell Drive for the investigation. Police are not releasing the victims’ name pending notification of their next-of-kin.

M	STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. — A winter storm brought snow flurries, strong wind gusts and showers to New York City from Sunday evening to Monday morning with Staten Island seeing its fair share of rain, collected data shows.
M	The National Weather Service recorded rainfall totals of more than 2 inches across Staten Island during the storm. According to the data, Staten Island saw average rainfall totals of 2.06 inches over a 24-hour period from Sunday to Monday morning. The totals were shared by the weather service shortly after the coastal flood advisory for Staten Island expired at noon.
M	Rainfall totals on Staten Island were higher than any of the other New York City boroughs, as well as recorded totals in Fairfield, Conn., North Arlington, N.J., Harrison, N.J., Stony Brook, N.Y., and many other counties in the tri-state area. The National Weather Service predicts Staten Island could see a slight chance of rain and snow showers before 4 p.m. Monday, and a slight chance of snow showers after 4 p.m. Little to no snow accumulation is expected.
M	The steady temperature on Monday is predicted to stay around 38 degrees with gusts as high as 34 mph, according to forecasters. Later Monday evening, the forecast calls for cloudy conditions and a low temperature around 25 degrees.
M	It will be breezy and the wind chill will make it feel closer to 15 and 20 degrees, according to the service. With temperatures dropping below freezing, ice is possible this evening due to the rain and snow showers.
M	Commuters and pedestrians should use caution while driving or walking. Staten Island won’t need to worry about any other precipitation until Wednesday evening when there is a chance of rain and snow showers in the forecast. FOLLOW ANNALISE KNUDSON ON FACEBOOK AND TWITTER.

4	A winter storm on January 3 impacted Maryland, Virginia, and Washington, D.C., dropping 12 to 16 inches of snow and causing a traffic backup over a 50-mile stretch of Interstate 95 in northern Virginia that lasted more than 24 hours.
7	Temperatures were generally a few degrees above normal across the region for the winter season. This was largely due to a warmer month of December, with six sites recording their second warmest December on record.
7	The southern and eastern portions of the region experienced below normal precipitation, while areas to the west generally experienced slightly above normal precipitation; the area around Pittsburgh and a part of central Pennsylvania received over 150 percent of their normal precipitation. Despite several winter storms in January and February, the region largely received less than normal amounts of snow. In an analysis of future differences from normal precipitation, we found that future projections of average annual precipitation show greater departures from “normal” across the Mid-Atlantic when using the 1981–2010 normal as a baseline than when comparing to the 1991–2020 normal.
M	This summary focuses on winter weather and climate events in the Chesapeake Bay watershed and provides highlights from the greater Mid-Atlantic region. The winter season is defined as the months of December, January, and February.
M	The MARISA region covers Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, and Pennsylvania and the portions of New York and West Virginia that fall within the boundaries of the Chesapeake Bay watershed, as shown in Figure 1 above. We refer to this region as the Mid-Atlantic region in the rest of the climate summary.
0	After a quiet December, multiple winter storms affected the Chesapeake Bay watershed during January. On January 3, a storm spread snow cover over much of Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C., with the greatest snowfall totals of 12 to 16 inches falling in northern Virginia and southern Maryland.
0	It was the D.C. metro area’s biggest snowstorm in three years; the 6.7 inches of snow registered at Reagan National Airport was the most since January 2019. Wind gusts frequently reached 50 miles per hour and occasionally were as high as 70 miles per hour during the storm.
0	Travel was significantly disrupted, with thousands of crashes and disabled vehicles. For example, by 9:30am, disabled tractor-trailers were reported to be blocking lanes on Interstate 95 in Virginia, and snowfall rates and amounts were high enough that plows became stuck and could not clear the highway of snow. Hundreds of drivers were stranded in the resulting traffic jam, some for more than 24 hours, along a 50-mile stretch of Interstate 95 in Virginia.
0	There were numerous flight delays and cancellations across the Baltimore-Washington metropolitan area, where a few airports issued ground stops due to snow accumulating on runways. The heavy, wet snow and gusty winds downed trees and wires, causing around 450,000 customers in Virginia and nearly 100,000 customers in Maryland to lose power. In some cases, as many as 90 percent of the residents in some counties lost power.
0	The storm was among “the five worst winter storms in Dominion Power Virginia’s history”. Additionally, the storms’ strong winds combined with higher-than-normal tides led to moderate to major coastal flooding, particularly in the Lower Chesapeake Bay, inundating roads. A few days later, from January 6 to 7, another storm dropped snow on portions of the watershed.
0	The greatest snowfall totals of 6 to 8 inches were measured in western and central Maryland and south-central Pennsylvania. Winter storm conditions led to difficult travel and school closures. On January 16 and 17 another winter storm brought snow, ice, and rain to the watershed.
0	The greatest storm snowfall totals of 12 to 14 inches fell in western Maryland and central New York, where totals also included lake effect snowfall. Some locations in Maryland and Virginia saw as much as 0.3 inches of ice accumulation.
0	The storm also produced wind gusts of 30 to 60 miles per hour. The storm’s main impact was in creating transportation problems.
0	Slick road conditions were reported and Virginia experienced 482 crashes and 486 disabled vehicles on January 16 alone. Travel was therefore discouraged overnight and into the morning of January 17.
0	From January 21 to 22, a storm dropped up to 8.5 inches of snow on southeastern Virginia, with the greatest totals falling in Virginia Beach, making it the area’s most significant snowfall since January 2018. A storm tracked across the Mid-Atlantic then rapidly strengthened off the East Coast on January 28 and 29, bringing snow and strong winds to portions of Virginia, Maryland, and Delaware.
0	Storm snowfall totals were generally 6 inches or less, except on the Delmarva Peninsula where snow totals were up to 14 inches. Winds gusted as high as 55 miles per hour, resulting in blizzard conditions for coastal areas along the Delmarva Peninsula. The National Weather Service office in Wakefield, Virginia noted that “these were the first Blizzard Warnings issues for anywhere in the Wakefield County Warning Area since early January of 2018”.
0	From February 3 to 4, a storm system brought a range of weather conditions to the watershed. Extreme northern parts of the region in central New York saw all snow, accumulating 6 to 12 inches. The rest of central New York and northern Pennsylvania saw a mix of precipitation types including snow, sleet, freezing rain, and rain.
0	For example, Williamsport, Pennsylvania saw 0.4 inches of snow, 0.2 inches of freezing rain, and rain. Meanwhile, much of southern Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia saw rain and little, if any, snow or ice.
0	Parts of Pennsylvania saw minor flooding due to heavy rain, snowmelt, and ice jams. On February 18, a strong cold front moved across the watershed, causing temperatures to drop rapidly.
0	Wind gusts of up to 65 miles per hour accompanied the front, downing trees and wires and leading to scattered power outages. On February 19, a line of snow squalls associated with an Arctic cold front produced a brief period of heavy snow and gusty winds, creating whiteout conditions and a dangerous travel situation in central New York and central Pennsylvania. Wind gusts of up to 60 miles per hour along and behind the front downed trees and wires across the region.
0	From February 24 to 25, the watershed saw another mixed precipitation storm event. The greatest snowfall totals of 4 to 6 inches were measured in the far northern parts of the watershed in central New York.
0	The rest of the region saw limited snowfall, rain, and as much as 0.3 inches of ice accumulation, particularly in south-central Pennsylvania and western and central Maryland. The ice coasted untreated surfaces and led to some downed trees and wires.
7	The U.S. Drought Monitor from December 7 showed areas of severe and moderate drought in parts of southern and eastern Virginia and abnormally dry conditions in much of the rest of the state. Abnormal dryness was also present in parts of eastern West Virginia and southern and eastern Maryland. Dry conditions led several Virginia counties to issue burn bans in early December.
7	Below-normal December precipitation caused the dry conditions to intensify, with moderate drought and abnormal dryness expanding in southern parts of the watershed over the course of the month. Frequent storms in January eased much of the drought conditions in Virginia, with only small areas of abnormal dryness and moderate drought lingering in western and southern portions of the state.
7	Abnormal dryness was also alleviated in several other parts of the watershed, with dryness persisting only in the western half of Virginia, a sliver of southeastern Virginia, northern portions of the Delmarva Peninsula, and south-central Pennsylvania. Wet conditions during the first half of February erased moderate drought in Virginia and abnormal dryness in south-central Pennsylvania. Areas of abnormal dryness lingered in Virginia, particularly central Virginia, through February.
7	Figure 3 shows the December 2021 through February 2022 average temperature compared with the climate normal (normal)—i.e., the average temperature from 1991 to 2020. The figure shows that the majority of areas experienced temperatures a few degrees above their normal temperatures.
7	Large portions of Virginia, and a few other areas across the region experienced temperatures that were 2–4 degrees Fahrenheit (F) above normal, and small portion of Maryland and Virginia on the Chesapeake Bay experienced temperatures that were 4–6 degrees F above normal. These departures from normal temperatures are similar to what was observed in both the fall and summer 2021 seasons where temperatures were generally 0–2 degrees F above normal.
X	Figure 3. December 1, 2021 – February 28, 2022, Departure from Normal Temperature (degrees Fahrenheit) SOURCE: Northeast Regional Climate Center, 2021 (https://www.nrcc.cornell.edu).
X	Used with permission. NOTE:
X	Normal temperature is based on the winter season’s average temperature data from 1991–2020. Yellow, orange, and red indicate above-normal temperatures. Blue indicates below-normal temperatures.
X	The boundaries of the Chesapeake Bay watershed are outlined in bold black. Average departure from normal temperature is based on a station’s normal temperature for winter compared with the same station’s winter 2021–2022 average temperature. Station-level departures from normal are spatially interpolated across the region.
X	Both are produced by the Northeast Regional Climate Center. These can be found at https://www.rcc-acis.org/docs_gridded.html.
7	Eight sites in the Mid-Atlantic experienced average seasonal winter temperatures that ranked among their top 20 warmest on record. The locations and ranks are reported in Table 1.
7	Charlottesville, Virginia experienced its 4th warmest winter on record, Washington, D.C. its 12th warmest, and Salisbury, Maryland its 20th warmest winter on record. (warmest) Charlottesville, VA 42.0 40.4 4 Dulles Airport, VA 38.7 36.0 7 Richmond, VA 43.3 40.4 10 Lynchburg, VA 41.6 37.9 12 Washington National, DC 41.6 39.7 12 Baltimore, MD 39.3 36.5 19 Harrisburg, PA 35.3 33.3 20 Salisbury, MD 40.4 38.7 20 SOURCE: Northeast Regional Climate Center, 2022 (http://www.nrcc.cornell.edu).
7	Used with permission. In December, 13 sites in the Mid-Atlantic experienced temperatures that ranked among their top 20 warmest on record, with six experiencing their second warmest Decembers on record. The locations and ranks are provided in Table 2.
7	In contrast, only one site, Binghamton, New York, experienced a January temperature that ranked within its top 20 coldest on record. Six sites experienced February temperatures ranked within the top 20 warmest on record, including Dulles Airport, Virginia (9th warmest), Washington, D.C. (18th warmest), and Salisbury, Maryland (20th warmest on record).
7	(warmest) Dulles Airport, VA 39.7 36.4 9 Charlottesville, VA 43.6 41.4 14 Richmond, VA 44.5 41.0 14 Lynchburg, VA 42.7 38.8 18 Washington National, DC 42.6 40.0 18 Salisbury, MD 41.3 38.7 20 Source: Northeast Regional Climate Center, 2022 (http://www.nrcc.cornell.edu). Used with permission.
7	Figure 4 shows how the total precipitation for December 1, 2021 through February 28, 2022 differed from normal, with normal being defined as the average winter precipitation from 1991–2020. Winter precipitation amounts includes both rainfall and the liquid equivalent of frozen precipitation.
7	The south and eastern portions of the region experienced below-normal precipitation, with some areas experiencing as little as 50 to 75 percent of their normal precipitation amounts. Areas to the west generally experienced at least their normal amount of precipitation, with portions of central and western Pennsylvania, south-western Virginia, and West Virginia experiencing precipitation that was more than 125 percent of normal. A similar pattern of precipitation was observed during the fall 2021 season where portions of Pennsylvania and New York received above average precipitation while much of the rest of the region was drier than normal.
X	Figure 4. December 1, 2021 – February 28, 2022, Percentage of Normal Precipitation SOURCE: Northeast Regional Climate Center, 2021 (https://www.nrcc.cornell.edu).
X	Used with permission. NOTE:
X	Normal seasonal precipitation is based on precipitation data from 1991–2020. Brown shades indicate below normal seasonal precipitation. Green shades indicate above normal seasonal precipitation.
X	The boundaries of the Chesapeake Bay watershed are outlined in bold black. Average departures from normal precipitation are based on a station’s normal precipitation for winter compared with the same station’s winter 2021–2022 average amount of precipitation. Station-level departures from normal are spatially interpolated across the region.
X	Both are produced by the Northeast Regional Climate Center. These can be found at https://www.rcc-acis.org/docs_gridded.html.
7	Four sites in the Mid-Atlantic region saw winter precipitation amounts that ranked in their top 20 driest on record. The locations and ranks are provided in Table 3.
7	Charlottesville, VA, which had its 4th warmest winter on record (shown in Table 1), also experienced its 10th driest winter on record. Dulles Airport, VA and Salisbury, MD similarly ranked within their top 20th warmest and driest winters on record.
7	(driest) Charlottesville, VA 5.53 8.35 10 Dulles Airport, VA 6.66 8.85 14 Salisbury, MD 7.44 10.35 17 Martinsburg, WV 5.60 7.74 20 SOURCE: Northeast Regional Climate Center, 2022 (http://www.nrcc.cornell.edu).
7	Used with permission. In December and January, sites in the Mid-Atlantic saw monthly precipitation totals that ranked among their top 20 on record. Charlottesville and Dulles Airport, Virginia, both experienced their second driest Decembers on record.
7	Eleven sites experienced a December that ranked in their top 20 driest Decembers. In contrast, Dulles Airport, Virginia, saw its 13th wettest January on record, and Norfolk, Virginia, its 17th wettest January on record.
7	Two sites, Salisbury, Maryland and Norfolk, Virginia, experienced a February that ranked in their top 20 driest on record. Three sites experienced a February that ranked in their top 20 wettest on record, including Williamsport and Scranton, Pennsylvania. The locations, ranks and amounts of precipitation are presented in Table 4.
7	(driest) Williamsport, PA 4.58 2.31 11 Scranton, PA 3.84 2.07 14 Binghamton, NY 3.33 2.41 20 Source: Northeast Regional Climate Center, 2022 (http://www.nrcc.cornell.edu). Used with permission. From December 1, 2021, through February 28, 2022, winter snowfall was largely below normal, as shown in Figure 5.
7	This was particularly true for the northern portion of the Mid-Atlantic, with part of central Pennsylvania and southern New York experiencing less than 50 percent of their normal snowfall. In contrast, the Delmarva Peninsula and a small area in south-central Virginia experienced more than 150 percent of their normal winter snowfall amounts.
7	These areas, as seen in Figure 4, generally experienced less precipitation than normal this winter, which indicates that they received more of their total precipitation in the form of snow than they do in an average winter season, driven by the snowy January. Figure 5.
X	December 1, 2021 – February 28, 2022, Percentage of Normal Snowfall SOURCE: Northeast Regional Climate Center, 2021 (https://www.nrcc.cornell.edu). Used with permission.
X	NOTE: Normal seasonal snowfall is based on snowfall data from 1991–2020.
X	Brown shades indicate below normal seasonal snowfall. Green shades indicate above normal seasonal snowfall.
X	The boundaries of the Chesapeake Bay watershed are outlined in bold black. Average departures from normal precipitation are based on a station’s normal snowfall for winter compared with the same station’s winter 2021–2022 average amount of snowfall.
X	Station-level departures from normal are spatially interpolated across the region. Both are produced by the Northeast Regional Climate Center.
7	These can be found at https://www.rcc-acis.org/docs_gridded.html. Two sites, Scranton, Pennsylvania and Binghamton, New York experienced one of their top 20 least snowy winter seasons on record, as shown in Table 5.
7	Scranton, Pennsylvania, with a normal snowfall of 30.3 inches, received only 13.0 inches of snow across the months of December, January, and February. In contrast, one site, Salisbury, Maryland, experienced its top 15th snowiest winter season on record and received 14.0 inches of snow, more than double its normal snowfall of 6.8 inches.
7	(snowiest) Salisbury, MD 14.0 6.8 15 Source: Northeast Regional Climate Center, 2022 (http://www.nrcc.cornell.edu). Used with permission.
7	Both Scranton, Pennsylvania, and Binghamton, New York, experienced one of their 20 least snowy Decembers on record. In contrast, six sites, including Washington National, D.C., and Baltimore, Maryland, experienced January snowfalls that ranked in their 20 snowiest months of January.
7	Five sites experienced February snowfalls that ranked in their top 20 least snowy on record. These included Scranton and Williamsport, Pennsylvania, and Dulles Airport, Virginia.
7	Overall, the region mostly received less than normal amounts of snowfall (Figure 5), with the low amounts of snow in December and February more than compensating for the January snowstorms in Maryland and Virginia detailed in Part 1. The full set of monthly rankings, locations, and amounts of snowfall are shown in Table 6.
5	(least snowy) Scranton, PA 2.6 10.9 9 Williamsport, PA 2.4 9.3 10 Binghamton, NY 10.5 19.7 12 Dulles Airport, VA 0.9 7.0 19 Harrisburg, PA 2.0 9.4 20 Source: Northeast Regional Climate Center, 2021 (http://www.nrcc.cornell.edu). Used with permission. As of February 17, 2022 the NOAA Climate Prediction Center forecasts a 40 to 50-percent chance of above normal temperatures for all of the Mid-Atlantic region for March, April and May 2022.
5	This indicates that the forecast has a chance of leaning towards having a warmer than normal spring season. The precipitation forecast shows an equal chance of wetter than, drier than, or near-normal conditions for most the Mid-Atlantic region for the same period.
5	Western Pennsylvania and New York are the only portions of the region that are forecasted to experience above average precipitation, though the probability is only a 33 to 40 percent chance. The U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook describes how drought might change across the United States and categorizes areas by whether drought could develop or become more or less intense. As of February 17, 2022, the Outlook indicates that drought is expected to develop in small portions of south-central, south-eastern, and western Virginia as well as in much of eastern Pennsylvania.
5	NOAA’s Climate Prediction Center, which monitors the likelihood of the occurrence of El Niño and La Niña climate phenomena, has a La Niña advisory active as of February 10, 2022, with a 77-percent chance that La Niña conditions will continue through May 2022.
5	Pacific Ocean temperatures are then expected to transition to neutral conditions, with a 56-percent chance of this happening in the May – July 2022 timeframe, indicating that La Niña advisory may end by the end of the spring season. La Niña conditions, may impact temperature and precipitation across the United States over the next few months.
5	La Niña conditions are one of the factors taken into account in NOAA’s long term forecasts and seasonal outlooks such as the one included in this climate summary.
M	However, other regional climate dynamics and natural climate variability also influence winter weather in the Mid-Atlantic. Additional information on La Niña is available from the Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory. The Fall 2021 edition of the Mid-Atlantic Climate Impacts Summary and Outlook discussed projected future differences from “normal” temperature.
M	One key finding from the Fall 2021 Summary was that the “use of the 1981–2010 ‘old’ normal shows over a half-degree greater increase in future average annual temperature compared to the newly-released 1991–2020 normal.” This edition continues this discussion by looking at how use of climate normals impacts understanding of future changes in “normal” precipitation. “Climate normals are a standardized measure of typical climate conditions, such as average annual temperature and precipitation.
M	The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Centers for Environmental Information (NCEI) calculates these “normals” for the continental United States based on observed conditions from weather stations over a 30-year period. Climate normals were first calculated for the 1901–1930 time period and are updated each decade.
M	The latest climate normals were calculated over the period of 1991–2020 and were released to the public in May 2021. Figure 6 shows how the climate normals from 1901 to today compare with the average precipitation from the 20th century (1901–2000). While temperatures have steadily increased compared to the 20th century average over time, we do not see a similar trend with precipitation nationwide.
M	However, since about 1961, much of the United States, including the Mid-Atlantic region, has been getting wetter and wetter. Therefore, as our definitions of “normal” change to wetter or drier conditions, the projected changes in precipitation due to climate change may seem more “normal” while in actuality being quite different from the amount of precipitation experienced even in the relatively recent past (e.g. in the last few decades). The interactive data tool shown in Figure 7 explores how the regular updates of climate normals affect our interpretation of projected future climate changes. Figure 7 shows how future projected total annual precipitation from multi-decadal periods compare to “normal”.

0	Last month was the seventh snowiest January on record. January marked the start of 2022, and what a snowy start to the new year!
0	This was the seventh snowiest January in all of Buffalo’s history with 51.2 inches. Entering January, Buffalo was almost two feet below normal in terms of snowfall.
0	That deficit turned into a surplus, with the seasonal snowfall total running about 2 inches above average by the end of the month. A big part of that was two separate days of record-breaking snowfall in the double digits.
0	The first came on Jan. 6. 17.8 inches fell at the airport that day, obliterating the old daily record of just 7.3 inches from 1974.
0	Not even two weeks later, we shattered another daily snowfall record, and it wasn’t too far off from Jan. 6. Before this year, the Jan. 17 daily snowfall record stood at 8.3 inches from 1958. This time around, 17.6 inches stacked up at the airport.
0	Those two days will now go down as the second and third snowiest January day ever for Buffalo, just behind the 18.3 inches that fell on Jan. 11, 1982. Just a week and a half ago, Buffalo saw its 2nd snowiest January day...ever. Now, we're smack dab in the middle of the 3rd snowiest, and the snow isn't even done falling.
0	Interestingly enough, it was two different setups that broke those records. The first was a potent band of lake-effect that parked itself over the city.
0	The second was a widespread, synoptic snow that put down roughly 1 to 2 feet across all of Western New York. Those two days alone accounted for more than half of the snow that fell during the month of January.
0	Don’t get me wrong, it was still a snowy month all around. There were only two days the entire month where the Buffalo Airport didn’t report any measurable snow.
0	Oddly enough, it was the last two days of January. Not only that, but it was a cold first month of 2022.
0	The monthly average temperature came in at 21.9 degrees. Compared to the last 30 years, that ended up being 3.6 degrees below average.
0	But it was an unusually mild start to the month. New Year's Day was the warmest day of January with a high of 51.
0	There would only be 11 other days where Buffalo hit or exceeded that freezing mark of 32. Only two of those occurred during the second half of January.
0	On the flip side, low temperatures fell into the single digits twelve times last month. Buffalo saw its coldest day in nearly 3 years when it got down to one degree the morning of Jan. 22.

7	A dangerous winter storm combining high winds and ice swept through parts of the US Southeast on Sunday, knocking out power, felling trees and fences and coating roads with a treacherous, frigid glaze. Tens of thousands of customers were without power in Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida.
7	Highway patrols were reporting hundreds of vehicle accidents, and a tornado ripped through a trailer park in Florida. More than 1,200 Sunday flights at Charlotte Douglas International were cancelled – more than 90 per cent of the airport’s Sunday schedule, according to the flight tracking service flightaware.com.
7	Winter Storm Izzy dumped as much as 10 inches of snow in some areas of western North Carolina as the system moved across the southeastern US, said Brian Hurley, a meteorologist with the Weather Prediction Center in College Park, Maryland. First Sergeant Christopher Knox, a spokesman for the North Carolina Highway Patrol, said that by midafternoon, the agency had responded to 300 car crashes and nearly 800 calls for service. Two people died Sunday when their car drove off the road and into trees in a median east of Raleigh.
7	The driver and passenger, both 41-year-old South Carolina residents, were pronounced dead at the scene of the single-vehicle crash. Knox said investigators believe the car was driving too fast for the conditions, described as mixed winter precipitation.
7	Meanwhile, Transportation Secretary J Eric Boyette said many roads in the central and western part of the state were covered with ice. He said the eastern part of the state was being hit with high winds and rain.
7	Kristen Baker Morrow’s six-year-old son made snow angels after their home in Crouse, North Carolina, got four inches of snow Sunday morning, but she said they couldn’t stay outside long because of the uncomfortable wind chill. “It took 30 to 45 minutes to get everything on for about 10 minutes in the snow, but it was definitely worth it for him, to get our pictures and make some memories,” said Morrow, a 35-year-old registered nurse.
7	More than 260,000 customers were without power by midafternoon Sunday, according to poweroutage.us. Especially hard hit was North Carolina, with 90,000 outages. The remaining outages were in Georgia, South Carolina and Florida.
2	The National Weather Service confirmed that a tornado with 118 mph winds (190 kph) struck southwest Florida. The weather service said the tornado was on the ground for almost two miles (three kilometres) with a maximum path width of 125 yards (115 metres).
2	Thirty mobile homes were destroyed and 51 had major damage. Three minor injuries were reported. Edward Murray, 81, told the Naples Daily News in southwest Florida that he was inside his mobile home Sunday morning when a tornado picked it up and tossed it on top of his neighbor’s home.
7	Murray and his daughter, Cokie, escaped unharmed, crawling from the wreckage. Virginia State Police said traffic came to a standstill Sunday afternoon on Interstate 81 in Roanoke County after a tractor-trailer jackknifed and the cab of the truck disconnected from the trailer in the northbound lanes. Two additional accidents occurred in the traffic backup, one with minor injuries.
7	The Virginia Department of Transportation said a detour was being set up. “Please stay off the roads if possible.
7	Begging again! Hazardous conditions,” read a tweet from VDOT’s Salem office. From midnight to 12:45pm, Virginia state troopers responded to 142 traffic crashes and 162 disabled vehicles.
7	No traffic fatalities were reported. The West Virginia Department of Homeland Security tweeted photos of snow-covered roads in the southern part of the state and advised residents to “keep calm and hunker down.”
7	The agency says the storm is moving north and most areas of the state are expected to have accumulations of at least four inches (10 centimetres), with up to 12 inches (30 centimetres) possible in the mountains. In Tennessee, there were multiple reports of abandoned and wrecked cars on snow-covered roads.
M	The storm system could cause hazardous driving conditions over a large portion of the eastern US through Monday as the wet roadways refreeze in southern states and the storm turns and moves northward through the Mid-Atlantic states and New England. While not a record-breaking storm in terms of snowfall, the large system could impact a dozen or more states.
7	New York City was expected to be spared from most, if not all, of the snowfall, but Long Island and Connecticut coastal areas were expecting gale conditions. Upstate New York was projected to get hit with up to a foot of snow to go along with high winds.
7	Six to 13 inches (15 to 33 centimetres) of snow was expected in parts of east-central Ohio and western Pennsylvania from Sunday afternoon. Frigid temperatures lingered across New England on Sunday, with wind chills in northern Vermont reported at -27 Fahrenheit (-33 Celsius). In Boston, where a cold emergency was declared on Saturday, wind chills remained below zero (-17 C) even as the region started the thaw. Associated Press reporters Dave Porter in New York City; Jeff Martin in Woodstock, Georgia; Rebecca Reynolds in Simpsonville, Kentucky; Terry Spencer in Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Ron Todt in Philadelphia; Kim Chandler in Montgomery, Alabama; and Collin Binkley in Killington, Vermont contributed to this report.

