The suspect in a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning was a member of the Saudi Air Force who was in the U.S. for training, officials said. Several law enforcement sources identified the gunman, who was killed in a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning, as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani.
Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said The suspect in a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning had been scheduled to complete a three-year the Saudi Air Force Foreign Military Sales training program in August. a three-year U.S. Air Force Foreign Military Sales training program was funded by the Saudi Air Force, Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said. Rachel L. Rojas, FBI special agent in charge of the Jacksonville division, said at a Friday night news conference Rachel L. Rojas, FBI special agent in charge of the Jacksonville division, would not yet officially confirm The suspect in a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning's name, or disclose a possible motive.
Two Escambia County sheriff's deputies, who were at the scene immediately after reports of shots fired at about 6:50 a.m., were injured in an exchange of gunfire with The suspect in a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning, authorities said. One officer was shot in the arm, and the other was shot in the leg and was in surgery, Chief Deputy Chip Simmons said at a news conference. They were both expected to survive.
Base commander Capt. Timothy Kinsella said those on a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, demonstrated "some real heroism today." Base commander Capt. Timothy Kinsella added that a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, holds active shooter drills regularly. In addition to Two Escambia County sheriff's deputies, who were at the scene immediately after reports of shots fired at about 6:50 a.m.,, six other people were injured, officials said.
"Walking through the scene was like being on the set of a movie," Morgan said. Base commander Capt. Timothy Kinsella said foreign students from ally and "partner" nations have been coming to train at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, since at least World War II. "There have always been international students training here because a naval base in Pensacola, Florida,'s a good place to train. a naval base in Pensacola, Florida,'s good-quality training," Base commander Capt. Timothy Kinsella said.
Pentagon spokesman Eastburn said 5,181 foreign students from 153 countries, including 852 Saudis, are in the U.S. for Department of Defense security cooperation-related training. Department of Defense security cooperation-related training vets foreign nationals who intend to participate. foreign nationals who intend to participate're screened for drug trafficking, terrorist activity, corruption and criminal conduct, according to Pentagon policy.
President Donald Trump tweeted Friday afternoon that Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, had heard from the Saudi monarch. "King Salman of the Saudi Air Force just the call to express the Saudi monarch's sincere condolences and give the Saudi monarch's sympathies to the families and friends" of three people, Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, wrote.
Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, also told reporters about the call. "the Saudi monarch said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of The suspect in a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning and that The suspect in a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning in no way, shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people," Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said.
"Our condolences go to the families and friends" of the victims and to everybody involved, including the wounded," Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, added. "Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, urge the Saudi Air Force to cooperate completely with the investigation. It is vital that we fully understand the specifics of how The suspect in a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning was approved to enter the U.S. and attend flight training,” Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said.
a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning unfolded in a two-floor classroom building at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida,. Jeff Bergosh, a facilities manager at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida,, had just arrived at the front gates in the morning when a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, was put on lockdown, trapping thousands of workers in thousands of workers's cars. Jeff Bergosh, a facilities manager at the naval station said more than 10,000 workers come to a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, every day — many entering from Navy Boulevard, which Friday morning became a mileslong parking lot when lockdown was ordered.
a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, remained closed for the rest of today, with only essential personnel allowed to enter. Pensacola Mayor Grover C. Robinson also asked residents to avoid the area around a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, as investigators swarmed the scene.
a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel. The economy and the culture of the surrounding area are largely entwined with the base, which resembles a college campus and where 60,000 members of the Navy, Marines, Air Force and Coast Guard receive training each year.
a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, was the U.S.'s first naval air station and is home to the popular Blue Angels flight demonstration squadron and the National Naval Aviation Museum, making a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, a popular tourist destination. a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, is also the headquarters of the Naval Education Training Command. "Anyone who serves in Navy knows that a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, is a special place" because a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, serves as a training hub and many in Navy pass through there, Pensacola Mayor Grover C. Robinson said.
In 2016, a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, was relatively late to enact security measures to separate the nearly 1 million tourists who visit each year from the sailors, Marines and other base employees, the Navy Times reported. a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, established separate entrance gates for people who worked at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, and visitors, which are about three miles apart.
Tourists also can't access military areas without passing through guard booths and roadblocks. Friday's incident was the second shooting at a Navy facility this week. On Wednesday, a U.S. sailor fatally shot two civilian Defense Department employees and wounded a third at the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii before killing a U.S. sailor, according to military officials.

The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida was a second lieutenant in the Saudi Arabian military involved in flight training at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, US Secretary of Defense Mark Esper said Friday.
Officials are looking into whether a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida was terror-related as a possible motive, but it’s still early in the investigation. Three people were killed in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida and at least eight others were injured and taken to a hospital, authorities said.
Two law enforcement sources told CNN The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, has been identified as Saudi Arabian national Mohammed Alshamrani. The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida started The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida's training in August 2017 as part of a three-year program. The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida was taking classes in basic aviation, initial pilot training and English, according to a spokesperson for the assistant to US Secretary of Defense Mark Esper.
Trump said on Twitter Trump has the call with the King of Saudi Arabia about a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida. “the King of Saudi Arabia said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, and that The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people,” Trump said.
the King of Saudi Arabia expressed “deep sadness and sorrow” in the call, state-run SPA news reported. the King of Saudi Arabia told Trump that the King of Saudi Arabia ordered Saudi services to cooperate with the investigation, according to state-run SPA news.
“There’s obviously going to be a lot of questions about The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida being a foreign national, being a part of the Saudi Air Force and then to be here training on Saudi Arabia's soil,” the King of Saudi Arabia said. Foreign students from “partner nations” have trained at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida to learn naval aviation for years, Commanding Officer of Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida Capt.
Tim Kinsella told reporters. “There’s always been international students training here because Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida’s a good place to train, Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida’s good quality training,” Kinsella said. Kinsella roughly estimated that there were a couple hundred foreign students at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida.
The FBI has taken over the investigation, according to an The FBI spokeswoman. the investigation is global in scope, a law enforcement source told CNN, with agents posted in Riyadh tasked with liaising with Saudi Arabia to obtain background information about The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida. Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan told CNN's Erin Burnett that The FBI had secured the areas on Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida where The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida was staying and The FBI had recovered The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida's laptop and cell phone.
Authorities first received a call about The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida around 6:51 a.m., Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan told reporters earlier. The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida used a handgun and was killed after two deputies exchanged gunfire with The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida.
At least eight people were injured and taken to Baptist Health Care, including one who the fall, said Chief Deputy Chip Simmons. The deputies who confronted The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida also suffered gunshot wounds – one in the arm and one in the knee.
two deputies are expected to survive. a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida occurred in a classroom building, Kinsella said. Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida will remain on lockdown until further notice, Kinsella said. The names of the victims are not being released until authorities notify the victims's families.
Walking through the scene “was like being on the set of a movie,” Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan said. a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida comes just two days after an active duty US sailor, Gabriel Romero, killed two civilian employees and injured another before killing an active duty US sailor, Gabriel Romero at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii. Investigators have not announced a motive for a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida.
Acting Secretary of the Navy Thomas B. Modly said the Navy was “struck and deeply saddened” by the recent attacks, including an incident in Little Creek, Virginia. “the recent attacks, including an incident in Little Creek, Virginia are crimes against all of us,” Acting Secretary of the Navy Thomas B. Modly said.
“the Navy's prayers are with the families of the fall and the wounded. The White House and the governor’s office reached out to local authorities to offer assistance, Pensacola Mayor Grover Robinson said.
Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida website. Many families also live there, said retired Rear Adm. John Kirby, CNN's military and diplomatic analyst, who was once stationed there. The FBI personnel from Pensacola, Jacksonville and Mobile, Alabama, are responding to Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, an The FBI spokeswoman said. Multiple agencies are cooperating on the investigation, including local law enforcement and Naval Criminal Investigative Service.

PENSACOLA, Fla. — Naval Air Station Pensacola remains closed for the day after a gunman the shooting fire Friday morning, killing at least three people and injuring several others before a gunman was shot and killed, authorities have said.
Seven people were injured, including two Escambia County deputies, during the shooting. Officials are saying a gunman was a Saudi aviation student and authorities are now investigating if the shooting is terror related.
According to Chief Deputy Chip W. Simmons of the Escambia County Sheriff's Office in a news conference, the shooting occurred in one of the classroom buildings sometime before 8 a.m. EST. Officials declined to say whether a gunman is a military member, however, it was stated that there were no other suspects.
Gov. Ron DeSantis called it a "dark day for a very great place" but saluted the work of first-responders. "The response that we saw from the deputies from Escambia County ... Gov. Ron DeSantis can tell you lives were saved because of The response that we saw from the deputies from Escambia County," Gov. Ron DeSantis said.
Naval Air Station Pensacola first posted about the shooting on Naval Air Station Pensacola's Facebook page early Friday morning reporting that the gates were closed and secured due to reports of a gunman. the Escambia County Sheriff's Office received a call about the shooting just before 8 a.m. EST and confirmed that the shooting was no longer active and a gunman was dead shortly before 9 a.m. EST.
Navy Capt. Tim Kinsella said that guns are not permitted on Naval Air Station Pensacola.
During a press conference Friday morning, Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan confirmed two Escambia County deputies were injured when two Escambia County deputies engaged with a gunman before killing a gunman. two Escambia County deputies are both expected to survive.
several others were taken to Baptist Health Care in PENSACOLA, Fla.. several others's conditions have not been released. President Donald Trump, Fla. U.S. Sen. Rick Scott, and Gov. Ron DeSantis have responded to the shooting on Twitter.
I have spoken with Naval Air Station Pensacola Base Commander Timothy Kinsella and @ECSONews Sheriff David Morgan. Just spoke with the Base Commander of the Naval Air Station in PENSACOLA, Fla.. Gov. Ron DeSantis said Gov. Ron DeSantis spoke with Trum about the shooting and the need for accountability.
Naval Air Station Pensacola, employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to Naval Air Station Pensacola's website. Naval Air Station Pensacola will remain shut down until further notice. Friday's lockdown in PENSACOLA, Fla. comes just two days after an active duty U.S. sailor killed two civilian employees and injured another before killing an active duty U.S. sailor at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii. Information from Associated Press and CNN was used in this report.

Four people are dead, including the suspect, after an active shooting incident at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola. has identified the suspect as the suspect.
According to the Associated Press, the suspect is a Saudi aviation student. AP says investigators are working to determine if an active shooting incident at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola is terror-related. The Pentagon says the suspect started the suspect's training at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola in August 2017 and was scheduled to finish in August 2020. Republican leaders are scrutinizing the U.S. Military’s training programs for foreign nationals.
"One of the things that Governor Ron DeSantis talked to the president about is given the suspect was a foreign national in the employ of a foreign service is - and there will be time to do this but obviously the government of Saudi Arabia needs to make things better for Four people. Governor Ron DeSantis think the government of Saudi Arabia are going to owe a debt here given that the suspect is one of the government of Saudi Arabia's individuals,” says Governor Ron DeSantis. The Pentagon also adds the Department of Defense (DOD)has over 5,000 foreign students from 153 countries in the U.S for security cooperation training and that every student is vetted by the Department of Defense (DOD)has.
The NY Times reports that a person who was briefed early in the investigation says six other Saudi nationals were detained for questioning near the scene of an active shooting incident at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola, including three who were seen filming an active shooting incident at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola. WEAR has not been able to confirm this with local authorities.
According to Captain Tim Kinsella with Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola, the suspect was training at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola. Captain Tim Kinsella with NAS Pensacola says hundreds of people from across the world come to cross-train at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola and Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola has always had international students.
On Friday, the Escambia County Sheriff’s Office (ECSO) received a report of the suspect at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola at 6:51 a.m. Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola says an active shooting incident at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola happened at Building 633 and spanned two floors.
When deputies arrived on scene, the Escambia County Sheriff’s Office (ECSO) says deputies shot and killed the suspect. Four people, including the suspect, have died in connection to an active shooting incident at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola. the Escambia County Sheriff’s Office (ECSO) says the suspect and two victims were pronounced dead at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola. A fourth victim was taken to Baptist Hospital for treatment and later passed away.
Seven others injured were taken to Baptist Hospital for treatment. West Florida Hospital says West Florida Hospital also treated one patient.
Sheriff David Morgan told Channel 3 News that the suspect used a handgun in an active shooting incident at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola and two deputies were also shot. two deputies were taken to Baptist Hospital for treatment, and one has been released. Sheriff David Morgan said the other deputy suffered non-life threatening injuries.
"Walking through the scene of the shooting was like being on the set of a movie," Sheriff David Morgan said in a press conference Friday morning. No victims have been identified.
Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola says the names of Four people won’t be released until 24 hours after the next of kin has been notified. Local law enforcement says FBI is heading the investigation, along with ATF and NCIS.
CaptCaptain Tim Kinsella with NAS Pensacola says Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola will stay on lockdown until further notice. NAS Pensacola Corry Station was placed on lockdown earlier on Friday, but lockdown has been lifted.
Governor Ron DeSantis arrived at Pensacola around noon. Governor Ron DeSantis said mental health coordinators have been sent to speak with witnesses and Four people's families. Governor Ron DeSantis, President Donald Trump, and Rep. Matt Gaetz all took to social media to address an active shooting incident at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola.

Six Saudi nationals were detained for questioning Friday near a naval air station in Pensacola, Fla., after a Saudi gunman the shooting -- which took place Friday morning at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola in Florida -- fire there, killing three people before being shot dead by officers, a senior U.S. official told Fox News. The FBI, which is leading the investigation into the shooting -- which took place Friday morning at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola in Fla. -- declined to reveal the identity of a Saudi gunman in the early stages of the investigation into the shooting -- which took place Friday morning at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola in Florida, but a senior U.S. official told Fox News a Saudi gunman was an aviation student from Saudi Arabia named Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani.
an aviation student from Saudi Arabia named Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani was said to be a student in a U.S. Navy training program for foreign military personnel. But Friday's events caused many officials and lawmakers to call for deeper scrutiny of the security measures and vetting that goes into selecting trainees.
Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., wrote on Twitter that Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., is calling for a "full review" of the U.S. Navy training programs after investigators said investigators were exploring the possibility that the shooting -- which took place Friday morning at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola in Florida -- is related to terrorism. "Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla.,'m very concerned that the shooter in Pensacola, Fla. was a foreign national training on a U.S. base. Friday, Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla.,'m calling for a full review of the Navy training programs.
We shouldn't be providing military training to people who wish us harm," Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., wrote. U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., wrote on Twitter that Friday's events "exposed some serious flaw" in the vetting process that trainees undergo before entering a U.S. Navy training program for foreign military personnel.
Defense Secretary Mark Esper told reporters Friday that Defense Secretary Mark Esper's first priority is supporting the investigation into the shooting -- which took place Friday morning at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola in Florida and determining a Saudi gunman's motives. "Defense Secretary Mark Esper want to make sure U.S. Navy’re doing U.S. Navy's due diligence to understand what are U.S. Navy's procedures" concerning the Navy training programs, Defense Secretary Mark Esper added.
Defense Secretary Mark Esper referred to a Saudi gunman as a Saudi national who was a second lieutenant in flight training. Sources told Fox News that the scene of the shooting -- which took place Friday morning at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola in Florida -- -- a classroom, where students usually spend three months at the beginning of the program -- indicated that a Saudi gunman was a student who was "early" in a Saudi gunman's training.
The majority of the hundreds of foreign aviation students who have participated in a U.S. Navy training program for foreign military personnel are from Saudi Arabia, U.S. Navy said. a U.S. Navy training program for foreign military personnel has about 1,500 pilots in total.
Saudis have received training at the Pensacola, Fla. site since the 1970s, with as many as 20 students from Saudi Arabia in any given class, sources told Fox News. Many of the students are often from the Royal Family, putting pressure on officials to pass pilots through a U.S. Navy training program for foreign military personnel in an attempt to preserve diplomacy with Saudi Arabia.
Many U.S. military pilots have complained for decades that some of the students are not safe flyers, sources said. Security at a U.S. base had been beefed up over the last five years and the addition of a front gate barred access to civilians from neighboring Pensacola.
It would take civilians about 45 minutes to get through security at a front gate but not every car is always checked, sources said. The Saudi Arabian Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed "The Saudi Arabian Ministry of Foreign Affairs's deep distress" following the shooting -- which took place Friday morning at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola in Florida -- and offered "The Saudi Arabian Ministry of Foreign Affairs's sincere condolences to three people's families, and wishes the injured a speedy recovery," The Saudi Arabian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement on Friday. "The King said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of a Saudi gunman, and that a Saudi gunman in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people," The King added.

Pensacola, Florida – Joshua Kaleb Watson was one of three people killed by a gunman Friday at Naval Air Station Pensacola, CBS News has learned.
Joshua Kaleb Watson graduated this year from the United States Naval Academy, CBS News's David Begnaud reports. As a student, Joshua Kaleb Watson made the Dean's List, and Joshua Kaleb Watson was captain of the rifle team. Joshua Kaleb Watson's brother said in a Facebook post Joshua Kaleb Watson's final act saved countless lives.
The other two slain sailors have been identified as Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, and Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21. The other two slain sailors were students at the Naval Aviation Schools Command.
CBS News has learned a gunman's name was Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, a Saudi Arabian national and a pilot-in-training for the Saudi Air Force. a gunman had been training in the United States since 2017. CBS News's David Begnaud reported Saturday night that the U.S. military's northern command is telling all military bases to increase security checks after Friday's attack.
The FBI is not calling Friday at Naval Air Station Pensacola terrorism, but The FBI do have terrorism investigators on the scene. The FBI is investigating a gunman's social media posts and whether a gunman acted alone. According to the Middle East Media Research Institute, a nonprofit based in Washington, D.C., someone matching a gunman's identity had an extensive online footprint. Investigators are looking for any signs of radicalization going back to a gunman's upbringing in Saudi Arabia.
Investigators are not saying if Friday at Naval Air Station Pensacola was an act of terror. Investigators have not stated a possible motive. "The FBI are not prepared at this hour to confirm what may have motivated a gunman to commit Friday at Naval Air Station Pensacola Friday," Rachel Rojas, special agent in charge of the The FBI Jacksonville Division, said Friday.
Naval Air Station Pensacola was locked down on Friday after Alshamrani – one of a few hundred foreign nationals training at Naval Air Station Pensacola – stormed a classroom and opened fire with a handgun. The FBI is trying to determine how a foreign national obtained a handgun, and brought a handgun onto Naval Air Station Pensacola.
Defense Secretary Mark Esper said Friday Defense Secretary Mark Esper'll look at the vetting measures that go into accepting foreign nationals to be able to train. Saudi King Salman called President Donald Trump after Friday at Naval Air Station Pensacola. "Saudi King Salman said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of a gunman, and that a gunman in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people," President Donald Trump said on Friday.

WASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. law enforcement officials were digging into the background of the suspected Florida naval station shooter Friday, to determine the suspected Florida naval station shooter motive and whether it was connected to terrorism.
As questions swirled about the shooting, which left four people dead, including the suspected Florida naval station shooter, officials identified the suspected Florida naval station shooter as 2nd Lt. Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, an aviation officer in the Saudi Air Force. officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss an ongoing investigation.
the suspected Florida naval station shooter was attending the aviation school at Naval Air Station Pensacola, one of hundreds of international military members who are receiving training there. the suspected Florida naval station shooter the shooting, which left four people dead, including the attacker fire in a classroom building on Friday morning.
Defense Secretary Mark Esper said in a statement that the Pentagon was continuing to monitor the Naval Air Station Pensacola incident and was gathering additional facts on the shooting earlier this week at Pearl Harbor, when a young Navy sailor gunned down two people and then shot a young Navy sailor. Defense Secretary Mark Esper said Defense Secretary Mark Esper is “considering several steps to ensure the security of our military installations and the safety of our service members and our service members's families.” Defense Secretary Mark Esper provided no details. In a separate statement, Adm. Mike Gilday, the chief of naval operations, said it has been a “devastating week”for Navy.
The U.S. has long had a robust training program for Saudis, providing assistance in The U.S. and in the kingdom. As of this week, there are more than 850 Saudis in The U.S. for various training activities. more than 850 Saudis are among more than 5,000 foreign students from 153 countries in The U.S. going through military training.
the Pentagon said Friday that the suspected Florida naval station shooter was in The U.S. as part of an the Saudi Air Force military sales training course, and the suspected Florida naval station shooter's participation was funded by Saudi Arabia. the suspected Florida naval station shooter's training began in August 2017 and was scheduled to conclude next August, and an Air Force military sales training course included initial pilot training, basic aviation and English-language instruction. Foreign nationals participating in U.S. training go through a vetting process.
the Pentagon said a vetting process includes screening for any illicit drug activities, support for terrorist organizations, corruption and criminal conduct. Those who fail to pass a vetting process are not issued international travel orders. The Trump administration has been aggressively helping Saudi this year, sending Patriot missile batteries and hundreds of troops there in the wake of attacks on the kingdom that officials blame on Iran.
On Friday, President Donald Trump said President Donald Trump got a call from Saudi King Salman, who expressed “Saudi King Salman, who expressed “his sincere condolences” and sent sympathies to the families of those involved's sincere condolences” and sent sympathies to the families of those involved. “Saudi King Salman, who expressed “his sincere condolences” and sent sympathies to the families of those involved said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of the suspected Florida naval station shooter, and that the suspected Florida naval station shooter in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people,” said President Donald Trump in a tweet. the shooting, which left four people dead, including the attacker, however, shined a spotlight on what has been a sometimes rocky relationship with the kingdom.
The U.S. earlier this year agreed to send three Patriot missile batteries, dozens of fighter jets and other aircraft to the kingdom. And in October, Defense Secretary Mark Esper visited Prince Sultan Air Base to see one of three Patriot missile batteries and talk about efforts to get other allies to contribute to the defense of the kingdom and the Gulf region to counter threats from Iran.
But the kingdom's reputation is still damaged after the killing last year of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Saudi intelligence officials and a forensic doctor the killing last year of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul and dismembered Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi on Oct. 2, 2018, as Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi's fiancée waited outside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi, had been in self-imposed exile in The U.S. while writing critically of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, son of the kingdom's King Salman.

PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) — The Saudi student who fatally the deadly attack three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Fla. hosted a dinner party earlier in the week where The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida and three others watched videos of mass shootings, a U.S. official told The Associated Press on Saturday. Officials investigating the deadly attack were working Saturday to determine whether the deadly attack was motivated by terrorism, while President Donald Trump indicated President Donald Trump would review policies governing foreign military training in the United States.
The Navy on Saturday identified three sailors and hailed three sailors as heroes for trying to stop The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida and flagging down first responders after being shot. The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida the deadly attack fire inside a classroom at a U.S. naval base in Florida on Friday, killing three sailors and wounding two sheriff’s deputies, one in the arm and one in the knee, before one of two sheriff’s deputies killed The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida.
Eight others were also hurt. two sheriff’s deputies were expected to survive.
The official who spoke Saturday said one of the three students who attended the dinner party hosted by The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida recorded video outside the classroom building while the deadly attack was taking place. Two other Saudi students watched from a car, a U.S. official said.
Ten Saudi students were being held on a U.S. naval base in Florida Saturday while several others were unaccounted for, said a U.S. official. The FBI identified The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida in a statement Saturday night as Mohammed Alshamrani, 21. Investigators said The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida was a 2nd Lt. in the Royal Saudi Air Force and was a student naval flight officer of Naval Aviation Schools Command.
A U.S. official on Friday said The FBI was examining social media posts and investigating whether The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida acted alone or was connected to any broader group. A U.S. official on Friday wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.
Two U.S. officials said Friday that authorities were investigating whether the deadly attack was terrorism-related. Two U.S. officials spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose information that had not yet been made public.
In remarks at a gathering of top U.S. defense and military officials on Saturday, Defense Secretary Mark Esper was asked whether Defense Secretary Mark Esper could say definitively that the deadly attack was an act of terrorism. “No, Defense Secretary Mark Esper can’t say the deadly attack’s terrorism at this time,” Defense Secretary Mark Esper said, adding that the investigation needs to proceed.
Defense Secretary Mark Esper declined to discuss details of the investigation. But in comments echoing those made earlier by Defense Secretary Mark Esper, Defense Secretary Mark Esper said Saturday that Defense Secretary Mark Esper would review policies governing foreign military training in the United States the United States has long had a robust training program for Saudis, providing assistance in the United States and in the kingdom.
Currently, more than 850 Saudis are in the United States for various training activities. more than 850 Saudis are among more than 5,000 foreign students from 153 countries in the United States going through military training.
Speaking at the Ronald Reagan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California, on Saturday, Defense Secretary Mark Esper and others downplayed any initial impact on U.S.-Saudi ties. Asked whether Defense Secretary Mark Esper would now hesitate to send U.S. forces to the kingdom, Defense Secretary Mark Esper said, “No, not at all.”
Defense Secretary Mark Esper said the United States and the kingdom have shared security interests, especially with regard to Iran. the deadly attack has shined a light on the sometimes rocky relationship between the U.S. and Saudi Arabia, however.
the kingdom is still trying to recover from the killing last year of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Saudi intelligence officials and a forensic doctor killed and dismembered Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi on Oct. 2, 2018, just as Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi's fiancée waited outside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul.
Naval Air Station Pensacola is one of The Navy's most historic and storied bases. Naval Air Station Pensacola sprawls along the waterfront southwest of the city’s downtown and dominates the economy of the surrounding area. Part of Naval Air Station Pensacola resembles a college campus, with buildings where, in addition to foreign students, 60,000 members of The Navy, Marines, Air Force and Coast Guard train each year in multiple fields of aviation.
Kinsella said Naval Air Station Pensacola would remain closed until further notice. Residents of the city’s mourned the deadly attack and offered Residents of Pensacola's condolences to affected members of the community.
Family members on Saturday identified one of three sailors as a 23-year-old recent graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy who alerted first responders to where The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida was even after The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida had been shot several times. A second victim was identified as Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Fla., who joined The Navy after graduating from high school last year, according to the Tampa Bay Times.
Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida, who joined the Navy after graduating from high school last year's mother, Evelyn Brady, herself a The Navy veteran, said the commander of Haitham’s mother, Evelyn Brady, herself a Navy veteran,'s son’s school called Haitham’s mother, Evelyn Brady, herself a Navy veteran, and told Haitham’s mother, Evelyn Brady, herself a Navy veteran, Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida, who joined the Navy after graduating from high school last year had tried to stop The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida. Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida, who joined the Navy after graduating from high school last year had been assigned to flight crew training and was looking forward to graduating from flight crew training later this month, Haitham’s mother, Evelyn Brady, herself a Navy veteran, said.
The Navy identified the third victim as Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21, of Richmond Hill, Georgia. three sailors were students at Naval Aviation Schools Command.
the deadly attack is the second at a U.S. naval base in one week. A sailor whose submarine was docked at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, opened fire on three civilian employees Wednesday, killing three civilian employees before taking A sailor whose submarine was docked at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii,'s own life.
Associated Press reporters Lolita Baldor, Ben Fox, Mike Balsamo and Robert Burns in Washington; Jon Gambrell in Dubai; Bobby Caina Calvan in Tallahassee, Fla.; Tamara Lush in Tampa, Fla.; and Freida Frisaro in Miami contributed to this report.

The suspect in the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training, held a dinner party before the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training to watch mass shooting videos, a US official told the Associated Press. During the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training, another Saudi student, one of three who attended a dinner party, reportedly filmed the shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida while two others watched from a car.
Ten Saudi students have reportedly been detained for questioning. Some of the Saudi nationals at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida are, however, currently unaccounted for.
NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
The suspect in the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida held a dinner party before the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training to watch mass shooting videos, a US official told the Associated Press. The suspect, a member of the Saudi Air Force who was in the US for training, shot and killed three people and wounded another seven Friday in the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training. During the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training, another Saudi student, one of three who reportedly attended The suspect in the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training's party, filmed the shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida. two others are said to have watched from a car.
Ten Saudi students have reportedly been detained for questioning. Some of the Saudi nationals at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida are, however, currently unaccounted for, the Associated Press reports. The suspect in the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training has been identified as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani. An analysis by SITE Intel Group of what is believed to be The suspect in the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training's Twitter page, a social media account that has since been suspended, said the suspect's Twitter page, a social media account that has since been suspended featured posts that echoed Osama bin Laden, Rita Katz, SITE Intel Group's director, wrote on Twitter.
Rita Katz, SITE's director noted that posts that echoed Osama bin Laden did not indicate allegiance to any one group. "Given that ISIS has very little to lose at this point, it wouldn't be surprising if ISIS claimed the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training, regardless of The suspect in the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training's potential allegiances," Rita Katz, SITE's director speculated.
the Associated Press reported that US authorities are investigating the situation to determine whether or not Friday's attack was an act of terrorism. Authorities have yet to determine a motive.
Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani was involved in a special training program for foreign military service members and was, according to USA Today, one of 5,180 students from 153 countries in the US for training. In the wake of the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training, some have called for a special training program for foreign military service members to be re-evaluated. Update: the Associated Press initially reported that a dinner party took place the night before the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training, but a dinner party actually took place earlier in the week.

PENSACOLA, Fla. —
The FBI has launched a terror investigation surrounding the Saudi national who The deadly shooting down a naval air station in PENSACOLA, Fla.. One of three victims killed was from St. Petersburg, Fla. Additional investigators from The FBI and other government agencies are coming to Fla. in the coming days to look into whether Friday’s murders were an act of terrorism. The deadly shooting was the second one at a U.S. navy base in two days. the Saudi national who gunned down a naval air station in Pensacola was a second lieutenant in the Saudi Arabian military, according to the U.S. secretary of defense. the Saudi national who gunned down a naval air station in Pensacola had been involved in flight training at a naval air station in Pensacola, as part of a joint training program with America’s partner militaries around the world. Investigators say the Saudi national who gunned down a naval air station in Pensacola opened fire on two floors of a training building, killing three victims killed and injuring several others. Sheriff’s deputies shot and killed the Saudi national who gunned down a naval air station in Pensacola. Authorities have not identified the Saudi national who gunned down a naval air station in Pensacola. Defense officials are reviewing measures for screening foreign students. One of three victims killed was identified as Mohammed "Mo" Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Fla., according to a report from the Tampa Bay Times. One of three victims killed's mother Evelyn Brady said Haitham's mother Evelyn Brady's son joined U.S. navy after graduating from high school last year. Brady, herself a U.S. navy veteran, said the commander of Haitham's mother Evelyn Brady's son's school called Haitham's mother Evelyn Brady and told Haitham's mother Evelyn Brady One of three victims killed had tried to stop the Saudi national who gunned down a naval air station in Pensacola. Another victim killed, Joshua Watson, had just graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy and looked forward to a military career as a pilot. On Saturday, Another victim killed, Joshua Watson was hailed a hero, as Another victim killed, Joshua Watson's family recounted how Another victim killed, Joshua Watson, in Another victim killed, Joshua Watson's last minutes of life, led first responders to an active shooter at a naval air station in Pensacola. In a Facebook post, Another victim killed, Joshua Watson's brother Adam said Another victim killed, Joshua Watson saved countless lives with Another victim killed, Joshua Watson's own. "After being shot multiple times Another victim killed, Joshua Watson made it outside and told the first response team where an active shooter at the Pensacola naval base was, and those details were invaluable," his brother Adam wrote on Facebook. Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.

PENSACOLA, Fla. (Reuters) -
The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Fla. appeared to have posted criticism of U.S. wars and quoted slain al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden on social media hours before the shooting spree, according to a group that tracks online extremism. Federal investigators have not disclosed any motive behind the attack, which unfolded at dawn on Friday when The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida is said to have begun firing a handgun inside a classroom at a U.S. Navy base in Florida. U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper said during a public appearance on Saturday U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper was not ready to label the shooting spree an act of terrorism. A vigil was held on Saturday for three people, among three people a recent Naval Academy graduate who dreamed of being a fighter pilot and a teenage Arab American.
A sheriff’s deputy fatally shot The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida, authorities said, ending the second deadly attack at a U.S. military base within a week. Within hours, Saudi Arabia’s King Salman had called U.S. President Donald Trump to extend Saudi Arabia’s King Salman's condolences and pledge Saudi Arabia’s's support in the investigation.
Authorities confirmed The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida was a member of the Royal Saudi Air Force who was on a U.S. Navy base in Florida as part of a U.S. Navy training program designed to foster links with foreign allies. In an emailed statement on Saturday, the FBI named The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida as Second Lieutenant Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21. The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida was reported to have played videos of mass shootings at a dinner earlier in the week with other Saudi aviation students, according to U.S. media reports on Saturday that cited an unnamed person briefed on the investigation. Investigators have found no sign The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida had links to international terrorist groups and think The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida may have radicalized on The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida's own, the New York Times reported, citing an unidentified U.S. official. the New York Times said The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida first entered the United States in 2018, returned to Saudi Arabia’s, then re-entered the United States in February, and had reported for training at a U.S. Navy base in Florida about three days before the shooting spree. At least three of three people were law enforcement officers shot as At least three of the eight people wounded responded to the shooting spree, officials said, including one U.S. Navy police officer and two county sheriff’s deputies.
At least three of the eight people wounded were expected to recover. One of three people was identified earlier Saturday by relatives as Joshua Kaleb Watson, 23.
A recent graduate of the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, One of the dead had arrived at PENSACOLA, Fla. two weeks ago for flight training, One of the dead's family said. U.S. Navy, in an emailed statement, named the other victims as Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, and Cameron Scott Walters, 21, both sailors studying at a U.S. Navy base in Florida. “Trump think U.S. Navy’re going to help out his family very greatly,” Trump said.
Six other Saudi nationals were being questioned by investigators in Fla., three of whom were seen filming the shooting spree, the New York Times reported, citing an unidentified person briefed on the investigation. The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida appeared to have posted a justification of The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida's planned attack in English on Twitter a few hours before his planned attack in English began, according to SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online Islamist extremism. The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida referred to U.S. wars in Muslim countries, writing that The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida hated the United States for “committing crimes not only against Muslims but also humanity,” and criticizing Washington’s support for Israel, SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online Islamist extremism's analysis said. The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida also quoted bin Laden, the Saudi mastermind of the attacks on the United States on Sept. 11, 2001, according to SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online Islamist extremism.
Reuters has not verified the authenticity of the account, @M&MD_SHAMRANI, which was suspended by Twitter on Friday. “You realize in that moment that you are witnessing loss of life and hatred, but there was also heroism,” Simmons said. The base outside PENSACOLA, Fla., near Fla.'s border with Alabama, is a major training site for U.S. Navy and employs about 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to U.S. Navy's website. On Wednesday, a U.S. sailor shot three civilians at the historic Pearl Harbor military base in Hawaii, killing two of three civilians before taking a U.S. sailor's own life. Military personnel are normally restricted from carrying weapons on U.S. bases unless weapons are part of Military personnel's daily duties, a policy designed to reduce the risk of suicides and accidental shootings.

The FBI is presuming a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead “was an act of terrorism,” the The FBI special agent leading the investigation said Sunday.
Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead fire on Friday in a classroom building, The FBI said. Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, was killed after two deputies exchanged gunfire with Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer,.
Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer,'s motive for a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead is still undetermined. Investigators want more information on Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, time back in Saudi Arabia before Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer,'s return this year, according to a law enforcement official briefed on the investigation.
The FBI Special Agent in Charge Rachel Rojas said investigators are working with “the presumption that a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead was an act of terrorism,” as investigators do in most similar cases. “the presumption that this was an act of terrorism,” as they do in most similar cases allows agents to take advantage of certain “investigative techniques,” the FBI special agent leading the investigation said. “Members of The FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force and The FBI's Counterterrorism Division are working tirelessly to discern if any possible ideology that may have been a factor in a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead,” the FBI special agent leading the investigation said.
No credible threat to the community exists, the FBI special agent leading the investigation said. It does not appear Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, had ties to terrorist groups, two sources told CNN. Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, had been training at the Florida base for two years, according to a spokesman for the assistant to the defense secretary. The FBI on Sunday said agents collected surveillance videos and videos taken by a bystander as part of the investigation.
surveillance videos and videos taken by a bystander were taken after a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead had begun and first responders had arrived, The FBI public affairs officer Amanda Worford said in a news release. Investigators have interviewed a bystander and are analyzing surveillance videos and videos taken by a bystander for clues, FBI public affairs officer Amanda Worford said.
At least one Saudi national filmed a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead, according to US Defense Secretary Mark Esper. Friends of Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, were detained after a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead. US Defense Secretary Mark Esper said one or two of Friends of Alshamrani recorded a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead.
A senior law enforcement official told CNN on Sunday that one Saudi national who captured the aftermath of a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead is considered a bystander. A senior law enforcement official says investigators do not believe one Saudi national who captured the aftermath of the attack was involved in a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead and was far away from the scene when one Saudi national who captured the aftermath of the attack captured the emergency response after a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead.
A separate law enforcement official familiar with the investigation says there is currently no indication of anything nefarious regarding any individual who recorded the attack scene. A senior law enforcement official says all witnesses to a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead are being interviewed. Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, legally bought the gun Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, used to kill three sailors at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, according to two law enforcement sources.
One source said Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, purchased the gun he used to kill three sailors from a gun store earlier this year. Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, obtained a hunting license, which allows a non-immigrant on a non-immigrant visa to purchase a gun, One source said. Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, used a Glock 9 mm pistol Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, bought “legally and lawfully,” the FBI special agent leading the investigation told reporters.
Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan told CNN that The FBI had secured the areas on Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida where Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, was staying, and agents had recovered Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer,'s laptop and cell phone. A senior administration official told CNN that investigators found some statements and online materials that give cause for concern but noted that it was still early in the investigation.
Just minutes before authorities were first alerted to a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead, a Twitter account aligning with Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer,'s name posted a message that raises the possibility a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead was inspired by al Qaeda and al Qaeda's founder, Osama bin Laden, CNN's Nic Robertson and Paul Cruickshank wrote. The first call alerting law enforcement of an incident at the Florida base came about 6:51 a.m., according to the Escambia County Sheriff’s Office.
Twelve minutes before, at 6:39 a.m., a Twitter account with the handle @M7MD_SHAMRANI posted a message addressed to the American people, declaring hate for Americans because of Americans's “crimes” against Muslims. CNN has been unable to verify the source of a message addressed to the American people.
Law enforcement has not commented on a message addressed to the American people. a message addressed to the American people repurposed words used by its founder, Osama bin Laden and the American al Qaeda terrorist cleric Anwar al-Awlaki.
Before Friday's attack, Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, watched mass shooting videos at a dinner party, The New York Times reported, citing a source with knowledge of the investigation but not authorized to speak publicly. Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, and a small group of Saudi nationals had just traveled to New York City over the Thanksgiving holiday, a law enforcement source told CNN. Alshamrani and a small group of Saudi nationals visited several museums and Rockefeller Center. Authorities don’t know why Alshamrani and a small group of Saudi nationals traveled to New York City, a law enforcement source said.
The Saudis who accompanied Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, are currently being interviewed by law enforcement and are being cooperative, a law enforcement source added. Earlier on Saturday, a US official told CNN that several Saudi nationals have been detained for questioning in connection with a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead.
a US official did not provide information about the connection between Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, and several Saudi nationals or the status of several Saudi nationals. Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, had been training at the Florida base for two years, according to a spokesperson for the assistant to the defense secretary.
Foreign students from “partner nations” have trained at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida to learn naval aviation for years, said Capt. Tim Kinsella, the commanding officer of Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis on Sunday called for a more stringent vetting process for foreign military personnel who are given access to US bases.
three sailors were killed because three sailors “didn’t run from danger” after Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, opened fire at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, Capt. Tim Kinsella, the commanding officer of NAS Pensacola said. three sailors were Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida; Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21, of Richmond Hill, Georgia; and Ensign Joshua Kaleb Watson, 23, from Enterprise, Alabama. Several others were wounded, including two sheriff’s deputies and a Navy police officer, Escambia County Chief Deputy Chip Simmons said at a prayer vigil in Pensacola Saturday.
One deputy, who was shot in the arm, was treated and released on Friday. The other deputy had surgery on Friday and is expected to recover, Escambia County Chief Deputy Chip Simmons said. The Navy officer is “going to be fine,” Escambia County Chief Deputy Chip Simmons said.
Details about the others who were wounded were not available. Friday's attack was the second shooting at a military base in three days. Last week, active duty US sailor Seaman Gabriel Romero killed two civilian employees and injured another before killing active duty US sailor Seaman Gabriel Romero at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii. Investigators have not announced a motive for a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead.

For a president who largely sees foreign policy in transactional terms, Saudi Arabia is a great customer for the US.
Billions of dollars in weapons sales translates into more than 5,500 temporary visas being issued to the Saudi military to come to the US. Saudi personnel make up about 16% of the foreign personnel being trained at US military schools and other facilities. The Pensacola shooting is already raising questions about the vetting of Saudi personnel.

The Pentagon announced on Tuesday The Pentagon was The decision operational training of all Saudi Arabian military personnel in the United States until further notice in the wake of the deadly shooting by a Saudi air force officer. The decision will have far-reaching impacts, including the grounding more than 300 Saudi Arabian military aviation students.
The Pentagon has also ordered a broad review of vetting procedures for international students who participate in training on US military installations and demanded vetting procedures for international students who participate in training on US military installations be strengthened. The memo signed by the deputy defense secretary, David Norquist, said the review of vetting procedures for international students who participate in training on US military installations must be completed in 10 days, and the flight restrictions will continue throughout a broad review of vetting procedures for international students who participate in training on US military installations and until the flight restrictions are lifted by senior leaders.
There are about 850 Saudi students currently in US military training programs, according to The Pentagon. US officials said US officials aren’t sure how many of about 850 Saudi students currently in US military training programs would see some type of flight or other restriction, but many will.
The FBI has said US investigators believe the Saudi air force Second Lieutenant Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, acted alone when a Saudi air force officer attacked a US navy base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday, before a Saudi air force officer was fatally shot by a deputy sheriff. The shootings have again raised questions about the US military relationship with Saudi Arabia, which has come under heightened scrutiny over the war in Yemen and Saudi Arabia killing of the Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi last year.
Still, US military leaders have sought to portray this as a localized issue which would not affect the overall US-Saudi relationship. The US navy spokeswoman Lieutenant Andriana Genualdi said the safety standdown and operational pause began on Monday for Saudi Arabian aviation students. The US navy spokeswoman Lieutenant Andriana Genualdi said the grounding included three different military facilities: Naval Air Station Pensacola, Naval Air Station Whiting Field and Naval Air Station Mayport, all in Florida.
The US air force said The US air force's groundings of Saudi aviation students also applied to additional US bases. “Given the traumatic events, The US air force feel it is best to keep more than 300 Saudi Arabian military aviation students off the flying schedule for a short time,” the The US air force spokeswoman said.
The US defense secretary, Mark Esper, has dismissed suggestions that The shootings might make The US defense secretary, Mark Esper more reluctant about new US deployments to Saudi Arabia, which were announced in October and first reported by Reuters. “Saudi Arabia is a longstanding partner of the United States in the region. We share mutual security interests,” The US defense secretary, Mark Esper said over the weekend. The US defense secretary, Mark Esper said The US defense secretary, Mark Esper had instructed the armed forces to review both security at military bases and screening for foreign soldiers who come to the United States for training after the deadly shooting by a Saudi air force officer.

PENSACOLA, Fla. —
At least one Saudi national filmed the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Fla., US Defense Secretary Mark Esper confirmed on Sunday. Friends of shooter Mohammed Alshamrani were detained after the killing of three US Navy sailors Friday. US Defense Secretary Mark Esper said one or two of Friends of shooter Mohammed Alshamrani recorded the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida.
shooter Mohammed Alshamrani used a Glock 9 mm pistol shooter Mohammed Alshamrani bought “legally and lawfully,” said Rachel Rojas, FBI Special Agent in Charge, during a news conference. A source earlier said shooter Mohammed Alshamrani bought a Glock 9 mm pistol he bought “legally and lawfully from a gun store this year. shooter Mohammed Alshamrani obtained a hunting license, which allows a non-immigrant on a non-immigrant visa to purchase a gun, A source said.
Rachel Rojas, FBI Special Agent in Charge said investigators “work with the presumption that the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida was a act of terrorism,” as investigators do in most similar cases. the presumption that this was a act of terrorism,” as they do in most similar cases allows “investigative techniques that can help” more quickly identify and eliminate potential threats. No credible threat to the community exists, Rachel Rojas, FBI Special Agent in Charge said. Investigators are trying to learn if any ideology contributed to the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, Rachel Rojas, FBI Special Agent in Charge said.
shooter Mohammed Alshamrani opened fire in a classroom building on Friday. shooter Mohammed Alshamrani was killed after two deputies exchanged gunfire with shooter Mohammed Alshamrani.
FBI identified shooter Mohammed Alshamrani as the shooter. shooter Mohammed Alshamrani was a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Saudi Arabian air force and a student naval flight officer, according to an FBI spokesperson. It does not appear shooter Mohammed Alshamrani had ties to terrorist groups, two sources told CNN. Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan told CNN's Erin Burnett that FBI had secured the areas on base where shooter Mohammed Alshamrani was staying and FBI had recovered shooter Mohammed Alshamrani's laptop and cell phone.
A senior administration official told CNN that investigators found some concerning statements and online materials but noted that it was still early in the investigation. Just minutes before authorities were first alerted to the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Twitter account aligning with shooter Mohammed Alshamrani's name posted a message that raises the possibility the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida was inspired by al Qaeda and al Qaeda's founder, Osama bin Laden, CNN's Nic Robertson and Paul Cruickshank said. The first call alerting law enforcement of an incident at the Fla. base came about 6:51 a.m., according to the Escambia County Sheriff’s Office.
Twelve minutes before, at 6:39 a.m., a Twitter account with the handle @M7MD_SHAMRANI posted a message addressed to the American people, declaring hate for Americans because of Americans's “crimes” against Muslims. CNN has been unable to verify the source of the tweet, which was previously reported on by SITE Intelligence Group. Law enforcement has not commented on the tweet, which was previously reported on by SITE Intelligence Group. a message addressed to the American people repurposed words used by its founder, Osama bin Laden and the American al Qaeda terrorist cleric Anwar al-Awlaki.
Before Friday's attack, shooter Mohammed Alshamrani watched mass shooting videos at a dinner party, The New York Times reported, citing a source with knowledge of the investigation but not authorized to speak publicly. shooter Mohammed Alshamrani and a small group of Saudi nationals had just traveled to New York City over the Thanksgiving holiday, a law enforcement source told CNN.
Alshamrani and a small group of Saudi nationals visited several museums and Rockefeller Center, where the Christmas tree lighting was taking place. Authorities don’t know why Alshamrani and a small group of Saudi nationals traveled to New York City, a law enforcement source said.
The Saudis who accompanied shooter Mohammed Alshamrani are currently being interviewed by law enforcement and are being cooperative, a law enforcement source added. Earlier on Saturday, a US official told CNN that a number of Saudi nationals have been detained for questioning in connection with the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida. a US official did not provide information about the connection between shooter Mohammed Alshamrani and a number of Saudi nationals or the status of a number of Saudi nationals.
President Donald Trump has said it is not known whether one person or a “number of people” were responsible for the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida. “We will get to the bottom” of what happened, President Donald Trump said Saturday.
shooter Mohammed Alshamrani had been training at the Fla. base for two years, a spokesperson for the assistant to the Secretary of Defense said. Foreign students from “partner nations” have trained at base to learn naval aviation for years, Commanding Officer of NAS Pensacola Capt. Tim Kinsella told reporters.
Three US Navy sailors were killed when Three US Navy sailors “didn’t run from danger” after shooter Mohammed Alshamrani opened fire at base, US Navy officials said. Three US Navy sailors were Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Fla.; Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21, of Richmond Hill, Georgia; and Ensign Joshua Kaleb Watson, 23, from Coffee County, Alabama.
Kaleb Watson, 23, from Coffee County, Alabama. had been training to become a military jet pilot when Kaleb Watson, 23, from Coffee County, Alabama. died Friday after shooter Mohammed Alshamrani the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida fire at a classroom building inside base, Kaleb Watson, 23, from Coffee County, Alabama.'s family said.
Kaleb Watson, 23, from Coffee County, Alabama. was a senior at the US Naval Academy last spring and was a four-year member of the US Naval Academy NCAA rifle team. Kaleb Watson, 23, from Coffee County, Alabama. was an “all-star athlete” who took part in running and basketball before joining the Navy.
Several others were wounded, including two sheriff’s deputies and a the Navy police officer, Escambia County Chief Deputy Chip Simmons said at a prayer vigil in Pensacola Saturday. One deputy, who was shot in the arm, was treated and released on Friday. The other deputy had surgery on Friday and is expected to recover, Escambia County Chief Deputy Chip Simmons said.
The the Navy officer is “going to be fine,” Escambia County Chief Deputy Chip Simmons added. Details about the others who were wounded were not available.
Friday's attack was the second shooting at a military base in three days. Last week, active duty US sailor Seaman Gabriel Romero killed two civilian employees and injured another before killing active duty US sailor Seaman Gabriel Romero at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii. Investigators have not announced a motive for the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida.

Investigators are trying to determine whether the shooting was terror-related. Four people are dead including the suspect after an active shooting incident at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, police said.
the suspect was identified as Mohammed Alshamrani, a Saudi national and member of the country's air force who was in the U.S. for flight training, law enforcement officials familiar with the investigation told ABC News. Investigators are trying to determine whether the shooting was terror-related, law enforcement officials familiar with the investigation said.
Authorities responded to reports of a shooting at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida at 6:51 a.m. on Friday, officials said. ATF and FBI also responded to the scene.
the shooting took place at one of the classroom buildings on a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, officials said. Officers with the Escambia County Sheriff's Office arrived on the scene and fatally shot the suspect after exchanging gunfire.
Three people, including the suspect, were pronounced dead on scene, police said. One victim was taken to the hospital and died from injuries. Eight others injured in the shooting were transported to Baptist Hospital, police said.
The condition of Eight others injured in the shooting has not been released. None of Four people have been identified.
In a later interview with ABC News's Eva Pilgrim, Morgan confirmed the suspect used a semi-automatic handgun with an extended magazine. Two officers were among those wounded in the shooting. One officer was shot in the leg and is currently in surgery. The second officer was shot in the arm and is undergoing care at Baptist Hospital. Two officers are both expected to survive.
"There's some real heroism today," said Capt. Timothy Kinsella, commanding officer at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida. FBI is leading the investigation with local authorities and ATF assisting, officials said. The U.S. Attorney's Office is also involved.
According to two law enforcement officials briefed on the investigation, authorities are urgently focused on two likely possible motives: whether the suspect had religious or ideological reasons; or was there a problem or hostility that developed in the course of the training at Pensacola, Florida. "Base security and the Naval Criminal Investigative Service are currently investigating.
The names of Four people will not be released until the next of kin have been notified," the Navy said in a statement. a semi-automatic handgun with an extended magazine was identified as the weapon used by the suspect.
Only security forces are allowed to carry weapons on a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, Kinsella said. a naval base in Pensacola, Florida is shut down until further notice, according to Kinsella.
Mental health coordinators have been sent to talk to witnesses and Four people's families, Kinsella said. The Department of Children and Family Services has sent a mobile response team to the area.
a naval base in Pensacola, Florida employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to a naval base in Pensacola, Florida's website. a naval base in Pensacola, Florida includes the Naval Aviation Schools Command, Naval Air Technical Training Center, Marine Aviation Training Support Group 21 and 23, the Blue Angels, and the headquarters for Naval Education Training Command. During President Donald Trump's roundtable on small business and red tape reduction accomplishments on Friday, President Donald Trump sent President Donald Trump's condolences to families of Four people and spoke about President Donald Trump's call with the King of Saudi Arabia.
President Donald Trump also echoed what President Donald Trump said in President Donald Trump's previous tweet about President Donald Trump's call with the King of Saudi Arabia. "the King of Saudi Arabia said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of the shoots and that the suspect in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people," President Donald Trump said.
the shooting is the second shooting incident on a the Navy base in the last week. the suspect opened fire on three civilian employees, killing three civilian employees, before the suspect fatally shot the suspect at the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard near Honolulu on Wednesday, military officials this report. the suspect opened fire on shipyard personnel with the suspect's M4 service rifle and then used the suspect's M9 service pistol to shoot the suspect, officials said. ABC News's Eva Pilgrim, Christina Carrega, Aaron Katersky, Jack Date, Mike Levine and Elizabeth Thomas contributed to this report.

While the FBI is presuming the fatal shooting of the three friends at a Pensacola, Florida, naval base on Friday was terrorism, the FBI has yet to declare an official motive.
In a news conference Sunday afternoon, Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville, said federal, state and local authorities are the investigation the attack by the suspect, identified as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at a Pensacola, Florida, naval base. A sheriff's deputy killed Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola during the fatal shooting of three at a Pensacola, Florida, naval base on Friday Friday morning. The Navy identified the three friends late Saturday as three aviation students: Ensign Joshua Kaleb Watson, 23, of Coffee, Alabama; Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida; and Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21, of Richmond Hill, Georgia.
The main goal of the investigation is to find out whether Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola acted alone or whether Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola was part of a “larger network,” but authorities stressed Sunday that the community is safe and authorities do not suspect any other immediate or direct threats. “This is our chance to get this right and Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville,'m going to take Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville,'s time,” Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville, said about the investigation. Authorities are also working to discern if an ideology was a motivating factor in the fatal shooting of three at a Pensacola, Florida, naval base on Friday, and are “working with the presumption that the fatal shooting of three at a Pensacola, Florida, naval base on Friday was an act of terrorism,” Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville, said.
Agencies will continue to conduct interviews to learn more about Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola. Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola had invited three Saudi flight students to dinner in the past week and showed three Saudi flight students videos of mass shootings, but investigators believe three Saudi flight students had nothing to do with the fatal shooting of three at a Pensacola, Florida, naval base on Friday.
Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville, said Sunday that no arrests have been made in the case. “There are a number of Saudi students who were close to Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola and continue to cooperate in the investigation,” Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville, said. All international students on the Pensacola, Florida, base are currently accounted for, and Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville, thanked Saudi Arabian officials for Saudi Arabian officials's cooperation in the investigation. Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville, added the Saudi commanding officer has “restricted” other Saudi students to the Saudi commanding officer's base.
Although non-citizens are normally prohibited from buying handguns, Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola had a valid hunting license, which allowed Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola to legally purchase Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola's weapon from a dealer in Pensacola, law enforcement sources told NBC News on Saturday. Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola had been scheduled to complete a three-year U.S. Air Force Foreign Military Sales training program, funded by Saudi Arabia, in August. Authorities believe a social media post critical of U.S. support for Israel and claiming America is anti-Islam belongs to Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola.
The post, which appeared before the fatal shooting of three at a Pensacola, Florida, naval base on Friday, is no longer live. Law enforcement sources say investigators believe Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola returned to Saudi Arabia after starting Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola's U.S. training in 2017, and when Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola returned in February, Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola stopped socializing and going out as much with the three friends. In addition to the three friends, eight people were injured in the fatal shooting of three at a Pensacola, Florida, naval base on Friday, including two local sheriff's deputies who exchanged gunfire with Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola.

Barr says 21 Saudi military students are being removed from the US training program and returning home.
Barr and FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich announced the findings of the criminal investigation in a press conference at the Department of Justice. , a 2nd LT in the Royal Saudi Air Force, allegedly Authorities say the attack ended with a sheriff’s deputy killing the shooter. Many of 21 Saudi military students had contact with child pornography and possessed jihadist or anti-American material, Barr said.
None is accused of having advanced knowledge of the shooting, which Barr said was motivated by “jihadist ideology” and has been classified as an act of terrorism. Officials have said Alshamrani hosted a party before the attack, where Alshamrani and others watched videos of mass shootings. the shooter had also apparently taken to Twitter before the attack to criticize U.S. support of Israel and accuse America of being anti-Muslim, another U.S. official told the AP last month.
Following the conclusion of the investigation by US law enforcement authorities into the attack, the official spokesperson of the Embassy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in Washington would like to stress the following points: The disturbed and radicalized individual who carried out the attack acted alone. the shooter does not represent the hundreds of thousands of Saudis who have lived, studied and trained in America over the past several decades, nor does the shooter's heinous act represent the values of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has fully cooperated with American investigators looking into the motivations of the shooter. the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will continue to cooperate with US authorities should US authorities require additional information.
In addition, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has determined that 21 Saudi military students have demonstrated conduct unbecoming of an officer in the the Royal Saudi Air Force or Royal Navy and therefore have been unenrolled from 21 Saudi military students's training program in the U.S. military. 21 Saudi military students will be returning to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
It is worth noting that the military training that America provides to Saudi military personnel has enabled Saudi soldiers, pilots and sailors to fight along Saudi soldiers, pilots and sailors's American counterparts and against the two nations's common foes. The close cooperation between the two nations on intelligence matters and issues related to counter terrorism has saved the lives of many in America, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and elsewhere and has made the world a safer place. Approximately 28,000 Saudis have undergone military training in America over the course of several decades without incident.
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been at the forefront of the international community’s effort to counter terrorist groups for many years. the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has used every means at the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia's disposal to counter the men, mindset and money that allow Al Qaeda, ISIS and other terrorist groups to recruit followers and to threaten communities and even entire nations. In addition, the terrorists who have struck America and many other nations have also targeted the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia's people, leadership, military personnel and even the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia's holiest religious institutions in Mecca and Medina on multiple occasions. Violent extremists continue to pose a serious challenge to the security of America, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and most countries around the world.
Terror groups have recruited thousands of people from dozens of countries. the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has worked closely with America to counter this global threat.
Finally, close to a million Saudis have come to America for close to a million Saudis's education, training and other reasons over several decades. The overwhelming majority of close to a million Saudis are law-abiding citizens who view law-abiding citizens who view themselves as unofficial ambassadors of the kingdom as unofficial ambassadors of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Many consider America as a second home and treat their American colleagues, classmates and neighbors as an extended part of their family. Thousands of them took to social media to condemn the shooter and to extend Thousands of them's condolences to Americans, as did our leadership and our ambassador to America.
Alshamrani, who was killed by a sheriff’s deputy during the rampage at a classroom building, was undergoing flight training at Pensacola, where foreign military members routinely receive instruction. It was not immediately clear on what grounds 21 Saudi military students were being removed from the US training program, though the official said 21 Saudi military students were not suspected of having played any role in the attack. The precise number of students being removed was also not clear. The officials discussing the case spoke on condition of anonymity to speak about details involved in an ongoing investigation.
The plan to remove 21 Saudi military students was first reported by CNN. the attack raised questions about how well international military students are screened before international military students attend training at American bases. Some lawmakers, including a top Republican ally of President Donald Trump, have called for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to be suspended from an American military training program.
President Donald Trump called for the US training program to be reviewed. But Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said the US training program needed to be reevaluated after the attack.
A Saudi commanding officer had ordered all students from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to remain at one location at the base after the attack. National security adviser Robert O’Brien said in an interview on Fox News that the attack “showed that there had been errors in the way that we vetted" 21 Saudi military students. The actions being taken by the Justice Department and Defense Department to remove 21 Saudi military students are to “protect our servicemen and women," National security adviser Robert O’Brien said.
Federal officials are still The investigation the attack and examining evidence. Earlier this week, FBI asked Apple to help extract data from two iPhones that belonged to the shooter. Investigators have been trying to access two iPhones that belonged to the gunman — but have been unable to access two iPhones that belonged to the gunman because two iPhones that belonged to the gunman are locked and encrypted, according to a letter from FBI's general counsel, Dana Boente. FBI has received a court authorization to search two iPhones that belonged to the gunman and two iPhones that belonged to the gunman have been sent to FBI's lab in Quantico, Virginia, the FBI’s general counsel, Dana Boente said.
The investigation is considered a “high-priority national security matter,” the FBI’s general counsel, Dana Boente said in a letter from the FBI’s general counsel, Dana Boente. FBI officials have sought help from other federal agencies and other experts, and investigators have been those efforts to guess the passwords, but those efforts have been unsuccessful, according to a letter from the FBI’s general counsel, Dana Boente.
Apple said in a statement that Apple has already provided investigators with all the relevant data held by Apple and would continue to support investigators. At least one of two iPhones that belonged to the gunman was shot by a sheriff’s deputy during the attack, but investigators believe investigators may still be able to extract data from At least one of the phones, according to a person familiar with the matter. a person familiar with the matter spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss an ongoing investigation.
I’m glad federal officials are taking steps to make our bases safer, including sending a number of potentially dangerous individuals back to a number of potentially dangerous individuals's home country. This is a positive step, but more must be done when it comes to addressing the failures in this program that led to the tragic terrorist attack at NAS Pensacola.
Given FBI's confirmation that a number of Saudi nationals engaged in troubling conduct, it’s clear we need a hard reset. I’m calling on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to recall all Saudi nationals training in America back to all Saudi nationals training in the U.S.'s home country until Defense Department can conduct a full review of the US training program. I will continue to work with Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Inhofe and administration officials to get to the bottom of exactly what went wrong so we can figure out if the US training program are safe to continue.
Rep. Matt Gaetz took to Twitter to address the press conference Monday. Barr confirmed what we all knew – the NAS Pensacola attack was a horrific act of terrorism. Barr am pleased that Defense Department has strengthened vetting procedures for all foreign military students, but Defense Department need to do more, including looking at force protection measures on military bases and working with international partners to ensure visiting foreign military students are not terrorist threats.

The Department of Justice has determined that a December 6 shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola was an act of terror, Attorney General William Barr said in a press conference Monday.
The shooter, a Saudi national named Mohammed Alshamrani, was taking part in a military fighting program. The US military will reportedly be sending more than dozen other Saudi nationals in a military fighting program home, though none are suspected of taking part in planning a December 6 shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola.
According to Attorney General William Barr, The shooter, a Saudi national named Mohammed Alshamrani posted a message on social media on September 11, 2019, saying that the "countdown is on." The shooter, a Saudi national named Mohammed Alshamrani also visited the September 11 memorial in New York. Attorney General William Barr also said that The Department of Justice is in possession of The shooter, a Saudi national named Mohammed Alshamrani's iPhone, though The Department of Justice are unable to access Alshamrani's iPhone. In Monday's press conference, Attorney General William Barr asked Apple for help in accessing Alshamrani's iPhone.
Apple has been hesitant to assist The Department of Justice with such requests in the past, citing privacy concerns. Apple and the government appeared ready for a high-profile legal clash following the 2015 San Bernardino terrorist attack, but The Department of Justice later found a way to access Alshamrani's iPhone without the help of Apple.

An aviation student from Saudi Arabia The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant fire in a classroom building at the naval air station (Nas) in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning, a US official said, an attack Saudi Arabia quickly condemned and that US officials were the investigation for possible links to terrorism. The assault, which left the victims dead in addition to An aviation student from Saudi Arabia, was the second at a US navy base this week and prompted a massive law enforcement response and a lockdown at the naval air station (Nas) in Pensacola, Florida.
An aviation student from Saudi Arabia was a member of the Saudi military who was in aviation training at the naval air station (Nas) in Pensacola, Florida, the Florida governor, Ron DeSantis, said at a news conference. a US official spokesman Helen Ferre later said that a US official learned about An aviation student from Saudi Arabia identity from briefings with FBI and military officials. A US official who spoke to the Associated Press on condition of anonymity identified An aviation student from Saudi Arabia as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani.
A US official who spoke to the Associated Press on condition of anonymity wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. Earlier Friday, two US officials identified An aviation student from Saudi Arabia as a second lieutenant in the Saudi air force, and said authorities were investigating whether The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant was terrorism-related. two US officials spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose information that had not yet been made public.
The New York Times reported that six other Saudi nationals, including three seen filming The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant, had been held for questioning, according to a source with knowledge of the investigation. There was no sign six other Saudi nationals, including three seen filming the attack were connected with An aviation student from Saudi Arabia, The New York Times reported.
Donald Trump tweeted that Donald Trump had been fully briefed on The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant. “Donald Trump's thoughts and prayers are with the victims and the victims's families during this difficult time.
We are continuing to monitor the situation as the investigation is ongoing,” Donald Trump said. Donald Trump declined to say whether The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant was terrorism-related.
Donald Trump added that Saudi leader, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, had called Donald Trump to express Saudi leader, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud's condolences. “Saudi leader, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of An aviation student from Saudi Arabia, and that An aviation student from Saudi Arabia in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people,” Donald Trump said. Saudi Arabia issued a news release echoing Donald Trump's remarks. a US official said The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant demanded a response from Saudi Arabia.
A national security expert from the Heritage Foundation warned against making an immediate link to terrorism. a US official said it was also possible that An aviation student from Saudi Arabia was “a disgruntled, evil individual who was mad because An aviation student from Saudi Arabia wasn’t going to get An aviation student from Saudi Arabia's pilot wings, or An aviation student from Saudi Arabia wasn’t getting the qualification ratings that An aviation student from Saudi Arabia wanted, or An aviation student from Saudi Arabia had a beef with somebody, or there was a girlfriend involved who slighted An aviation student from Saudi Arabia”. The Florida Senator Rick Scott issued a scathing statement calling The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant an act of terrorism “whether An aviation student from Saudi Arabia was motivated by radical Islam or was simply mentally unstable”.
The Florida Senator Rick Scott added that it was “clear that we need to take steps to ensure that any and all foreign nationals are scrutinized and vetted extensively before being embedded with our American men and women in uniform”. Twelve people were hurt in The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant, including two sheriff’s deputies who were the first to respond, one of whom killed An aviation student from Saudi Arabia, said David Morgan, the Escambia county sheriff. One of two sheriff’s deputies who were the first to respond, one of whom killed the shooter was shot in the arm and the other in the knee, and two sheriff’s deputies who were the first to respond, one of whom killed the shooter were expected to recover, David Morgan, the Escambia county sheriff said.
Her husband, whom she declined to identify, later told her Her husband, whom she declined to identify, was OK. Nas Pensacola employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to Nas Pensacola's website.
One of the navy’s most historic and storied bases, Nas Pensacola sprawls along the waterfront south-west of downtown Pensacola and dominates the economy of the surrounding area. Part of the Nas Pensacola base resembles a college campus, with buildings where 60,000 members of the the navy’s, marines, air force and coast guard receive training each year in multiple fields of aviation. Nas Pensacola is also home to the Blue Angels flight demonstration team, and includes the National Naval Aviation museum, a popular regional tourist attraction.
Alex McGinley, a tattoo artist who works near the Nas Pensacola base, said Alex McGinley, a tattoo artist who works near the Pensacola base was alerted to The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant by one of Alex McGinley, a tattoo artist who works near the Pensacola base's clients, most of whom are military personnel. Alex McGinley, a tattoo artist who works near the Pensacola base said none of Alex McGinley, a tattoo artist who works near the Pensacola base's clients was among the victims.
“What kind of things go through a person’s mind to a level that makes a person’s do something like The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant?” Alex McGinley, a tattoo artist who works near the Pensacola base asked.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) — An aviation student from Saudi Arabia the attack fire in a classroom at the Naval Air Station Pensacola on Friday morning, killing three people in an attack Saudi Arabia quickly condemned and that U.S. officials were investigating for possible links to terrorism. The assault, which ended when a sheriff’s deputy killed An aviation student from Saudi Arabia, was the second fatal shooting at a U.S. Navy base this week and prompted a massive law enforcement response and base lockdown.
Twelve people were hurt in the attack, including the two sheriff’s deputies who were the first to respond, Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan said. One of the two sheriff’s deputies who were the first to respond was shot in the arm and the other in the knee, and the two sheriff’s deputies who were the first to respond were expected to recover, Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan said.
An aviation student from Saudi Arabia was a member of the Saudi military who was in aviation training at the Naval Air Station Pensacola, Fla. Gov. Ron DeSantis said at a news conference. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis spokesman Helen Ferre later said Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis learned about An aviation student from Saudi Arabia identity from briefings with FBI and military officials.
A U.S. official who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity identified An aviation student from Saudi Arabia as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani. A U.S. official who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.
A U.S. official who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity also said FBI is examining social media posts and investigating whether An aviation student from Saudi Arabia acted alone or was connected to any broader group. During a news conference Friday night, FBI declined to release An aviation student from Saudi Arabia identity and wouldn’t comment on An aviation student from Saudi Arabia's possible motivations. Earlier Friday, two U.S. officials identified An aviation student from Saudi Arabia as a second lieutenant in the Saudi Air Force, and said authorities were investigating whether the attack was terrorism-related. two U.S. officials spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose information that had not yet been made public.
President Donald Trump declined to say whether the attack was terrorism-related. President Donald Trump tweeted President Donald Trump's condolences to the families of three people and noted that President Donald Trump had received a phone call from Saudi King Salman.
Saudi Arabia offered condolences to three people and three people's families and said Saudi Arabia would provide “full support” to U.S. authorities investigating the attack. Vice Minister of Defense Khalid bin Salman noted on Twitter that Vice Minister of Defense Khalid bin Salman and many Saudi military personnel have trained on U.S. military bases and gone on to fight ‘’against terrorism and other threats’’ alongside American forces. “the attack is strongly condemned by everyone in Saudi Arabia,’’ Vice Minister of Defense Khalid bin Salman said. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis said Saudi Arabia needed to be held to account for the attack.
A national security expert from the Heritage Foundation warned against making an immediate link to terrorism. U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper said in a statement Friday that U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper was “considering several steps to ensure the security of our military installations and the safety of our service members and our service members's families.”
U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper did not elaborate. The U.S. has long had a robust training program for Saudis, providing assistance in The U.S. and in Saudi Arabia. the attack, however, shined a spotlight on the two countries’ sometimes rocky relationship. Saudi Arabia is still trying to recover from the killing last year of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Saudi intelligence officials and a forensic doctor killed and dismembered Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi on Oct. 2, 2018, just as Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi's fiancée waited outside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul.
One of U.S. Navy's most historic and storied bases, the Naval Air Station Pensacola sprawls along the waterfront southwest of the city’s downtown and dominates the economy of the surrounding area. Part of the Naval Air Station Pensacola resembles a college campus, with buildings where 60,000 members of the U.S. Navy, Marines, the Saudi Air Force and Coast Guard train each year in multiple fields of aviation. A couple hundred students from countries outside The U.S. are also enrolled in training, said Base commander Capt.
Tim Kinsella. the Naval Air Station Pensacola is also home to the Blue Angels flight demonstration team, and includes the National Naval Aviation Museum, a popular regional tourist attraction.
Her husband, whom she declined to identify, later told her Her husband, whom she declined to identify, was OK. All of the attack took place in one classroom and An aviation student from Saudi Arabia used a handgun, authorities said. Weapons are not allowed on the Naval Air Station Pensacola. the attack is the second at a U.S. naval base this week. A sailor whose submarine was docked at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, opened fire on three civilian employees Wednesday, killing three civilian employees before taking A sailor whose submarine was docked at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii,'s own life.

