The suspect in a shooting that killed three people and injured several others at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning was a member of the Saudi Air Force who was in the U.S. for training, officials said. Several law enforcement sources identified the gunman, who was killed in the incident, as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani. Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said the suspect had been scheduled to complete a three-year U.S. Air Force Foreign Military Sales training program in August. The training, which includes English language coursework and aviation and pilot instruction, was funded by Saudi Arabia, he said. Rachel L. Rojas, FBI special agent in charge of the Jacksonville division, said at a Friday night news conference she would not yet officially confirm the shooter’s name, or disclose a possible motive. Two Escambia County sheriff's deputies, who were at the scene immediately after reports of shots fired at about 6:50 a.m., were injured in an exchange of gunfire with the shooter, who had a handgun, authorities said. One officer was shot in the arm, and the other was shot in the leg and was in surgery, Chief Deputy Chip Simmons said at a news conference. They were both expected to survive. Base commander Capt. Timothy Kinsella said those on the base demonstrated "some real heroism today." He added that the base holds active shooter drills regularly. In addition to the two sheriff's deputies, six other people were injured, officials said. "Walking through the crime scene was like being on the set of a movie," Morgan said. Kinsella said foreign students from ally and "partner" nations have been coming to train at the base since at least World War II. "There have always been international students training here because it's a good place to train. It's good-quality training," he said. Pentagon spokesman Eastburn said 5,181 foreign students from 153 countries, including 852 Saudis, are in the United States for Department of Defense security cooperation-related training. The department vets foreign nationals who intend to participate. They're screened for drug trafficking, terrorist activity, corruption and criminal conduct, according to Pentagon policy. President Donald Trump tweeted Friday afternoon that he had heard from the Saudi monarch. "King Salman of Saudi Arabia just called to express his sincere condolences and give his sympathies to the families and friends" of the victims, Trump wrote. The president also told reporters about the call. "The king said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of the shooter and that this person in no way, shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people who love the American people so much," he said. "Our condolences go to the families and to everybody involved, including the wounded," Trump added. "I urge Saudi Arabia to cooperate completely with the investigation. It is vital that we fully understand the specifics of how the attacker was approved to enter the United States and attend flight training,” Rogers said. The shooting unfolded in a two-floor classroom building at the base. Jeff Bergosh, a facilities manager at the naval station, had just arrived at the front gates in the morning when the station was put on lockdown, trapping thousands of workers in their cars. He said more than 10,000 workers come to Naval Air Station Pensacola every day — many entering from Navy Boulevard, which Friday morning became a mileslong parking lot when the lockdown was ordered. The base remained closed for the rest of the day, with only essential personnel allowed to enter. Pensacola Mayor Grover C. Robinson also asked residents to avoid the area around the base as investigators swarmed the scene. Naval Air Station Pensacola employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel. The economy and the culture of the surrounding area are largely entwined with the base, which resembles a college campus and where 60,000 members of the Navy, Marines, Air Force and Coast Guard receive training each year. It was the nation's first naval air station and is home to the popular Blue Angels flight demonstration squadron and the National Naval Aviation Museum, making it a popular tourist destination. It is also the headquarters of the Naval Education Training Command. "Anyone who serves in the Navy knows that this is a special place" because the base serves as a training hub and many in the service pass through there, the governor said. In 2016, the base was relatively late to enact security measures to separate the nearly 1 million tourists who visit each year from the sailors, Marines and other base employees, the Navy Times reported. It established separate entrance gates for people who worked at the base and visitors, which are about three miles apart. Tourists also can't access military areas without passing through guard booths and roadblocks. Friday's incident was the second shooting at a U.S. Navy facility this week. On Wednesday, a U.S. sailor fatally shot two civilian Defense Department employees and wounded a third at the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii before killing himself, according to military officials.
The gunman in a deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida was a second lieutenant in the Saudi Arabian military involved in flight training at the station, US Secretary of Defense Mark Esper said Friday. Officials are looking into whether the shooting was terror-related as a possible motive, but it’s still early in the investigation. Three people were killed in the shooting and at least eight others were injured and taken to a hospital, authorities said. Two law enforcement sources told CNN the shooter, who was killed, has been identified as Saudi Arabian national Mohammed Alshamrani. The gunman started his training in August 2017 as part of a three-year program. He was taking classes in basic aviation, initial pilot training and English, according to a spokesperson for the assistant to the Secretary of Defense. Trump said on Twitter he has spoken with the King of Saudi Arabia about the shooting. “The King said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of the shooter, and that this person in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people who love the American people,” the president said. Saudi King Salman Abdulaziz Al-Saud expressed “deep sadness and sorrow” in the call, state-run SPA news reported. The king told the President that he ordered Saudi services to cooperate with the investigation, according to SPA. “There’s obviously going to be a lot of questions about this individual being a foreign national, being a part of the Saudi Air Force and then to be here training on our soil,” he said. Foreign students from “partner nations” have trained at the base to learn naval aviation for years, Commanding Officer of NAS Pensacola Capt. Tim Kinsella told reporters. “There’s always been international students training here because it’s a good place to train, it’s good quality training,” he said. He roughly estimated that there were a couple hundred foreign students at the base. The FBI has taken over the investigation, according to an FBI spokeswoman. The investigation is global in scope, a law enforcement source told CNN, with agents posted in Riyadh tasked with liaising with the Saudi government to obtain background information about the shooter. Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan told CNN’s Erin Burnett that the FBI had secured the areas on base where the shooter was staying and they had recovered his laptop and cell phone. Authorities first received a call about an active shooter at NAS Pensacola around 6:51 a.m., Morgan told reporters earlier. The shooter used a handgun and was killed after two deputies exchanged gunfire with him. At least eight people were injured and taken to Baptist Health Care, including one who died, said Chief Deputy Chip Simmons. The deputies who confronted the shooter also suffered gunshot wounds – one in the arm and one in the knee. Both are expected to survive. The shooting occurred in a classroom building, Kinsella said. The base will remain on lockdown until further notice, he said. The names of the victims are not being released until authorities notify their families. Walking through the scene “was like being on the set of a movie,” Morgan said. The shooting comes just two days after an active duty US sailor, Gabriel Romero, killed two civilian employees and injured another before killing himself at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii. Investigators have not announced a motive for the Wednesday shooting. Acting Secretary of the Navy Thomas B. Modly said the Navy was “struck and deeply saddened” by the recent attacks, including an incident in Little Creek, Virginia. “These acts are crimes against all of us,” Modly said. “Our prayers are with the families of the fall and the wounded. The White House and the governor’s office reached out to local authorities to offer assistance, Pensacola Mayor Grover Robinson said. Naval Air Station Pensacola employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to the base’s website. Many families also live there, said retired Rear Adm. John Kirby, CNN’s military and diplomatic analyst, who was once stationed there. FBI personnel from Pensacola, Jacksonville and Mobile, Alabama, are responding to the station, an FBI spokeswoman said. Multiple agencies are cooperating on the investigation, including local law enforcement and Naval Criminal Investigative Service.
PENSACOLA, Fla. — Naval Air Station Pensacola remains closed for the day after a gunman opened fire Friday morning, killing at least three people and injuring several others before he was shot and killed, authorities have said. Seven people were injured, including two Escambia County deputies, during the shooting. Officials are saying the shooter was a Saudi aviation student and authorities are now investigating if the shooting is terror related. According to Chief Deputy Chip W. Simmons of the Escambia County Sheriff's Office in a news conference, the shooting occurred in one of the classroom buildings sometime before 8 a.m. EST. Officials declined to say whether the suspected shooter is a military member, however, it was stated that there were no other suspects. Gov. Ron DeSantis called it a "dark day for a very great place" but saluted the work of first-responders. "The response that we saw from the deputies from Escambia County ... I can tell you lives were saved because of the response," he said. NAS Pensacola first posted about the shooting on its Facebook page early Friday morning reporting that the gates were closed and secured due to reports of an active shooter. The Escambia County Sheriff's Office received a call about the shooting just before 8 a.m. EST and confirmed that the shooting was no longer active and the shooter was dead shortly before 9 a.m. EST. Navy Capt. Tim Kinsella said that guns are not permitted on the base. During a press conference Friday morning, Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan confirmed two deputies were injured when they engaged with the shooter before killing him. They are both expected to survive. The several other people injured were taken to Baptist Health Care in Pensacola. Their conditions have not been released. President Donald Trump, Florida U.S. Sen. Rick Scott, and DeSantis have responded to the shooting on Twitter. I have spoken with NAS Pensacola Base Commander Timothy Kinsella and @ECSONews Sheriff David Morgan. Just spoke with the Base Commander of the Naval Air Station in Pensacola. DeSantis said he spoke with Trum about the shooting and the need for accountability. NAS Pensacola, which is home of the Blue Angels, employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to its website. The base will remain shut down until further notice. Friday's lockdown in Pensacola comes just two days after an active duty U.S. sailor killed two civilian employees and injured another before killing himself at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii. Information from Associated Press and CNN was used in this report.
Four people are dead, including the suspect, after an active shooting incident at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola. has identified the shooter as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani. According to the Associated Press, Alshamrani is a Saudi aviation student. AP says investigators are working to determine if the shooting is terror-related. The Pentagon says he started his training at NAS Pensacola in August 2017 and was scheduled to finish in August 2020. Republican leaders are scrutinizing the U.S. Military’s training programs for foreign nationals. "One of the things that I talked to the president about is given this was a foreign national in the employ of a foreign service is - and there will be time to do this but obviously the government of Saudi Arabia needs to make things better for these victims. I think they are going to owe a debt here given that this is one of their individuals,” says Governor Ron DeSantis. The Pentagon also adds the Department of Defense (DOD)has over 5,000 foreign students from 153 countries in the U.S for security cooperation training and that every student is vetted by the DOD. The NY Times reports that a person who was briefed early in the investigation says six other Saudi nationals were detained for questioning near the scene of the shooting, including three who were seen filming the entire incident. WEAR has not been able to confirm this with local authorities. According to Captain Tim Kinsella with NAS Pensacola, the shooter was training at the base. Capt. Kinsella says hundreds of people from across the world come to cross-train at NAS Pensacola and the base has always had international students. On Friday, the Escambia County Sheriff’s Office (ECSO) received a report of an active shooter at NAS Pensacola at 6:51 a.m. NAS Pensacola says the shooting happened at Building 633 and spanned two floors. When deputies arrived on scene, ECSO says deputies shot and killed the suspect. Four people, including the shooter, have died in connection to the shooting incident. ECSO says the suspect and two victims were pronounced dead at the base. A fourth victim was taken to Baptist Hospital for treatment and later passed away. Seven others injured were taken to Baptist Hospital for treatment. West Florida Hospital says they also treated one patient. Sheriff David Morgan told Channel 3 News that the suspect used a handgun in the attack and two deputies were also shot. They were taken to Baptist Hospital for treatment, and one has been released. Sheriff Morgan said the other deputy suffered non-life threatening injuries. "Walking through the crime scene was like being on the set of a movie," Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan said in a press conference Friday morning. No victims have been identified. NAS Pensacola says the names of the victims won’t be released until 24 hours after the next of kin has been notified. Local law enforcement says FBI is heading the investigation, along with ATF and NCIS. Capt. Kinsella says the base will stay on lockdown until further notice. NAS Pensacola Corry Station was placed on lockdown earlier on Friday, but that lockdown has been lifted. Governor Ron DeSantis arrived at Pensacola around noon. He said mental health coordinators have been sent to speak with witnesses and the victims’ families. DeSantis, President Donald Trump, and Rep. Matt Gaetz all took to social media to address the mass shooting.
Six Saudi nationals were detained for questioning Friday near a naval air station in Pensacola, Fla., after a Saudi gunman opened fire there, killing three people before being shot dead by officers, a senior U.S. official told Fox News. The FBI, which is leading the investigation into the shooting -- which took place Friday morning at Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola in Florida -- declined to reveal the identity of the shooter in the early stages of the investigation, but a U.S. official told Fox News the gunman was an aviation student from Saudi Arabia named Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani. Alshamrani was said to be a student in a U.S. Navy training program for foreign military personnel. But Friday's events caused many officials and lawmakers to call for deeper scrutiny of the security measures and vetting that goes into selecting trainees. Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., wrote on Twitter that he is calling for a "full review" of the Navy training programs after investigators said they were exploring the possibility that the attack is related to terrorism. "I'm very concerned that the shooter in Pensacola was a foreign national training on a U.S. base. Today, I'm calling for a full review of the U.S. military programs to train foreign nationals on American soil. We shouldn't be providing military training to people who wish us harm," Scott wrote. U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., wrote on Twitter that Friday's events "exposed some serious flaw" in the vetting process that trainees undergo before entering the program. Defense Secretary Mark Esper told reporters Friday that his first priority is supporting the ongoing investigation and determining the shooter's motives. "I want to make sure we’re doing our due diligence to understand what are our procedures" concerning the training programs, he added. Esper referred to the shooter as a Saudi national who was a second lieutenant in flight training. Sources told Fox News that the scene of the shooting -- a classroom, where students usually spend three months at the beginning of the program -- indicated that the shooter was a student who was "early" in his training. The majority of the hundreds of foreign aviation students who have participated in the program are from Saudi Arabia, the Navy said. The Naval training program has about 1,500 pilots in total. Saudis have received training at the Pensacola site since the 1970s, with as many as 20 students from the Middle Eastern country in any given class, sources told Fox News. Many of the students are often from the Royal Family, putting pressure on officials to pass pilots through the training program in an attempt to preserve diplomacy with the U.S. ally. Many U.S. military pilots have complained for decades that some of the Saudi pilots are not safe flyers, sources said. Security at the base had been beefed up over the last five years and the addition of a front gate barred access to civilians from neighboring Pensacola. It would take civilians about 45 minutes to get through security at the front gate but not every car is always checked, sources said. The Saudi Arabian Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed "its deep distress" following the shooting and offered "its sincere condolences to the victims' families, and wishes the injured a speedy recovery," it said in a statement on Friday. "The King said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of the shooter, and that this person in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people who love the American people," Trump added.
Pensacola, Florida – Joshua Kaleb Watson was one of three people killed by a gunman Friday at Naval Air Station Pensacola, CBS News has learned. The 23-year-old graduated this year from the United States Naval Academy, CBS News' David Begnaud reports. As a student, the Alabama native made the Dean's List, and he was captain of the rifle team. Watson's brother said in a Facebook post his final act saved countless lives. The other two slain sailors have been identified as Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, and Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21. Both were students at the Naval Aviation Schools Command. CBS News has learned the gunman's name was Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, a Saudi Arabian national and a pilot-in-training for the Saudi Air Force. He had been training in the United States since 2017. CBS News' David Begnaud reported Saturday night that the U.S. military's northern command is telling all military bases to increase security checks after Friday's attack. The FBI is not calling it terrorism, but they do have terrorism investigators on the scene. The FBI is investigating Alshamrani's social media posts and whether he acted alone. According to the Middle East Media Research Institute, a nonprofit based in Washington, D.C., someone matching Alshamrani's identity had an extensive online footprint. Investigators are looking for any signs of radicalization going back to Alshamrani's upbringing in Saudi Arabia. Investigators are not saying if the shooting was an act of terror. They have not stated a possible motive. "We are not prepared at this hour to confirm what may have motivated the shooter to commit this horrific act today," Rachel Rojas, special agent in charge of the FBI Jacksonville Division, said Friday. The sprawling naval base was locked down on Friday after Alshamrani – one of a few hundred foreign nationals training at the Naval Air Station Pensacola – stormed a classroom and opened fire with a handgun. The FBI is trying to determine how a foreign national obtained a handgun, which is prohibited by law, and brought it onto the base. Defense Secretary Mark Esper said Friday he'll look at the vetting measures that go into accepting foreign nationals to be able to train. Saudi King Salman called President Donald Trump after the shooting. "The King said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of the shooter, and that this person in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people who love the American people," the president said on Friday.
WASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. law enforcement officials were digging into the background of the suspected Florida naval station shooter Friday, to determine the Saudi Air Force officer’s motive and whether it was connected to terrorism. As questions swirled about the shooting, which left four people dead, including the attacker, officials identified the suspect as 2nd Lt. Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, an aviation officer in the Saudi Air Force. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss an ongoing investigation. Alshamrani was attending the aviation school at Naval Air Station Pensacola, one of hundreds of international military members who are receiving training there. The shooter opened fire in a classroom building on Friday morning. Defense Secretary Mark Esper said in a statement that the Pentagon was continuing to monitor the Pensacola incident and was gathering additional facts on the shooting earlier this week at Pearl Harbor, when a young Navy sailor gunned down two people and then shot himself. Esper said he is “considering several steps to ensure the security of our military installations and the safety of our service members and their families.” He provided no details. In a separate statement, Adm. Mike Gilday, the chief of naval operations, said it has been a “devastating week”for the Navy. The U.S. has long had a robust training program for Saudis, providing assistance in the U.S. and in the kingdom. As of this week, there are more than 850 Saudis in the United States for various training activities. They are among more than 5,000 foreign students from 153 countries in the U.S. going through military training. The Pentagon said Friday that Alshamrani was in the U.S. as part of an Air Force military sales training course, and his participation was funded by Saudi Arabia. His training began in August 2017 and was scheduled to conclude next August, and it included initial pilot training, basic aviation and English-language instruction. Foreign nationals participating in U.S. training go through a vetting process. The Pentagon said it includes screening for any illicit drug activities, support for terrorist organizations, corruption and criminal conduct. Those who fail to pass the approval process are not issued international travel orders. The Trump administration has been aggressively helping Saudi this year, sending Patriot missile batteries and hundreds of troops there in the wake of attacks on the kingdom that officials blame on Iran. On Friday, President Donald Trump said he got a call from Saudi King Salman, who expressed “his sincere condolences” and sent sympathies to the families of those involved. “The King said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of the shooter, and that this person in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people who love the American people,” said Trump in a tweet. The shooting, however, shined a spotlight on what has been a sometimes rocky relationship with the kingdom. The U.S. earlier this year agreed to send three Patriot missile batteries, dozens of fighter jets and other aircraft to Saudi Arabia. And in October, Esper visited Prince Sultan Air Base to see one of the batteries and talk about efforts to get other allies to contribute to the defense of Saudi Arabia and the Gulf region to counter threats from Iran. But the kingdom’s reputation is still damaged after the killing last year of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Saudi intelligence officials and a forensic doctor killed and dismembered Khashoggi on Oct. 2, 2018, as his fiancée waited outside the diplomatic mission. Khashoggi, long a royal court insider, had been in self-imposed exile in the U.S. while writing critically of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, son of the oil-rich nation’s King Salman.
PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) — The Saudi student who fatally shot three sailors at a U.S. naval base in Florida hosted a dinner party earlier in the week where he and three others watched videos of mass shootings, a U.S. official told The Associated Press on Saturday. Officials investigating the deadly attack were working Saturday to determine whether it was motivated by terrorism, while President Donald Trump indicated he would review policies governing foreign military training in the United States. The Navy on Saturday identified the three victims and hailed them as heroes for trying to stop the shooter and flagging down first responders after being shot. The shooter opened fire inside a classroom at the naval base on Friday, killing three people and wounding two sheriff’s deputies, one in the arm and one in the knee, before one of the deputies killed him. Eight others were also hurt. Both deputies were expected to survive. The official who spoke Saturday said one of the three students who attended the dinner party hosted by the attacker recorded video outside the classroom building while the shooting was taking place. Two other Saudi students watched from a car, the official said. Ten Saudi students were being held on the base Saturday while several others were unaccounted for, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity after being briefed by federal authorities. The FBI identified the shooter in a statement Saturday night as Mohammed Alshamrani, 21. Investigators said he was a 2nd Lt. in the Royal Saudi Air Force and was a student naval flight officer of Naval Aviation Schools Command. A U.S. official on Friday said the FBI was examining social media posts and investigating whether he acted alone or was connected to any broader group. The official wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity. Two U.S. officials said Friday that authorities were investigating whether the attack was terrorism-related. They spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose information that had not yet been made public. In remarks at a gathering of top U.S. defense and military officials on Saturday, Defense Secretary Mark Esper was asked whether he could say definitively that the shooting was an act of terrorism. “No, I can’t say it’s terrorism at this time,” he said, adding that the investigation needs to proceed. He declined to discuss details of the investigation so far. But in comments echoing those made earlier by Esper, Trump said Saturday that he would review policies governing foreign military training in the U.S. The U.S. has long had a robust training program for Saudis, providing assistance in the U.S. and in the kingdom. Currently, more than 850 Saudis are in the United States for various training activities. They are among more than 5,000 foreign students from 153 countries in the U.S. going through military training. Speaking at the Ronald Reagan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California, on Saturday, Esper and others downplayed any initial impact on U.S.-Saudi ties. Asked whether he would now hesitate to send U.S. forces to Saudi Arabia, he said, “No, not at all.” He said the U.S. and Saudi Arabia have shared security interests, especially with regard to Iran. The shooting has shined a light on the sometimes rocky relationship between the two countries, however. The kingdom is still trying to recover from the killing last year of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Saudi intelligence officials and a forensic doctor killed and dismembered Khashoggi on Oct. 2, 2018, just as his fiancée waited outside the diplomatic mission. Naval Air Station Pensacola is one of the Navy’s most historic and storied bases. It sprawls along the waterfront southwest of the city’s downtown and dominates the economy of the surrounding area. Part of the base resembles a college campus, with buildings where, in addition to foreign students, 60,000 members of the U.S. Navy, Marines, Air Force and Coast Guard train each year in multiple fields of aviation. Kinsella said the base would remain closed until further notice. Residents of Pensacola mourned the attacks and offered their condolences to affected members of the community. Family members on Saturday identified one of the victims as a 23-year-old recent graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy who alerted first responders to where the shooter was even after he had been shot several times. A second victim was identified as Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida, who joined the Navy after graduating from high school last year, according to the Tampa Bay Times. Haitham’s mother, Evelyn Brady, herself a Navy veteran, said the commander of her son’s school called her and told her Haitham had tried to stop the shooter. The former track and field star had been assigned to flight crew training and was looking forward to graduating from the program later this month, Brady said. The Navy identified the third victim as Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21, of Richmond Hill, Georgia. All three were students at Naval Aviation Schools Command. The shooting is the second at a U.S. naval base in one week. A sailor whose submarine was docked at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, opened fire on three civilian employees Wednesday, killing two before taking his own life. Associated Press reporters Lolita Baldor, Ben Fox, Mike Balsamo and Robert Burns in Washington; Jon Gambrell in Dubai; Bobby Caina Calvan in Tallahassee, Florida; Tamara Lush in Tampa, Florida; and Freida Frisaro in Miami contributed to this report.
The suspect in the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, a Saudi military service member in the US for training, held a dinner party before the attack to watch mass shooting videos, a US official told the Associated Press. During the attack, another Saudi student, one of three who attended the party, reportedly filmed the shooting at the US naval base while two others watched from a car. Ten Saudi students have reportedly been detained for questioning. Some of the Saudi nationals at the base are, however, currently unaccounted for. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading. Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time. The suspect in the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida held a dinner party before the attack to watch mass shooting videos, a US official briefed on the situation by federal authorities told the Associated Press. The suspect, a member of the Saudi Air Force who was in the US for training, shot and killed three people and wounded another seven Friday in a horrific act of violence. During the attack, another Saudi student, one of three who reportedly attended the suspect's party, filmed the shooting at the US naval base. Two other Saudi students are said to have watched from a car. Ten Saudi students have reportedly been detained for questioning. Some of the Saudi nationals at the base are, however, currently unaccounted for, the AP reports. The suspect has been identified as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani. An analysis by SITE Intel Group of what is believed to be the suspect's Twitter page, a social media account that has since been suspended, said the page featured posts that echoed Osama bin Laden, Rita Katz, SITE's director, wrote on Twitter. Katz noted that the tweets did not indicate allegiance to any one group. "Given that ISIS has very little to lose at this point, it wouldn't be surprising if it claimed the attack, regardless of the attacker's potential allegiances," she speculated. The Associated Press reported that US authorities are investigating the situation to determine whether or not Friday's attack was an act of terrorism. Authorities have yet to determine a motive. Alshamrani was involved in a special training program for foreign military service members and was, according to USA Today, one of 5,180 students from 153 countries in the US for training. In the wake of the shooting, some have called for this program to be re-evaluated. Update: The Associated Press initially reported that the party took place the night before the attack, but it actually took place earlier in the week.
PENSACOLA, Fla. — The FBI has launched a terror investigation surrounding the Saudi national who gunned down a naval air station in Pensacola. One of three victims killed was from St. Petersburg, Fla. Additional investigators from the FBI and other government agencies are coming to Florida in the coming days to look into whether Friday’s murders were an act of terrorism. The deadly shooting was the second one at a U.S. navy base in two days. The gunman was a second lieutenant in the Saudi Arabian military, according to the U.S. secretary of defense. He had been involved in flight training at the naval air station, as part of a joint training program with America’s partner militaries around the world. Investigators say the gunman opened fire on two floors of a training building, killing three people and injuring several others. Sheriff’s deputies shot and killed him. Authorities have not identified the gunman. Defense officials are reviewing measures for screening foreign students. One of the three victims was identified as Mohammed "Mo" Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida, according to a report from the Tampa Bay Times. Haitham's mother Evelyn Brady said her son joined the U.S. Navy after graduating from high school last year. Brady, herself a Navy veteran, said the commander of her son's school called her and told her Haitham had tried to stop the shooter. Another victim killed, Joshua Watson, had just graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy and looked forward to a military career as a pilot. On Saturday, he was hailed a hero, as his family recounted how the 23-year-old, in his last minutes of life, led first responders to an active shooter at the Pensacola naval base. In a Facebook post, his brother Adam said Watson saved countless lives with his own. "After being shot multiple times he made it outside and told the first response team where the shooter was, and those details were invaluable," Adam Watson wrote on Facebook. Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.
PENSACOLA, Fla. (Reuters) - The Saudi airman accused of killing three people at a U.S. Navy base in Florida appeared to have posted criticism of U.S. wars and quoted slain al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden on social media hours before the shooting spree, according to a group that tracks online extremism. Federal investigators have not disclosed any motive behind the attack, which unfolded at dawn on Friday when the Saudi national is said to have begun firing a handgun inside a classroom at the Naval Air Station Pensacola. U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper said during a public appearance on Saturday he was not ready to label it an act of terrorism. A vigil was held on Saturday for those wounded and killed, among them a recent Naval Academy graduate who dreamed of being a fighter pilot and a teenage Arab American. A sheriff’s deputy fatally shot the gunman, authorities said, ending the second deadly attack at a U.S. military base within a week. Within hours, Saudi Arabia’s King Salman had called U.S. President Donald Trump to extend his condolences and pledge his kingdom’s support in the investigation. Authorities confirmed the suspect was a member of the Royal Saudi Air Force who was on the base as part of a U.S. Navy training program designed to foster links with foreign allies. In an emailed statement on Saturday, the FBI named him as Second Lieutenant Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21. The young officer was reported to have played videos of mass shootings at a dinner earlier in the week with other Saudi aviation students, according to U.S. media reports on Saturday that cited an unnamed person briefed on the investigation. Investigators have found no sign Alshamrani had links to international terrorist groups and think he may have radicalized on his own, the New York Times reported, citing an unidentified U.S. official. It said the airman first entered the United States in 2018, returned to Saudi Arabia, then re-entered the United States in February, and had reported for training at the base about three days before the attack. At least three of the eight people wounded were law enforcement officers shot as they responded to the attack, officials said, including one Navy police officer and two county sheriff’s deputies. They were expected to recover. One of the dead was identified earlier Saturday by relatives as Joshua Kaleb Watson, 23. A recent graduate of the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, he had arrived at Pensacola two weeks ago for flight training, his family said. The Navy, in an emailed statement, named the other victims as Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, and Cameron Scott Walters, 21, both sailors studying at the base. “I think they’re going to help out the families very greatly,” Trump said. Six other Saudi nationals were being questioned by investigators in Florida, three of whom were seen filming the incident, the New York Times reported, citing an unidentified person briefed on the investigation. The younger Alshamrani appeared to have posted a justification of his planned attack in English on Twitter a few hours before it began, according to SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online Islamist extremism. He referred to U.S. wars in Muslim countries, writing that he hated the American people for “committing crimes not only against Muslims but also humanity,” and criticizing Washington’s support for Israel, SITE’s analysis said. He also quoted bin Laden, the Saudi mastermind of the attacks on the United States on Sept. 11, 2001, according to SITE. Reuters has not verified the authenticity of the account, @M&MD_SHAMRANI, which was suspended by Twitter on Friday. “You realize in that moment that you are witnessing loss of life and hatred, but there was also heroism,” Simmons said. The base outside Pensacola, near Florida’s border with Alabama, is a major training site for the Navy and employs about 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to its website. On Wednesday, a U.S. sailor shot three civilians at the historic Pearl Harbor military base in Hawaii, killing two of them before taking his own life. Military personnel are normally restricted from carrying weapons on U.S. bases unless they are part of their daily duties, a policy designed to reduce the risk of suicides and accidental shootings.
The FBI is presuming a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida that left three sailors dead “was an act of terrorism,” the FBI special agent leading the investigation said Sunday. Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force and a student naval flight officer, opened fire on Friday in a classroom building, the FBI said. Alshamrani was killed after two deputies exchanged gunfire with him. Alshamrani’s motive for the attack is still undetermined. Investigators want more information on Alshamrani’s time back in Saudi Arabia before his return this year, according to a law enforcement official briefed on the investigation. FBI Special Agent in Charge Rachel Rojas said investigators are working with “the presumption that this was an act of terrorism,” as they do in most similar cases. It allows agents to take advantage of certain “investigative techniques,” she said. “Members of the FBI’s Joint Terrorism Task Force and the FBI’s Counterterrorism Division are working tirelessly to discern if any possible ideology that may have been a factor in this attack,” she said. No credible threat to the community exists, Rojas said. It does not appear Alshamrani had ties to terrorist groups, two sources told CNN. He had been training at the Florida base for two years, according to a spokesman for the assistant to the defense secretary. The FBI on Sunday said agents collected surveillance videos and videos taken by a bystander as part of the investigation. The bystander videos were taken after the attack had begun and first responders had arrived, FBI public affairs officer Amanda Worford said in a news release. Investigators have interviewed the bystander and are analyzing the videos for clues, she said. At least one Saudi national filmed the shooting, according to US Defense Secretary Mark Esper. Friends of Alshamrani were detained after the killing. Esper said one or two of those friends recorded the attack. A senior law enforcement official told CNN on Sunday that one Saudi national who captured the aftermath of the attack is considered a bystander. The source says investigators do not believe this person was involved in the attack and was far away from the scene when he captured the emergency response after the incident. A separate law enforcement official familiar with the ongoing investigation says there is currently no indication of anything nefarious regarding any individual who recorded the attack scene. The official says all witnesses to the incident are being interviewed. Alshamrani legally bought the gun he used to kill three sailors at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, according to two law enforcement sources. One source said Alshamrani purchased the weapon from a gun store earlier this year. He obtained a hunting license, which allows a non-immigrant on a non-immigrant visa to purchase a gun, the source said. Alshamrani used a Glock 9 mm pistol he bought “legally and lawfully,” Rojas told reporters. Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan told CNN that the FBI had secured the areas on base where the shooter was staying, and agents had recovered his laptop and cell phone. A senior administration official told CNN that investigators found some statements and online materials that give cause for concern but noted that it was still early in the investigation. Just minutes before authorities were first alerted to the shooting, a Twitter account aligning with Alshamrani’s name posted a message that raises the possibility the attack was inspired by al Qaeda and its founder, Osama bin Laden, CNN’s Nic Robertson and Paul Cruickshank wrote. The first call alerting law enforcement of an incident at the Florida base came about 6:51 a.m., according to the Escambia County Sheriff’s Office. Twelve minutes before, at 6:39 a.m., a Twitter account with the handle @M7MD_SHAMRANI posted a message addressed to the American people, declaring hate for Americans because of their “crimes” against Muslims. CNN has been unable to verify the source of the tweet, which was previously reported on by SITE Intelligence Group. Law enforcement has not commented on it. The message repurposed words used by bin Laden and the American al Qaeda terrorist cleric Anwar al-Awlaki. Before Friday’s attack, Alshamrani watched mass shooting videos at a dinner party, The New York Times reported, citing a source with knowledge of the investigation but not authorized to speak publicly. Alshamrani and a small group of Saudi nationals had just traveled to New York City over the Thanksgiving holiday, a law enforcement source told CNN. They visited several museums and Rockefeller Center. Authorities don’t know why they traveled to the city, the source said. The Saudis who accompanied Alshamrani are currently being interviewed by law enforcement and are being cooperative, the source added. Earlier on Saturday, a US official told CNN that several Saudi nationals have been detained for questioning in connection with the shooting. The US official did not provide information about the connection between the shooter and the Saudis or the status of those who were detained. Alshamrani had been training at the Florida base for two years, according to a spokesperson for the assistant to the defense secretary. Foreign students from “partner nations” have trained at the base to learn naval aviation for years, said Capt. Tim Kinsella, the commanding officer of NAS Pensacola. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis on Sunday called for a more stringent vetting process for foreign military personnel who are given access to US bases. The three US Navy sailors were killed because they “didn’t run from danger” after the gunman opened fire at the base, Kinsella said. The sailors were Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida; Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21, of Richmond Hill, Georgia; and Ensign Joshua Kaleb Watson, 23, from Enterprise, Alabama. Several others were wounded, including two sheriff’s deputies and a Navy police officer, Escambia County Chief Deputy Chip Simmons said at a prayer vigil in Pensacola Saturday. One deputy, who was shot in the arm, was treated and released on Friday. The other deputy had surgery on Friday and is expected to recover, Simmons said. The Navy officer is “going to be fine,” Simmons said. Details about the others who were wounded were not available. Friday’s attack was the second shooting at a military base in three days. Last week, active duty US sailor Seaman Gabriel Romero killed two civilian employees and injured another before killing himself at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii. Investigators have not announced a motive for that shooting.
For a president who largely sees foreign policy in transactional terms, Saudi Arabia is a great customer for the US. Billions of dollars in weapons sales translates into more than 5,500 temporary visas being issued to the Saudi military to come to the US. Saudi personnel make up about 16% of the foreign personnel being trained at US military schools and other facilities. The Pensacola shooting is already raising questions about the vetting of these individuals.
The Pentagon announced on Tuesday it was halting operational training of all Saudi Arabian military personnel in the United States until further notice in the wake of the deadly shooting by a Saudi air force officer. The decision will have far-reaching impacts, including grounding more than 300 Saudi Arabian military aviation students. The Pentagon has also ordered a broad review of vetting procedures for international students who participate in training on US military installations and demanded the process be strengthened. The memo signed by the deputy defense secretary, David Norquist, said the review of the vetting must be completed in 10 days, and the flight restrictions will continue throughout the review and until they are lifted by senior leaders. There are about 850 Saudi students currently in US military training programs, according to the Pentagon. US officials said they aren’t sure how many of those would see some type of flight or other restriction, but many will. The FBI has said US investigators believe the Saudi air force Second Lieutenant Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, acted alone when he attacked a US navy base in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday, before he was fatally shot by a deputy sheriff. The shootings have again raised questions about the US military relationship with Saudi Arabia, which has come under heightened scrutiny over the war in Yemen and Saudi Arabia’s killing of the Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi last year. Still, US military leaders have sought to portray this as a localized issue which would not affect the overall US-Saudi relationship. The US navy spokeswoman Lieutenant Andriana Genualdi said the safety standdown and operational pause began on Monday for Saudi Arabian aviation students. She said the grounding included three different military facilities: Naval Air Station Pensacola, Naval Air Station Whiting Field and Naval Air Station Mayport, all in Florida. The US air force said its groundings of Saudi aviation students also applied to additional US bases. “Given the traumatic events, we feel it is best to keep the Royal Saudi Air Force students off the flying schedule for a short time,” the air force spokeswoman said. The US defense secretary, Mark Esper, has dismissed suggestions that the shootings might make him more reluctant about new US deployments to Saudi Arabia, which were announced in October and first reported by Reuters. “Saudi Arabia is a longstanding partner of ours in the region. We share mutual security interests,” Esper said over the weekend. Esper said he had instructed the armed forces to review both security at military bases and screening for foreign soldiers who come to the United States for training after the shooting.
PENSACOLA, Fla. — At least one Saudi national filmed the deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola in Florida, US Defense Secretary Mark Esper confirmed on Sunday. Friends of shooter Mohammed Alshamrani were detained after the killing of three US Navy sailors Friday. Esper said one or two of those friends recorded the attack. Alshamrani used a Glock 9 mm pistol he bought “legally and lawfully,” said Rachel Rojas, FBI Special Agent in Charge, during a news conference. A source earlier said Alshamrani bought it from a gun store this year. He obtained a hunting license, which allows a non-immigrant on a non-immigrant visa to purchase a gun, the source said. Rojas said investigators “work with the presumption that this was a act of terrorism,” as they do in most similar cases. It allows “investigative techniques that can help” more quickly identify and eliminate potential threats. No credible threat to the community exists, Rojas said. Investigators are trying to learn if any ideology contributed to the attack, Rojas said. Alshamrani opened fire in a classroom building on Friday. He was killed after two deputies exchanged gunfire with him. The FBI identified Alshamrani as the shooter. He was a 21-year-old second lieutenant in the Saudi Arabian air force and a student naval flight officer, according to an FBI spokesperson. It does not appear he had ties to terrorist groups, two sources told CNN. Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan told CNN’s Erin Burnett that the FBI had secured the areas on base where the shooter was staying and they had recovered his laptop and cell phone. A senior administration official told CNN that investigators found some concerning statements and online materials but noted that it was still early in the investigation. Just minutes before authorities were first alerted to the shooting, a Twitter account aligning with Alshamrani’s name posted a message that raises the possibility the attack was inspired by al Qaeda and its founder, Osama bin Laden, CNN’s Nic Robertson and Paul Cruickshank said. The first call alerting law enforcement of an incident at the Florida base came about 6:51 a.m., according to the Escambia County Sheriff’s Office. Twelve minutes before, at 6:39 a.m., a Twitter account with the handle @M7MD_SHAMRANI posted a message addressed to the American people, declaring hate for Americans because of their “crimes” against Muslims. CNN has been unable to verify the source of the tweet, which was previously reported on by SITE Intelligence Group. Law enforcement has not commented on it. The message repurposed words used by bin Laden and the American al Qaeda terrorist cleric Anwar al-Awlaki. Before Friday’s attack, Alshamrani watched mass shooting videos at a dinner party, The New York Times reported, citing a source with knowledge of the investigation but not authorized to speak publicly. Alshamrani and a small group of Saudi nationals had just traveled to New York City over the Thanksgiving holiday, a law enforcement source told CNN. They visited several museums and Rockefeller Center, where the Christmas tree lighting was taking place. Authorities don’t know why they traveled to the city, the source said. The Saudis who accompanied Alshamrani are currently being interviewed by law enforcement and are being cooperative, the source added. Earlier on Saturday, a US official told CNN that a number of Saudi nationals have been detained for questioning in connection with the shooting. The US official did not provide information about the connection between the shooter and the Saudis or the status of those who were detained. President Donald Trump has said it is not known whether one person or a “number of people” were responsible for the attack. “We will get to the bottom” of what happened, he said Saturday. Alshamrani had been training at the Florida base for two years, a spokesperson for the assistant to the Secretary of Defense said. Foreign students from “partner nations” have trained at the base to learn naval aviation for years, Commanding Officer of NAS Pensacola Capt. Tim Kinsella told reporters. Three US Navy sailors were killed when they “didn’t run from danger” after the gunman opened fire at the base, US Navy officials said. The sailors were Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida; Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21, of Richmond Hill, Georgia; and Ensign Joshua Kaleb Watson, 23, from Coffee County, Alabama. Watson had been training to become a military jet pilot when he died Friday after the gunman opened fire at a classroom building inside the base, his family said. Watson was a senior at the US Naval Academy last spring and was a four-year member of the school’s NCAA rifle team. The 19-year-old was an “all-star athlete” who took part in running and basketball before joining the Navy. Several others were wounded, including two sheriff’s deputies and a Navy police officer, Escambia County Chief Deputy Chip Simmons said at a prayer vigil in Pensacola Saturday. One deputy, who was shot in the arm, was treated and released on Friday. The other deputy had surgery on Friday and is expected to recover, Simmons said. The Navy officer is “going to be fine,” Simmons added. Details about the others who were wounded were not available. Friday’s attack was the second shooting at a military base in three days. Last week, active duty US sailor Seaman Gabriel Romero killed two civilian employees and injured another before killing himself at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard in Hawaii. Investigators have not announced a motive for that shooting.
Investigators are trying to determine whether the shooting was terror-related. Four people are dead including the suspect after an active shooting incident at a naval base in Pensacola, Florida, police said. The shooter was identified as Mohammed Alshamrani, a Saudi national and member of the country's air force who was in the U.S. for flight training, law enforcement officials familiar with the investigation told ABC News. Investigators are trying to determine whether the shooting was terror-related, the officials said. Authorities responded to reports of a shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola at 6:51 a.m. on Friday, officials said. ATF and FBI also responded to the scene. The shooting took place at one of the classroom buildings on the base, officials said. Officers with the Escambia County Sheriff's Office arrived on the scene and fatally shot the suspect after exchanging gunfire. Three people, including the shooter, were pronounced dead on scene, police said. One victim was taken to the hospital and died from injuries. Eight others injured in the shooting were transported to Baptist Hospital, police said. The condition of those victims has not been released. None of the victims have been identified. In a later interview with ABC News' Eva Pilgrim, Morgan confirmed the suspect used a semi-automatic handgun with an extended magazine. Two officers were among those wounded in the shooting. One officer was shot in the leg and is currently in surgery. The second officer was shot in the arm and is undergoing care at the hospital. They are both expected to survive. "There's some real heroism today," said Capt. Timothy Kinsella, commanding officer at NAS Pensacola. The FBI is leading the investigation with local authorities and ATF assisting, officials said. The U.S. Attorney's Office is also involved. According to two law enforcement officials briefed on the investigation, authorities are urgently focused on two likely possible motives: whether the shooter had religious or ideological reasons; or was there a problem or hostility that developed in the course of the training at Pensacola. "Base security and the Naval Criminal Investigative Service are currently investigating. The names of the victims will not be released until the next of kin have been notified," the Navy said in a statement. A handgun was identified as the weapon used by the suspect. Only security forces are allowed to carry weapons on the base, Kinsella said. The base is shut down until further notice, according to Kinsella. Mental health coordinators have been sent to talk to witnesses and the victims' families, DeSantis said. The Department of Children and Family Services has sent a mobile response team to the area. NAS Pensacola employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to the base's website. The facility includes the Naval Aviation Schools Command, Naval Air Technical Training Center, Marine Aviation Training Support Group 21 and 23, the Blue Angels, and the headquarters for Naval Education Training Command. During his roundtable on small business and red tape reduction accomplishments on Friday, President Donald Trump sent his condolences to families of the "warriors" killed and spoke about his call with the King of Saudi Arabia. The president also echoed what he said in his previous tweet about his call with the King of Saudi Arabia. "The king said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of the shoots and that this person in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people who love the American people so much," Trump said. This is the second shooting incident on a Navy base in the last week. A 22-year-old active-duty sailor opened fire on three civilian employees, killing two, before he fatally shot himself at the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard near Honolulu on Wednesday, military officials said. The suspected shooter opened fire on shipyard personnel with his M4 service rifle and then used his M9 service pistol to shoot himself, officials said. ABC News' Eva Pilgrim, Christina Carrega, Aaron Katersky, Jack Date, Mike Levine and Elizabeth Thomas contributed to this report.
While the FBI is presuming the fatal shooting of three at a Pensacola, Florida, naval base on Friday was terrorism, it has yet to declare an official motive. In a news conference Sunday afternoon, Rachel L. Rojas, the FBI's special agent in charge in Jacksonville, said federal, state and local authorities are investigating the attack by the suspect, identified as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, 21, a second lieutenant in the Royal Saudi Air Force who was in a training program at Naval Air Station Pensacola. A sheriff's deputy killed him during the attack Friday morning. The Navy identified the dead late Saturday as three aviation students: Ensign Joshua Kaleb Watson, 23, of Coffee, Alabama; Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham, 19, of St. Petersburg, Florida; and Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters, 21, of Richmond Hill, Georgia. The main goal of the investigation is to find out whether Alshamrani acted alone or whether he was part of a “larger network,” but authorities stressed Sunday that the community is safe and they do not suspect any other immediate or direct threats. “This is our chance to get this right and I'm going to take my time,” Rojas said about the investigation. Authorities are also working to discern if an ideology was a motivating factor in the attack, and are “working with the presumption that this was an act of terrorism,” Rojas said. Agencies will continue to conduct interviews to learn more about the shooter. Alshamrani had invited three Saudi flight students to dinner in the past week and showed them videos of mass shootings, but investigators believe they had nothing to do with the attack. Rojas said Sunday that no arrests have been made in the case. “There are a number of Saudi students who were close to the shooter and continue to cooperate in this investigation,” Rojas said. All international students on the Pensacola base are currently accounted for, and Rojas thanked Saudi Arabian officials for their cooperation in this investigation. She added the Saudi commanding officer has “restricted” other Saudi students to their base. Although non-citizens are normally prohibited from buying handguns, Alshamrani had a valid hunting license, which allowed him to legally purchase his weapon from a dealer in Pensacola, law enforcement sources told NBC News on Saturday. Lt. Col. Dave Eastburn, a Pentagon spokesman, said the suspect had been scheduled to complete a three-year U.S. Air Force Foreign Military Sales training program, funded by Saudi Arabia, in August. Authorities believe a social media post critical of U.S. support for Israel and claiming America is anti-Islam belongs to Alshamrani. The post, which appeared before the shooting, is no longer live. Law enforcement sources say investigators believe the shooter returned to Saudi Arabia after starting his U.S. training in 2017, and when he returned in February, he stopped socializing and going out as much with the three friends. In addition to the three killed, eight people were injured in the attack, including two local sheriff's deputies who exchanged gunfire with the shooter.
Barr says 21 Saudi military students are being removed from the US training program and returning home. Barr and FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich announced the findings of the criminal investigation in a press conference at the Department of Justice. , a 2nd LT in the Royal Saudi Air Force, allegedly Authorities say the attack ended with a sheriff’s deputy killing the shooter. Many of the 21 cadets being sent home had contact with child pornography and possessed jihadist or anti-American material, Barr said. None is accused of having advanced knowledge of the shooting, which Barr said was motivated by “jihadist ideology” and has been classified as an act of terrorism. Officials have said Alshamrani hosted a party before the shooting, where he and others watched videos of mass shootings. The gunman had also apparently taken to Twitter before the shooting to criticize U.S. support of Israel and accuse America of being anti-Muslim, another U.S. official told the AP last month. Following the conclusion of the investigation by US law enforcement authorities into the shooting incident at Pensacola Naval Air Station on December 6, 2019 involving a Royal Saudi Air Force cadet, the official spokesperson of the Embassy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in Washington would like to stress the following points: The disturbed and radicalized individual who carried out this terrible attack acted alone. He does not represent the hundreds of thousands of Saudis who have lived, studied and trained in the United States over the past several decades, nor does his heinous act represent the values of Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia has fully cooperated with American investigators looking into the motivations of the attacker. Saudi Arabia will continue to cooperate with US authorities should they require additional information. In addition, the Kingdom has determined that 21 cadets have demonstrated conduct unbecoming of an officer in the Saudi Royal Air Force or Royal Navy and therefore have been unenrolled from their training program in the U.S. military. They will be returning to the Kingdom. It is worth noting that the military training that the US provides to Saudi military personnel has enabled Saudi soldiers, pilots and sailors to fight along their American counterparts and against our common foes. The close cooperation between the two nations on intelligence matters and issues related to counter terrorism has saved the lives of many in the US, Saudi Arabia and elsewhere and has made the world a safer place. Approximately 28,000 Saudis have undergone military training in the US over the course of several decades without incident. Saudi Arabia has been at the forefront of the international community’s effort to counter terrorist groups for many years. The kingdom has used every means at its disposal to counter the men, mindset and money that allow Al Qaeda, ISIS and other terrorist groups to recruit followers and to threaten communities and even entire nations. In addition, the terrorists who have struck the US and many other nations have also targeted Saudi Arabia’s people, leadership, military personnel and even our holiest religious institutions in Mecca and Medina on multiple occasions. Violent extremists continue to pose a serious challenge to the security of the United States, Saudi Arabia and most countries around the world. Terror groups have recruited thousands of people from dozens of countries. The kingdom has worked closely with the US to counter this global threat. Finally, close to a million Saudis have come to the US for their education, training and other reasons over several decades. The overwhelming majority of them are law-abiding citizens who view themselves as unofficial ambassadors of the kingdom. Many consider the United States as a second home and treat their American colleagues, classmates and neighbors as an extended part of their family. Thousands of them took to social media to condemn the attacker and to extend their condolences to Americans, as did our leadership and our ambassador to the United States. Alshamrani, who was killed by a sheriff’s deputy during the rampage at a classroom building, was undergoing flight training at Pensacola, where foreign military members routinely receive instruction. It was not immediately clear on what grounds the students were being removed from the program, though the official said they were not suspected of having played any role in the attack. The precise number of students being removed was also not clear. The officials discussing the case spoke on condition of anonymity to speak about details involved in an ongoing investigation. The plan to remove the students was first reported by CNN. The December shooting raised questions about how well international military students are screened before they attend training at American bases. Some lawmakers, including a top Republican ally of President Donald Trump, have called for Saudi Arabia to be suspended from an American military training program. Trump called for the program to be reviewed. But Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said the program needed to be reevaluated after the attack. A Saudi commanding officer had ordered all students from the country to remain at one location at the base after the attack. National security adviser Robert O’Brien said in an interview on Fox News that the shooting “showed that there had been errors in the way that we vetted" the students. The actions being taken by the Justice Department and Defense Department to remove the Saudi students are to “protect our servicemen and women," he said. Federal officials are still investigating the shooting and examining evidence. Earlier this week, the FBI asked Apple to help extract data from two iPhones that belonged to the gunman. Investigators have been trying to access the two devices — an iPhone 7 and an iPhone 5 — but have been unable to access them because the phones are locked and encrypted, according to a letter from the FBI’s general counsel, Dana Boente. The FBI has received a court authorization to search the phones and the devices have been sent to the bureau’s lab in Quantico, Virginia, he said. The investigation is considered a “high-priority national security matter,” Boente said in the letter. FBI officials have sought help from other federal agencies and other experts, and investigators have been trying to guess the passwords, but those efforts have been unsuccessful, according to the letter. Apple said in a statement that it has already provided investigators with all the relevant data held by the company and would continue to support the investigators. At least one of the phones was shot by a sheriff’s deputy during the attack, but investigators believe they may still be able to extract data from the device, according to a person familiar with the matter. The person spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss an ongoing investigation. I’m glad federal officials are taking steps to make our bases safer, including sending a number of potentially dangerous individuals back to their home country. This is a positive step, but more must be done when it comes to addressing the failures in this program that led to the tragic terrorist attack at NAS Pensacola. Given the FBI’s confirmation that a number of Saudi nationals engaged in troubling conduct, it’s clear we need a hard reset. I’m calling on the Saudi government to recall all Saudi nationals training in the U.S. back to their home country until the Department of Defense can conduct a full review of the program. I will continue to work with Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Inhofe and administration officials to get to the bottom of exactly what went wrong so we can figure out if these training programs are safe to continue. Rep. Matt Gaetz took to Twitter to address the press conference Monday. Attorney General Barr confirmed what we all knew – the NAS Pensacola attack was a horrific act of terrorism. I am pleased that the Defense Department has strengthened vetting procedures for all foreign military students, but we need to do more, including looking at force protection measures on military bases and working with international partners to ensure visiting foreign military students are not terrorist threats.
The Department of Justice has determined that a December 6 shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola was an act of terror, Attorney General William Barr said in a press conference Monday. The shooter, a Saudi national named Mohammed Alshamrani, was taking part in a military fighting program. The US military will reportedly be sending more than dozen other Saudi nationals in the same program home, though none are suspected of taking part in planning the December 6 attack. According to Barr, Alshamrani posted a message on social media on September 11, 2019, saying that the "countdown is on." He also visited the September 11 memorial in New York. Barr also said that the Department of Justice is in possession of Alshamrani's iPhone, though they are unable to access it. In Monday's press conference, he asked Apple for help in accessing the phone. Apple has been hesitant to assist the Department of Justice with such requests in the past, citing privacy concerns. The company and the government appeared ready for a high-profile legal clash following the 2015 San Bernardino terrorist attack, but the Department later found a way to access the phone without the help of Apple.
An aviation student from Saudi Arabia opened fire in a classroom building at the naval air station (Nas) in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday morning, a US official said, an attack the Saudi government quickly condemned and that US officials were investigating for possible links to terrorism. The assault, which left three dead in addition to the assailant, was the second at a US navy base this week and prompted a massive law enforcement response and a lockdown at the base. The shooter was a member of the Saudi military who was in aviation training at the base, the Florida governor, Ron DeSantis, said at a news conference. DeSantis spokesman Helen Ferre later said that DeSantis learned about the shooter’s identity from briefings with FBI and military officials. A US official who spoke to the Associated Press on condition of anonymity identified the shooter as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani. The official wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. Earlier Friday, two US officials identified the student as a second lieutenant in the Saudi air force, and said authorities were investigating whether the attack was terrorism-related. They spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose information that had not yet been made public. The New York Times reported that six other Saudi nationals, including three seen filming the attack, had been held for questioning, according to a source with knowledge of the investigation. There was no sign they were connected with the shooter, the paper reported. Donald Trump tweeted that he had been fully briefed on the incident. “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families during this difficult time. We are continuing to monitor the situation as the investigation is ongoing,” the president said. He declined to say whether the shooting was terrorism-related. Trump added that Saudi leader, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, had called him to express his condolences. “The King said that the Saudi people are greatly angered by the barbaric actions of the shooter, and that this person in no way shape or form represents the feelings of the Saudi people who love the American people,” Trump said. The Saudi government issued a news release echoing Trump’s remarks. DeSantis said the shooting demanded a response from Saudi Arabia. A national security expert from the Heritage Foundation warned against making an immediate link to terrorism. Stimson said it was also possible that the shooter was “a disgruntled, evil individual who was mad because he wasn’t going to get his pilot wings, or he wasn’t getting the qualification ratings that he wanted, or he had a beef with somebody, or there was a girlfriend involved who slighted him”. The Florida Senator Rick Scott issued a scathing statement calling the shooting an act of terrorism “whether this individual was motivated by radical Islam or was simply mentally unstable”. Scott added that it was “clear that we need to take steps to ensure that any and all foreign nationals are scrutinized and vetted extensively before being embedded with our American men and women in uniform”. Twelve people were hurt in the attack, including two sheriff’s deputies who were the first to respond, one of whom killed the shooter, said David Morgan, the Escambia county sheriff. One of the deputies was shot in the arm and the other in the knee, and both were expected to recover, he said. Her husband, whom she declined to identify, later told her he was OK. Nas Pensacola employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel, according to its website. One of the navy’s most historic and storied bases, it sprawls along the waterfront south-west of downtown Pensacola and dominates the economy of the surrounding area. Part of the Pensacola base resembles a college campus, with buildings where 60,000 members of the navy, marines, air force and coast guard receive training each year in multiple fields of aviation. The base is also home to the Blue Angels flight demonstration team, and includes the National Naval Aviation museum, a popular regional tourist attraction. Alex McGinley, a tattoo artist who works near the Pensacola base, said he was alerted to the shooting by one of his clients, most of whom are military personnel. He said none of his clients was among those shot. “What kind of things go through a person’s mind to a level that makes them do something like that?” McGinley asked.
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) — An aviation student from Saudi Arabia opened fire in a classroom at the Naval Air Station Pensacola on Friday morning, killing three people in an attack the Saudi government quickly condemned and that U.S. officials were investigating for possible links to terrorism. The assault, which ended when a sheriff’s deputy killed the attacker, was the second fatal shooting at a U.S. Navy base this week and prompted a massive law enforcement response and base lockdown. Twelve people were hurt in the attack, including the two sheriff’s deputies who were the first to respond, Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan said. One of the deputies was shot in the arm and the other in the knee, and both were expected to recover, he said. The shooter was a member of the Saudi military who was in aviation training at the base, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis said at a news conference. DeSantis spokesman Helen Ferre later said the governor learned about the shooter’s identity from briefings with FBI and military officials. A U.S. official who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity identified the shooter as Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani. The official wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The official also said the FBI is examining social media posts and investigating whether he acted alone or was connected to any broader group. During a news conference Friday night, the FBI declined to release the shooter’s identity and wouldn’t comment on his possible motivations. Earlier Friday, two U.S. officials identified the student as a second lieutenant in the Saudi Air Force, and said authorities were investigating whether the attack was terrorism-related. They spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose information that had not yet been made public. President Donald Trump declined to say whether the shooting was terrorism-related. Trump tweeted his condolences to the families of the victims and noted that he had received a phone call from Saudi King Salman. The Saudi government offered condolences to the victims and their families and said it would provide “full support” to U.S. authorities investigating the shooting. Vice Minister of Defense Khalid bin Salman noted on Twitter that he and many Saudi military personnel have trained on U.S. military bases and gone on to fight ‘’against terrorism and other threats’’ alongside American forces. “Today’s tragic event is strongly condemned by everyone in Saudi Arabia,’’ he said. DeSantis said Saudi Arabia needed to be held to account for the attack. A national security expert from the Heritage Foundation warned against making an immediate link to terrorism. U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper said in a statement Friday that he was “considering several steps to ensure the security of our military installations and the safety of our service members and their families.” He did not elaborate. The U.S. has long had a robust training program for Saudis, providing assistance in the U.S. and in the kingdom. The shooting, however, shined a spotlight on the two countries’ sometimes rocky relationship. The kingdom is still trying to recover from the killing last year of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Saudi intelligence officials and a forensic doctor killed and dismembered Khashoggi on Oct. 2, 2018, just as his fiancée waited outside the diplomatic mission. One of the Navy’s most historic and storied bases, Naval Air Station Pensacola sprawls along the waterfront southwest of the city’s downtown and dominates the economy of the surrounding area. Part of the base resembles a college campus, with buildings where 60,000 members of the Navy, Marines, Air Force and Coast Guard train each year in multiple fields of aviation. A couple hundred students from countries outside the U.S. are also enrolled in training, said Base commander Capt. Tim Kinsella. The base is also home to the Blue Angels flight demonstration team, and includes the National Naval Aviation Museum, a popular regional tourist attraction. Her husband, whom she declined to identify, later told her he was OK. All of the shooting took place in one classroom and the shooter used a handgun, authorities said. Weapons are not allowed on the base, which Kinsella said would remain closed until further notice. The shooting is the second at a U.S. naval base this week. A sailor whose submarine was docked at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, opened fire on three civilian employees Wednesday, killing two before taking his own life. Associated Press reporters Lolita Baldor, Ben Fox and Mike Balsamo in Washington; Jon Gambrell in Dubai; Tamara Lush in Tampa, Florida, and Freida Frisaro in Miami contributed to this report.
