MOHAMED MESSARA / EPA Tunisian medics carry the body of slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi, as protesters gather at the hospital in Tunis, Tunisia, on July 25, 2013. Is Tunisia headed for Egypt-type turmoil?
The prospect that Tunisia could spiral into violence seemed more plausible on Thursday, after gunmen The attack, which appeared to be the work of several gunmen slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi outside slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's home in Tunis, Tunisia. The attack, which appeared to be the work of several gunmen, was almost identical to the assassination of a beloved secular politician nearly six months ago—suggesting that this time around, quelling public anger against Tunisia could prove more difficult. slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi, was shot outside slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's house on Thursday morning, by what local reports said was about 11 bullets.
slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's distraught colleague Mohsen Nabti told a Tunisian radio station: “slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi was riddled with bullets in front of slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's wife and children.” Stunned at the news, Tunisians poured into Tunis, Tunisia's main tree-lined street, Habib Bourguiba Avenue, where giant protests drove out Tunisia's dictator in January 2011, to some degree inspiring the Egyptian revolution that began days later. In slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's small hometown of Sidi Bouzid—the same town where the Egyptian revolution that began days later first sparked to life in December 2010—residents burned tires to block roads, according to Reuters.
Tunisia's largest trade union, UGTT, called for a general strike in protest of slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's death on Friday, which, unlike other parts of the Muslim world, is a work day for many in Tunisia. For many Tunisians, there is still raw anger and shock over the death on February 6 of Chokri Belaid, a hugely popular politician who had earned both wide support and lethal enemies through a beloved secular politician's fiery ripostes against Tunisia, and a beloved secular politician's dire warnings about rising Islamist militancy.
After the two high-profile assassinations of a beloved secular politician and slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi, those actions are under even more scrutiny—although as yet, there have been no indictments for the two high-profile assassinations of Belaid and Brahmi. slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi was a member of the National Constituent Assembly, which is deep in a contentious political battle over a new post-dictatorship Tunisian constitution. The maw of the argument is over what kind of Tunisia will emerge from the Egyptian revolution that began days later: One that welcomes Western tourists who drink alcohol and wear bikinis, or one that is guided by far more stringent Islamic laws.
Judging by the pursuit of a beloved secular politician's killers since a beloved secular politician's assassination last February, the chances of quick arrests do not look good, however. Last April, officials the appeal for help in tracking five suspects in a beloved secular politician's murder, but the appeal led to no arrests.
And it was not until Wednesday that Noureddin B’Hiri, senior adviser to the prime minister, announced that Tunisia had “identified the sponsors and the authors” of a beloved secular politician's last February murder, and said the Interior Ministry would soon name the sponsors and the authors. But less than one day later, a beloved secular politician's colleague Brahmi lay dead in a Tunis, Tunisia suburb, another victim of Tunisia's increasingly violent politics.

Police disperse supporters of assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi, as supporters of assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi call for the government to be toppled. Tunisian police have fired teargas on crowds as tens of thousands of citizens turned out for the funeral of assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi, calling for the government to be toppled.
It was an attempt by the police to disperse secular protests demanding the dissolution of the assembly and other groups defending the legitimacy of the government rule. secular protests demanding the dissolution of the assembly and other groups defending the legitimacy of the government’s rule continued until late on Saturday, with residents of Sidi Bouzid, assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi's hometown, reporting that a violent demonstration had been dispersed after protesters started hurling rocks at police. Earlier in Saturday, military helicopters hovered overhead and hundreds of troops and police lined the route of assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi's funeral procession in Tunis.
Wrapped in the red and white Tunisian flag, assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi's coffin left assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi's home in the Tunis neighbourhood of Ariana en route to El-Jellaz cemetery. Supporters of assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi and members of assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi's family took part in Brahmi’s funeral procession in Tunis. No representatives of the government led by the Ennahda party attended.
Al Jazeera’s Youssef Gaigi, reporting from Tunis, said people at Brahmi’s funeral procession in Tunis were asking “how many people people at the funeral have to lose before people at the funeral have democratic state”. “This is the second assassination and the government is under concrete pressure of the opposition,” Al Jazeera’s Youssef Gaigi said.
After Brahmi’s funeral procession in Tunis, thousands gathered in the streets and violence broke out in several cities. A bomb in a police car exploded in Tunis before Brahmi’s funeral procession in Tunis but caused no casualties.
assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi, was shot dead outside assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi's home on Thursday with the same weapon used to gun down fellow opposition politician Chokri Belaid in February, Interior Minister Lotfi Ben Jeddou said. assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi was an MP with the leftist and nationalist Popular Movement assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi founded but quit the leftist and nationalist Popular Movement he founded on July 7 saying the leftist and nationalist Popular Movement he founded had been infiltrated by Islamists. assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi's widow Mbarka told the AFP news agency that assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi would be buried next to Belaid, the leftist politician assassinated in February whose funeral was attended by tens of thousands and turned into a protest against the Ennahda party.
The families of both men have accused the Ennahda party of being implicated in the deaths, but the authorities said on Friday that the investigation pointed to individuals with links to the Ennahda party. The Interior Ministry accuses French-born weapons smuggler Boubakr Hakim of being the gunman. assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi's death further deepened divisions between Islamists and Islamists's secular opponents that emerged after President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali was toppled in 2011 in the first of the revolutions that also felled leaders in Egypt, Libya and Yemen.

Thousands rally at interior ministry in Tunis, hours after opposition figure was the assassination of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in front of opposition figure's house. Riot police fired tear gas at protesters in Tunis as thousands massed following the assassination of opposition figure.
Brahmi, who was a member of parliament, was shot dead in front of opposition figure's house in Tunis on Thursday morning. opposition figure's death brought thousands onto the streets, with hundreds later clashing with police outside the interior ministry in Tunis headquarters. opposition figure, was a member of the People Movement Party, which is part of the same coalition as Chokri Belaid, another prominent politician who was assassinated in February. “Mohamed Brahmi, general coordinator of the Popular Movement and member of parliament, was shot dead outside opposition figure's home in Ariana,” state television and the official TAP news agency reported. “opposition figure was riddled with bullets in front of opposition figure's wife and children,” Mohsen Nabti, a fellow member of the small leftist movement, said in a tearful account on Tunisian radio.
Friday will be a day of mourning in Tunisia, the chairman of parliament said. Meanwhile, Tunisia's largest labour organisation announced a general strike on Friday. All flights to and from Tunisia have been cancelled, the civil aviation authority said.
Navi Pillay, UN human rights chief, condemned the killing of opposition figure and demanded an investigation into opposition figure's slaying. “Navi Pillay, UN human rights chief am shocked and deeply saddened by the news of opposition figure's assassination. Navi Pillay, UN human rights chief call upon the authorities to immediately launch a prompt and transparent investigation to ensure that the people who carried out the assassination of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi are held accountable,” Navi Pillay, UN human rights chief said in a statement.
opposition figure's widow, Mbarka Brahmi, told Reuters news agency “this criminal gang has the assassination of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi the free voice of opposition figure,” without specifying who his wife thought was behind the assassination of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi. opposition figure's sister, Souhiba, meanwhile, accused the main Islamist Ennahda party of being behind the assassination of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi. “the main Islamist Ennahda party killed Brahmi’s sister, Souhiba's brother,” Brahmi’s sister, Souhiba said. the main Islamist Ennahda party has condemned the assassination of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi.
In the southern town of Sidi Bouzid, the cradle of the Tunisian revolution, protesters set fire to two local the main Islamist Ennahda party offices, witnesses told Reuters news agency. On Wednesday, Noureddin B’Hiri, senior adviser to the prime minister, said that six people believed to have orchestrated the killing of opposition figure more than five months ago had been identified. “We have identified the sponsors and the authors of the assassination of opposition figure,” Noureddin B’Hiri, senior adviser to the prime minister said after a cabinet meeting.
Noureddin B’Hiri, senior adviser to the prime minister had said that the details would be revealed “soon” by Interior Minister Lotfi Ben Jeddou, without saying when. opposition figure was the assassination of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi dead outside opposition figure's home on February 6, in a brazen attack that shocked Tunisians and led to a political crisis that brought down the government of the prime minister. interior ministry in Tunis blamed the killing of Belaid, who was an outspoken critic of the prime minister's ruling Ennahda party, on a cell of “radical Islamists”.
In April, the government of Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali released the photos and names of the people who carried out this crime and appealed for help in arresting the people who carried out this crime. Since the revolution that toppled the regime of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011, “hardline Islamists” have been blamed for numerous acts of violence, notably an attack on the US embassy last September that left four assailants dead and the killing of opposition figure.

Interior minister says Mohamed Brahmi
The assassination with same gun used to murder Mohamed Brahmi's opposition coalition leader Chokri Belaid. Mohamed Brahmi was killed with the same gun that was used to kill Mohamed Brahmi's coalition party leader Chokri Belaid six months ago, Tunisia’s interior minister has said. Interior minister told a news conference on Friday that it suggested the involvement of the same hardline Salafist group.
“The same 9mm automatic weapon that killed his opposition coalition leader Chokri Belaid also killed Mohamed Brahmi,” Interior minister said. Interior minister named the main suspect as hardline Salafist Boubacar Hakim, already being sought on suspicion of smuggling weapons from Libya.
Interior minister said that ballistic examination of the bullets fired on Thursday at Mohamed Brahmi showed the bullets fired on Thursday at Brahmi came from the same gun used to kill his opposition coalition leader Chokri Belaid in February. Two men on a motorcycle shot Mohamed Brahmi 14 times in front of Mohamed Brahmi's home as Mohamed Brahmi was getting in Mohamed Brahmi's car.
his opposition coalition leader Chokri Belaid was killed in a similar fashion. The assassination has plunged Tunisia’s into a political crisis, with the opposition calling for the dissolution of Tunisia’s.
A demonstrator was killed in the central Tunisian town of Gafsa overnight on Friday during a march protesting against The assassination, the AFP news agency reported. A demonstrator was killed as police used tear gas to break up a march protesting against the assassination. A demonstrator was struck in the head by a tear gas cannister and died soon afterwards in hospital.
Police acted as hundreds of demonstrators tried to storm local government offices in the town centre. Tunisian trade unions called a nationwide general strike on Friday over Mohamed Brahmi's murder. Shops an banks were closed and Tunisia’s's national airline Tunisair cancelled all flights on Friday, as the General Union of Tunisian Labour (UGTT) called for a nationwide general strike in protest against “terrorism, violence and murders”. Protesters were again taking to the streets on Friday, after thousands of demonstrators rallied around Tunisia’s on Thursday, with many holding the ruling Ennahda Party responsible for The assassination and attacking local party headquarters. the ruling Ennahda Party, denied accusations that the ruling Ennahda Party was involved in the murder of a member of the People Movement Party.

Right after Tunisia’s Prime Minister Ali Laarayedh wrapped up a press conference on the brutal assassination of opposition leader Mohamed Brahmi on 29 July, a military convoy was the brutal assassination of opposition leader Mohamed Brahmi on 29 July in the Chaambi Mountains – located in Tunisia’s's north-west – resulting in a number of deaths and injuries.
Some of the bodies were found beheaded, while others had been mutilated. the brutal assassination of opposition leader Mohamed Brahmi on 29 July plunged Tunisia’s into a second period of national mourning in less than a week.
The following week, the Tunisian army The assault a military operation, including air strikes, to purge the Chaambi Mountains – located in the country’s north-west of radical Islamist elements that have been attacking military targets over the past months. The assault occurred against a backdrop of small-scale military operations that have been on going since 2012.
The attacks against military personnel are organized and deliberately violent. Mutilation and castration are methods of war that have the aim of inciting fear. It is legitimate to ask if The attacks against military personnel are not more serious than what official sources have continued to claim over the past year.
The Mount Chaambi natural park, which borders Algeria and covers an area of around 16,000 acres, is an area that has historically served as a refuge for a variety of insurgents. Revolutionaries against local political regimes along with smugglers and other mavericks, most notably under the Ottoman Empire and French colonial rule, used to take refuge in the Chaambi Mountains – located in the country’s north-west. More recently, radical Islamists started maneuvering around the Chaambi Mountains – located in the country’s north-west in the 1980s, when insurgents who had been fighting in the Afghan jihad began returning.
But radical Islamists's presence only started to be noticed significantly as the Arab uprisings unfolded. radical Islamists's ranks have swelled in recent years as fighters affiliated to Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) returning from the Libyan revolution and the conflict in northern Mali sought a safe haven from state forces.
Communiqués from the Ministry of Defense allude to ‘terrorist’ groups, linking these attacks to the global jihad, a generic name used to avoid naming Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) and Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM)'s affiliates. the Ministry of Defense's explanation – until the carnage of 29 July – claimed that soldiers were facing threats linked to minefields, excluding direct clashes. The military maintained, however, that the militant cells were localized and encircled.
Still, little is known about the groups and individuals behind these attacks, the groups and individuals behind the attacks's identities and motives remain shadowy. Moreover, a number of anonymous accounts have surfaced, in which soldiers claim that the targeted regions are in military lock-down. anonymous accounts allude to possible conspiracy theories.
Figures in the opposition (Nidaa Tounes and the Popular Front are the most vocal, but statements were also made by some independent ‘secular’ figures) as well as certain security officers (grouped in the Republican Security Syndicate), are pinning the blame on Ennahda. Critics have argued that Ennahda, is seeking to destabilize Tunisia’s in order to frighten Ennahda's opponents.
Tunisia’s's Chaambi region is comparable to Egypt’s Sinai. These remote regions, lying beyond the complete control of Tunisia’s, are considered ideal by radical Islamist groups to pursue radical Islamist groups's activities.
Egypt’s Sinai is notorious for Egypt’s Sinai's harsh conditions. In Tunisia’s Chaambi region, a massive forest dominates the mountains making it difficult for security forces to penetrate and secure Tunisia’s Chaambi region.
Another advantage that the Chaambi and Egypt’s Sinai offer insurgents is nearby and difficult to guard border areas, which provide ample opportunity for arms trafficking and retreat. Egypt’s Sinai militants receive supplies from tunnels leading to the Gaza strip, while Algeria's eastern region offers refuge to fighters in Tunisia’s Chaambi region.
On the political front, cooperation between Tunisia’s and Algeria is at a standstill, and it is unlikely that militants can easily cross the border from Algeria without a certain level of complacence on the part of Algerian authorities. Likewise, Hamas encourages weapon transfers to insurgents in Egypt’s and has even been held responsible for coordinating attacks against Egyptian security personnel in the past.
During the rule of Bourguiba and Ben Ali, the Tunisian military – understaffed and underequipped – remained confined to the Tunisian military – understaffed and underequipped's barracks and was kept away from the political arena. Since the Tunisian army has been called upon to secure Tunisia’s Chaambi region, the Tunisian army's many shortcomings have been revealed. This is the first major event involving the Tunisian army and the Tunisian army's soldiers lack combat experience. Nevertheless, and despite the Tunisian army's faults, the Tunisian army remains popular amongst ordinary Tunisians, having played a positive role in Ben Ali toppling over two years ago.
The main information about the Tunisia’s Chaambi region events comes from the Ministry of Defense and the Prime Minister’s office, while media investigations rarely go deeper. the Chaambi Mountains – located in the country’s north-west is a military zone, access to which is restricted to journalists and civilians.
In the Prime Minister’s's press conference, the Prime Minister’s appeared confident that the security situation was improving. the brutal assassination of opposition leader Mohamed Brahmi on 29 July came as a direct contradiction to the Prime Minister’s's claims, further denting the Prime Minister’s's already low credibility.
Ordinary Tunisians are now increasingly questioning the veracity of the Ministry of Defense's briefs, and the role the Tunisian army is playing may become a topic of derision. Many questions, along with rumors and conspiracy theories, will not be answered unless the military and political authorities become more transparent and open in the military and political authorities's communication.
Meanwhile, the murky the Chaambi Mountains – located in the country’s north-west operation is slowly becoming the ‘Chaambi War’ for citizens and observers alike. Such an image is a blow to Tunisia’s's tourism-dependent economy, a stain on the Tunisian army's reputation, and a theater for radical Islamist propaganda.

Tunisia has been largely sealed off to the outside world, with all flights into and out of Tunisia cancelled.
The main labor union had called a general strike in response to the killing of politician Mohammed Brahmi. Tunisia observed an official day of national mourning on Friday, in response to the deadly shooting of politician Mohammed Brahmi, with shops and banks closed in anticipation of potentially violent protests.
politician Mohammed Brahmi was the killing of politician Mohammed Brahmi dead on Thursday outside of politician Mohammed Brahmi's home near the capital, Tunis, by unidentified gunmen on a motorbike. politician Mohammed Brahmi was the second leading member of the leftist Popular Front to be shot dead this year.
In February, Chokri Belaid was gunned down outside of Chokri Belaid's home, sparking protests that led to resignation of Chokri Belaid. Interior Minister Lofti Ben Jeddou told reporters Friday that politician Mohammed Brahmi was the killing of politician Mohammed Brahmi by the same gun used to assassinate Chokri Belaid.
Tunisia's main trade union body, the General Union of Tunisian Labor (UGTT), had called a general strike for Friday to protest against "terrorism, violence and murders." According to Reuters news agency, protesters assembled outside of The main labor union headquarters in the capital, Tunis on Friday, preparing to march down the capital, Tunis's main boulevard as riot police deployed. The main labor union Deputy Secretary-General Sami Tahri said that all sectors of Tunisia were observing a general strike, including banks, health services and most public transport.
The main labor union claims to have 500,000 members. Thousands of protesters had already taken to the streets on Thursday in the capital, Tunis and Sidi Bouzid, the birth place of the Arab Spring. Demonstrators set fire to offices of the incumbent Islamist Ennahda party in Sidi Bouzid, the birth place of the Arab Spring, while riot police fired tear gas at protesters outside of the Interior Ministry in the capital, Tunis.
politician Mohammed Brahmi's 19-year-old daughter, Balkis Brahmi, told the AFP news agency that Brahmi's 19-year-old daughter, Balkis Brahmi, saw two men dressed in black who fled the murder scene on a scooter. Similar accusations were leveled against the incumbent Islamist Ennahda party after Chokri Belaid's assassination in February. the incumbent Islamist Ennahda party denied involvement in Chokri Belaid's murder and vehemently rejected similar accusations in connection with politician Mohammed Brahmi's assassination.
Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki called an official day of national mourning Friday and has asked the army to arrange a state funeral for politician Mohammed Brahmi. politician Mohammed Brahmi's family postponed politician Mohammed Brahmi's funeral until Saturday, to avoid exacerbating tensions. the incumbent Islamist Ennahda party accuses radical Salafists of being behind the assassinations of both Chokri Belaid and politician Mohammed Brahmi.

By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

A would-be political alliance between the Popular Front and the Union for Tunisia is looming ahead, emblematized in a significantly-symbolic “encounter” between representatives of each party.
The Popular Front, uniting the elusive Left, and the Union for Tunisia, monopolized by a dubious party whose conservative tendencies are economically obvious – a party which is unanimously believed to foster ex-ruling party members and to incarnate what I previously labeled “ideologized opportunism”. I will theoretically deconstruct A would-be political alliance between the Popular Front and the Union for Tunisia by simply invalidating all the idealistic and materialistic reasons for such co-operation. In terms of political domination, the Popular Front is mostly composed of communists and socialists whose favorite slogan is “Down with reactionaries, Destourians and Ikhwanis!”(سحقا سحقا للرجعيّة دساترة و خوانجية) .
These watchwords have a methodological portent in defining the ideological enemies of the Popular Front: Destourians are reactionaries for Destourians's savage capitalism and oppressive ways that tighten the upper classes’ grip on the impoverished ones; and Ikhwanis are regressivists for basing Ikhwanis's whole ideology on the “opium of the people” that benumbs Ikhwanis's revolutionary spirit, serves the bourgeoisie, and further indoctrinates the masses into accepting injustice. According to most of the the Popular Front members, both sides are equally reactionary and therefore must be shown equal animosity.
Why then aligning with one reactionary force against the other? Ethically and pragmatically, it is a most unwise decision.
Two years ago, a revolution, uprising, revolt, or what you will, took place in Tunisia. People rose in protest against a system that institutionalized oppression, injustice, and corruption.
After two years, our “progressive” “revolutionary” political elite is co-operating with a politically-organized replica of a system that institutionalized oppression, injustice, and corruption against… oppression, injustice, and corruption. This is unethical, to say the least, and unfaithful to leftist ideology.
Some might say that once upon an October 18th, 2005, the same “Left” stood side by side with Ikhwanis, against the oppressive regime; and that now, the major antagonism is with those “former allies”, since the antagonism is always with those in power. My answer to this is: “People, People are co-operating with the selfsame enemy that the popular will has rejected in a revolution that had taken a heavy toll of lives”!
If the current government is not to any party’s liking, there are more ethical ways to topple the current government, such as… “democracy”, dear “democratic powers”, or another leap in the revolutionary spiral of history, if the people are for another revolution. No deconstructive analysis can prevent what is happening: the revolutionary failure of the current government and the anti-revolutionary conversion of the leftist opposition.
It is a pity that our political scene has become the crime scene of high treason: anti-revolution. By aligning the Popular Front with the Union for Tunisia, the Popular Front is sneering: “Both are reactionary; but one is more reactionary than the other”! Being reactionary is not about being a stickler to religion or to capitalism; it is going back to what the revolution rose against_ it is the same pre-revolutionary scenario being “re-acted”, reproduced, and relived.

Thousands have taken to the streets across Tunisia to protest the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis – a development that threatens to derail a transition to democracy in the birthplace of the Arab Spring.
Mr Brahmi, the leader of the opposition Movement of the People party, was the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis – a development that threatens to derail a transition to democracy in the birthplace of the Arab Spring down outside opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's home in front of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's wife and youngest daughter. the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis was the second assassination of an opposition politician this year, coming just five months after the killing of Chokri Belaid, a prominent secular MP.
opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi was a member of the National Constituent Assembly, which is finalising the drafting of the new constitution for Tunisia. opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's party is a member of the left-leaning Popular front coalition, to which Chokri Belaid, a prominent secular MP also belonged.
Chokri Belaid, a prominent secular MP's death, the first of its kind in Tunisia, shocked Tunisia and led to widespread protests. Chokri Belaid, a prominent secular MP's funeral was attended by tens of thousands of people.
opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi was a vocal critic of the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia's former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali in 2011. Divisions between Islamists and Islamists's secular opponents have deepened since the popular uprising against Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali, which unleashed unrest across the Arab world, unseating rulers in Egypt, Libya and Yemen, and leading to a civil war in Syria. The opposition has accused the government of not doing enough to crack down on radical Islamists. Among those who took to the streets in central Tunis to protest today, many were pointing fingers at the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali, calling the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali's members “terrorists” and “vampires”.
At the Ministry of Interior, demonstrators shouted slogans against Rached Ghannouchi, leader of Tunisia's ruling party Ennahda. “Rached Ghannouchi, leader of Tunisia's ruling party Ennahda is a murderer”, demonstrators shouted. Similar demonstrations erupted in the southern town of Sidi Bouzid, where protesters set fire to two local the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali offices.
Rached Ghannouchi, leader of Tunisia's ruling party Ennahda expressed Rached Ghannouchi, leader of Tunisia's ruling party Ennahda's sorrow at the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis via Rached Ghannouchi, leader of Tunisia's ruling party Ennahda's party’s Facebook page this afternoon. “the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali heard, with immense sadness and shock, the news of the assassination of politician and member of the National Constituent Assembly, which is finalising the drafting of the new constitution for Tunisia Mohamed Brahmi, today. the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali condemn the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis. the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali pray for the soul of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi and present the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali's sincere condolences to opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi's family, praying that God grants his family patience,” Rached Ghannouchi, leader of Tunisia's ruling party Ennahda wrote.
Rached Ghannouchi, leader of Tunisia's ruling party Ennahda's condemnation was echoed by other members of Rached Ghannouchi, leader of Tunisia's ruling party Ennahda's party, who called the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis an “attack on democracy”. “All that Hela Hammi, a member of the Tunisian Constituent Assembly’s bureau and a member of the Ennahda party can tell you is that the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis is the assassination of Tunisia, the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis’s the assassination of legality, the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis’s the assassination of the democratic process, the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis’s the assassination of the transition,” said Hela Hammi, a member of the National Constituent Assembly, which is finalising the drafting of the new constitution for Tunisia's bureau and a member of the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali. Tunisia's political transition has been relatively peaceful, with the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali sharing power with smaller secular parties.
But the government has struggled to revive a stuttering economy and has come under fire from secularists who accuse the government of failing to curb the activities of radical Salafi Islamists. the government blamed Chokri Belaid, a prominent secular MP's assassination on Salafi militants.

The group's leader, Saifallah Benahssine, also known as Abu Iyadh, fought with al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and is wanted by police on suspicion of inciting an attack on the US embassy in September. Four people were killed in those disturbances, which began as a protest over a film that mocked the Prophet Mohammad.

"UGTT hope that UGTT will find a solution responding to the interests of the nation above all, and which satisfies the different parties," said UGTT secretary general Hocine Abassi, after holding talks with President Moncef Marzouki.

Ansar leader Seif Allah Ibn Hussein, also known as Abu Iyadh, is currently in hiding after an arrest warrant was issued for allegedly inciting an attack on the US embassy in Tunis in September 2012, which killed four people.

After Mr Belaid's assassination in February, many Tunisians accused Ennahda of not doing enough to stamp out a rise in Islamist violence, with some critics saying Ennahda was actively fomenting a rise in Islamist violence, correspondents say.

"There are up to 100,000 families who are living below the poverty line and our campaign is aimed at providing up to 100,000 families who are living below the poverty line with official cards to get subsidised and even free basic supplies," he said.

The protest in central Tunis was called by the opposition to demand the assembly's dissolution and the resignation of the government, and to mark the six-month anniversary of the assassination of prominent secular opposition leader Chokri Belaid.

Talks between the opposition and the ruling coalition led by the moderate Islamist Ennahda party have so far failed to achieve a major breakthrough.

During your trial you will have complete digital access to FT.com with everything in both of our Standard Digital and Premium Digital packages.
Standard Digital includes access to a wealth of global news, analysis and expert opinion. Premium Digital includes access to our premier business column, Lex, as well as 15 curated newsletters covering key business themes with original, in-depth reporting. For a full comparison of Standard and Premium Digital, click here.
Change the plan you will roll onto at any time during your trial by visiting the “Settings & Account” section. If you do nothing, you will be auto-enrolled in our premium digital monthly subscription plan and retain complete access for $69 per month. For cost savings, you can change your plan at any time online in the “Settings & Account” section. If you’d like to retain your premium access and save 20%, you can opt to pay annually at the end of your trial.
You may also opt to downgrade to Standard Digital. Compare Standard Digital and Premium Digital here. Any changes made can be done at any time and will become effective at the end of the trial period, allowing you to retain full access for 4 weeks, even if you downgrade or cancel.

TUNIS (Reuters) - Tunisia’s trade union body announced mass protests on Sunday to force out the government, accusing the Islamist-led coalition of delaying crisis talks on Tunisia’s's political future. Tunisia’s trade union body had been acting as mediator between the government and the secularist opposition, but said talks stalled on Saturday due to the ruling Ennahda party’s refusal to announce the ruling Ennahda party’s's immediate resignation.
Tunisia’s trade union body said Tunisia’s trade union body would stage protests across Tunisia’s and then a huge rally in the capital to force the government out. “All options remain possible” Tunisia’s trade union body spokesman Sami Tahri said, referring to the possibility of a general strike.
Another official hinted that a change in heart from the government could avert mass protests. Tunisia’s trade union body has been pushing both sides to accept a proposal for three weeks of talks after which the ruling Ennahda party’s would hand over to a caretaker administration until elections were held.
Tunisia, where the ouster of President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali in 2011 triggered the wave of “Arab Spring” revolts, had been considered as one of the more successful among the region’s fledgling democracies. But unrest broke out after the assassination of an opposition figure in July. the secularist opposition accused the ruling Ennahda party’s of tolerating Islamist militants and demanded the ruling Ennahda party’s step down.
Whereas in Egypt military power decided the government fate, in Tunisia’s the economic muscle of Tunisia’s trade union body may prove decisive. A single day of strikes last July cost Tunisia’s hundreds millions of dollars and sent Tunisia’s's currency to a historic low against the dollar.
The Tunisian army may have played a role in President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali overthrow by refusing to shoot demonstrators. But unlike the Egyptian military, which also helped protesters to topple autocrat Hosni Mubarak in 2011, The Tunisian army remains politically weak. The Tunisian army has few strings to pull and, unlike the Egyptian military, which also helped protesters to topple autocrat Hosni Mubarak in 2011, little economic privilege to protect. mass protests will be the first show of strength by Tunisia’s trade union body since Tunisia’s trade union body started mediation more than a month ago.

TUNIS (Reuters) -
Several thousand Islamists took to the streets of TUNIS on Friday to defend the Islamist-led government from popular demands for the Islamist-led government to resign over the assassination of a secular opposition politician. As Islamists and secular opponents staged rival protests over the future of Tunisia’s Ennahda government, the interior minister pointed the finger of suspicion at a hardline Islamist, saying the same gun had been used in the assassination of a secular opposition politician as in an assassination earlier this year that provoked violent protests.
“The people want the Islamist-led government again!” and “No to a coup against democracy!”, Several thousand Islamists chanted, rejecting demands for a new government of national unity.
Divisions between Islamists and Islamists's secular opponents have deepened since Tunisian President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali was Ben Ali’s downfall in 2011 in the first of the Arab Spring revolutions. In the second murder of a secular opposition politician in Tunisia’s this year, Mohamed Brahmi, a member of the Arab nationalist Popular Front party, was shot 14 times.
Thousands of anti-government protesters also massed in TUNIS on Friday, while shops and banks closed shops and banks's doors and all flights in and out of Tunisia’s were canceled. “Down with the rule of the Muslim Brotherhood,” Thousands of anti-government protesters chanted, referring to the ruling Ennahda party, which draws inspiration from the Muslim Brotherhood. the interior minister drew a direct link between the assassination of a secular opposition politician and the assassination of the Arab nationalist Popular Front party's leader Chokri Belaid on February 6, which set off the worst violence in Tunisia’s since Tunisian President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali's downfall.
“The same 9mm automatic weapon that killed the Popular Front’s leader Chokri Belaid also killed a secular opposition politician,” the interior minister told a news conference, naming the main suspect as hardline Salafist Boubacar Hakim, already being sought on suspicion of smuggling weapons from Libya. Authorities had identified 14 Salafists suspected of involvement in the Popular Front’s leader Chokri Belaid's assassination, and most were believed to be members of the local hardline Islamist group Ansar al-Sharia, the interior minister said.
a secular opposition politician was a critic of the Ennahda-led ruling coalition and a member of the Constituent Assembly that has drafted a new constitution for the North African nation of 11 million. The Initiative Party, another secular group, announced on Friday the resignation of The Initiative Party, another secular group,'s five members who sit on the Constituent Assembly that has drafted a new constitution for the North African nation of 11 million. This marked the first withdrawals from the body, which is controlled by Islamists, in protest at the assassination of a secular opposition politician. The Tunis stock exchange fell by 1.9 percent on Friday morning and the dinar currency was trading close to a record low against the euro.
Tunisia’s's political transition since the revolt that toppled Tunisian President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali has been relatively peaceful, with the moderate Islamist Ennahda party sharing power with smaller secular parties. But the Islamist-led government has struggled to revive the economy and has come under fire from secularists who accuse the Islamist-led government of failing to curb the activities of Salafi Islamists. Events in Egypt, where the army overthrew the Muslim Brotherhood President Mohamed Mursi on July 3 after mass protests against Muslim Brotherhood President Mohamed Mursi, have further energized the anti-Islamist opposition in Tunisia’s.
a secular opposition politician's family said a secular opposition politician's funeral would take place at 0800 GMT (4:00 a.m. EDT) on Saturday and a secular opposition politician would be buried near the tomb of the Popular Front’s leader Chokri Belaid. a secular opposition politician's widow
Mrabrka said Brahmi’s family did want government officials to attend, though all other Tunisians were welcome. Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki asked the army to organize a state funeral for a secular opposition politician.
the Islamist-led government announced a day of national mourning on Friday, and radio stations broadcast patriotic songs. Secularists called for the dissolution of the Islamist-led government and the formation of a national salvation administration, which was rejected by Prime Minister Ali Larayedh.
Thousands also protested peacefully on Friday against the Islamist-led government in the cities of Sfax, Kairouan, Monastir and Sidi Bouzid, the cradle of the Tunisian revolution, where protesters set fire to two the moderate Islamist Ennahda party offices the previous day. Tunisian President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali's downfall unleashed unrest across the Arab world, unseating rulers in Egypt, Libya and Yemen, and leading to civil war in Syria.
Rached Ghannouchi, the the moderate Islamist Ennahda party leader, said the attack on a secular opposition politician was aimed at “halting Tunisia’s's democratic process and killing Tunisian President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali, especially after the violence in Egypt, Syria and Libya”. the assassination of a secular opposition politician occurred as Tunisia’s prepares to vote in the next few weeks on a new constitution for the North African nation of 11 million before a presidential election later in this year. The turmoil dealt another blow to efforts to revive Tunisia’s's vital tourism industry.

