MOHAMED MESSARA / EPA Tunisian medics carry the body of slain opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi, as protesters gather at the hospital in Tunis, Tunisia, on July 25, 2013. Is Tunisia headed for Egypt-type turmoil?
The prospect that the small North African country which ignited the entire Arab Spring movement could spiral into violence seemed more plausible on Thursday, after gunmen killed an opposition politician outside his home in the capital Tunis. The attack, which appeared to be the work of several gunmen, was almost identical to the assassination of a beloved secular politician nearly six months ago—suggesting that this time around, quelling public anger against the government could prove more difficult. Mohamed Brahmi, a 58-year-old member of parliament and a fierce critic of the ruling Islamist Ennahda Party, was shot outside his house on Thursday morning, by what local reports said was about 11 bullets.
His distraught colleague Mohsen Nabti told a Tunisian radio station: “He was riddled with bullets in front of his wife and children.” Stunned at the news, Tunisians poured into the capital’s main tree-lined street, Habib Bourguiba Avenue, where giant protests drove out Tunisia’s dictator in January 2011, to some degree inspiring the Egyptian revolution that began days later. In Brahmi’s small hometown of Sidi Bouzid—the same town where the Tunisian Revolution first sparked to life in December 2010—residents burned tires to block roads, according to Reuters.
The country’s largest trade union, UGTT, called for a general strike in protest of Brahmi’s death on Friday, which, unlike other parts of the Muslim world, is a work day for many in Tunisia. For many Tunisians, there is still raw anger and shock over the death on February 6 of Chokri Belaid, a hugely popular politician who had earned both wide support and lethal enemies through his fiery ripostes against the Islamist government, and his dire warnings about rising Islamist militancy.
After the two high-profile assassinations of Belaid and Brahmi, those actions are under even more scrutiny—although as yet, there have been no indictments for the murders. Brahmi was a member of the National Constituent Assembly, which is deep in a contentious political battle over a new post-dictatorship Tunisian constitution. The maw of the argument is over what kind of Tunisia will emerge from the revolution: One that welcomes Western tourists who drink alcohol and wear bikinis, or one that is guided by far more stringent Islamic laws.
Judging by the pursuit of Belaid’s killers since his assassination last February, the chances of quick arrests do not look good, however. Last April, officials appealed for help in tracking five suspects in Belaid’s murder, but the appeal led to no arrests.
And it was not until Wednesday that Noureddin B’Hiri, senior adviser to the prime minister, announced that the government had “identified the sponsors and the authors” of Belaid’s February murder, and said the Interior Ministry would soon name them. But less than one day later, Belaid’s colleague Brahmi lay dead in a Tunis suburb, another victim of Tunisia’s increasingly violent politics.

Police disperse supporters of assassinated politician Mohamed Brahmi, as they call for the government to be toppled. Tunisian police have fired teargas on crowds as tens of thousands of citizens turned out for the funeral of assassinated secular politician Mohamed Brahmi, calling for the Islamist-led government to be toppled.
It was an attempt by the police to disperse secular protests demanding the dissolution of the assembly and other groups defending the legitimacy of the government’s rule. The protests continued until late on Saturday, with residents of Sidi Bouzid, Brahmi’s hometown, reporting that a violent demonstration had been dispersed after protesters started hurling rocks at police. Earlier in the day, military helicopters hovered overhead and hundreds of troops and police lined the route of Brahmi’s funeral procession in Tunis.
Wrapped in the red and white Tunisian flag, Brahmi’s coffin left his home in the Tunis neighbourhood of Ariana en route to El-Jellaz cemetery. Supporters of Brahmi and members of his family took part in the procession. No representatives of the government led by the Ennahda party attended.
Al Jazeera’s Youssef Gaigi, reporting from the capital, Tunis, said people at the funeral were asking “how many people they have to lose before they have democratic state”. “This is the second assassination and the government is under concrete pressure of the opposition,” he said.
After the funeral, thousands gathered in the streets and violence broke out in several cities. A bomb in a police car exploded in Tunis before the funeral but caused no casualties.
Brahmi, 58, was shot dead outside his home on Thursday with the same weapon used to gun down fellow opposition politician Chokri Belaid in February, Interior Minister Lotfi Ben Jeddou said. He was an MP with the leftist and nationalist Popular Movement he founded but quit the party on July 7 saying it had been infiltrated by Islamists. Brahmi’s widow Mbarka told the AFP news agency that he would be buried next to Belaid, the leftist politician assassinated in February whose funeral was attended by tens of thousands and turned into a protest against Ennahda.
The families of both men have accused Ennahda of being implicated in the deaths, but the authorities said on Friday that the investigation pointed to individuals with links to al-Qaeda. The Interior Ministry accuses French-born weapons smuggler Boubakr Hakim of being the gunman. Brahmi’s death further deepened divisions between Islamists and their secular opponents that emerged after President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali was toppled in 2011 in the first of the revolutions that also felled leaders in Egypt, Libya and Yemen.

Thousands rally at interior ministry in Tunis, hours after opposition figure was assassinated in front of his house. Riot police fired tear gas at protesters in the Tunisian capital Tunis as thousands massed following the assassination of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi.
Brahmi, who was a member of parliament, was shot dead in front of his house in the capital on Thursday morning. His death brought thousands onto the streets, with hundreds later clashing with police outside the interior ministry headquarters. Brahmi, 58, was a member of the People Movement Party, which is part of the same coalition as Chokri Belaid, another prominent politician who was assassinated in February. “Mohamed Brahmi, general coordinator of the Popular Movement and member of the National Constituent Assembly, was shot dead outside his home in Ariana,” state television and the official TAP news agency reported. “He was riddled with bullets in front of his wife and children,” Mohsen Nabti, a fellow member of the small leftist movement, said in a tearful account on Tunisian radio.
Friday will be a day of mourning in Tunisia, the chairman of the Constituent Assembly said. Meanwhile, the country’s largest labour organisation announced a general strike on Friday. All flights to and from Tunisia have been cancelled, the civil aviation authority said.
Navi Pillay, UN human rights chief, condemned the killing of Brahmi and demanded an investigation into his slaying. “I am shocked and deeply saddened by the news of Mr. Brahmi’s assassination. I call upon the authorities to immediately launch a prompt and transparent investigation to ensure that the people who carried out this crime are held accountable,” Pillay said in a statement.
The slain politician’s widow, Mbarka Brahmi, told Reuters news agency “this criminal gang has killed the free voice of Brahmi,” without specifying who she thought was behind the shooting. Brahmi’s sister, Souhiba, meanwhile, accused the main Islamist Ennahda party of being behind the killing. “Ennahda killed my brother,” she said. Ennahda has condemned the murder.
In the southern town of Sidi Bouzid, the cradle of the Tunisian revolution, protesters set fire to two local Ennahda party offices, witnesses told the Reuters news agency. On Wednesday, Noureddin B’Hiri, senior adviser to the prime minister, said that six people believed to have orchestrated the killing of Belaid more than five months ago had been identified. “We have identified the sponsors and the authors of the assassination of Chokri Belaid,” B’Hiri said after a cabinet meeting.
B’Hiri had said that the details would be revealed “soon” by Interior Minister Lotfi Ben Jeddou, without saying when. Belaid was shot dead outside his home on February 6, in a brazen attack that shocked Tunisians and led to a political crisis that brought down the government of Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali. The interior ministry blamed the killing of Belaid, who was an outspoken critic of Jebali’s ruling Ennahda party, on a cell of “radical Islamists”.
In April, the government released the photos and names of five suspects and appealed for help in arresting them. Since the revolution that toppled the regime of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011, “hardline Islamists” have been blamed for numerous acts of violence, notably an attack on the US embassy last September that left four assailants dead and the killing of Belaid.

Interior minister says Mohamed Brahmi killed with same gun used to murder his opposition coalition leader Chokri Belaid.
Secular opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi was killed with the same gun that was used to kill his coalition party leader Chokri Belaid six months ago, Tunisia’s interior minister has said. Lotfi Ben Jeddou told a news conference on Friday that it suggested the involvement of the same hardline Salafist group. “The same 9mm automatic weapon that killed Belaid also killed Brahmi,” Jeddou said.
He named the main suspect as hardline Salafist Boubacar Hakim, already being sought on suspicion of smuggling weapons from Libya. Ben Jeddou said that ballistic examination of the bullets fired on Thursday at Brahmi showed they came from the same gun used to kill leftist Belaid in February.
Two men on a motorcycle shot Brahmi 14 times in front of his home as he was getting in his car. Belaid was killed in a similar fashion.
The assassination has plunged the country into a political crisis, with the opposition calling for the dissolution of the government. A demonstrator was killed in the central Tunisian town of Gafsa overnight on Friday during a march protesting against the assassination, the AFP news agency reported.
Mohamed Moufli, 45, was killed as police used tear gas to break up the night-time march. He was struck in the head by a tear gas cannister and died soon afterwards in hospital. Police acted as hundreds of demonstrators tried to storm local government offices in the town centre.
Tunisian trade unions called a nationwide general strike on Friday over Brahmi’s murder. Shops an banks were closed and the country’s national airline Tunisair cancelled all flights on Friday, as the General Union of Tunisian Labour (UGTT) called for the nationwide strike in protest against “terrorism, violence and murders”. Protesters were again taking to the streets on Friday, after thousands of demonstrators rallied around the country on Thursday, with many holding the ruling Ennahda Party responsible for the assassination and attacking local party headquarters. Ennahda, a moderate Islamist group, denied accusations that it was involved in the murder of a member of the People Movement Party. Police used tear gas in central Tunis and in the provinces to disperse the protests.

Right after Tunisia’s Prime Minister Ali Laarayedh wrapped up a press conference on the brutal assassination of opposition leader Mohamed Brahmi on 29 July, a military convoy was ambushed in the Chaambi Mountains – located in the country’s north-west – resulting in a number of deaths and injuries.
Some of the bodies were found beheaded, while others had been mutilated. The attack plunged Tunisia into a second period of national mourning in less than a week.
The following week, the Tunisian army launched a military operation, including air strikes, to purge the Mount Chaambi of radical Islamist elements that have been attacking military targets over the past months. The assault occurred against a backdrop of small-scale military operations that have been on going since 2012.
The attacks against military personnel are organized and deliberately violent. Mutilation and castration are methods of war that have the aim of inciting fear. It is legitimate to ask if the military operations are not more serious than what official sources have continued to claim over the past year.
The Mount Chaambi natural park, which borders Algeria and covers an area of around 16,000 acres, is an area that has historically served as a refuge for a variety of insurgents. Revolutionaries against local political regimes along with smugglers and other mavericks, most notably under the Ottoman Empire and French colonial rule, used to take refuge in the mountainous terrain. More recently, radical Islamists started maneuvering around Chaambi in the 1980s, when insurgents who had been fighting in the Afghan jihad began returning.
But their presence only started to be noticed significantly as the Arab uprisings unfolded. Their ranks have swelled in recent years as fighters affiliated to Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) returning from the Libyan revolution and the conflict in northern Mali sought a safe haven from state forces.
Communiqués from the Ministry of Defense allude to ‘terrorist’ groups, linking these attacks to the global jihad, a generic name used to avoid naming Al Qaeda and its affiliates. The Ministry’s explanation – until the carnage of July 29 – claimed that soldiers were facing threats linked to minefields, excluding direct clashes. The military maintained, however, that the militant cells were localized and encircled.
Still, little is known about the groups and individuals behind the attacks, their identities and motives remain shadowy. Moreover, a number of anonymous accounts have surfaced, in which soldiers claim that the targeted regions are in military lock-down. These accounts allude to possible conspiracy theories.
Figures in the opposition (Nidaa Tounes and the Popular Front are the most vocal, but statements were also made by some independent ‘secular’ figures) as well as certain security officers (grouped in the Republican Security Syndicate), are pinning the blame on Ennahda. Critics have argued that Ennahda, the largest parliamentary bloc, is seeking to destabilize the country in order to frighten its opponents.
Tunisia’s Chaambi region is comparable to Egypt’s Sinai. These remote regions, lying beyond the complete control of the state, are considered ideal by radical Islamist groups to pursue their activities.
The Sinai desert is notorious for its harsh conditions. In Chaambi, a massive forest dominates the mountains making it difficult for security forces to penetrate and secure the region.
Another advantage that the Chaambi and Sinai offer insurgents is nearby and difficult to guard border areas, which provide ample opportunity for arms trafficking and retreat. Sinai militants receive supplies from tunnels leading to the Gaza strip, while Algeria’s eastern region offers refuge to fighters in the Chaambi.
On the political front, cooperation between Tunisia and Algeria is at a standstill, and it is unlikely that militants can easily cross the border from Algeria without a certain level of complacence on the part of Algerian authorities. Likewise, Hamas encourages weapon transfers to insurgents in Egypt and has even been held responsible for coordinating attacks against Egyptian security personnel in the past.
During the rule of Bourguiba and Ben Ali, the Tunisian military – understaffed and underequipped – remained confined to its barracks and was kept away from the political arena. Since the army has been called upon to secure the restless region of Chaambi, its many shortcomings have been revealed. This is the first major event involving the Tunisian army and its soldiers lack combat experience. Nevertheless, and despite its faults, the army remains popular amongst ordinary Tunisians, having played a positive role in Ben Ali’s toppling over two years ago.
The main information about the Chaambi events comes from the Ministry of Defense and the Prime Minister’s office, while media investigations rarely go deeper. Mount Chaambi is a military zone, access to which is restricted to journalists and civilians.
In his press conference, the Prime Minister appeared confident that the security situation was improving. The ambush came as a direct contradiction to his claims, further denting his already low credibility.
Ordinary Tunisians are now increasingly questioning the veracity of the Defense Ministry’s briefs, and the role the army is playing may become a topic of derision. Many questions, along with rumors and conspiracy theories, will not be answered unless the military and political authorities become more transparent and open in their communication.
Meanwhile, the murky Chaambi operation is slowly becoming the ‘Chaambi War’ for citizens and observers alike. Such an image is a blow to Tunisia’s tourism-dependent economy, a stain on the army’s reputation, and a theater for radical Islamist propaganda.

Tunisia has been largely sealed off to the outside world, with all flights into and out of the country cancelled.
The main labor union had called a general strike in response to the killing of politician Mohammed Brahmi. Tunisia observed an official day of national mourning on Friday, in response to the deadly shooting of secular politician Mohammed Brahmi, with shops and banks closed in anticipation of potentially violent protests.
Brahmi was shot dead on Thursday outside of his home near the capital, Tunis, by unidentified gunmen on a motorbike. The 58-year-old was the second leading member of the leftist Popular Front to be shot dead this year.
In February, Chokri Belaid was gunned down outside of his home, sparking protests that led to resignation of the prime minister. Interior Minister Lofti Ben Jeddou told reporters Friday that Brahmi was killed by the same gun used to assassinate Belaid.
The country's main trade union body, the General Union of Tunisian Labor (UGTT), had called a general strike for Friday to protest against "terrorism, violence and murders." According to Reuters news agency, protesters assembled outside of UGTT headquarters in Tunis on Friday, preparing to march down the city's main boulevard as riot police deployed. UGTT Deputy Secretary-General Sami Tahri said that all sectors of the country were observing the strike, including banks, health services and most public transport.
The UGTT claims to have 500,000 members. Thousands of protesters had already taken to the streets on Thursday in Tunis and Sidi Bouzid, the birth place of the Arab Spring. Demonstrators set fire to offices of the incumbent Islamist Ennahda party in Sidi Bouzid, while riot police fired tear gas at protesters outside of the Interior Ministry in Tunis.
Brahmi's 19-year-old daughter, Balkis Brahmi, told the AFP news agency that she saw two men dressed in black who fled the murder scene on a scooter. Similar accusations were leveled against Ennahda after Belaid's assassination in February. The moderate Islamist party denied involvement in Belaid's murder and vehemently rejected similar accusations in connection with Brahmi's assassination.
Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki called the national day of mourning Friday and has asked the army to arrange a state funeral for Brahmi. The slain politician's family postponed his funeral until Saturday, to avoid exacerbating tensions. Ennahda accuses radical Salafists of being behind the assassinations of both Belaid and Brahmi.

By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

A would-be political alliance between the Popular Front and the Union for Tunisia is looming ahead, emblematized in a significantly-symbolic “encounter” between representatives of each party.
The Popular Front, uniting the elusive Left, and the Union for Tunisia, monopolized by a dubious party whose conservative tendencies are economically obvious – a party which is unanimously believed to foster ex-ruling party members and to incarnate what I previously labeled “ideologized opportunism”. I will theoretically deconstruct this potential alliance by simply invalidating all the idealistic and materialistic reasons for such co-operation. In terms of political domination, the Popular Front is mostly composed of communists and socialists whose favorite slogan is “Down with reactionaries, Destourians and Ikhwanis!”(سحقا سحقا للرجعيّة دساترة و خوانجية) .
These watchwords have a methodological portent in defining the ideological enemies of this political body: Destourians are reactionaries for their savage capitalism and oppressive ways that tighten the upper classes’ grip on the impoverished ones; and Ikhwanis are regressivists for basing their whole ideology on the “opium of the people” that benumbs their revolutionary spirit, serves the bourgeoisie, and further indoctrinates the masses into accepting injustice. According to most of the Popular Front members, both sides are equally reactionary and therefore must be shown equal animosity.
Why then aligning with one reactionary force against the other? Ethically and pragmatically, it is a most unwise decision.
Two years ago, a revolution, uprising, revolt, or what you will, took place in Tunisia. People rose in protest against a system that institutionalized oppression, injustice, and corruption.
After two years, our “progressive” “revolutionary” political elite is co-operating with a politically-organized replica of the same system of institutionalized oppression, injustice, and corruption against… oppression, injustice, and corruption. This is unethical, to say the least, and unfaithful to leftist ideology.
Some might say that once upon an October 18th, 2005, the same “Left” stood side by side with the other reactionary faction, the Ikhwanis, against the oppressive regime; and that now, the major antagonism is with those “former allies”, since the antagonism is always with those in power. My answer to this is: “People, you are co-operating with the selfsame enemy that the popular will has rejected in a revolution that had taken a heavy toll of lives”!
If the current government is not to any party’s liking, there are more ethical ways to topple it, such as… “democracy”, dear “democratic powers”, or another leap in the revolutionary spiral of history, if the people are for another revolution. No deconstructive analysis can prevent what is happening: the revolutionary failure of the government and the anti-revolutionary conversion of the leftist opposition.
It is a pity that our political scene has become the crime scene of high treason: anti-revolution. By aligning itself with the Union for Tunisia, the Popular Front is sneering: “Both are reactionary; but one is more reactionary than the other”! Being reactionary is not about being a stickler to religion or to capitalism; it is going back to what the revolution rose against_ it is the same pre-revolutionary scenario being “re-acted”, reproduced, and relived.

Thousands have taken to the streets across Tunisia to protest the killing of opposition politician Mohamed Brahmi in the capital Tunis – a development that threatens to derail a transition to democracy in the birthplace of the Arab Spring.
Mr Brahmi, the leader of the opposition Movement of the People party, was gunned down outside his home in front of his wife and youngest daughter. It was the second assassination of an opposition politician this year, coming just five months after the killing of Chokri Belaid, a prominent secular MP.
Mr Brahmi was a member of the National Constituent Assembly, which is finalising the drafting of the new constitution for Tunisia. His party is a member of the left-leaning Popular front coalition, to which Mr Belaid also belonged.
Mr Belaid’s death, the first of its kind in Tunisia, shocked the country and led to widespread protests. His funeral was attended by tens of thousands of people.
Mr Brahmi was a vocal critic of the ruling Ennahda party, a moderate Islamist party which became part of the government following the overthrow of Tunisia’s former leader Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali in 2011. Divisions between Islamists and their secular opponents have deepened since the popular uprising against Ben Ali, which unleashed unrest across the Arab world, unseating rulers in Egypt, Libya and Yemen, and leading to a civil war in Syria. The opposition has accused the government of not doing enough to crack down on radical Islamists. Among those who took to the streets in central Tunis to protest today, many were pointing fingers at the Ennahda party, calling its members “terrorists” and “vampires”.
At the Ministry of Interior, demonstrators shouted slogans against Rached Ghannouchi, leader of Tunisia's ruling party Ennahda. “Ghannouchi is a murderer”, the crowd shouted. Similar demonstrations erupted in the southern town of Sidi Bouzid, where protesters set fire to two local Ennahda party offices.
Mr Ghannouchi expressed his sorrow at the killing via his party’s Facebook page this afternoon. “We heard, with immense sadness and shock, the news of the assassination of politician and member of the national constituent assembly Mohamed Brahmi, today. We condemn this cowardly and despicable crime. We pray for the soul of martyr Mohamed Brahmi and present our sincere condolences to his family, praying that God grants them patience,” he wrote.
His condemnation was echoed by other members of his party, who called the killing an “attack on democracy”. “All that I can tell you is that it is the assassination of Tunisia, it’s the assassination of legality, it’s the assassination of the democratic process, it’s the assassination of the transition,” said Hela Hammi, a member of the Tunisian Constituent Assembly’s bureau and a member of the Ennahda party. Tunisia’s political transition has been relatively peaceful, with the moderate Islamist Ennahda party sharing power with smaller secular parties.
But the government has struggled to revive a stuttering economy and has come under fire from secularists who accuse it of failing to curb the activities of radical Salafi Islamists. The government blamed Mr Belaid’s assassination on Salafi militants.

The group's leader, Saifallah Benahssine, also known as Abu Iyadh, fought with al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and is wanted by police on suspicion of inciting an attack on the US embassy in September. Four people were killed in those disturbances, which began as a protest over a film that mocked the Prophet Mohammad.

"We hope that we will find a solution responding to the interests of the nation above all, and which satisfies the different parties," said UGTT secretary general Hocine Abassi, after holding talks with President Moncef Marzouki.

Ansar leader Seif Allah Ibn Hussein, also known as Abu Iyadh, is currently in hiding after an arrest warrant was issued for allegedly inciting an attack on the US embassy in Tunis in September 2012, which killed four people.

After Mr Belaid's assassination in February, many Tunisians accused Ennahda of not doing enough to stamp out a rise in Islamist violence, with some critics saying the party was actively fomenting it, correspondents say.

"There are up to 100,000 families who are living below the poverty line and our campaign is aimed at providing them with official cards to get subsidised and even free basic supplies," he said.

The protest in central Tunis was called by the opposition to demand the assembly's dissolution and the resignation of the government, and to mark the six-month anniversary of the assassination of prominent secular opposition leader Chokri Belaid.

Talks between the opposition and the ruling coalition led by the moderate Islamist Ennahda party have so far failed to achieve a major breakthrough.

During your trial you will have complete digital access to FT.com with everything in both of our Standard Digital and Premium Digital packages.
Standard Digital includes access to a wealth of global news, analysis and expert opinion. Premium Digital includes access to our premier business column, Lex, as well as 15 curated newsletters covering key business themes with original, in-depth reporting. For a full comparison of Standard and Premium Digital, click here.
Change the plan you will roll onto at any time during your trial by visiting the “Settings & Account” section. If you do nothing, you will be auto-enrolled in our premium digital monthly subscription plan and retain complete access for $69 per month. For cost savings, you can change your plan at any time online in the “Settings & Account” section. If you’d like to retain your premium access and save 20%, you can opt to pay annually at the end of the trial.
You may also opt to downgrade to Standard Digital, a robust journalistic offering that fulfils many user’s needs. Compare Standard and Premium Digital here. Any changes made can be done at any time and will become effective at the end of the trial period, allowing you to retain full access for 4 weeks, even if you downgrade or cancel.

TUNIS (Reuters) - Tunisia’s trade union body announced mass protests on Sunday to force out the government, accusing the Islamist-led coalition of delaying crisis talks on the country’s political future. The powerful UGTT union had been acting as mediator between the government and the secularist opposition, but said talks stalled on Saturday due to the ruling Ennahda party’s refusal to announce its immediate resignation.
The UGTT said it would stage protests across the country and then a huge rally in the capital to force the government out. “All options remain possible” UGTT spokesman Sami Tahri said, referring to the possibility of a general strike.
Another official hinted that a change in heart from the government could avert mass protests. The UGTT has been pushing both sides to accept a proposal for three weeks of talks after which Ennahda would hand over to a caretaker administration until elections were held.
Tunisia, where the ouster of President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali in 2011 triggered the wave of “Arab Spring” revolts, had been considered as one of the more successful among the region’s fledgling democracies. But unrest broke out after the assassination of an opposition figure in July. The opposition accused the moderate Islamist party Ennahda of tolerating Islamist militants and demanded it step down.
Whereas in Egypt military power decided the Islamist government’s fate, in Tunisia the economic muscle of the 800,000 member union may prove decisive. A single day of strikes last July cost the country hundreds millions of dollars and sent its currency to a historic low against the dollar.
The Tunisian army may have played a role in Ben Ali’s overthrow by refusing to shoot demonstrators. But unlike the Egyptian military, which also helped protesters to topple autocrat Hosni Mubarak in 2011, it remains politically weak. It has few strings to pull and, unlike the Egyptian military, little economic privilege to protect. The protests will be the first show of strength by UGTT since it started mediation more than a month ago.

TUNIS (Reuters) -
Several thousand Islamists took to the streets of Tunis on Friday to defend the Islamist-led government from popular demands for it to resign over the assassination of a secular opposition politician. As Islamists and secular opponents staged rival protests over the future of Tunisia’s Ennahda government, the interior minister pointed the finger of suspicion at a hardline Islamist, saying the same gun had been used in Thursday’s killing as in an assassination earlier this year that provoked violent protests.
“The people want Ennahda again!” and “No to a coup against democracy!”, the Islamists chanted, rejecting demands for a new government of national unity.
Divisions between Islamists and their secular opponents have deepened since Tunisian President Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali was toppled in 2011 in the first of the Arab Spring revolutions. In the second murder of a secular politician in Tunisia this year, Mohamed Brahmi, a member of the Arab nationalist Popular Front party, was shot 14 times.
Thousands of anti-government protesters also massed in the capital on Friday, while shops and banks closed their doors and all flights in and out of the country were canceled. “Down with the rule of the Muslim Brotherhood,” the secular protesters chanted, referring to the ruling Ennahda party, which draws inspiration from the Brotherhood, a pan-Arab Islamist movement. Interior Minister Lotfi Ben Jeddou drew a direct link between the latest killing and the assassination of the Popular Front’s leader Chokri Belaid on February 6, which set off the worst violence in Tunisia since Ben Ali’s downfall.
“The same 9mm automatic weapon that killed Belaid also killed Brahmi,” he told a news conference, naming the main suspect as hardline Salafist Boubacar Hakim, already being sought on suspicion of smuggling weapons from Libya. Authorities had identified 14 Salafists suspected of involvement in Belaid’s assassination, and most were believed to be members of the local hardline Islamist group Ansar al-Sharia, he said.
Brahmi, 58, was a critic of the Ennahda-led ruling coalition and a member of the Constituent Assembly that has drafted a new constitution for the North African nation of 11 million. The Initiative Party, another secular group, announced on Friday the resignation of its five members who sit on the Assembly. This marked the first withdrawals from the body, which is controlled by Islamists, in protest at the killing. The Tunis stock exchange fell by 1.9 percent on Friday morning and the dinar currency was trading close to a record low against the euro.
Tunisia’s political transition since the revolt that toppled Ben Ali has been relatively peaceful, with the moderate Islamist Ennahda party sharing power with smaller secular parties. But the government has struggled to revive the economy and has come under fire from secularists who accuse it of failing to curb the activities of Salafi Islamists. Events in Egypt, where the army overthrew Muslim Brotherhood President Mohamed Mursi on July 3 after mass protests against him, have further energized the anti-Islamist opposition in Tunisia.
Brahmi’s family said his funeral would take place at 0800 GMT (4:00 a.m. EDT) on Saturday and he would be buried near the tomb of Belaid. His widow Mrabrka said the family did want government officials to attend, though all other Tunisians were welcome.
Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki asked the army to organize a state funeral for Brahmi. The government announced a day of national mourning on Friday, and radio stations broadcast patriotic songs.
Secularists called for the dissolution of the government and the formation of a national salvation administration, which was rejected by Prime Minister Ali Larayedh. Thousands also protested peacefully on Friday against the government in the cities of Sfax, Kairouan, Monastir and Sidi Bouzid, the cradle of the Tunisian revolution, where protesters set fire to two Ennahda party offices the previous day.
Ben Ali’s downfall unleashed unrest across the Arab world, unseating rulers in Egypt, Libya and Yemen, and leading to civil war in Syria. Rached Ghannouchi, the Ennahda party leader, said the attack on Brahmi was aimed at “halting Tunisia’s democratic process and killing the only successful model in the region, especially after the violence in Egypt, Syria and Libya”.
The assassination occurred as the country prepares to vote in the next few weeks on the new constitution before a presidential election later in the year. The turmoil dealt another blow to efforts to revive Tunisia’s vital tourism industry. Cultural events, including the Carthage Festival, were suspended following Brahmi’s killing.

