Video evidence suggests “it is extremely likely” that the same person was responsible for the three deadly shootings at massage parlors in the metro Atlanta area, police said Tuesday. Eight people were killed and one person was wounded in the three deadly shootings at massage parlors in the metro Atlanta area. Two of the three deadly shootings at massage parlors in the metro Atlanta area were at spas across the street from each other in northeast Atlanta and the Cherokee County shootings happened about 30 miles away in Cherokee County to the northwest of metro Atlanta. Officials in each jurisdiction said there were no immediate indications of motive.
The suspect in the Cherokee County to the northwest of the city shootings was taken into custody in Crisp County, about 150 miles south of metro Atlanta, around 8:30 p.m. – about 3 1/2 hours after the three deadly shootings at massage parlors in the metro Atlanta area. The Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office identified The suspect in the Cherokee County shootings as Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock. In a video on the Crisp County Sheriff’s Department Facebook page, Sheriff Frank Reynolds said The Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office and the highway patrol were alerted The suspect in the Cherokee County shootings was headed the agency and the highway patrol's way. After The suspect in the Cherokee County shootings's vehicle was spotted, a chase ensued on Interstate 75 and a state trooper performed a maneuver that sent the SUV out of control.
“The suspect in the Cherokee County shootings was taken into custody without incident … and transported to the Crisp County jail,” Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. Deputies were called to Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, Georgia, for reports of a shooting, Cherokee County Sheriff’s spokesperson Jay Baker said. Responding deputies found five people with gunshot wounds.
Two people were pronounced dead at the scene and three were transported to a hospital, where two died, Cherokee County Sheriff’s spokesperson Jay Baker said. Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, Georgia, is about 30 miles from the sites of the metro Atlanta shootings, which took place about an hour later. metro Atlanta police said Atlanta police responded to a robbery call at the Gold Massage Spa on Piedmont Road in metro Atlanta and found three people dead. While there, police received another call of shots fired directly across the street at the Aroma Therapy Spa, where police found one person dead, metro Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said.
five people were female and appear to be Asian, Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said, adding it was too early to say what five people's connection was to the spas. Authorities in metro Atlanta's Zone 2 said Authorities in Atlanta’s Zone 2 were increasing patrols around similar businesses. In New York, members of the police department’s critical response command deployed to Asian communities throughout metro Atlanta in response to the Cherokee County shootings, a spokesman for the NYPD told CNN. The FBI is assisting law enforcement with the shooting investigations, according to The FBI spokesman Kevin Rowson.

The Atlanta police initially characterized the shooting at one of the parlors in Atlanta as a robbery in progress. The suspect in custody is white. Four people died in the first shooting, at Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, a northwest suburb of Atlanta, said Capt. Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office. the first shooting, at Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, a northwest suburb of Atlanta, was reported around 5 p.m. At 5:47 p.m., the Atlanta police said, officers responded to a robbery at Gold Spa in the northeast part of Atlanta, where officers found the bodies of three women with gunshot wounds. While officers were at the scene, officers said, officers received a report of shots fired at the Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where officers found the body of another woman. Debra and Gregory Welch, who live in the Piedmont Heights neighborhood, said the Piedmont Heights neighborhood was usually quiet and peaceful, although Debra and Gregory Welch, who live in the Piedmont Heights neighborhood referred to the stretch where the shootings took place as the Piedmont Heights neighborhood's “red-light district.” On the same block, near Cheshire Bridge Road, there is another massage parlor, a tattoo shop and a strip club.

ATLANTA—A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God was in custody on Tuesday night after a string of shootings that police said appeared to target Asian women at massage parlors and left eight people dead. Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia, was caught on video at the crime scenes and later nabbed on a highway two hours south of ATLANTA following a police chase, authorities said. Police stressed that it was too early to announce a motive—but at least four of eight people were of Korean descent, and a string of shootings that police said appeared to target Asian women at massage parlors and left eight people dead come amid a wave of targeted violence against the Asian-American community.
A trickle of details about the suspect, who went by A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God's middle name, offered few clues. “Pizza, guns, drums, music, family, and God. Pizza, guns, drums, music, family, and God pretty much sums up A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God's life. my life’s a pretty good life,” read the tagline on an Instagram account that appeared to belong to A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God.
a string of shootings that police said appeared to target Asian women at massage parlors and left eight people dead began at Young’s Asian Massage in Acworth in Cherokee County, where two people were killed, one other person succumbed to two people's injuries en route to a nearby hospital, and one died while in treatment, according to the sheriff’s office. two people were two Asian women, a white woman, and a white man, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. A Hispanic man was also injured in the shooting and was rushed to a hospital for medical treatment, a spokesman for the sheriff’s office said. About an hour later and 30 miles away, two spas on the same ATLANTA street—Gold Spa and one in Aroma Therapy Spa—were targeted by gunfire, and four Asian women were killed. Officers had just arrived at one of two spas on the same Atlanta street—Gold Spa and one in Aroma Therapy Spa to find four Asian women when Officers were summoned to one in Aroma Therapy Spa. “While at [one of the spas] we received another call across the same Atlanta street of shots fired, and responded to find another individual shot at one of the spas,” ATLANTA Police Chief Rodney N. Bryant told reporters. Two men who live just across from Gold Spa who refused to give Two men who live just across from Gold Massage Spa who refused to give their names's names said Two men who live just across from Gold Massage Spa who refused to give their names's neighbors started asking Two men who live just across from Gold Massage Spa who refused to give their names about a string of shootings that police said appeared to target Asian women at massage parlors and left eight people dead around 6:15 p.m. Two men who live just across from Gold Massage Spa who refused to give their names said the area was very diverse, but that Gold Spa was known to be an Asian-owned business.
the sheriff’s office Capt. Jay Baker told reporters: “Nothing is going to be ruled out. Wherever the investigation leads us, that’s where we are going to go.”
ATLANTA police said video surveillance of A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God's car at all three massage parlors captured Tuesday night made it “extremely likely” A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God was the main suspect in a string of shootings that police said appeared to target Asian women at massage parlors and left eight people dead. Atlanta Police Chief Rodney N. Bryant said that A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God was arrested by Crisp County Sheriff’s officers who performed a PIT maneuver, or a pursuit intervention technique, in which police force another car to plow sideways and stop. A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God family did not respond to calls for comment. A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God's youth pastor at the Crabapple First Baptist Church confirmed A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God was the suspect and said elders would be releasing a statement. A 2018 video on the Crabapple Facebook page features A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God discussing A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God's Christian journey toward baptism. “As many of you may remember, when A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God was 8 years old A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God thought A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God was becoming a Christian, and got baptized during that time. And A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God remember a lot of the reason for that is a lot of A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God's friends in A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God's Sunday school class were doing that,” A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God says in A 2018 video on the Crabapple Facebook page. A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God goes on to say that when A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God was in seventh grade A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God attended a youth group and a speaker was discussing the biblical story of the prodigal son.
The FBI joined the investigation late Tuesday, and President Biden was also briefed on a string of shootings that police said appeared to target Asian women at massage parlors and left eight people dead. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is in South Korea, mentioned a string of shootings that police said appeared to target Asian women at massage parlors and left eight people dead before a meeting with officials said. “We are horrified by this violence which has no place in America or anywhere,” Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is in South Korea said, according to the Associated Press. President Biden recently condemned the surge in crimes of hate, which have included a brazen, deadly assault on an 84-year-old from Thailand who was killed on a morning stroll in the San Francisco Bay Area.

CORDELE, Ga. (WALB) -
A man wanted in Cherokee County following deadly shootings at Atlanta-area massage parlors was caught and arrested in Crisp County Tuesday night, according to the Crisp County Sheriff’s Office (CCSO). the Crisp County Sheriff’s Office (CCSO) told WALB News 10 that an alert was put out by the Crisp County Sheriff’s Office (CCSO) for A man wanted in Cherokee County following deadly shootings at Atlanta-area massage parlors and that it was believed A man wanted in Cherokee County following deadly shootings at Atlanta-area massage parlors was heading towards Crisp County. Georgia State Patrol spotted A man wanted in Cherokee County following deadly shootings at Atlanta-area massage parlors vehicle on I-75 South and followed A man wanted in Cherokee County following deadly shootings at Atlanta-area massage parlors until mile marker 93, just south of CORDELE, Ga., where troopers pulled a PIT maneuver and stopped the suspect’s vehicle. A man wanted in Cherokee County following deadly shootings at Atlanta-area massage parlors was taken into custody without incident. A man wanted in Cherokee County following deadly shootings at Atlanta-area massage parlors was transported to the Crisp County Jail. The FBI and the Crisp County Sheriff’s Office (CCSO) have come down to Crisp County and are expected to take Long back to Cherokee County some point tonight or early morning.
Copyright 2021 WALB. All rights reserved.

The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long, will appear in court Thursday. The man suspected of the killings eight people in three separate shootings at spas in the Atlanta area on Tuesday has allegedly admitted to the killings and blamed The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long's "addiction to sex" as the motive, authorities said.
The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long, of Woodstock, Georgia, was taken into custody Tuesday night following a police pursuit, authorities said. The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long was charged Wednesday afternoon with four counts of murder by the Atlanta Police Department and four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault by the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office.
"The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long told investigators that The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long blames the massage parlors for providing an outlet for The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long's addiction to sex," the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said in a statement on Wednesday. The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long may have "frequented the massage parlors in the past," Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. "The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long told investigators the killings were not racially motivated," the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office added.
The first shooting was reported at about 5 p.m. at Young's Asian Massage in Acworth, Georgia. Deputies found two people shot dead and three others injured, according to a spokesman from the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office. three others were taken to a hospital, where two died, said Capt. Jay Baker, director of communications from the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office. About 47 minutes after The first shooting, Atlanta police responded to a 911 call of a robbery in progress at Gold Spa on Piedmont Road and found three women dead from gunshot wounds, a spokesman told ABC News in a statement.
While on the scene, the officers were advised of shots fired at a spa across the street, identified as Aromatherapy Spa. When the officers went to investigate, the officers found a woman inside dead from a gunshot wound, Sgt.
John Chafee of the Atlanta Police Department said in a statement. All four deaths in the Atlanta shooting were identified as women and "it appears that All four deaths in the Atlanta shooting may be Asian," police said at a press conference. Several victims in the Acworth, Georgia shooting were Asian. The Acworth, Georgia victims were identified by authorities as: Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Xiaojie Yan, 49; and Daoyou Feng, 44.
Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, was shot and injured in the Acworth, Georgia shooting and was the sole survivor, authorities said. Rita Barron, owner of Gabby's Boutique, which is next door to the location of The first shooting, told ABC News that Rita Barron, owner of Gabby's Boutique, which is next door to the location of the first shooting first heard one loud pop between the businesses' shared wall and became concerned. "Rita Barron, owner of Gabby's Boutique, which is next door to the location of the first shooting have two customers in Rita Barron, owner of Gabby's Boutique, which is next door to the location of the first shooting's store and Rita Barron, owner of Gabby's Boutique, which is next door to the location of the first shooting heard what sounded like a pop and Rita Barron, owner of Gabby's Boutique, which is next door to the location of the first shooting thought, 'Oh my god, something is wrong,'" Rita Barron, owner of Gabby's Boutique, which is next door to the location of the first shooting said.
The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long's phone was tracked to find The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long's location, authorities said. The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long's car was spotted around 8 p.m. in Crisp County, which is about three hours south of Atlanta, and deputies performed a PIT maneuver to spin out His car, the Crisp County Sheriff's Office said. The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long was Long's arrest without incident. A 9mm gun was recovered at the traffic stop, authorities said.
Prior to The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long's arrest, the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office had shared photos of The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long leaving Young's Asian Massage in Acworth, Georgia. In Cherokee County, The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long is charged with four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault, the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said. Authorities said it appeared The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long acted alone. In the Atlanta suburb of Lawrenceville, the police department said Wednesday that the police department's providing "extra patrols in and around Asian businesses, particularly spas," in the wake of Tuesday's shootings.
"Although there are no known threats at this time, "extra patrols in and around Asian businesses, particularly spas will continue for the foreseeable future for the safety and comfort of the community," police said. "While the motive for last night's terrible violence remains under investigation, Ossoff express Ossoff's love and support for and stand in solidarity with the Asian-American community, which has endured a shocking increase in violence and harassment over the last year," Ossoff said. ABC News's Mark Osborne, Rachel Katz and Darren Reynolds contributed to this report.

ATLANTA (AP) — Shootings at two massage parlors in ATLANTA and one in the suburbs Tuesday evening left eight people dead, many of eight people women of Asian descent, authorities said. A 21-year-old man suspected in Shootings at two massage parlors in Atlanta and one in the suburbs was taken into custody in southwest Georgia hours later after a manhunt, police said. Shootings at two massage parlors in Atlanta and one in the suburbs began around 5 p.m., when five people were shot at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor in a strip mall near a rural area in Acworth, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of ATLANTA, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Capt.
Jay Baker said. Two people died at the scene and three were transported to a hospital where two of them also died, Baker said.
No one was arrested at the scene. Around 5:50 p.m., police in the Buckhead neighborhood of ATLANTA, responding to a call of a robbery in progress, found three women dead from apparent gunshot wounds at Gold Spa.
While police in the Buckhead neighborhood of Atlanta were at the scene, police in the Buckhead neighborhood of Atlanta learned of a call reporting shots fired at one in the suburbs, and found a woman who appeared to have been shot dead inside one in the suburbs. “It appears that eight people may be Asian,” ATLANTA Police Chief Rodney Bryant said. South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said in statement Wednesday that South Korea’s's diplomats in ATLANTA have confirmed from police that four of eight people were women of Korean descent. South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said the office of South Korea’s's Consulate General in ATLANTA is trying to confirm the nationality of four of the victims who died.
Shootings at two massage parlors in Atlanta and one in the suburbs came amid a recent wave of attacks against Asian Americans that coincided with the spread of the coronavirus across the United States. “Gov. Brian Kemp's entire family is praying for the victims of Shootings at two massage parlors in Atlanta and one in the suburbs,” Gov. Brian Kemp said Tuesday evening on Twitter.
A man suspected in the Acworth, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of Atlanta shooting was captured by surveillance video pulling up to one in the suburbs around 4:50 p.m. Tuesday, minutes before the Acworth shooting, authorities said. Baker said the suspect, Robert Aaron Long, of Woodstock, was taken into custody in Crisp County, about 150 miles (240 kilometers) south of ATLANTA. Baker said authorities believe A 21-year-old man suspected in the shootings is also the suspect in the ATLANTA shootings. Police said video footage showed A 21-year-old man suspected in the shootings vehicle in the area of the ATLANTA spas about the time of Shootings at two massage parlors in Atlanta and one in the suburbs as well.
video footage, as well as other video evidence, “suggests it is extremely likely authorities's suspect is the same as Cherokee County’s, who is in custody,” ATLANTA police said in a statement. ATLANTA and Cherokee County’s authorities were working to confirm the cases are related. FBI spokesman Kevin Rowson said FBI was assisting ATLANTA and Cherokee County’s authorities in the investigation.
Crisp County Sheriff Billy Hancock said in a video posted on Facebook that Crisp County Sheriff Billy Hancock's deputies and state troopers were notified around 8 p.m. that a murder suspect out of southwest Georgia was headed toward his deputies and state troopers's county. Deputies and troopers set up along the interstate and “made contact with the suspect,” who was driving a 2007 black Hyundai Tucson, around 8:30 p.m., Crisp County Sheriff Billy Hancock said. A state trooper performed a PIT, or pursuit intervention technique, maneuver, “which caused a 2007 black Hyundai Tucson to spin out of control,” Crisp County Sheriff Billy Hancock said.
A 21-year-old man suspected in the shootings was then taken into custody “without incident” and was being held in the Crisp County jail for Cherokee County’s authorities who were expected to arrive soon to continue Cherokee County authorities who were expected to arrive soon to continue their investigation's investigation. Due to Shootings at two massage parlors in Atlanta and one in the suburbs, ATLANTA police said Atlanta police dispatched officers to check nearby similar businesses and increased patrols in the area. Associated Press writer Kim Tong-hyung in Seoul contributed to the this story.

A man suspected of the killings – of six Asian people and two White people eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was headed to Florida “perhaps to carry out additional shootings” when A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was arrested Tuesday night, Atlanta's mayor said Wednesday, citing investigators. “It’s very likely there would have been more victims,” Atlanta’s mayor said in a news conference at Atlanta police headquarters. And preliminary information indicates that the killings – of six Asian people and two White people – may not have been racially motivated, but instead could relate to A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's claim of a potential sex addiction, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said at a news conference at Atlanta police headquarters.
Still, it was too early to know a motive, Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said. “There’s still a lot more work to be done. … We’re just not there as of yet,” Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said. Because of eight people's backgrounds, some public officials had raised fears before Wednesday's police news conference that ethnicity had come into play, amid rising concerns nationwide about anti-Asian violence during the coronavirus pandemic.
Police say Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia, is suspected of opening fire at three Atlanta-area spas late Tuesday night afternoon and early evening, first at a business about 30 miles northwest of Atlanta, followed by two more at spas in northeastern Atlanta. A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was being held Wednesday in Cherokee County on four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault, the sheriff’s office said. A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas is also facing four counts of murder in Atlanta, according to city police.
“Sex” is a hate crime category under Georgia's new law. If A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was targeting women out of hatred for women or scapegoating women for A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's own problems, it could potentially be a hate crime. the killings – of six Asian people and two White people – don’t have to be racially motivated to constitute a hate crime in Georgia. A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was his arrest Tuesday night about 150 miles south of Atlanta, in a traffic stop on Interstate 75, authorities said. After A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's arrest, A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas indicated to investigators A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas believed A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas had a sex addiction and “an issue with porn,” and claimed to see three Atlanta-area spas as “a temptation … that A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas wanted to eliminate,” Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt.
Jay Baker said at Wednesday's news conference. A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas “may have frequented some of three Atlanta-area spas in the past,” Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said, without specifying whether Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds meant exactly those businesses, or spas like three Atlanta-area spas. A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas also told investigators the killings – of six Asian people and two White people – were not racially motivated, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds's office said in a news release. A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas legally purchased the gun used in the killings – of six Asian people and two White people – at a local gun store, Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, Georgia, an attorney for a local gun store, Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, Georgia told CNN. Baker, like the Atlanta mayor, said A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas told investigators A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was headed to Florida and was “going to do more acts” there. three Atlanta-area spas were “legally operating businesses” which were not on the authorities’ radar, Baker said.
South Korea’s foreign ministry, which had been in touch with South Korea’s's consulate in Atlanta, has said that four of eight people were of Korean ethnicity. eight people were women, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported, citing authorities. Shortly before 5 p.m. Tuesday night, deputies were called to Young’s Asian Massage between the Georgia cities of Woodstock and Acworth after reports of a shooting, Cherokee County sheriff’s officials said.
a shooting left four people dead – two Asian, and two White – and one person injured, Baker said. Two of eight people were pronounced dead at the scene, while two White died at a hospital. Killed were Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44. one person was Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, authorities said.
About an hour later and 30 miles away, Atlanta police responded to what was described as a robbery at the Gold Massage Spa on Piedmont Road in Atlanta. Police said Police found three people dead. While there, police received another call of shots fired across the street at the Aroma Therapy Spa, where police found one person dead, Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said.
Investigators found surveillance video of A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas near the Cherokee County scene and published images on social media. A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas family saw images, contacted authorities and helped identify A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said Wednesday. “(Long’s family) are very distraught, and Long’s family were very helpful in this apprehension,” Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. Investigators were able to track A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas phone, and Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds reached out to the sheriff in Georgia's Crisp County, well to the south, to let the sheriff in Georgia’s Crisp County, well to the south know A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas appeared to be heading in Georgia’s Crisp County, well to the south, the Cherokee County sheriff said Wednesday. Around 8:30 p.m. Tuesday night, the highway patrol about 150 miles south of Atlanta was alerted that a suspect in the Cherokee County shooting was heading the highway patrol about 150 miles south of Atlanta's way, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said in a video on the Crisp County Sheriff’s Department Facebook page.
After A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas vehicle was spotted, a chase ensued on Interstate 75 and a state trooper performed a maneuver that sent Long’s vehicle out of control, authorities said. Police confiscated a 9 millimeter gun from A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's vehicle, according to Baker.
Video evidence – including that showing A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas vehicle in the area of the Atlanta shootings – suggests that A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas is responsible for the killings in Atlanta, police there said. A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas has claimed responsibility for the shootings in Cherokee County and in Atlanta, the sheriff’s office said. One law enforcement source told CNN that A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas is on suicide watch and was wearing a vest intended to protect A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas from self-harm in the mug shot. A Facebook spokesperson told CNN Wednesday that Facebook removed an Instagram account Facebook believed was linked to A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas. CNN went to the home of A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas grandparents in Morristown, Tennessee, on Wednesday.
“All Long’s grandmother, Margaret Long, who was visibly upset want to say is that A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas is Long’s grandparents's grandson and Long’s grandparents still love A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas very much,” said A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's grandmother, Margaret Long, who was visibly upset. A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas grandfather interrupted the conversation, saying they’d been told not to speak to anyone and gave no further comment.
A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas spent time in rehabilitation for sexual addiction last year, a former roommate told CNN Wednesday. The roommate, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a former roommate lived with A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas for several months in summer 2020 at a transition house for people exiting rehab. a former roommate called police that night, identifying A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas as Long, according to records from Cherokee County's emergency dispatch office. Tyler Bayless said Tyler Bayless shared a housing unit with A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas at Maverick Recovery, a rehab facility in Roswell, Georgia, between August 2019 and February 2020.
Tyler Bayless told CNN that A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas felt “tortured” by an addiction to sex and had gone to massage parlors for sex. “It was something that absolutely would torture A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas,” Tyler Bayless said. Tyler Bayless said A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was a “deeply religious person – A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas would often go on tangents about A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's interpretation of the Bible,” and was distraught about A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's addiction to sex. A law enforcement source told CNN Wednesday that A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was recently kicked out of the house by A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's family due to A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's sexual addiction, which, A law enforcement source said, included frequently spending hours on end watching pornography online. An incident report from Cherokee County’s emergency dispatch office said an anonymous caller to dispatch told dispatch A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was “kicked out of A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas's parents’ house last night,” adding that A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas “was emotional,” An incident report from the CCSO says.
President Joe Biden was briefed overnight about the killings – of six Asian people and two White people –, and White House officials have been in touch with the Atlanta mayor’s office and the FBI, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Wednesday. Atlanta’s mayor told CNN's Wolf Blitzer Wednesday people need to stand in solidarity with Asian Americans like people did with Black Americans last summer. Atlanta’s mayor added that Atlanta’s mayor thought “it would be appropriate” if A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was charged with a hate crime. “In this particular case, where eight people were Asian women, we see the intersections of racism, xenophobia and gender-based violence,” Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said. Younghoe Koo, Atlanta placekicker and South Korea native, released a statement on Instagram explaining the killings – of six Asian people and two White people – affect on Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native and how hate crimes against all races needs to stop.
“As an Asian American, Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native have heard the jokes and name calling. Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native often dealt with the jokes and name calling by ignoring what was said and minding Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native's own business. Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native don’t have all the answers, but Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native realize now more than ever that the jokes and name calling is an issue that needs to be addressed and that ignoring the jokes and name calling won’t help us do that. Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native know this one post won’t solve the problem, but Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native hope to help raise awareness on hate crimes against all. #stophate” Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native's post read. Georgia state Rep. Sam Park told CNN that Georgia state Rep. Sam Park urges Asian Americans facing discrimination and hate to make Asian Americans facing discrimination and hate's voices heard by reaching out to community members, elected officials and law enforcement.
“Raise those concerns so that we can do as much as we can to provide support and hopefully prevent tragedies like the killings – of six Asian people and two White people – from happening moving forward,” Georgia state Rep. Sam Park said. Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly spelled the names of shooting victim Delaina Ashley Yaun. A previous version of this story also misspelled Xiaojie Tan’s last name based on information provided by the sheriff’s office.

Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21, told police Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21 was addicted to pornography and was trying to eliminate “temptation” when Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21 the shootings up three massage parlors in the Atlanta area, killing eight people who were mostly Asian women Tuesday evening, and was planning to shoot up more parlors in Florida. Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Department said Long, who attended Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia, a Southern Baptist congregation, “did take responsibility for the shootings” and dismissed reports that Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's actions were racially motivated. Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Department explained that investigators handling the case said Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21 understood the gravity of Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's actions on Tuesday.
Authorities say four people died in Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21 shooting spree during Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's first attack at Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, a northwest suburb of Atlanta, which was reported around 5 p.m. A Hispanic man was also injured there. Atlanta police officers then responded to what was reported as a robbery at Gold Spa (open 24 hours a day) in the northeast part of Atlanta at 5:47 p.m., where Atlanta police officers found the bodies of three women with gunshot wounds. While officers were at that scene, officers received a call about shots fired at the Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where officers found another woman's body.
Police confirmed Wednesday that two of eight people who were mostly Asian women are white. “We don’t know additional information on what Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's motives were, but we certainly will not begin to blame victims. And as far as we know in Atlanta, these are legally operating businesses that have not been on our radar, not on the radar of APD,” Lance Bottoms said. Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Department said Long, who appeared to have used a 9mm firearm in Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's attack on three massage parlors in the Atlanta area, told police Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21 was on Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's way to Florida to shoot up more massage parlors. Thanks to the help of Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's family, police were able to track Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21 through Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's cellphone and stop Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21 before Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21 was able to take more lives.
“We are really appreciative of his family. Without his family, the shootings would not have happened as quickly as the shootings happened. his family are very supportive and certainly, this was difficult for his family,” Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Department said.
Long, who was twice baptized at Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia, a Southern Baptist congregation, most recently in 2018, previously attended services with Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's mother, father and younger sister. Police said that at the time of the shootings, Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21 was not living with Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21's parents.
“We pray that Lord, our leaders, our first responders, our teachers, our business leaders to have Lord, our leaders, our first responders, our teachers, our business leaders's eyes and hearts drawn toward you. You’d make Yourself known in the Atlanta area in a very powerful, personal way. We ask that you use Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia, a Southern Baptist congregation to bring this to pass,” he said.

Three shootings took place Tuesday evening at three separate spas—the first in Acworth, Ga., north of Atlanta, and the others across the street from each other within the city. Three shootings happened within about an hour of each other.

After the first shooting Tuesday afternoon, at a Cherokee County spa, officials released surveillance footage. officials soon got a call from a couple.
a couple recognized a couple's son. While Cherokee County deputies were meeting with their son parents, Atlanta police were responding to a call at a Cherokee County spa. Atlanta police arrived to find three bodies at a Cherokee County spa and another across the street, at Aromatherapy Spa.
Hours later, their son would be apprehended in South Georgia. their son now faces multiple murder charges and an aggravated assault charge. Atlanta police said Atlanta police were able to use video footage to identify their son's car parked outside both locations at the time of the shootings. Meanwhile, their son's parents informed deputies that a tracking device could lead authorities to their son's Hyundai Tucson. their son told police Tuesday their son was overwhelmed by what their son described as a sexual addiction at odds with their son's religious beliefs, authorities said.
Victims of the Cherokee County shooting were Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44, of an unknown address. A fifth victim, Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, was in stable condition Wednesday. Atlanta authorities were still working to notify next of kin on Wednesday, and had not released identities of the victims killed in the shootings.
Though authorities say their son, denied race was a motive, the question will be asked in the investigation underway by federal, state and local officials. Gov. Brian Kemp said Gov. Brian Kemp wasn’t yet sure if the shootings would fall under Georgia’s hate crime law. Rosalind S. Chou, a Georgia State University sociology professor, said it would be an oversimplification to say the shootings weren’t hate crimes just because their son said race hadn’t motivated their son. Rosalind S. Chou, a Georgia State University sociology professor, said Rosalind S. Chou, a Georgia State University sociology professor, was horrified to think of a possible narrative emerging of a man, trying to stamp out their son's own sexual desires, choosing to kill women – mostly Asian – who their son saw as too tempting. their son had no previous criminal record.
their son and their son's parents were active members at Crabapple First Baptist Church, and social media posts, since deleted, show religion played a large role in their son's life. their son was on the youth ministry team at Crabapple First Baptist Church and, in 2017, visited Costa Rica on a mission trip. In a statement, church elders said church elders grieved for all involved; church elders declined interview requests. their son had other interests. “Pizza, guns, drums, music, family, and God,” read a tagline from an Instagram account believed to be their son. But in 2018, their son spoke of unspecified troubles in a video posted on Crabapple First Baptist Church's Facebook page.
their son said their son was helped by the Biblical story of the prodigal son. Susan Shaw, a professor of gender studies at Oregon State University, said Susan Shaw, a professor of gender studies at Oregon State University, was struck by their son comments about eliminating temptations. Susan Shaw, a professor of gender studies at Oregon State University, said their son's words echo a “purity culture” popular within that denomination. The Georgia’s State Patrol and Crisp County Sheriff Bill Hancock, contacted by Cherokee Sheriff Frank Reynolds, were waiting for Long by the time their son crossed the county line.
After a short chase, troopers performed a PIT maneuver, in which troopers force a fleeing car to turn sideways abruptly, causing the driver to lose control and stop. their son was arrested without further incident. In their son's possession, police found the 9mm believed to have been used in the shootings. their son had purchased the 9mm believed to have been used in the shootings hours earlier at Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs confirmed, declining to comment. Georgia’s doesn’t have a waiting period for buying guns. their son told investigators their son was headed to Florida, which their son considered to be a hub for the porn industry, authorities said. Staff writers Wilborn P. Nobles III and Chris Joyner contributed to this report.

ATLANTA (AP) — Police said Thursday that “nothing is off the table” in the investigation of the deadly shootings at two ATLANTA (AP) massage businesses, including whether the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses were a hate crime. the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses and a third one near the suburban town of Woodstock killed eight people and prompted President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris to change President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris's plans for a previously scheduled trip to ATLANTA (AP). President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris postponed a political event in favor of meeting Friday with Asian American community leaders. A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, is charged with murder in the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses.
Six of eight people were women of Asian descent. “the investigation of the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses is looking at everything, so nothing is off the table,” Deputy ATLANTA (AP) Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said at a news conference. The Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said The Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office also was investigating whether the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses were hate crimes.
Georgia lawmakers last year passed a hate crimes law that allows additional penalties to be imposed for certain offenses when motivated by a victim’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender or disability. A hate crime is not a standalone crime under the law, but A hate crime can be used to add time to a sentence once someone is convicted of another crime.
Investigators believe A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, had previously visited two of the ATLANTA (AP) massage parlors where four of eight people were killed, Deputy Atlanta Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said. A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, told police that the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses were not racially motivated. A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, claimed to have a sex addiction, and authorities said A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, apparently lashed out at what A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, saw as sources of temptation.
Sheriff Frank Reynolds released a statement Thursday acknowledging that some of Baker’s comments stirred “much debate and anger” and said the agency regrets any “heartache” caused by Baker’s's words. Baker’s was replaced Thursday as spokesman for the investigation of the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses, according to a statement from a county spokeswoman who said she would be handling future media inquiries about the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses. Sheriff Frank Reynolds's statement did not address a 2020 Facebook post that appeared to have been written by Baker’s promoting a T-shirt with racist language about China and the coronavirus.
Baker’s has not commented on the post, which was taken down Wednesday. Meanwhile, lawyer J. Daran Burns issued a statement saying lawyer J. Daran Burns had been appointed to represent A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long,. lawyer J. Daran Burns offered condolences to eight people's families and said lawyer J. Daran Burns was working on A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, behalf “to investigate the facts and circumstances” surrounding the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses. A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, waived A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long,'s right to an initial hearing in Cherokee County Magistrate Court on A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long,'s lawyer’s advice, a statement said. President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris had already been scheduled to the trip to ATLANTA (AP) to tout the $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill, but the trip took on new meaning after the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses.
the trip also comes amid an intense debate over voter rights in Georgia. President Joe Biden and Harris, the first vice president of Asian descent, will instead meet with Asian American leaders to discuss threats against the community, meet with other local leaders and visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for an update on the pandemic. Also Thursday, President Joe Biden directed that flags be flown at half-staff through sunset Monday in honor of eight people.
At a congressional hearing on violence against Asian Americans that was scheduled before the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler called for the government to “investigate and swiftly address” growing tensions but did not call for a specific course of action. Lawmakers in the House and Senate have introduced legislation that would assign a person at the Justice Department to expedite the review of hate crimes related to COVID-19 and provide additional support to state and local authorities to respond to those crimes. But it is unclear if the bill by Rep. Grace Meng, a New York Democrat, and Sen. Mazie Hirono, a Hawaii Democrat, will get a vote. Testifying at a congressional hearing on violence against Asian Americans that was scheduled before the shootings, Rep. Grace Meng, a New York Democrat, and Sen. Mazie Hirono, a Hawaii Democrat urged Democratic leaders to move the bill by Rep. Grace Meng, a New York Democrat, and Sen. Mazie Hirono, a Hawaii Democrat, and said lawmakers “cannot turn a blind eye” to people who are living in fear. There was some tension as a Republican on the panel, Texas Rep. Chip Roy, charged that Democrats were trying to control speech. Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick, Zeke Miller, Jonathan Lemire and Nancy Benac in Washington contributed to this report.

State and federal investigators are scrambling to learn more about Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas, and Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's alleged motive. Not much information has surfaced about the 21-year-old from Woodstock, about a half-hour drive north of Atlanta.
Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas is being held without bond in Cherokee County, where Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas faces four counts of murder and a charge of aggravated assault, according to the county sheriff’s office. Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas also has been charged with more four counts of murder, Atlanta Police Department said.
Tuesday’s shootings took place at two spas in Atlanta and another in Acworth, about 10 miles west of Woodstock, about a half-hour drive north of Atlanta – which left eight people, at least four of eight people, at least four of them Asian women Asian women, dead. The four killed in the shooting near Woodstock, about a half-hour drive north of Atlanta were Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth, about 10 miles west of Woodstock; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44. The injured survivor was Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, about 10 miles west of Woodstock, authorities said.
Authorities located Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas about 150 miles south of Atlanta in Crisp County. State troopers took Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas into custody after using a special pursuit maneuver to spin Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's car out of control. Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas “did take responsibility for a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas,” Capt. Jay Baker of the county sheriff’s office said. Reynolds said those issues could be the motivation behind a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas. A law enforcement source said Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas was recently kicked out of the house by Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's family due to Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's sexual addiction, which, A law enforcement source said, included frequently spending hours on end watching pornography online. According to an incident report from the county sheriff’s office, a 911 caller said Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas could possibly be a 911 caller's son and “does have a tracker on Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's phone.” Another anonymous caller to 911 told dispatch Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas was “kicked out of Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's parents’ house last night,” adding that Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas “was emotional,” an incident report from the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office says.
It is not clear whether two spas in Atlanta and another in Acworth, about 10 miles west of Woodstock were places of sex work. During a news conference on Tuesday’s, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms stated two spas in Atlanta and another in Acworth, about 10 miles west of Woodstock were “legally operating” and had not previously been on the Atlanta Police Department’s radar.
Tyler Bayless said Tyler Bayless shared a housing unit with Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas at Maverick Recovery, a rehab facility in Roswell, Georgia, between August 2019 and January or February 2020. Tyler Bayless said that most residents were suffering from drug or alcohol addiction, but Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas was being treated for sex addiction. “sex addiction was something that absolutely would torture Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas,” Tyler Bayless said. Tyler Bayless said Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas was a “deeply religious person – Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas would often go on tangents about Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's interpretation of the Bible,” and was distraught about Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's addiction to sex.
After hearing Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas was the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas, Tyler Bayless said Tyler Bayless was shocked that Tyler Bayless's former roommate would do such a thing. Tyler Bayless recognized Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas from the surveillance footage disseminated by authorities, Tyler Bayless said, and Cherokee County dispatch records indicate Tyler Bayless called police last night.
A Facebook spokesperson confirmed to CNN Facebook removed an Instagram account Facebook believed was linked to Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas. an Instagram account the company believed was linked to Long had been inactive for some time, A Facebook spokesperson said.
According to two law enforcement sources involved in the investigation, Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas attempted to justify Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's actions when Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas told police Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas thought about killing Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas, but decided instead to “help” others with sexual addictions by targeting spas. Investigators believe that when Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas was captured, Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas might have been en route to Florida to perpetrate more shootings, Lance Bottoms told reporters. Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas had a 9 mm firearm in Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's car when Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas was arrested, Capt. Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said.
Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas the transfer on Tuesday Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's gun legally at a local gun store, Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, Georgia, an attorney for a local gun store, Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, Georgia confirmed to CNN. In a brief statement to CNN, an attorney for the company said a local gun store, Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, Georgia is fully cooperating with law enforcement and there is no indication that there was anything improper with the transfer on Tuesday’s.
It was Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas family who turned Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas in Tuesday’s, Reynolds said, indicating Long’s family called police after seeing the surveillance footage disseminated by authorities. Once investigators identified Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas, Reynolds said, investigators tracked Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's phone and anticipated Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's movements, leading to Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's arrest in Crisp County. CNN went to the home of Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas grandparents in Morristown, Tennessee, on Wednesday.
“All I want to say is that Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas is Long’s grandparents's grandson and Long’s grandparents still love Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas very much,” said Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's grandmother, Margaret Long, who was visibly upset. Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas grandfather interrupted the conversation, saying they’d been told not to speak to anyone and gave no further comment. In Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas's mugshot, Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas is wearing a suicide prevention suit as a precautionary measure, which is customary, the county sheriff’s office spokeswoman Haley Little said. Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled Xiaojie Tan’s last name based on information provided by the county sheriff’s office.

The backlash began with the sheriff spokesman’s statement to reporters that the mass shooting suspect was having a “bad day.” “the mass shooting suspect was pretty much fed up and kind of at the end of the mass shooting suspect's rope. Yesterday was a really bad day for the mass shooting suspect and a rampage across three Atlanta-area spas is what the mass shooting suspect did,” Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office Capt. Jay Baker said Wednesday. the sheriff spokesman’s was describing the 21-year-old man accused of killing eight people, mostly Asian and almost all women, in a rampage across three Atlanta-area spas.
On Thursday, an official said that the sheriff spokesman’s is no longer a spokesman on the spa shootings case, shortly after the sheriff said “Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office regret any heartache” caused by the sheriff spokesman’s's words but defended the mass shooting suspect. Andrea DeCourcey, an executive assistant for Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office, said Andrea DeCourcey, an executive assistant for the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office did not know why or how the sheriff spokesman’s was taken off the sheriff spokesman’s's role updating the public about a rampage across three Atlanta-area spas. the sheriff did not immediately respond to requests for comment, nor did the sheriff spokesman’s. “In as much as the sheriff spokesman’s's words were taken or construed as insensitive or inappropriate, his words were not intended to disrespect any of the victims, the gravity of this tragedy, or express empathy or respect for the mass shooting suspect,” Reynolds wrote. the sheriff spokesman’s is not just any employee of Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office, some noted, but someone who has shaped public knowledge of the attacks that unfolded Tuesday in the sheriff spokesman’s's county and then at two businesses in Atlanta. WSB-TV reporter Nicole Carr reported Thursday that the sheriff said the sheriff spokesman’s's future with Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office is under evaluation and that Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office consulted with the district attorney about potentially passing Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office's part of the spa shootings case to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. But a spokeswoman for the district attorney said Thursday evening that Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office is not asking for help from the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. “Calling in another agency at this time would be counterintuitive and would only delay the investigation,” said a spokeswoman for the district attorney. “Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office anticipate beginning to meet with the impacted families in the near future, and earn the impacted families's trust, as Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office continue to develop Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office's case against the mass shooting suspect,” the district attorney said.
the sheriff spokesman’s posted photos of the shirts blaming China for the pandemic last March and April, as Asian American leaders and advocacy groups were already sounding alarms about rhetoric tying the coronavirus to China and Chinese people. The words echoed those from politicians and especially from President Donald Trump, who used offensive terms like “kung flu” and went out of President Donald Trump, who used offensive terms like “kung flu” and went out of his way to use the phrase “Chinese virus's way to use the phrase “Chinese virus.” At one point, a Post photographer snapped a picture of President Donald Trump, who used offensive terms like “kung flu” and went out of his way to use the phrase “Chinese virus's notes in which “corona” was crossed out. Scientists have cast doubt on speculation that the coronavirus came from a Wuhan laboratory, saying Scientists believe the coronavirus spread to humans from bats through an intermediary animal. Stop AAPI Hate, a group that gathered thousands of reports of anti-Asian bias over the past year, has said many reported incidents involve anti-Chinese rhetoric and specifically language that blames China for this tragedy.
Reached by the Daily Beast as criticism mounted over the shirt pictures, Reynolds — who is friends with the sheriff spokesman’s on Facebook — had said Reynolds — who is friends with Baker on Facebook did not know about the post. the sheriff spokesman’s's posts about the shirts surfaced after a year of viral videos, racial justice protests and high-profile killings of Black Americans have raised concerns about racism within police ranks. For some reacting online, Baker’s posts about the shirts added to accusations of “White privilege” over the mass shooting suspect's remarks about Georgia shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long. “writer Viet Thanh Nguyen, who is Vietnamese American wonder if Baker’s posts about the shirts are related …” tweeted writer Viet Thanh Nguyen, who is Vietnamese American, after noting both the shirt pictures and the “bad day” phrasing.

The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to condemned "Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's evil actions" on Friday and said The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to didn't preach hatred against Asian Americans or women. While investigators have downplayed suggestions that the murders were motivated by racial hatred, six of the victims were of Asian descent and the murders happened at a time when violence against Asian Americans, particularly Asian American women, has been on the rise. In The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to's statement, The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to addressed this concern directly. "The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to deeply regret the fear and pain Asian Americans are experiencing as a result of Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's inexcusable actions," The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to said.
The tragic chain of events that ended with the murders and Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long in custody started around 5 p.m. Tuesday when four people were killed near Acworth in Cherokee County, authorities said. Less than an hour later, four women were killed in two shootings in Atlanta in Fulton County.
Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long was His arrest as Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long was driving south to Florida after Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's parents saw a photo of Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long released by the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office as a suspect and notified the authorities. Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's arrest stunned the tight-knit congregation Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belongs to in Alpharetta, Georgia, and where Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's father is an important lay leader. The elders at The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to quickly released a statement of condolence. But as questions swirled about the practices and teachings of The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to, The elders at Crabapple First Baptist released an expanded statement that specifically addressed some of the issues that have been raised. Prior to Tuesday, Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long seemed on the surface be like legions of other young men spread out across the South — involved in Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's church, devoted to Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's family, and a hunter. The secret Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long considered shameful came spilling out after Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long was arrested. In an interview with CNBC's Shepard Smith, Reynolds said it doesn't appear Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long had any prior brushes with the law and The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to're not aware if Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's ever been treated for sex addiction. "Reynolds know Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long’s gone through a mental health evaluation here at the jail, a mental health evaluation’s just standard protocol, but anything prior to a mental health evaluation is still part of the investigation and, quite frankly, Reynolds don’t know," Reynolds said. “It’s clear to Reynolds that Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's targets were no accident,” Rep. Judy Chu, D-Calif., said Thursday on MSBNC.
Reynolds came under fire for promoting T-shirts with anti-Asian themes in the past. And on Friday the responsibility for keeping the public informed about developments in the case was taken from Reynolds and handed over to Cherokee County spokeswoman Erika Neldner.
Long, who went by Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's middle name Aaron and is from Woodstock, Georgia, was described on the church website as a member of the Student Ministry Team. Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's former youth minister, Brett Cottrell, told The Washington Post that Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long was part of a high school group that met for Bible study once a week and that Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long helped run a backyard Bible club with songs and games for children. Cottrell, who has not led the youth ministry since 2017, said His former youth minister, Brett Cottrell,'s not sure how involved Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long has been with The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to of late. Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's former classmate at Sequoyah High School in Canton recalled that Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long brought a Bible to school every day and would walk around holding a Bible in Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's hands.
But Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long also had an interest in bow hunting and a photograph of Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long posing with a freshly killed deer was posted on the website of Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock, Georgia. Business owner Shannon Gott, 54, said Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long came into Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock about once a year to buy arrows and other gear. Business owner Shannon Gott, 54, said that Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long's photo wound up on the website of Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock last year because the website of Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock encourage customers to send customers shots of successful bow hunts. “Business owner Shannon Gott, 54, don’t want to be associated with Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long in any way, nor Business owner Shannon Gott, 54,'s people associated with Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long,” Business owner Shannon Gott, 54, said. “Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock have now taken a photograph of him posing with a freshly killed deer down and Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock will post nothing else from Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long,” Business owner Shannon Gott, 54, said.
The apology went up Thursday. “Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock sincerely regrets the loss associated with one of Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock's previous customer's actions, and apologizes for any grievance had from having a photograph of him posing with a freshly killed deer in Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock's social media galleries,” The apology, in part, read.

Six of the eight victims were women of Asian descent, prompting fears the killings were racially motivated. A murderous rampage by a 21-year-old white man that left the eight victims dead – most women of Asian descent – in the US state of Georgia has sent shockwaves through Asian American communities already reeling from increased discrimination during the coronavirus pandemic. But the investigation has so far raised more questions than answers.
Police have charged a 21-year-old white man with the killings, which took place at three separate massage and spa businesses in the Atlanta area. a 21-year-old white man will be arraigned on Thursday.
a 21-year-old white man told police the killings were not racially motivated and were instead related to a 21-year-old white man's “sex addiction”. Six of the eight victims were of Asian descent.
At least one official, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Captain Jay Baker, also sought to downplay the racial component. That has prompted a groundswell of backlash, with many expressing dismay that a 21-year-old white man has not immediately been charged with a hate crime. At least one official, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Captain Jay Baker's own anti-Asian Facebook posts have also raised concerns over the integrity of the investigation.
the US state of Georgia State Representative Bee Nguyen said the killings sit at the “intersection of gender-based violence, misogyny and xenophobia” in the US state of Georgia. Georgia State Representative Bee Nguyen also noted that as the killings are being framed as “a sex addiction killing spree”, the US state of Georgia's hate crimes statute also protects against violence motivated by gender. Meanwhile, US Representative Marylin Strickland, a Korean American Democrat, accused investigators of making excuses for the killings.
the killings began on Tuesday just before 5pm (21:00 GMT), when five people were the attack at Young’s Asian Massage business near Woodstock, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Atlanta, authorities said. Four people died there: 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun, 44-year-old Daoyou Feng, 49-year-old Xiaojie Tan and 54-year-old Paul Andre Michels. A fifth victim, an Hispanic male, was wounded but survived the attack.
33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun's mother, Margaret Rushing, told WAGA-TV that 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun and 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun's husband had visited Young’s Asian Massage business near Woodstock, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Atlanta for a date. 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun leaves behind a 13-year-old son and eight-month-old daughter. 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun's half-sister, Dana Toole, said 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun's husband survived by locking her husband in a room and was not injured. Tan was a licensed massage therapist and reportedly owned Young’s Asian Massage business near Woodstock, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Atlanta and a second spa in the area.
Andre Michels was a local business owner, according to the Daily Beast. Family members described Andre Michels as an Army veteran who owned an electric company. Andre Michels's brother said Andre Michels was interested in opening massage businesses. No details have so far emerged on Andre Michels.
About 45 minutes later, a 21-year-old white man attacked the Gold Spa in Atlanta, where three women were shot to death. Another woman was fatally shot at the Aromatherapy Spa across the street. The identities of the victims in the last two attacks have not yet been released.
a 21-year-old white man was arrested at about 8pm (00:00 GMT) after police blocked a 21-year-old white man's vehicle about 240km (150 miles) south of Atlanta. A 9mm gun was found in a 21-year-old white man's vehicle, which a 21-year-old white man had reportedly purchased legally before the attack. The FBI is aiding local authorities in the investigation.
a 21-year-old white man told police the killings were not racially motivated, instead saying a 21-year-old white man had a “sexual addiction”. Authorities said the targeted businesses appeared to symbolise “temptation” for a 21-year-old white man. “a 21-year-old white man apparently has an issue, what a 21-year-old white man considers a sex addiction, and sees the targeted businesses as something that allows a 21-year-old white man to go to the targeted businesses, and it’s a temptation for a 21-year-old white man that a 21-year-old white man wanted to eliminate,” Cherokee County Sheriff’s Baker told reporters.
a 21-year-old white man was also a member of the Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, the US state of Georgia. A former pastor at the Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia told the New York Times that a 21-year-old white man was one of the most committed members of the Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia's youth groups. Meanwhile, CNN reported that a 21-year-old white man had previously been in rehab for sex addiction, citing a man who shared a housing unit with a 21-year-old white man at the facility in Roswell, the US state of Georgia, between August 2019 and January or February 2020. The roommate, Tyler Bayless, told CNN that a 21-year-old white man struggled with a 21-year-old white man's conflicting religious views and a 21-year-old white man's addiction.
So far, no manifesto or social media posts have emerged to give further insights into what motivated a 21-year-old white man. On Wednesday, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms warned investigators against “victim blaming, victim shaming”. “We don’t know additional information about what a 21-year-old white man's motives were.
We will not begin to blame victims, and as far as we know in Atlanta these are legally operating businesses that have not been on our radar, the radar of [the Atlanta Police Department],” Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said. Many have been outraged that a 21-year-old white man has not been immediately charged with a hate crime, with the hashtag #StopAsianHate trending on social media in the wake of the killings. Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds told reporters on Wednesday it was too early to tell if the attack was racially motivated – “but the indicators right now are the attack may not be”.
Margaret Huang, the president and CEO of the Southern Poverty Law Center, said law enforcement needs “some training understanding what a hate crime is”. a 21-year-old white man “was very clearly going after a targeted group of people,” Margaret Huang, the president and CEO of the Southern Poverty Law Center told the Associated Press.
the attack comes as the wider Asian American community has seen increased discrimination and attacks amid the coronavirus pandemic, which many say has been stoked by former President Donald Trump, who often gave coronavirus anti-Asian names like the “China flu”. Hate crimes motivated by anti-Asian sentiment in New York City surged by 1,900 percent in 2020 , with only one instance reported in 2019 and 20 reported in 2020, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center. Meanwhile, the Stop AAPI Hate group, which documents instances of discrimination and assault against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders across the US state of Georgia, has reported 3,795 instances between March 19, 2020, and February 28, 2021. The xenophobia towards Asians appears to have been perpetuated by at least one official aiding in the investigation, with recently surfaced Facebook photos showing Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds last year promoting a T-shirt with racist language about China and coronavirus.
The Facebook account, belonging to a “Jay Baker” and featuring numerous photos of Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds going back months, including a photo in which Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds is in uniform outside Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds's office, was deleted on Wednesday night. Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds has also stoked concerns that a 21-year-old white man would receive preferential treatment, appearing to strike a sympathetic tone when Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds told reporters on Wednesday that a 21-year-old white man was “pretty much fed up and had been kind of at the end of a 21-year-old white man's rope”. “Yesterday was a really bad day for a 21-year-old white man, and the attack is what a 21-year-old white man did,” Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. Asian American activists said Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds's comments and the Facebook post undermine public confidence that investigators are adequately addressing Tuesday's atrocity.
“To see the Facebook post is both disturbing and outrageous. the Facebook post speaks to the structural racism that we’re all up against,” said Vincent Pan, co-executive director of Chinese for Affirmative Action, a civil rights organisation working to address anti-Asian hate crimes. “Coupled with the comments coming out of the news conference, the Facebook post does not give community members confidence that community members's experiences and the pain and the suffering that community members’re feeling are being taken seriously, at least by a 21-year-old white man,” Vincent Pan, co-executive director of Chinese for Affirmative Action, a civil rights organisation working to address anti-Asian hate crimes told the Associated Press.

Washington — President Biden on Thursday ordered flags at the White House and on federal grounds in the U.S. and abroad to be flown at half-staff after eight people, including six women of Asian descent, were fatally shot at spas near Atlanta. President Biden directed flags at the White House and on federal grounds in the U.S. and abroad be lowered until sunset on March 22 "as a mark of respect for the victims of the senseless acts of violence" on Tuesday.
Police believe Robert Aaron Long, 21, is responsible for the rampage, and Robert Aaron Long, 21, was arrested 150 miles south of Atlanta after Robert Aaron Long, 21,'s family recognized Robert Aaron Long, 21, on surveillance footage posted online and alerted law enforcement. Robert Aaron Long, 21, was charged Wednesday with eight counts of murder in the rampage. Robert Aaron Long, 21, told police the rampage was not racially motivated and instead perpetrated in an attempt to eliminate the temptation of Robert Aaron Long, 21,'s "sex addiction." The Atlanta police said Wednesday night The Atlanta police have "not ruled anything out" regarding Robert Aaron Long, 21,'s motive and are taking a "hard look" at Robert Aaron Long, 21,'s motivation for carrying out the rampage.
But the rampage has sparked outrage and fear in the Asian-American community, which has faced a surge in violence during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. A new report by the group Stop APPI Hate found Asian Americans were subjected to nearly 3,800 hate incidents in the past year, including harassment, shunning, slur and physical violence.
President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris were poised to travel to Atlanta on Friday as part of Mr. Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris's tour to promote the benefits of the $1.9 trillion COVID relief package signed into law last week. While Mr. Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris will go to Atlanta as planned, the White House said Mr. Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris will postpone an event to tout the $1.9 trillion COVID relief package signed into law last week and instead meet with Asian-American leaders "to discuss the ongoing attacks and threats against the Asian-American community, which has faced a surge in violence during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic" and meet with other local leaders. Mr. Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris are also set to visit the Centers for Disease Control to receive an update on the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.

WASHINGTON, March 18 (Yonhap) -- President Joe Biden on Thursday the proclamation released by the White House all public facilities, including the White House and military installations, to honor the victims of deadly shootings in Atlanta by flying the U.S. flag at half-staff over the next five days. "As a mark of respect for the victims of the senseless acts of violence perpetrated on March 16, 2021, in the Atlanta Metropolitan area ... President Joe Biden hereby The order that the flag of the United States shall be flown at half-staff at the White House and upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels of the United States in the District of Columbia and throughout the United States and the United States's Territories and possessions," said the proclamation released by the White House. Flags will be flown at half-staff until sunset on Monday, the proclamation released by the White House added.
The order comes two days after the shootings at three spas in Atlanta and Cherokee County in Georgia left eight people dead, four of eight people of Korean ancestry. "The recent attacks against the community are un-American. The recent attacks against the community must stop," A 21-year-old suspect, identified as Robert Aaron Long wrote on a Twitter post on Thursday. A 21-year-old suspect, identified as Robert Aaron Long, has been arrested and charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault.
The local police have yet to identify a clear motive in the case, but many believe deadly shootings in Atlanta may have been directed at Asian Americans. Six of eight people were people of Asian descent, according to police reports. the United States has seen a spike in the number of hate crimes targeting Asian Americans since the COVID-19 pandemic began early last year.
the White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki has noted such a rise in hate crimes followed "inaccurate or unfair" descriptions of the new coronavirus by the former Trump administration. "White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki think there's no question that some of the damaging rhetoric that we saw during the former Trump administration ... calling the new coronavirus the Wuhan (China) virus or other things that led to perceptions of the community that are inaccurate or unfair, has elevated threats against Asian Americans and we're seeing that around the United States," White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki told a press briefing on Wednesday.
the White House said President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris will travel to Atlanta on Friday to the evening political event in Georgia with Asian-American leaders there. "Given the tragedy in Georgia on Tuesday night, President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris will postpone the evening political event in Georgia for a future date," the White House said in a press release. President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris were earlier scheduled to visit Georgia on a trip to promote the recently enacted American Rescue Plan.

President Joe Biden on Friday condemned rising hate crimes against Asian Americans in the wake of the mass shooting in the Atlanta area that left eight people dead, including six women of Asian descent. President Joe Biden said hate crimes against Asian Americans have been “skyrocketing” since the coronavirus pandemic began more than a year ago and that the country cannot be silent in the face of hate crimes against Asian Americans.
“the country's silence is complicity. the country cannot be complicit. the country have to speak out.
the country have to act,” President Joe Biden said, speaking from Emory University in Atlanta. President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to Atlanta on Friday to meet with Asian American leaders in the wake of the mass shooting in the Atlanta area that left eight people dead, including six women of Asian descent. Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris had originally planned to travel to Atlanta to tout the benefits of the $1.9 trillion Covid-19 economic relief package that President Joe Biden recently signed into law, but the White House scrapped plans for a rally after the mass shooting in the Atlanta area that left eight people dead, including six women of Asian descent. President Joe Biden urged Congress to pass the Covid-19 Hate Crimes Act, which President Joe Biden has said would expedite the federal government’s response to hate crimes that have risen during the coronavirus pandemic, support state and local governments to improve hate crimes reporting and make information on hate crimes more accessible to Asian American communities. President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris did not explicitly state that Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris considered the mass shooting in the Atlanta area that left eight people dead, including six women of Asian descent a hate crime.
But Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris noted that whatever the motivation of the shooter, the mass shooting in the Atlanta area that left eight people dead, including six women of Asian descent come amid rising hate crimes against Asian Americans in the country. “Racism is real in the country and Racism has always been. Xenophobia is real in the country and always has been – sexism too,” said Harris, who is the country's first Black and South Asian vice president.
During a meeting with leaders of the Asian American Pacific Islander – sometimes shortened to AAPI – community, President Joe Biden echoed Vice President Kamala Harris in condemning the rhetoric from powerful political leaders, according to one attendee. Stephanie Cho, the executive director for Asian Americans Advancing Justice, said former President Donald Trump’s name came up repeatedly during President Joe Biden's hourlong meeting with Asian Americans Advancing Justice. President Joe Biden acknowledged former President Donald Trump’s's contributions to a rise in hate against Asian Americans, Vice President Kamala Harris told CNN’s Jeff Zeleny.
President Joe Biden said President Joe Biden would work as “much as possible” to roll back the rhetoric from powerful political leaders. “President Joe Biden definitely said that the mass shooting in the Atlanta area that left eight people dead, including six women of Asian descent were definitely harmful,” Vice President Kamala Harris said of when the topic of former President Donald Trump’s's statements came up in a meeting with leaders of the Asian American Pacific Islander – sometimes shortened to AAPI – community. “And it’s President Joe Biden's position and President Joe Biden's administration to completely roll back all of that,” Vice President Kamala Harris added.
Vice President Kamala Harris described a meeting with leaders of the Asian American Pacific Islander – sometimes shortened to AAPI – community as “very somber” but said that President Joe Biden was “trying to understand” the issue and to hear directly from AAPI leaders. President Joe Biden would not describe the mass shooting in the Atlanta area that left eight people dead, including six women of Asian descent as a hate crime yet, and Vice President Kamala Harris said Vice President Kamala Harris understood why President Joe Biden has to take that position, although Vice President Kamala Harris feels differently. Democratic Sen. Tammy Duckworth of Illinois sent two letters to Attorney General Merrick Garland and FBI Director Christopher Wray this week asking for a review of hate crimes against Asian Americans, as Democratic Sen. Tammy Duckworth of Illinois lobbies the President Joe Biden administration to prioritize the issue.
Democratic Sen. Tammy Duckworth of Illinois asked for Attorney General Merrick Garland and FBI Director Christopher Wray to review why some hate crimes against the AAPI community are not reported as such. Democratic Sen. Tammy Duckworth of Illinois also the call Vice President Kamala Harris this week, a source familiar with the call told CNN’s.
a source familiar with the call declined to provide details of the pair’s conversation, but added broadly, “his administration is keeping an open line out to everyone. his administration want to keep talking and figure out ways to engage with the AAPI community.” the call was first reported by Politico. Prior to meeting with AAPI leaders, President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris
The visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is headquartered in Atlanta, and received an update on the coronavirus pandemic from health and medical experts. The visit came as the President Joe Biden administration reached his administration's goal of 100 million shots in arms.
Georgia has emerged as a key political state for Democrats. President Joe Biden narrowly won there in the presidential race and Democrats subsequently won two Senate seats there earlier this year, which gave Democrats control of Senate – enabling passage of President Joe Biden's sweeping Covid-19 law. President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris met with those Democrats, Georgia Sens. Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, during Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris's trip, the White House deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said, as well as Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms and former Democratic Georgia gubernatorial candidate and voting rights champion Stacey Abrams. “If anyone ever wondered if voting can change your country, Georgia just proved voting can. Because when you elected two new the country senators, it made it possible to pass the American Rescue Plan – landmark legislation to not only meet the emergency we’re in but transform the country,” former Democratic Georgia gubernatorial candidate and voting rights champion Stacey Abrams said.
Both Warnock and Jon Ossoff narrowly won two new United States senators's seats from incumbent Republicans in runoff elections, flipping the balance of control in Senate and paving the way for passage of his administration's American Rescue Plan, which cleared Senate without any Republican support. In a statement following a meeting with leaders of the Asian American Pacific Islander – sometimes shortened to AAPI – community, Warnock and Ossoff pointed to the American Rescue Plan – landmark legislation to not only meet the emergency we’re in but transform this nation as a bright point in a tough week. Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris said a meeting with leaders of the Asian American Pacific Islander – sometimes shortened to AAPI – community consisted of discussions about how the American Rescue Plan – landmark legislation to not only meet the emergency we’re in but transform this nation will affect Georgians – from free vaccines to direct payments to Peach State residents who qualify – and looked toward investing in infrastructure as a next step.
“As Georgia unites in grief after this week massacre, the President and Vice President made clear today that the President and Vice President are here for Georgia, and that together the President and Vice President will defeat Covid-19, rebuild our economy, and re-unite our country,” Jon Ossoff said. former Democratic Georgia gubernatorial candidate and voting rights champion Stacey Abrams has devoted years to expanding the electorate and boosting turnout in Georgia. President Joe Biden was the first Democratic presidential candidate to win Georgia since 1992. Georgia is ground zero for one of the country's biggest fights over voting rights. Georgia Republicans are trying to pass new laws to make voting more difficult – an expansive new voting bill unveiled on Wednesday would give Georgia broad powers over local election officials, set limits on weekend early voting and add voter ID requirements for absentee ballots. This story has been updated with additional reporting Saturday.

The South Korean ministers of foreign affairs and defense also expressed The South Korean ministers of foreign affairs and defense's regrets about the attack.
Eight people, all but one of Eight people women, were killed at three Atlanta spas on Tuesday in a shooting spree believed to be carried out by Robert Aaron Long, who has been charged with eight counts of murder. Robert Aaron Long, who has been charged with eight counts of murder motivations are not yet clear, but Eight people, all but one of them women's backgrounds have raised fears that racial bias may have come into play.
Violence against Asian Americans has been high in recent months amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, Robert Aaron Long, who has been charged with eight counts of murder told investigators a shooting spree believed to be carried out by Robert Aaron Long, who has been charged with eight counts of murder were not racially motivated.
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms also condemned the attack and acknowledged the ethnicity of Eight people, all but one of them women. “We know [violence against Asian Americans] is an issue that’s happening around the country; violence against Asian Americans is unacceptable, violence against Asian Americans is hateful, and violence against Asian Americans has to stop,” Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said. Robert Aaron Long, who has been charged with eight counts of murder was arrested Tuesday night about 150 miles south of Atlanta.

Suspect arrested, says the killings were not racially motivated; police state it is too early to declare the killings a hate crime. At least eight people, including six Asian women, were killed in shootings at three different spas in the US state of Georgia on Tuesday, with Suspect arrested in custody on suspicion of staging the killings, police have said. the killings came with many Asian Americans already on edge following a recent spike in hate crimes against the community and triggered immediate fears that Asian-run businesses may have been deliberately singled out.
The bloodshed began around 17:00 EDT (21:00 GMT) on Tuesday when four people were killed and another was wounded in a shooting at Young’s Asian Massage in Cherokee County, about 64km (40 miles) north of Atlanta, Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s office said. The Atlanta police department separately confirmed that four women were found dead at two business establishments in northeast Atlanta, identified as the Gold Massage Spa and Aroma Therapy spa.
Authorities have identified Suspect arrested as a suspect in the killings and say Suspect arrested acted alone. “Suspect arrested did take responsibility for the killings. Suspect arrested said that early on, once we began interviews with Suspect arrested,” Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s office said at a news conference on Wednesday. “Suspect arrested does claim that the killings was not racially motivated”, Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s office said, explaining that Suspect arrested has a “what Suspect arrested considers a sex addiction” and saw three different spas as “temptations Suspect arrested wanted to eliminate”.
Local newspaper the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported Suspect arrested bought a gun from a local shop the same day the killings occurred. Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said it is too early to definitively say whether the killings was a hate crime.
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms added that there has not been “a significant uptick in formal complaints” of violence from Atlanta's Asian American community but recognised the spike in reports of violence against Asian Americans across the US state of Georgia, calling the spike in reports of violence against Asian Americans across the country “unacceptable”. Suspect arrested was taken into custody after a “brief pursuit” about 240km (150 miles) from Atlanta, according to a statement by the Georgia Department of Safety on Facebook.
While on the scene, officers were advised of shots fired across the street, where officers found a fourth female victim. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was assisting in the investigation, a spokesman told the AFP news agency. South Korea’s foreign ministry said in a statement that South Korea’s's diplomats in Atlanta have confirmed from police that four of the victims who died were women of Korean descent. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is in South Korea’s meeting with Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong, mentioned the killings during an opening statement.
“South Korea’s are horrified by this violence which has no place in the US state of Georgia or anywhere,” US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is in South Korea meeting with Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong said, noting that four of the victims who died were believed to be of Korean descent. the killings come as reports of attacks against Asian Americans, primarily elders, have spiked in recent months – heightened during the COVID-19 pandemic, activists believe, by talk of the “Chinese virus” by former President Donald Trump and others.
Vice President Kamala Harris told reporters before a meeting with Prime Minister Micheal Martin that Vice President Kamala Harris stands with the community. “We are not yet clear about the motive.
But Vice President Kamala Harris do want to say to our Asian-American community that we stand with the community and understand how the killings has frightened and shocked and outraged all people, knowing the increasing level of hate crime against our Asian-American brothers and sisters”, Vice President Kamala Harris said. “Our entire family is praying for the victims of the killings,” Governor Brian Kemp said Tuesday evening on Twitter. The New York police department’s counterterrorism bureau said The New York police department’s counterterrorism bureau was “monitoring the shooting of Asian Americans in the US state of Georgia” and deploying officers “to our great Asian communities across the city out of an abundance of caution”, though The New York police department’s counterterrorism bureau added there was no known link to the city.
While racial motivation can be hard to establish, a study by the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at CSU San Bernardino found that reported anti-Asian hate crimes nearly tripled from 49 to 122 cases last year across 16 big US cities including the city and Los Angeles – even as overall hate crime fell 7 percent. the US state of Georgia is home to nearly 500,000 Asian residents, or just more than 4 percent of the US state of Georgia's population, according to the Asian American Advocacy Fund.
The Democratic party in the US state of Georgia called Tuesday's shooting spree “horrifying”. “As details continue to emerge, the killings sadly follows the unacceptable pattern of violence against Asian Americans that has skyrocketed throughout the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Congresswoman Nikema Williams, who is also The Democratic party in Georgia's chairwoman. “Tuesday's tragic killings in #Atlanta reaffirm the need for us to step up and protect ALL of the US state of Georgia's marginalized minorities from racism,” tweeted Ben Crump, a lawyer known for representing several high-profile Black victims of police brutality in the US state of Georgia in recent years. In an address to the US state of Georgia last Thursday, President Joe Biden forcefully condemned what President Joe Biden called “vicious hate crimes against Asian Americans who have been attacked, harassed, blamed and scapegoated”.
““vicious hate crimes against Asian Americans who have been attacked, harassed, blamed and scapegoated’s wrong. “vicious hate crimes against Asian Americans who have been attacked, harassed, blamed and scapegoated’s un-American. And “vicious hate crimes against Asian Americans who have been attacked, harassed, blamed and scapegoated must stop,” President Joe Biden said.

At least eight people were killed March 16 after shootings at three spas in the Atlanta area. Police say video evidence led Police to believe one suspect, Robert Aaron Long, was responsible for shootings at three spas in the Atlanta area. one suspect, Robert Aaron Long, was arrested on the night of March 16, about 150 miles south of Atlanta. The first shooting happened shortly before 5 p.m. March 16 at Young’s Asian Massage near Woodstock, Georgia, about 30 miles northwest of downtown Atlanta. The first shooting left The four Atlanta victims dead – two were pronounced dead at the scene, and two others died at the hospital.
One person was also wounded, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said. Authorities had responded to the scene for reports of a shooting.
About an hour later, three people were found dead at the Gold Massage Spa on Piedmont Road in Atlanta, Police Chief Rodney Bryant said. One person was also found dead at the Aroma Therapy Spa, directly across the street. The two Atlanta spas are on a stretch of Piedmont Road in Atlanta, just off Interstate 85. About a dozen other spas are located within a mile of the Gold Massage Spa on Piedmont Road in Atlanta and the Aroma Therapy Spa, directly across the street.
Of At least eight people, six were Asian and two were White, Cherokee County sheriff’s officials said in a joint news conference with Atlanta police on March 17. The four killed in the shooting near Woodstock, Georgia, about 30 miles northwest of downtown Atlanta were Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44. The injured survivor was Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, authorities said. The four Atlanta victims were: Soon C. Park, 74; Hyun J. Grant, 51; Suncha Kim, 69; and Yong A. Yue, 63, according to the Fulton County Medical Examiner’s Office. Of The four Atlanta victims, three died of gunshot wounds to the head, and one died of a gunshot wound to the chest, the Fulton County Medical Examiner’s Office said. Four of those killed were of Korean ethnicity, according to South Korea’s foreign ministry, which said South Korea’s foreign ministry, which said it was in contact with its consulate in Atlanta was in contact with South Korea’s's consulate in Atlanta.
Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office identified Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia, about 30 miles northwest of downtown Atlanta, as a suspect. Before identifying Long, 21, of Woodstock,, Cherokee County investigators found surveillance video of Long, 21, of Woodstock, near the first scene and published surveillance video of a suspect near the first scene on social media. Long, 21, of Woodstock, family saw surveillance video of a suspect near the first scene and helped authorities identify Long, 21, of Woodstock,, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said March 17. Investigators tracked Long, 21, of Woodstock, phone, and Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds reached out to authorities in Crisp County, well to the south, to let authorities in Crisp County, well to the south, know Long, 21, of Woodstock, appeared to be heading in Crisp County, well to the south,, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said.
Long, 21, of Woodstock, vehicle was spotted, a chase ensued on Interstate 85 in Crisp County, well to the south, and a state trooper performed a maneuver that sent Long’s vehicle out of control, authorities said. Police arrested Long, 21, of Woodstock, and confiscated a 9mm gun from Long, 21, of Woodstock,'s vehicle, Cherokee County authorities said.
Video evidence – including that showing Long, 21, of Woodstock, vehicle in the area of the Atlanta shootings – suggests that Long, 21, of Woodstock, is responsible for the killings in Atlanta, police there said. Long, 21, of Woodstock, has claimed responsibility for the shootings in Cherokee County and in Atlanta, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said. Long, 21, of Woodstock, was being held March 17 in Cherokee County on four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said. Long, 21, of Woodstock, is also facing four counts of murder in Atlanta, according to city police.
Authorities have said the motive is under investigation. Long, 21, of Woodstock, told police Long, 21, of Woodstock, believed Long, 21, of Woodstock, has a sex addiction and that Long, 21, of Woodstock, saw the spas as “a temptation … that Long, 21, of Woodstock, wanted to eliminate,” Cherokee County Sheriff’s Capt.
Jay Baker said March 17. But Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said it was too early to know a motive. “There’s still a lot more work to be done. … We’re just not there as of yet,” Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said March 17.
Some public officials have raised concerns that ethnicity had come into play, amid rising concerns nationwide about anti-Asian violence during the coronavirus pandemic. Reports of anti-Asian hate crimes more than doubled during the coronavirus pandemic, according to the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, Bernardino. anti-Asian hate crimes surged amid racist rhetoric during the coronavirus pandemic; many Asian Americans have been subjected to vitriol about the “China virus” or the “kung flu” – even those who have never been to Asia.
The Atlanta spas were “legally operating businesses” that were not on the authorities’ radar, Bottoms said. Long, 21, of Woodstock, previously had frequented the two Atlanta spas, and Long, 21, of Woodstock, bought the gun used in The first shooting the day of The first shooting, Atlanta Deputy Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said March 18. Long, 21, of Woodstock, told investigators shootings at three spas in the Atlanta area were not racially motivated, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said. Before Long, 21, of Woodstock, was stopped, Long, 21, of Woodstock, was headed to Florida “perhaps to carry out additional shootings,” Bottoms, the Atlanta mayor, said March 17, citing investigators.
“It’s very likely there would have been more victims,” Bottoms said. Long, 21, of Woodstock, told investigators Long, 21, of Woodstock, was headed to Florida and was “going to do more acts” there, Cherokee County sheriff’s
Capt. Jay Baker said March 17. Long, 21, of Woodstock, spent time in rehabilitation for sexual addiction last year, a former roommate told CNN on March 17. a former roommate said a former roommate lived with Long, 21, of Woodstock, for several months in summer 2020 at a transition house for people exiting rehab. a former roommate declined to identify a transition house for people exiting rehab or say which state a transition house for people exiting rehab was in. Long, 21, of Woodstock, seemed to have “self-hatred,” a former roommate said. “It just doesn’t make sense to a former roommate,” a former roommate said of The first shooting.
Tyler Bayless said Tyler Bayless shared a housing unit with Long, 21, of Woodstock, at Maverick Recovery, a rehab facility in Roswell, Georgia, between August 2019 and February 2020. “It was something that absolutely would torture Long, 21, of Woodstock,,” Tyler Bayless said. Tyler Bayless said Long, 21, of Woodstock, was a “deeply religious person – Long, 21, of Woodstock, would often go on tangents about Long, 21, of Woodstock,'s interpretation of the Bible” and was distraught about Long, 21, of Woodstock,'s addiction to sex.
Long, 21, of Woodstock, “may have frequented some of The two Atlanta spas in the past,” Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said, referring to The two Atlanta spas. It’s not clear whether any of The two Atlanta spas offered sexual services in addition to massages. But authorities have given no indication any of The two Atlanta spas was operating illegally.
CNN went to the home of Long, 21, of Woodstock, grandparents in Morristown, Tennessee, on March 17. “All I want to say is that Long, 21, of Woodstock, is Long’s grandparents's grandson and Long’s grandparents still love Long, 21, of Woodstock, very much,” said Long, 21, of Woodstock,'s grandmother, Margaret Long, who was visibly upset. Long, 21, of Woodstock, grandfather interrupted the conversation, saying they’d been told not to speak.
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story misspelled Xiaojie Tan’s last name based on information provided by Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office.

Authorities have named all of the victims of the Atlanta spa shootings, as Joe Biden and Kamala Harris visited in Atlanta to meet with local Asian American leaders and offered support to a grieving community.
Three of the women named on Friday died at the Gold Spa in Atlanta, while the fourth woman died across the street at Aromatherapy Spa. The medical examiner didn’t immediately say which woman died at Aromatherapy Spa. Cherokee county authorities had earlier identified those who were killed at Youngs Asian Massage, near Woodstock in Atlanta's north-western suburbs, as Yaun, Michels, Feng and Tan, who was Aromatherapy Spa's owner.
Another person, identified as Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, was also shot, but survived. Robert Aaron Long, 21, has been charged with the Atlanta spa shootings. Details about all of the victims of the Atlanta spa shootings's lives have continued to emerge this week.
Hyun Jung Grant’s son, Randy Park, wrote that Hyun Jung Grant’s son, Randy Park's mother “was one of Hyun Jung Grant’s son, Randy Park's best friends and the strongest influence on who we are today” in a post on the GoFundMe website. Family and friends of Tan, who was the spa’s owner told USA Today that Tan, who was the spa’s owner was “a curious, hard-working and caring woman who was always filled with joy”.
In a visit to Atlanta on Friday, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris condemned this week attack as well as the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes over the past year. “Whatever the killer’s motive, these facts are clear,” Kamala Harris said: six of all of the victims of the Atlanta spa shootings were of Asian descent, seven were women, and “the Atlanta spa shootings took place in businesses owned by Asian Americans”.

"his wife was full of smiles and laughter. his wife was just a pleasure to be around," said Mr Webb, who brought Mr Webb, who brought his wife to the US in 2006 and legally adopted her daughter Jami's wife to the US in 2006 and legally adopted his wife's daughter Jami. The couple split up in 2012 but remained close.

One was a newlywed bride getting a massage with a newlywed bride getting a massage with her husband's husband. Another was an immigrant from China who proudly built her business from nothing.
The youngest was 33. The oldest was 74.
In three deadly shootings Tuesday at Atlanta-area spas, eight people lost eight people's lives, leaving behind family members — one an infant daughter — and friends, including longtime customers. Seven of eight people were women.
Six people were of Asian descent. Two were White.
The alleged gunman, Robert Aaron Long, 21, was charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault. Here is what we know about those who died in three deadly shootings Tuesday at Atlanta-area spas. Thursday would have been Xiaojie Tan’s 50th birthday.
Instead, Tan, of Kennesaw, Ga., was remembered by Xiaojie Tan’s's friends who left flowers at Xiaojie Tan’s's business, Young’s Asian Massage, the scene of a shooting that killed Xiaojie Tan’s and three others. Tan, or Emily, as Xiaojie Tan’s was known by some friends, was dedicated to Xiaojie Tan’s's job and workers, according to Xiaojie Tan’s's husband, Jason Wang. The couple ran Young’s Nail Salon, Young’s's Asian Massage and her husband, Jason Wang's Feet and Body Massage.
Xiaojie Tan’s was also proud of Xiaojie Tan’s's daughter, a recent graduate from the University of Georgia. Xiaojie Tan’s's daughter, Jami Webb, 29, told USA Today that her daughter, a recent graduate from the University of Georgia's mother was her daughter, a recent graduate from the University of Georgia's best friend. her daughter, a recent graduate from the University of Georgia and Xiaojie Tan’s's ex-husband, Michael Webb, did not respond to requests for comment. Xiaojie Tan’s sometimes hosted Lunar New Year and Fourth of July parties with food and fireworks at Xiaojie Tan’s's spa, said friend and customer Greg Hynson, 54.
friend and customer Greg Hynson, 54 said the couple met six years ago. “her daughter, a recent graduate from the University of Georgia was a very good friend, a kind, sweet person,” friend and customer Greg Hynson, 54 said.
friend and customer Greg Hynson, 54 said Xiaojie Tan’s's business was unfairly stigmatized by some who associated Xiaojie Tan’s's store with sex work. After friend and customer Greg Hynson, 54 heard about a shooting that killed her and three others, friend and customer Greg Hynson, 54 rushed to the scene, shocked to see police cars.
Before moving to Ga. about a decade ago, Xiaojie Tan’s and Xiaojie Tan’s's ex-husband lived in Port St. Lucie, Fla., where she and her ex-husband's family befriended Xiaohua and Gary Pettit, who have a daughter who is younger than her daughter, a recent graduate from the University of Georgia. Xiaohua Pettit, who grew up in Nanning, the same city in China as Xiaojie Tan’s, recalled how Xiaojie Tan’s's friend taught Xiaojie Tan’s the ins-and-outs of nail care when Xiaojie Tan’s was looking for a new profession in the United States.
While Xiaojie Tan’s was also working 60 hours a week, Xiaojie Tan’s hosted lessons at Xiaojie Tan’s's house, teaching other women the business. In the same period, Xiaojie Tan’s trained and became licensed in massage therapy.
Xiaojie Tan’s forwarded money to Xiaojie Tan’s's family in China, and even sent back other gifts for Xiaojie Tan’s's parents with the Pettits when the Pettits visited Nanning. “Xiaojie Tan’s didn’t do much for Xiaojie Tan’s, but Xiaojie Tan’s helped everyone else,” Gary Pettit said. On Tuesday, as soon as Gary Pettit saw the news of a shooting that killed her and three others, Gary Pettit reached out to Gary Pettit's friend to check on Xiaojie Tan’s. But no reply came.
Gary Pettit considered maybe Xiaojie Tan’s was working late hours, as Xiaojie Tan’s did so often. A mutual friend in China told Gary Pettit A mutual friend in China had just talked to Xiaojie Tan’s that morning. “Gary Pettit kept calling and texting,” Gary Pettit said. Instead, A mutual friend in China later heard from Xiaojie Tan’s's family that Xiaojie Tan’s was among the victims and called Gary Pettit to break the news of the shooting. Gary Pettit burst into tears.
At a two-story townhouse in Kennesaw, Ga. listed in Xiaojie Tan’s's name, neighbors who recalled Xiaojie Tan’s's friendly nature said Xiaojie Tan’s moved out two years ago. Ken Butler, who lives two doors down, said Xiaojie Tan’s had lived at a two-story townhouse in Kennesaw listed in Tan’s name with Xiaojie Tan’s's husband, whom Ken Butler, who lives two doors down, identified as Jason. Ken Butler, who lives two doors down, said they were “really very nice people” who took interest in their indoor aquarium, summer plants and their pet Chihuahua.
Ken Butler, who lives two doors down, said Ken Butler, who lives two doors down, is highly skeptical of the reports that Long had frequented Young’s in search of sexual encounters. Butler, who moved into Kennesaw, Ga. in 2015, said Xiaojie Tan’s rarely had any guests over but Xiaojie Tan’s, her husband, whom he identified as Jason and their daughter were social with other neighbors. “Xiaojie Tan’s always so nice always said hello and waved,” added Ken Butler, who lives two doors down,'s wife, Taylor, 25.
Delaina Yaun, 33, and Delaina Yaun, 33,'s husband had decided to treat Delaina Yaun, 33, and her husband Tuesday. Delaina Yaun, 33, and her husband booked a couples massage and were in separate rooms when The alleged gunman, Robert Aaron Long, 21, entered and started shooting, according to DeLayne Davis, a relative.
Delaina Yaun, 33, was killed. Delaina Yaun, 33,'s husband escaped.
The past year had been momentous for Delaina Yaun, 33,. Over the summer Delaina Yaun, 33, gave birth to Delaina Yaun, 33,'s second child, a daughter. Shortly after, Delaina Yaun, 33, and Delaina Yaun, 33,'s husband, Mario Gonzalez, were wed in a small ceremony in Ringgold, Ga.
her husband, Mario Gonzalez told the news website Mundo Hispanico that moments after a shooting that killed her and three others, when her husband, Mario Gonzalez was anguished by the uncertainty of what had happened to her husband, Mario Gonzalez's wife, her husband, Mario Gonzalez was briefly arrested and handcuffed by police officers who had arrived there. The Cherokee County Sheriff’s office, who responded to a shooting that killed her and three others, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Friends and relatives said Delaina Yaun, 33, put Delaina Yaun, 33,'s family above all else. When a divorce upended Delaina Yaun, 33,'s sister’s family a couple of years ago, Delaina Yaun, 33, took in two of Delaina Yaun, 33,'s sister’s preteen children to live in Delaina Yaun, 33,'s home. Delaina Yaun, 33, was close with Delaina Yaun, 33,'s mother, who also lived with Delaina Yaun, 33,.
her mother, who also lived with her remembered getting misty-eyed seeing the two of them dance to Boyz II Men at Delaina Yaun, 33,'s wedding. “They were inseparable,” her mother, who also lived with her said.
When Delaina Yaun, 33, wasn’t with family, Delaina Yaun, 33, worked hard, covering the third shift at a local Waffle House. Delaina Yaun, 33, had been a server at a local Waffle House since 2013 and was recently cross-trained as a grill operator, a local Waffle House said in a statement.
Delaina Yaun, 33,'s friend Rose Cross, 23, also recalled Delaina Yaun, 33,'s affection for others, telling the news website Mundo Hispanico that Delaina Yaun, 33, let Yaun’s friend Rose Cross, 23, stay with Yaun’s friend Rose Cross, 23, when Yaun’s friend Rose Cross, 23, lost Yaun’s friend Rose Cross, 23,'s job due to the coronavirus pandemic. Delaina Yaun, 33, Facebook page was sprinkled with pictures of Delaina Yaun, 33,'s wedding and Delaina Yaun, 33,'s children, along with loving messages from Delaina Yaun, 33,'s husband. “It’s Delaina Yaun, 33, who occupies all of her husband's heart,” her husband wrote in one of the couple's last exchanges.
her husband had started working as a handyman at Young’s Asian Massage only in recent months. After her husband's business installing security systems faltered, Michels, an Army veteran, struggling to find a new job during the coronavirus pandemic, appreciated getting to build again, her husband's longtime friend Kikiana Whidby said.
“her husband enjoyed work and seeing the results of her husband's work,” his longtime friend Kikiana Whidby said. When her husband wasn’t working, her husband fished or spent time with her husband's wife of 24 years, Bonnie. Although the couple didn’t have any children, his longtime friend Kikiana Whidby said her husband treated everyone like her husband was their uncle.
her husband came from a large family in Detroit, the seventh of nine children. It was only natural when his longtime friend Kikiana Whidby had his longtime friend Kikiana Whidby's son, Joey, that his longtime friend Kikiana Whidby asked her husband to be her son, Joey,'s godfather. her husband went above and beyond in her husband's role. her husband and her husband's younger brother, John Michels, went shopping and set up a nursery for his longtime friend Kikiana Whidby's son, who did not survive a congenital breathing problem. her husband was fond of gift-giving, with Christmas being one of her husband's favorite holidays, his longtime friend Kikiana Whidby said.
Daoyou Feng, 44, began working at Young’s's Asian Massage in recent months, according to Xiaojie Tan’s's friend Hynson. Daoyou Feng, 44, was kind and quiet, friend and customer Greg Hynson, 54 said. Daoyou Feng, 44,'s relatives could not be reached for comment.
Yong Ae Yue, 63, was among the four workers killed in Atlanta. Yong Ae Yue, 63, was also a mother, according to Yong Ae Yue, 63,'s family’s attorney BJay Pak. “her family’s are devastated by the loss of her family’s's beloved mother, and words cannot adequately describe her family’s's grief,” her family’s said.
One son, Robert Peterson, 38, told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution One son, Robert Peterson, 38, was laid off amid the coronavirus pandemic and excited to return to work. One son, Robert Peterson, 38, frequently spent One son, Robert Peterson, 38,'s time cooking Korean food, visiting friends and watching movies and soap operas or reading. Working long hours at Gold Spa in Atlanta, Hyun Jung Grant, 51, was a single mother who did all Hyun Jung Grant, 51, could to support Hyun Jung Grant, 51,'s sons, according to son Randy Park, 23.
son Randy Park, 23 told the Daily Beast that Hyun Jung Grant, 51, loved dancing, electronic music and Hyun Jung Grant, 51,'s sons. son Randy Park, 23 said Hyun Jung Grant, 51, hid Hyun Jung Grant, 51,'s job from her sons, saying instead that Hyun Jung Grant, 51, worked at a makeup store. Before Hyun Jung Grant, 51, moved from South Korea, Hyun Jung Grant, 51, was an elementary school teacher, Hyun Jung Grant, 51, told Hyun Jung Grant, 51,'s sons.
Co-workers of son Randy Park, 23 remembered Hyun Jung Grant, 51, visiting Hyun Jung Grant, 51,'s son at the Tree Story Bakery and Cafe in Duluth, Ga., where son Randy Park, 23 worked. son Randy Park, 23 started a GoFundMe fundraiser after son Randy Park, 23 and son Randy Park, 23's younger brother were told he and his younger brother would be forced to move from he and his younger brother's home.
“the loss of our beloved mother her daughter, a recent graduate from the University of Georgia has put a new lens on son Randy Park, 23's eyes on the amount of hate that exists in our world,” son Randy Park, 23 wrote on the page. In an update the same day a GoFundMe fundraiser surpassed $1 million, son Randy Park, 23 said son Randy Park, 23 was grateful for the outpouring of aid. “son Randy Park, 23's mother can rest easy knowing son Randy Park, 23 have the support of the world with son Randy Park, 23,” son Randy Park, 23 wrote.
Soon Chung Park, 74, spent most of Chung Park, 74,'s life in the New York metropolitan area and moved to Atlanta several years ago to be closer to friends, said Scott Lee, Chung Park, 74,'s son-in-law. Chung Park, 74, helped manage one of Atlanta-area spas and prepared lunch and dinner for the employees, according to Scott Lee, her son-in-law and local community members.
Outside of one of the spas, Chung Park, 74, was fit and active, Scott Lee, her son-in-law said. Scott Lee, her son-in-law said Scott Lee, her son-in-law had grown close to Chung Park, 74, since marrying Chung Park, 74,'s daughter a decade ago.
The couple lived under the same roof in Lyndhurst, N.J., before Chung Park, 74, relocated to Ga.. Sometimes The couple would dance together.
When The couple spoke, Chung Park, 74, made a point to refer to Scott Lee, her son-in-law by Scott Lee, her son-in-law's given name rather than Scott Lee, her son-in-law's in-law title in Korean — a reflection of The couple's deep bond, Scott Lee, her son-in-law said. Chung Park, 74, missed opportunities to visit their family last year because of the coronavirus pandemic. Chung Park, 74, was planning to move back into Scott Lee, her son-in-law's home in June when Chung Park, 74,'s apartment lease in Atlanta ended, according to Scott Lee, her son-in-law. Most of Chung Park, 74,'s family still lived in the Northeast.
Suncha Kim, 69, worked at one of the spas in Atlanta. Suncha Kim, 69,'s family could not be reached for comment. Suncha Kim, 69, was married for more than 50 years, a family member told the Times. Suncha Kim, 69, enjoyed line dancing and worked hard, a family member said.

Tran Wills couldn’t talk Wednesday about the shootings at Atlanta spas a day earlier without breaking down sobbing. Many Asian-American and Asian business owners like Tran Wills – feel similarly this week in the wake of the shootings at Atlanta spas a day earlier. Eight people were killed at three metro Atlanta massage parlors.
Six of Eight people were Asian. Local authorities have said it is too early to know for sure the motive behind the shootings at Atlanta spas a day earlier.
Nonetheless, the shootings at Atlanta spas a day earlier have sparked fresh fears among owners and employees at Asian-owned businesses already grappling with a wave of racism and with hate attacks driven by the pandemic. Non-profit coalition Stop AAPI Hate, which has been tracking reports of racism, harassment and discrimination against Asians, said Non-profit coalition Stop AAPI Hate, which has been tracking reports of racism, harassment and discrimination against Asians received at least 3,795 firsthand complaints since 2020 from all 50 states with at least 503 anti-Asian hate incidents logged between Jan. 1 and Feb. 28 of this year. Asian business owners across industries say Asian business owners across industries are feeling vulnerable.
James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider, moved James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider's store to a new location two months ago and said the windows have been smashed twice since then. “There’s no way of knowing for sure if this happens because James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider’m Asian,” James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider said, adding that James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider feels ‘lucky’ to not personally have been victiminized in this environment. Nonetheless, James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider said the anti-Asian attacks, especially a fatal incident in January where an 84-year-old San Francisco-based resident who emigrated from Thailand was violently shoved to the ground, plays heavily on James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider's mind. “James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider’m not accepting walk-ins at James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider's store, it’s by appointment only or people can shop online,” James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider said.
Yong Zhao, CEO and co-founder of Junzi Kitchen, a fast-casual Chinese restaurant chain in New York City, said Yong Zhao, CEO and co-founder of Junzi Kitchen, a fast-casual Chinese restaurant chain in New York City’s troubled by the indiscriminate attacks against Asians. “the indiscriminate attacks against Asians’s disappointing. Yong Zhao, CEO and co-founder of Junzi Kitchen, a fast-casual Chinese restaurant chain in New York City’m keeping Yong Zhao, CEO and co-founder of Junzi Kitchen, a fast-casual Chinese restaurant chain in New York City's daughter in China right now because of the indiscriminate attacks against Asians,” Yong Zhao, CEO and co-founder of Junzi Kitchen, a fast-casual Chinese restaurant chain in New York City said.
“Attacks against Asians aren’t new. The long-term goal is for all communities to acknowledge that although we are all not the same, we can respect each other and live together,” said Yong Zhao, CEO and co-founder of Junzi Kitchen, a fast-casual Chinese restaurant chain in New York City.
One nail salon owner in Long Island, New York City, who spoke on condition of anonymity because One nail salon owner in Long Island, New York, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she worries about being targeted worries about being targeted, fears for One nail salon owner in Long Island, New York, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she worries about being targeted's own life and One nail salon owner in Long Island, New York, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she worries about being targeted's employees’ safety. One nail salon owner in Long Island, New York, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she worries about being targeted is angry that One nail salon owner in Long Island, New York, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she worries about being targeted has to worry. Lisa Fu, executive director of California Healthy Nail Salon Collaborative, an advocacy group for nail salon workers in the state, said Lisa Fu, executive director of California Healthy Nail Salon Collaborative, an advocacy group for nail salon workers in the state's group is in the process of creating a curriculum for California Healthy Nail Salon Collaborative, an advocacy group for nail salon workers in the state's members, who are predominantly of Vietnamese descent, on what to do when its members, who are predominantly of Vietnamese descent are victims of harassment, hate crimes or violence.
“First, California Healthy Nail Salon Collaborative, an advocacy group for nail salon workers in the state are training California Healthy Nail Salon Collaborative, an advocacy group for nail salon workers in the state's staff and then will hand out pamphlets and offer Zoom training,” Lisa Fu, executive director of California Healthy Nail Salon Collaborative, an advocacy group for nail salon workers in the state said. Tran Wills said Tran Wills, too, is doing whatever Tran Wills can to keep Tran Wills's employees safe at work. Wills, who closed two salons in the state during the pandemic and still operates two in Colorado in addition to 13 locations inside of Nordstrom (JWN) stores, said Tran Wills now fears for Tran Wills's life and those of Tran Wills's employees, many of whom are Asian.

Asian Americans and Asian Americans's allies are calling for solidarity and a push against discrimination and racist violence after a gunman the attacks eight people at three Atlanta-area spas Tuesday. Most of eight people were women of Asian descent.
Authorities said it's too early to declare the attacks a hate crime – prompting a debate over when a hate crime should be used and how to present a gunman's explanation. In an incident report filed by the Atlanta Police Department, officers checked "no" under whether the attacks were a suspected hate crime.
But police said Thursday police are still investigating a gunman's motive. a gunman, has confessed, according to police, who said a gunman denied being motivated by racial animus.
Officials in Cherokee County cited sex addiction and a "bad day" as possible explanations for the attacks. Police suspect a gunman was under the influence of alcohol, according to the Atlanta incident report.
a gunman is being held in Cherokee, the county northwest of Atlanta where the attacks started. Atlanta's Deputy Chief Charles Hampton told reporters on Thursday afternoon that a gunman had purchased the weapon the day of the attacks. Atlanta's Deputy Chief Charles Hampton also confirmed a gunman had frequented at least two of three Atlanta-area spas.
"the Asian American Advocacy Fund, based in the Atlanta area were quite disappointed to hear the narrative that is being pushed by law enforcement, especially through the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office, that the attacks ... was not racially motivated," Aisha Yaqoob Mahmood, executive director of the Asian American Advocacy Fund, based in the Atlanta area, said in an interview with NPR. On Atlanta's Piedmont Road, people have been laying flowers outside Gold Spa, where three women were killed Tuesday.
people included Kat Bagger, who told reporter Lisa Hagen of NPR member station WABE that Kat Bagger, who told reporter Lisa Hagen of NPR member station WABE that she's frustrated police haven't called the shootings a case of racist violence's frustrated police haven't called the attacks a case of racist violence. "Kat Bagger, who told reporter Lisa Hagen of NPR member station WABE that she's frustrated police haven't called the shootings a case of racist violence think the Asian American Advocacy Fund, based in the Atlanta area can really use the Asian American Advocacy Fund, based in the Atlanta area's platform as Black people to push for the Asian community and support the Asian community in the way that the Asian American Advocacy Fund, based in the Atlanta area need to," Kat Bagger, who told reporter Lisa Hagen of NPR member station WABE that she's frustrated police haven't called the shootings a case of racist violence said.
"the Asian community was dreading Tuesday, and the Asian community were preparing for Tuesday," Texas state Rep. Gene Wu of Houston told NPR member station KUT. "Texas state Rep. Gene Wu of Houston don't want to say, 'Texas state Rep. Gene Wu of Houston told you so,' but Texas state Rep. Gene Wu of Houston am out of anything else to say," Texas state Rep. Gene Wu of Houston said.
"It's meant to be derisive. It's meant to be mocking. And [Asian communities] know that this puts a target on Asian communities's backs," Texas state Rep. Gene Wu of Houston said, according to NPR member station KUT.
The group Stop AAPI Hate said The group Stop AAPI Hate has received nearly 3,800 reports of what The group Stop AAPI Hate described as hate incidents — including verbal harassment and physical assault — since the COVID-19 pandemic began a year ago. On Wednesday, Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta issued a statement saying that although details are still emerging, the broader context of racial tension in the United States cannot be ignored. "While anti-Asian violence is woven throughout the United States's history, the Trump administration's relentless scapegoating of Asians for the COVID-19 pandemic has increased" anti-Asian violence, said Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta. Official definitions of hate crimes vary widely depending on cities' and states' laws, making it difficult to arrive at a national tally.
The method the United States uses to aggregate hate crime data is also being those observations as inconsistent and slow – and those observations come from the man who wrote the first federally mandated report on hate crimes 30 years ago. It will take two years for verified national data about hate crimes against Asian Americans during the COVID-19 pandemic to emerge, the man who wrote the first federally mandated report on hate crimes 30 years ago said. But there are already signs of a spike, the man who wrote the first federally mandated report on hate crimes 30 years ago added.
Officials must not ignore the racial aspect of the Atlanta case, sociologist and author Nancy Wang Yuen told NPR member station KUT. News of the attacks rippled through Asian communities in the United States, including Korean Americans who noted that four of eight people were reportedly of Korean descent.
"Our community is horrified — there's a lot of fear, anger, just appalled at what's happened," Inhe Choi, executive director of Chicago's HANA Center, a Korean American community organization, told NPR member station WBEZ. Even before Tuesday's attacks, Inhe Choi, executive director of Chicago's HANA Center, a Korean American community organization, said, Inhe Choi, executive director of Chicago's HANA Center, a Korean American community organization,'s community was already alarmed by blatant anti-Asian incidents. Inhe Choi, executive director of Chicago's HANA Center, a Korean American community organization, cited reports of Asian people being yelled at in stores or on public transportation. Someone threw a rock at a woman outside a grocery store, Inhe Choi, executive director of Chicago's HANA Center, a Korean American community organization, said, and an Asian delivery worker was assaulted.
"The Asian American community here in Philadelphia, The Asian American community here in Philadelphia're on edge," John Chin, executive director of the Philadelphia Chinatown Development Corp., told NPR member station KUT. John Chin, executive director of the Philadelphia Chinatown Development Corp., described speaking to parents who are afraid to send parents who are afraid to send their kids to school's kids to school, and workers who are leery of taking public transit, concerned by the chance of a violent assault. In San Francisco, David Chiu, a member of the California Assembly, called the attacks horrifying.
Amid the grief and suspicion over what could have prompted the violence in Georgia, there is also frustration over how officials in Cherokee County are describing the attacks. "Was the attacks racially motivated?"
a reporter asked Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds in Wednesday's news conference about the attacks. Lt. David Barone, with the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office of Professional Standards and Conduct, said Thursday that Baker is no longer the spokesperson for the shootings investigation.
To many people, the notion that sex addiction, or simply having a "bad day," could be seen as a motivator for someone to carry out a string of deadly shootings did not ring true. many people questioned whether officials in Cherokee County were giving too much credence to a gunman's claims.
To many people, the "bad day" explanation quickly joined a list of lame excuses for racist behavior, from taking Ambien to having diabetes. Critics are calling Tuesday's shootings yet another symptom of the United States's core sickness: racism. And Critics note that in the United States, white supremacy has long been linked to sexism and violence.
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said the businesses targeted in Atlanta had not been on Atlanta's radar as potential sites of crime or trouble. And while Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms agreed that the shootings investigation was still in the shootings investigation's early phase, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms also acknowledged that people of Asian descent were targeted, at a time when racist acts against Asians have increased during the COVID-19 pandemic. Moments after Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms made that remark, Baker emphasized that Cherokee County had identified two of eight people as white.
Criticism of Baker grew when a Twitter user posted screenshots of a Twitter user's Facebook profile in which a Twitter user promoted T-shirts with messages that played on racist perceptions of the COVID-19 pandemic. T-shirts with messages that played on racist perceptions of the coronavirus are reportedly sold by a company whose founder is a former Cherokee County sheriff's deputy.
The company that made the T-shirts Baker promoted is called Deadline Apparel. The business, which is reportedly owned by a former Cherokee County sheriff's deputy, sits on the same road as Young's Asian Spa, where Tuesday's shootings began just nine miles away. As of Thursday morning, several social media accounts associated with both Baker and a company whose founder is a former Cherokee County sheriff's deputy had been either deleted or restricted.

Eight people have been killed in shootings at massage parlours in and around Atlanta, Georgia. A 21-year-old man suspected of carrying out shootings at massage parlours in and around Atlanta, Georgia has been arrested.
shootings at massage parlours in and around Atlanta, Georgia began around 5pm local time, when five people were shot at Youngs Asian Massage Parlour in a strip mall near a rural area in Acworth, about 30 miles north of Atlanta, Georgia, Cherokee County Sheriff's Office spokesman Captain Jay Baker said. Two people died at the scene and three were taken to hospital where two more succumbed to their injuries. Cherokee County Sheriff's Office spokesman Captain Jay Baker said two of five people were Asian women, along with a white woman and a white man.
Around 50 minutes later, police called to reports of a robbery at the Gold Spa in the Buckhead neighbourhood of Atlanta, Georgia found the bodies of three women. While at the scene, police learned of a call reporting shots fired at another spa across the street, Aromatherapy Spa, and found a woman who appeared to have been shot dead inside another spa across the street, Aromatherapy Spa.
Atlanta, Georgia police's Chief Rodney Bryant said all the victims of the two attacks in Atlanta, Georgia appeared to be Asian. Surveillance cameras picked up the same vehicle at shootings at massage parlours in and around Atlanta, Georgia.
Around two hours after the last attack, police in Crisp County, 150 miles (241km) south of Atlanta, Georgia, were informed that A 21-year-old man suspected of carrying out all three shootings, was heading in police in Crisp County, 150 miles (241km) south of Atlanta's direction. Crisp County, 150 miles (241km) south of Atlanta Sheriff Billy Hancock said deputies and troopers set up along the interstate and "made contact with the suspect," who was driving a 2007 black Hyundai Tucson, around 8:30pm.
A state trooper performed a PIT, or pursuit intervention technique, manoeuvre, "which caused a 2007 black Hyundai Tucson to spin out of control," Crisp County Sheriff Billy Hancock said. A 21-year-old man suspected of carrying out all three shootings was then taken into custody "without incident" and was being held in the Crisp County, 150 miles (241km) south of Atlanta jail.
shootings at massage parlours in and around Atlanta, Georgia came amid a recent wave of attacks against Asian Americans that coincided with the spread of the coronavirus across the United States. In New York an NYPD spokesperson told Sky News they are deploying counterterrorism officers to Asian communities throughout New York out of an abundance of caution following the Atlanta, Georgia shootings.

The US president links rise in attacks on Asians to fears stoked by the coronavirus pandemic. The US president and Vice President Kamala Harris on Friday called for an end to anti-Asian violence in the United States after meeting with Asian-American community leaders in Atlanta following spa shootings that killed the victims’.
“There are simply some core values and beliefs that should bring us together as Americans,” The US president said in remarks at Emory University in Atlanta. “One of them is standing together as Americans.
One of them is standing together against hate, against racism,” The US president said. The US president linked the Atlanta shootings to a broader wave of anti-Asian attacks that spiked during the coronavirus pandemic in the United States. At the same time, The US president sounded a note of confidence as The US president marked the distribution of 100 million vaccine doses under The US president's administration and enactment of a $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief package. “Too many Asian Americans have been walking up and down the streets and worry, waking up each morning this past year fearing for Too many Asian Americans's safety, the safety of Too many Asian Americans's loved ones,” The US president said.
“Too many Asian Americans’ve been attacked, blamed, scapegoated, harassed. Too many Asian Americans’ve been verbally assaulted, physically assaulted, killed,” The US president said. Police have charged a 21-year-old man with murder in spa shootings that killed eight.
Authorities have now released all of the victims’ names. Seven of the victims’ were women, and six of the victims’ were of Asian descent. Law enforcement officials said a 21-year-old man, suggested that frustration with sex addiction led a 21-year-old man to commit spa shootings that killed eight.
The US president and Vice President Kamala Harris met privately with Asian-American and Pacific Islander community leaders and Georgia politicians to hear concerns about spa shootings that killed eight. Stephanie Cho, executive director, Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta, Victoria Huynh, vice president, Center for Pan Asian Community Services, and Bianca Jyotishi, Georgia organiser, National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum were among the participants.
Since the coronavirus pandemic began, Asian Americans have seen rising incidents of physical assaults, racial slurs and verbal abuse. Stop AAPI Hate, a group formed to combat the rise in attacks during the coronavirus pandemic, said Stop AAPI Hate, a group formed to combat the rise in attacks during the pandemic, had documented more than 2,800 first-hand accounts of anti-Asian hate in 2020.
The US president gave The US president's support on Friday to COVID-19 hate crimes legislation introduced in Congress on March 11 by Senator Mazie Hirono and Representative Grace Meng. COVID-19 hate crimes legislation introduced in Congress on March 11 by Senator Mazie Hirono and Representative Grace Meng would direct the US Department of Justice to focus on hate crimes against Asians and establish better reporting of such crimes as well as a public education campaign. The US president had issued an executive order in The US president's first week in office directing federal agencies to combat anti-Asian hate arising from the coronavirus pandemic. Statements by former President Donald Trump calling the coronavirus pandemic the “China virus” or “Kung flu” perpetuated stigmas about Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and contributed to bullying, harassment and hate crime, the The US president order said.
The US president's visit to Atlanta was previously scheduled and initially designed to promote the The US president administration’s progress in combating the coronavirus pandemic. The US president heralded the delivery of 100 million vaccine shots on the 58th day of The US president's presidency. A pledge The US president had made following the 2020 election was to deliver 100 million vaccine shots within the first 100 days of The US president's presidency.
The US president and Vice President Kamala Harris visited the US Centers for Disease Control, based in Atlanta, where The US president thanked scientists for scientists's work to control the coronavirus pandemic. former President Donald Trump had sidelined the US Centers for Disease Control, based in Atlanta, in the early months of the coronavirus pandemic.
Georgia, meanwhile, has emerged as an important state for The US president after The US president's unlikely win in the 2020 election and the successes of two Democratic candidates for the US Senate. The US president and Vice President Kamala Harris were scheduled to meet with Stacey Abrams, a leading advocate for voting rights in Georgia where Republicans in the state legislature are advancing new laws to curtail voting in Georgia.
The US president stumbled on Friday climbing the stairs to board Air Force One for a flight to Atlanta. The US president tripped three times about halfway up the stairs to board Air Force One for a flight to Atlanta. A White House spokesman told reporters travelling with The US president The US president was fine and did not need medical attention.

On Tuesday night, a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long allegedly went on a deadly rampage at three Atlanta spas, killing eight people, including six Asian women. a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long shooting spree, police say, began at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor on Atlanta outskirts, where a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long killed four people, two of whom were Asian, and injured one; a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long then allegedly fled the scene and proceeded to Gold Spa, killing three more people, all Asian women; and then a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long entered a spa right across the street, Aromatherapy Spa, where a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long killed a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long's final victim.
Following an interview with authorities, the Cherokee county sheriff, Frank Reynolds, maintained that a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long “gave no indicators” that a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long's crimes were racially motivated. “We asked a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long that specifically and the answer was no,” the Cherokee county sheriff, Frank Reynolds said on Wednesday.
This idea is ludicrous to many who have observed the surge in racist violence against Asian Americans during the pandemic: in the past year, there have been 3,800 reported incidents of anti-Asian violence, roughly 503 of which took place during 2021 alone, according to the group Stop AAPI Hate. Women make up the vast majority of those attacked. And some argue that it is equally absurd to exclude discussion of anti-sex-work sentiment from the conversation about these most recent attacks on the Asian community.
Though it is not yet known whether any of the victims of Tuesday's shooting provided sexual services at the victims of Tuesday’s shooting's workplaces, a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long told police that the spas a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long opened fire on represented a “temptation a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long wanted to eliminate”, suggesting that a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long at least believed that three Atlanta spas did. Advocates say this reveals the way racism, sexism and anti-sex-work sentiment work together to produce anti-Asian violence: no matter what, Advocates say, a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long's crime was ultimately one against sex workers. “Even if three Atlanta spas were providing non-sexual massages, this ends up being a sex work issue,” said Esther K, a co-director of Red Canary Song, which describes Red Canary Song as being “the only grassroots Chinese massage parlor worker coalition in the US” and also as organizing “with Asian sex workers across the diaspora in Toronto, Paris and Hong Kong”.
Red Canary Song was founded in the wake of the death of Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens, who fell four stories on to the sidewalk in November 2017 during a New York police department vice sting. Two months earlier, Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens had been arrested and charged with prostitution; during the November 2017 raid, police were attempting to arrest Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens again for allegedly engaging in sex work. Before Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens's death Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens told Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens's family that Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens had been sexually assaulted by a man posing as an undercover police officer.
Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens's death fueled a sex work decriminalization movement in Atlanta, advocating for sex work to be treated like other kinds of work, and for sex workers to receive equal protection under labor laws. a sex work decriminalization movement in the city also focuses on reducing policing in immigrant communities, an issue that organizers say can’t be separated from sex workers’ rights advocacy. Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens's case highlighted police violence against sex workers, but advocates have long argued that over-policing begets other forms of violence perpetrated by individuals: if sex workers fear being arrested or fined by police officers, it leaves sex workers unable to go to the police if sex workers are victims of a crime. Advocates say it also fuels the stigma and moralization directed toward Advocates's work, which often results in targeted violence.
In Toronto, for example, a law forbids owners and workers at body rub parlors from locking doors to individual rooms and cubicles. Lam said this has left some workers vulnerable to robbery, harassment and assault, as well as hesitant to call the police for fear of being criminalized some workers. A 2020 report published by Butterfly found that over half of workers at body rub parlors have experienced some kind of threat to over half of workers at these businesses's safety at work. Despite sex workers and sex workers's allies sounding alarm bells over the way sex workers's communities are policed, officials’ response to the Atlanta shootings has been to push for more policing.
On Wednesday, the NYPD announced the NYPD would send officers to Asian communities “out of an abundance of caution”. Last year, Atlanta also formed an Asian hate crime taskforce, leading many people to fear that increased policing would result in the criminalization of other marginalized communities. As more details about the victims of Tuesday’s shooting's identities come out, Lam agreed that the outcome should be the same, regardless of the victims of Tuesday’s shooting's line of work.

At least two of the eight people killed at Atlanta-area Asian massage spas Tuesday lived in the same spa where At least two of the eight people killed at Atlanta-area Asian massage spas Tuesday worked, Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said.
“This one fact alone highlights the vulnerability, the invisibility, and the isolation of working-class Asian women in our country,” Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said at a Thursday news conference. “When working-class Asian women go missing, or when working-class Asian women die, the loss of working-class Asian women's lives will not incite the same kind of rage. And working-class Asian women won’t even be treated with the same humanity,” Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said.
Authorities have not yet confirmed a motive for the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas, which killed the eight people killed at Atlanta-area Asian massage spas Tuesday. A suspect is in custody. Atlanta Deputy Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said Thursday A suspect, frequented the two Atlanta spas and bought the gun used in the shooting the day of the shooting.
President Joe Biden ordered flags to be flown at half-staff Thursday to honor the eight people killed at Atlanta-area Asian massage spas Tuesday. President Joe Biden also plans to visit Atlanta on Friday to meet with Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, as well as Asian American and Pacific Islander leaders, according to Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen. Among the issues Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, as well as Asian American and Pacific Islander leaders will bring up is the concern that the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas, which killed eight people – including six Asian women be “taken seriously” and seriously considered as a hate crime against Asians and not dismissed as A suspect having a “bad day,” Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said.
Across the US, Asian Americans are riddled with fear as unprovoked attacks against Asian Americans intensify. Anti-Asian hate crimes have more than doubled during the pandemic, according to the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino. Anti-Asian hate crimes has surged amid racist rhetoric during the pandemic – some popularized by ex-President Donald Trump. Many Asian Americans have been subjected to vitriol about the “China virus” or the “kung flu” – even those who have never been to Asia. Asian American communities are on edge after Tuesday's deadly shootings.
“I feel like the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas, which killed eight people – including six Asian women just took it to a whole other extreme,” said Hanna Kim, a teacher from Novi, Michigan. Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said as a public official, whenever anyone disagrees with Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen's opinion or policies, the first thing they do is criticize the country Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen's parents came from and, second, Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen's gender. “Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen have experienced a lot of targeted misogyny, targeted xenophobia, messages of going back to your own country, even though Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen was born here, raised here, Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen’ve lived in our country almost Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen's entire life. It is very real,” Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said.
Actress Lucy Liu told CNN’s Erin Burnett on Thursday that Actress Lucy Liu believes race relations will get worse before race relations can get better. “Actress Lucy Liu think culturally, we are not a people that speak out and talk about being victims and Actress Lucy Liu think that’s something that we learn” from previous generations, Actress Lucy Liu said. Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms told CNN’s that nowadays “there seems to be permission now to be hateful.” Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms’s spent the past days reaching out to members of the Asian community in Atlanta “to make sure we have all of the information we need to make sure that our communities are protected,” adding the dialogue will continue.
Kim, a 24-year-old Korean American, said Kim, a 24-year-old Korean American often feels like Kim, a 24-year-old Korean American has a target on Kim, a 24-year-old Korean American's back. Last year, Kim, a 24-year-old Korean American said a parent wanted to remove one of Kim, a 24-year-old Korean American's students from Kim, a 24-year-old Korean American's second-grade class because Kim, a 24-year-old Korean American was Asian.
Yet despite outrage over the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas, which killed eight people – including six Asian women, attacks against Asian Americans continue. An Asian man and woman were the attack Wednesday by A suspect in separate attacks, San Francisco police said. Investigators are trying to determine whether bias was a motivating factor in the attack. “While Southern Poverty Law Center’re relieved A suspect was quickly apprehended, Southern Poverty Law Center’re certainly not at peace as the attack still points to an escalating threat many in the Asian community in Atlanta feel today,” said Margaret Huang, president and CEO of Southern Poverty Law Center.
Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44, were all fatally shot at Youngs Asian Massage in Cherokee County. Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, was also shot at Youngs Asian Massage in Cherokee County but survived. Three more victims were found dead at Gold Massage Spa in Atlanta, and another victim was found dead across the street at the Aroma Therapy Spa. The names of the eight people killed at Atlanta-area Asian massage spas Tuesday have not yet been released by authorities. Three of the eight people killed at Atlanta-area Asian massage spas Tuesday were 52, 75 and 64 years of age, according to birth years listed in an Atlanta police incident report.
“We need to make sure we have a true verification of Three more victims's identities and that we make the proper next of kin notification,” Hampton said Thursday. Long faces eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault. Long was on Long's way to Florida, possibly to take the lives of more victims, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said, citing investigators. A suspect told police A suspect believed A suspect had a sex addiction and that A suspect saw three Atlanta-area spas as “a temptation … that A suspect wanted to eliminate,” Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker said.
But Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said it is still too early to know a motive. It’s not clear whether any of three Atlanta-area spas offered sexual services in addition to massages. But authorities have given no indication three Atlanta-area spas were operating illegally.
Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker is no longer the spokesperson for the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office’s case investigating the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas, which killed eight people – including six Asian women, the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office’s confirmed to CNN’s. CNN’s has reached out to Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker for comment. Shortly before 5 p.m. Tuesday, deputies were called to Youngs Asian Massage between the our country cities of Woodstock and Acworth after reports of the shooting, Cherokee County sheriff’s's officials said. the shooting left four people – two Asian and two White – dead and one person injured, Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker said.
About an hour later and 30 miles away, Atlanta police responded to the Gold Massage Spa on Piedmont Road in Atlanta. Police said Police found Three more victims dead. While there, police received another call of shots fired across the street at the Aroma Therapy Spa, where police found another victim dead, Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said. The names of the eight people killed at Atlanta-area Asian massage spas Tuesday have not yet been released by authorities. Investigators found surveillance video of A suspect near the Cherokee County scene and published images on social media.
Long family saw images, contacted authorities and helped identify Long, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said Wednesday. “(Long’s family) are very distraught, and Long’s family were very helpful in this apprehension,” Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. Long has claimed responsibility for the shootings at Youngs Asian Massage in Cherokee County, the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office’s said. Long is facing four counts of murder and a charge of aggravated assault, according to the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office’s. Long also has been charged with more four counts of murder, Atlanta Police Department said.
A law enforcement source told CNN’s that Long was recently kicked out of the house by Long's family due to Long's sexual addiction, which, A law enforcement source said, included frequently spending hours watching pornography online. Bottoms, the Atlanta mayor, told CNN’s's Anderson Cooper on Thursday Bottoms, the Atlanta mayor thinks the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas, which killed eight people – including six Asian women were a hate crime.
“Sex” is a hate crime category under our country's new law. If Long was targeting women out of hatred for women or scapegoating women for Long's own problems, it could potentially be a hate crime. the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas, which killed eight people – including six Asian women don’t have to be racially motivated to constitute a hate crime in our country.
Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled Xiaojie Tan's last name based on information provided by the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office’s. this story also gave incorrect dates for comments made by officials. An earlier version of this story has been corrected.

Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said interviews with the subject revealed that the subject's shootings may not have been racially motivated, but tied to sexual issues. “the subject has been interviewed, which indicated the subject has some issues, potentially sexual addiction. the subject may have frequented some of these places in the past,” Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. Apparently the subject wanted to “eliminate the temptation” by removing the massage parlors, which provided an outlet for the subject's addiction, according to police.
Atlanta police Captain Jay Baker said the subject had been interviewed by police. Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said police “are just not there yet” with regard to any potential racial motivators involved in his shootings. Most of the victims of his shootings were of Asian descent. Atlanta Mayor Keisha Bottoms said it appeared the subject was on the subject's way to Florida to attack a porn-related industry when the subject was intercepted by deputies. Police said it was unclear if his shootings were motivated by religious convictions. However, The Daily Beast reported that the subject appeared in a video from Crabapple First Baptist Church discussing the events leading up to the subject's Christian baptism. a video from Crabapple First Baptist Church discussing the events leading up to his Christian baptism has since been deleted. A classmate, speaking anonymously, claimed “the subject was a hunter and the subject's father was a youth minister or pastor” and that the subject was “big into religion.” An Instagram caption from an account that has since been deactivated read: “Pizza, guns, drums, music, family, and God.
This pretty much sums up the subject's life. my life’s a pretty good life”.
According to Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds, the subject was identified after police shared surveillance images from his shootings on police's social media accounts. the subject parents worked with police to confirm the subject's identity. When asked if the massage parlors, which provided an outlet for his addiction were offering illegal sexual services, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Bottoms said Atlanta was not going to victim blame and that officials had no indication that the massage parlors, which provided an outlet for his addiction were operating illegally.

When Brad Onishi heard that the man accused of a rampage at three Atlanta-area spas told detectives that the man accused of a rampage at three Atlanta-area spas had carried out a rampage at three Atlanta-area spas as a way to eliminate the man accused of a rampage at three Atlanta-area spas's own temptations, the claim sounded painfully familiar. Brad Onishi had spent Brad Onishi's teenage years tearing out any advertisements in surfing magazines that featured women in bikinis. Brad Onishi had traded Brad Onishi's online passwords with friends to hold Brad Onishi accountable. “We had a militant vigilance: Don’t let anything in the house that will tempt you sexually,” Brad Onishi recalled.

Long, a White man from Woodstock, Ga., is not the first high-profile suspect to make such a claim: Harvey Weinstein, serial killer Ted Bundy, and Ariel Castro, who kidnapped three teenagers and held three teenagers captive in Ariel Castro, who kidnapped three teenagers and held them captive in his Cleveland basement,'s Cleveland basement, have all defended Harvey Weinstein, serial killer Ted Bundy, and Ariel Castro, who kidnapped three teenagers and held them captive in his Cleveland basement,'s criminal actions by claiming Harvey Weinstein, serial killer Ted Bundy, and Ariel Castro, who kidnapped three teenagers and held them captive in his Cleveland basement, were addicted to sex or pornography.
But while the world of entertainment has in recent years popularized the idea of “sex addiction” through films and TV shows, researchers who study human sexuality and addiction say “sex addiction” is far from an established psychiatric diagnosis. As HuffPost has reported, the American Psychiatric Association in 2012 removed sex addiction from the DSM-5, the nearly 1,000-page guidebook used by psychiatrists to diagnose mental disorders. Some scientists question if sex addiction is merely a mask for or symptom of other behaviors. Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, that statement the spas Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, targeted “a temptation for Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, that Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, wanted to eliminate,” according to police.
Given that six of the victims were Asian women, many advocates said many advocates were both dubious of and angered by that statement. Even with the presence of other factors, some said it would be difficult to extricate the victims's race and gender — or Long, a White man from Woodstock, Ga., — from the killings.
For researchers like Nicole Prause, there is another reason to be skeptical of Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings,'s self-described “sexual addiction”: There is no scientific consensus that such a diagnosis exists. In a peer-reviewed study at the University of California at Los Angeles, Nicole Prause found significant differences in the brain’s response to sex when compared to behaviors like smoking cigarettes, drinking alcohol or gambling. While people addicted to behaviors like smoking cigarettes, drinking alcohol or gambling often demonstrate neurological “cues” upon viewing people addicted to these things's drug of choice, no such brain waves appeared in people who said people who said they were addicted to sex were addicted to sex, Nicole Prause's team’s research found. Sex also fails to follow the trajectory marked by other addictive behaviors over time, which start out as pleasurable but become a necessity for avoiding negative emotions, Nicole Prause added. The debate over whether sex addiction is real has not stopped other high-profile men accused or convicted of a wide range of impropriety from seeking out treatment for such a condition. As other high-profile men accused or convicted of a wide range of impropriety's sexual transgressions came to light, Anthony Weiner, Harvey Weinstein, and Tiger Woods all checked other high-profile men accused or convicted of a wide range of impropriety into rehab centers with that goal in mind.
Reportedly, Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, may have done the same. From late 2019 to early 2020, Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, stayed for about six months at a rehab center in Georgia, Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings,'s roommate at a rehab center in Georgia said. While Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, was seeking treatment for sex addiction, all other patients were suffering from addiction to drugs or alcohol.
Ley, the psychologist and author, argued that treatment like the kind reportedly received by Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, — may in fact exacerbate the issues at hand. Self-identification as a sex addict is most closely linked to growing up in a conservative or religious environment, Ley, the psychologist and author, said. One peer-reviewed study, for instance, found that attempting to suppress sexual thoughts and fantasies among religious people only increased the presence of sexual thoughts and fantasies.
Rob Weiss, the chief clinical officer at Seeking Integrity Treatment Programs in Los Angeles, disputes the notion that sex addiction — or sex addiction — or its cousin, compulsive sexual behavior disorder —'s cousin, compulsive sexual behavior disorder — is not diagnosable, or that sex addiction — or its cousin, compulsive sexual behavior disorder — cannot be treated. Rob Weiss, the chief clinical officer at Seeking Integrity Treatment Programs in Los Angeles, told The Post the long-term program reportedly undergone by Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, differs from the treatment Rob Weiss, the chief clinical officer at Seeking Integrity Treatment Programs in Los Angeles, and some other mental health practitioners around Los Angeles might provide. But Rob Weiss, the chief clinical officer at Seeking Integrity Treatment Programs in Los Angeles, also cast doubt on Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings,'s claims for a different reason: The patients Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, treats in Los Angeles show there is no connection between sex addiction and violence, Rob Weiss, the chief clinical officer at Seeking Integrity Treatment Programs in Los Angeles, said.

Yang listed off some of the most recent incidents of attacks against Asian New Yorkers, including a woman who required stitches after being shoved to the ground in Flushing and a woman who had acid thrown in a woman who had acid thrown in her face in Sunset Park's face in Sunset Park. The rise of hate crimes has been attributed to incendiary rhetoric from former President Donald Trump and others amid the Covid-19 pandemic. former President Donald Trump has referred to the novel coronavirus as the “China virus” and the “Kung Flu” — including another reference Tuesday night during an interview on Fox News.
Yang has noted on numerous occasions the issue of unreported incidents of hate crimes and called on the city to ramp up the city's outreach to areas with dense Asian populations. “the city should be reaching out to the city's communities in foreign language media and different languages. People can tell when you’re invested and trying to reach our communities,” said Yang, noting that Yang has seen various city helplines that don’t offer enough languages. Yang has addressed Asian hate crimes multiple times on the campaign trail. Yang hosted a the city town hall with Public Advocate Jumaane Williams, Assemblymember Ron Kim, Asian American Federation executive director Jo-Ann Yoo and Center for Anti-Violence Education program manager Rej Joo.
The NYPD on Wednesday deployed teams of officers to areas of the city with large populations of Asian-descended New Yorkers. Janaki Chadha contributed to this report.

As details emerge about Robert Aaron Long, the man accused of killing eight people in the Atlanta area — six of eight people Asian women — discussions have reignited around the ways women of Asian descent are vulnerable to violence. While it's unclear whether the businesses had any ties to sex work, experts and activists said it was nearly impossible to divorce race from the discourse — regardless of whether Robert Aaron Long, the man accused of killing eight people in the Atlanta area — six of them Asian women — will be charged with a hate crime — given the historical fetishization of Asian women, which has made Asian women uniquely susceptible to sexual and physical violence.
Catherine Ceniza Choy, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California, Berkeley, said that to disregard race in the acts of violence would erase the harassment and violence Asian women have faced for more than a century, since Asian women first came to the country. Although most violence toward Asian American women doesn't get elevated to the national spotlight, experts say most violence toward Asian American women's not an uncommon occurrence, and most violence toward Asian American women has been amplified during the coronavirus pandemic. A report on hate incidents released Tuesday by the reporting forum Stop AAPI Hate revealed that among 3,800 incidents were reported over the course of about a year during the coronavirus pandemic, 68 percent of respondents were women. A far lower share, 29 percent, were men.
"Killing Asian American women to eliminate a man's temptation speaks to the history of the objectification of Asian and Asian American women as variations of the Asian temptress, the dragon ladies and the lotus blossoms, whose value is only in relation to men's fantasies and desires. the historical fetishization of Asian women, which has made them uniquely susceptible to sexual and physical violence is horrifying. Stop fetishizing Asian American women," said Catherine Ceniza Choy, an ethnic studies professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
Even apart from the coronavirus pandemic, research shows that 21 percent to 55 percent of Asian women in the country report having experienced intimate physical and/or sexual violence during 21 percent to 55 percent of Asian women in the U.S.'s lifetimes, according to the Asian Pacific Institute on Gender Based Violence. The range is based on a compilation of studies of disaggregated samples of Asian ethnicities in local communities. About a third of women in the general U.S. population experience sexual violence.
Sung Yeon Choimorrow, executive director of the nonprofit National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum, said what's often lost in the discussion is how Asian women experience a very specific form of sexism, which Sung Yeon Choimorrow, executive director of the nonprofit National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum, said shouldn't be conflated with the misogyny that other groups, like white women, may confront. Sung Yeon Choimorrow, executive director of the nonprofit National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum, said many of the attacks and much of the sexual misconduct can be traced in part to the rampant perpetuation of stereotypes around Asian women as exotic, hypersexualized and submissive. Such stereotypes create a perception that Asian Americans are therefore less of a threat and easier to take advantage of and that Asian Americans aren't going to fight back. Echoes of other archaic beliefs can be found in statements authorities attributed to Robert Aaron Long, the man accused of killing eight people in the Atlanta area — six of them Asian women —, Catherine Ceniza Choy, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California, Berkeley said.
Such ideas are particularly dangerous, experts said, as Such ideas put the onus on women to avoid violence, further fueling society's "misogynistic mentality about women," Sung Yeon Choimorrow, executive director of the nonprofit National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum, said. The beliefs have been shaped by legal code, the country's history of imperialism and the prevailing culture, said historian Ellen Wu, the author of "The Color of Success: Asian Americans and the Origins of the Model Minority." One factor that helps explain the toxic environment for Asian women is the type of labor Asian women were relegated to in the country beginning in the 19th century, historian Ellen Wu, the author of "The Color of Success: Asian Americans and the Origins of the Model Minority said. "Fast-forward, then, through the 20th century.
These associations that Americans already have of Asian women being engaged in this 'lewd and immoral' type of behavior gets amplified as the country begins a series of imperial excursions, essentially, or wars in the Asia Pacific region," historian Ellen Wu, the author of "The Color of Success: Asian Americans and the Origins of the Model Minority said. As the country indulged in the country's imperial ambitions and fought wars in the Philippines, Japan, Korea and Vietnam, local communities bore the brunt of the devastation, and women suffered heavy losses, historian Ellen Wu, the author of "The Color of Success: Asian Americans and the Origins of the Model Minority said. To deal with U.S. militarization and the havoc wreaked by war, some women resorted to sex work, as many think of it in the traditional sense, in exchange for money, but some women also cohabitated with American GI boyfriends, for example. "Really, by that time, really all the capital some women have is some women's bodies," historian Ellen Wu, the author of "The Color of Success: Asian Americans and the Origins of the Model Minority said. Phi Nguyen, litigation director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice — Atlanta, said the hypersexualization of Asian women, which has been normalized, in part helped create the conditions for white supremacy, aggression and violence.
Advocates are calling for public safety nets and support for families in such situations, as well as for more public leaders to speak out against violence, particularly in Georgia. "People living in that community and, frankly, American women across the country are living this trauma in some ways.
There's the idea that 'this could have been me,'" Sung Yeon Choimorrow, executive director of the nonprofit National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum, said. For now, Phi Nguyen, litigation director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice — Atlanta said, Atlanta's Asian American community is feeling the grief and anger tied to the shootings. But many are also in "rapid response mode" to make sure they can assess what the victims' families and Atlanta's Asian American community need.

The only time I was ever in Atlanta, where six Asian women were shot dead on Tuesday, a young white man shouted "Me so horny" to me at the airport. And as the only Asian woman in the space, I knew a young white man was talking to me. I locked eyes with a young white man for a second and then rushed off to catch my flight back to Los Angeles.
I was in Atlanta, where six Asian women were shot dead on Tuesday to attend the annual meeting of the Association of Asian American Studies, presenting a paper there for the first time. the annual meeting of the Association of Asian American Studies was a big deal for me professionally.
But what I remember most about that trip were a young white man's racist, sexist words. The only time I was ever in Atlanta, where six Asian women were shot dead on Tuesday, a young white man shouted "Me so horny" to me at the airport. Based on the reported statement, investigators have so far concluded that the attacks did not appear to have been motivated by race.
As an Asian American woman who has endured sexualized racism all of my life, such ignorance enrages me. Asian women, along with Black and Indigenous women and other women of color, endure racism and sexism in intersectional ways constantly, and Asian women have throughout history. As lawyer Jaemin Kim argued in 2009, prosecutors and police may be even less likely to add "hate crime" charges in cases of rapes and sexual assaults targeting Asian women.
The multiple wars with, and various occupations of, Asian countries have contributed to the exploitation and fetishization of Asian women. Furthermore, the multiple wars with, and various occupations of, Asian countries have long contributed to the exploitation and fetishization of Asian women.
In World War II, the unknown numbers of so-called Asian comfort women kidnapped by Japanese soldiers from China, Korea and the Philippines were transferred not to freedom but to the U.S. military. To this day, sex work in "camptowns" around U.S. military bases throughout Asia gives "U.S. GIs the illusion of access and perennial permission to Asian women's bodies," Jane Hong, an associate professor of history at Occidental College, told me. Too many Asian American women have endured strangers' yelling "me so horny" and "love you long time" at Too many Asian American women thanks to American pop culture.
Perhaps the worst offender is the 1987 film "Full Metal Jacket," which imagines a Vietnamese prostitute approaching two white American soldiers and saying: "a Vietnamese prostitute so horny. a Vietnamese prostitute love two white American soldiers long time.
Me sucky sucky." The casual racism of this scene has haunted Asian American women for decades. 💬Verbal harassment makes up 68% of hate incidents.
Physical assault makes up 11%. 👩🏻Women are 2.3 times more likely to report hate incidents. Indeed, contrary to the insinuations and assumptions made by Georgia law enforcement officials, I can't remember ever having experienced racism separate from sexism. When I turn into a lane too slowly on the streets of Los Angeles, I am not surprised if someone rolls down the window to call me a "c---- b-----."
When I reject or ignore sexual propositions from white men, some come back at me with racial slurs and even threats. Even the perception that I will not fight back if I am attacked racially is a form of racism intersecting with sexism.
This is the lived reality for too many Asian American women. Since the pandemic began, Asian American women are 2.3 times more likely to report hate incidents than men, according to data compiled by the reporting forum
Stop AAPI Hate. In total, the organization received nearly 3,800 reports of anti-Asian hate incidents from March 19, 2020, to Feb. 28.
The mass shootings in Georgia seem to be part of a nationwide pattern of Asian women's being disproportionately targeted in hate incidents. Asian women's are more vulnerable to attack precisely because of the intersection of racism and sexism. And to immediately remove racism from the equation neglects how racism has always intersected with sexism for Asian American women in Georgia.

Some Asian Americans are describing Tuesday's deadly shootings in Georgia as hate crimes that left Some Asian Americans fearful and in shock in a year when anti-Asian violence has risen on both sides of the border.
On Tuesday's night, 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long entered three massage parlours in the Atlanta area and killed eight people, many of eight people Asian woman. 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long has been charged with eight counts of murder and one count of assault.
Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen and other advocates are urging authorities to prosecute 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long under Georgia's hate crime law, which imposes additional penalties for crimes motivated by a victim's race, religion, sex, national origin or mental and physical disabilities. "We have evidence that the three businesses that 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long targeted were Asian-owned businesses that have Asian employees and as a result, six out of eight people were Asian women," Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen told Canada Tonight host Ginella Massa. Asian American community calls attacks in Georgia a hate crime Duration 0:39 Christopher Chan of the Asian American Fund's Georgia Chapter says some members of Asian American community say the the Atlanta area attacks were 'racially motivated,' and 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long should be prosecuted under Georgia's hate crime law.
Six of eight of eight people were identified as Asian, and seven were women. "People are worried and are praying for People's families and People. People are heartbroken and devastated by Tuesday's deadly shootings in Georgia," Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said.
The virus was first identified in China and former president Donald Trump and others have used anti-Chinese rhetoric to describe The virus. Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said in the last year Asian Americans have seen a spike in violence against Asian Americans, which Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen believes began when former president Donald Trump first used the phrase "Chinese virus" to describe The virus. "That ... put a target on the backs of Asians in America," Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said. Christopher Chan, advisory chair of the Asian American Fund's's Georgia Chapter, says Asian Americans have experienced a difficult year since former president Donald Trump politicized the origins of The virus and used racially charged terms to describe COVID-19.
Racism towards Asian Americans 'not a new thing,' says state representative Duration 0:53 Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen says Asian American community has been increasingly targeted during the coronavirus pandemic. But America has a history of racism against Asian American community, beginning with the Chinese railroad workers. Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said even if the Atlanta-area attacks were not racially motivated, 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long should still be charged with a hate crime because 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long specifically targeted women. The Atlanta shootings were the latest in several attacks against Asian Americans in the last year.
In San Francisco, an 84-year-old Thai man was killed in January after a young man shoved an 84-year-old Thai man to the ground while an 84-year-old Thai man was on a morning walk. an 84-year-old Thai man's head struck the pavement and an 84-year-old Thai man died two days later in hospital. Prosecutors charged a young man with murder and elder abuse.
In the past year, anti-Asian violence has spiked north of the border as well. Data released by Vancouver police in February showed a surge in anti-Asian hate crimes last year. Data released by Vancouver police in February showed anti-Asian hate crimes rose from a dozen in 2019 to 142 incidents in 2020, a 717 per cent increase, while general hate incidents doubled.

Jeremy Lin spoke out on Wednesday against the rise in targeted attacks against Asian-Americans in the wake of shootings at three Atlanta-area massage parlors that left eight people dead, the majority of eight people women of Asian descent, leading to fears the killer had a racial motive. Lin, who plays for the Golden State Warriors’ G League affiliate, the Santa Cruz Warriors, was speaking in an interview with CNN’s Anderson Cooper on Wednesday night. Jeremy Lin made headlines in February after revealing that Jeremy Lin was called “coronavirus” on the court without saying when or where it happened. The first American-born player of Chinese or Taiwanese descent to play in the NBA, Jeremy Lin said the violence in Georgia was the natural progression of an escalating trend Jeremy Lin’s observed over the past year.
Jeremy Lin went on to criticize the inflammatory rhetoric of Donald Trump, whose use of racist terms in reference to the coronavirus has been credited with stoking anger and violence against the Asian-American community. Jeremy Lin continued: “Asians have always been projected as being others or outsiders. We’re starting to see a lot of those microaggressions turn into actual acts of violence and it is really hard to watch.
So Jeremy Lin encourage people to watch these videos to see this is actually happening. these videos are real stories, real lives.
Jeremy Lin's remarks came three weeks after Jeremy Lin went public about an act of racism Jeremy Lin experienced while playing with the Golden State Warriors’'s team in the NBA's developmental G League at the NBA's bubble venue in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. the NBA’s developmental G League launched an investigation after Jeremy Lin said Jeremy Lin was called “coronavirus” on the court, prompting Jeremy Lin to speak up about an act of racism he experienced while playing with the Warriors’ team in the NBA’s developmental G League at its bubble venue in Lake Buena Vista, Florida in a heartfelt Facebook post. Jeremy Lin played 29 games for the Golden State Warriors’ as a rookie in 2010-11, then went to the New York Knicks and gained the popularity that spawned the nickname “Linsanity”. A Taiwanese American, Jeremy Lin was born in the Southern California city of Torrance but grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area. Lin, who last year pledged up to $1m to the coronavirus relief efforts, said there was a generational shift in Asian Americans.
“Something is changing in this generation of Asian Americans. this generation of Asian Americans are tired of being told that this generation of Asian Americans don’t experience racism, this generation of Asian Americans are tired of being told to keep this generation of Asian Americans's heads down and not make trouble. this generation of Asian Americans are tired of Asian American kids growing up and being asked where Asian American kids’re REALLY from, of having this generation of Asian Americans's eyes mocked, of being objectified as exotic or being told this generation of Asian Americans’re inherently unattractive. this generation of Asian Americans are tired of the stereotypes in Hollywood affecting this generation of Asian Americans's psyche and limiting who this generation of Asian Americans think this generation of Asian Americans can be. this generation of Asian Americans are tired of being invisible, of being mistaken for our colleague or told this generation of Asian Americans's struggles aren’t as real.
Jeremy Lin followed that post with another the next day, saying Jeremy Lin did not plan on publicly outing the player who used the term. In addition to Jeremy Lin's stints with the Golden State Warriors’ and the New York Knicks, Jeremy Lin has also played for the Houston Rockets, Los Angeles Lakers, Charlotte Hornets, Brooklyn Nets and Atlanta Hawks and in 2019 became the first Asian-American to win an the NBA championship, doing so with the Toronto Raptors.

In the wake of Tuesday's mass shooting in Atlanta, which took the lives of six women of Asian descent and eight people altogether, several athletes have used several athletes's platforms to denounce Tuesday's mass shooting in Atlanta, which took the lives of six women of Asian descent and eight people altogether and condemn racism against Asian-Americans. The shooter, a white man, was charged on Wednesday with eight counts of murder in connection with Tuesday's mass shooting in Atlanta, which took the lives of six women of Asian descent and eight people altogether. Investigators have said Investigators have not ruled out racial bias as a motivating factor for Tuesday's mass shooting in Atlanta, which took the lives of six women of Asian descent and eight people altogether even as The shooter, a white man, denied racial animus being part of The shooter, a white man,'s motivation once in custody.
Over the last year, hate incidents against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders have dramatically increased. A report released Tuesday's by Stop AAPI Hate, a group formed in March of 2020 to document and prevent discrimination against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders during the COVID-19 pandemic, said nearly 3,800 incidents had been recorded between March 19 and Feb. 28. The number, Stop AAPI Hate, a group formed in March of 2020 to document and prevent discrimination against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders during the COVID-19 pandemic said, could be higher because not all incidents are reported.
Kyle Kuzma, LeBron James' teammate with the Los Angeles Lakers, quote tweeted LeBron James''s message with praying hands and went on to make several of Kyle Kuzma, LeBron James' teammate with the Los Angeles Lakers,'s own posts reflecting the history of race in America. Jeremy Lin, who is of Chinese and Taiwanese descent, had previously shared multiple incidents in which Jeremy Lin, who is of Chinese and Taiwanese descent was the victim of anti-Asian racism in the past, including being called "coronavirus" during a recent stint in the G League. Jeremy Lin, who is of Chinese and Taiwanese descent commented on the Atlanta shootings on Twitter as well, calling Tuesday's mass shooting in Atlanta, which took the lives of six women of Asian descent and eight people altogether "heartbreaking," and advocating for everyone to rally together and fight for change. Jeremy Lin, who is of Chinese and Taiwanese descent also urged media to focus on telling six women of Asian descent's stories, not The shooter, a white man,'s, in response to comments from an Atlanta police officer who said The shooter, a white man, had "a really bad day" before committing the violence that left six women of Asian descent and eight people altogether dead.

After a white gunman the deadly shootings eight people — including six Asian women — in Atlanta on Tuesday night, many Asian Canadians are speaking out, calling for an end to anti-Asian racism here at home and for more to be done to protect sex workers and migrants. On Wednesday, hours after the deadly shootings, community groups across Atlanta issued a joint news release voicing outrage and heartbreak over the deadly shootings, saying the violence at three Atlanta-area massage parlours is only a symptom of a much larger problem. "What happened in Atlanta is not an isolated incident, but a horrific example of a large rising tide of anti-Asian racism," said the statement released by the Chinese Canadian National Council's (CCNC) Toronto Chapter, Butterfly Asian and Migrant Sex Workers Network and SWAN Vancouver and Toronto's Nail Technicians' Network, among other groups. Police have said the suspect in the deadly shootings, Robert Aaron Long, 21, told Police a white gunman's actions were not racially motivated. But for Asian communities that have experienced an uptick in hate since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, the violence at three Atlanta-area massage parlours is yet another painful blow in a pattern that's been all too familiar in recent months.
According to a September 2020 report prepared by the Chinese Canadian National Council's (CCNC) Toronto Chapter in partnership with the Vancouver-based grassroots group Project 1907, Canadians have reported more anti-Asian racist incidents per capita than the U.S. since the start of the coronavirus pandemic. In Vancouver-based, anti-Asian hate crimes rose by 717 per cent in the span of one year, climbing from 12 cases in 2019 to 98 in 2020, according to Vancouver-based Police Department numbers.
When it comes to sex workers and migrants, Kong said that a lack of rights and stereotypes held by governments and law enforcement make sex workers and migrants even more unsafe. A 2018 report by the Toronto Butterfly network's executive director, Elene Lam, surveying massage and holistic practitioners found almost half of all respondents experienced violence in almost half of all respondents's workplace, but less than seven per cent reported violence in their workplace to law enforcement. A 2018 report by the Toronto-based Butterfly network's executive director, Elene Lam, surveying massage and holistic practitioners says that's because 60 per cent of all respondents had negative perceptions of police. Forty per cent said Forty per cent felt officers did not respect Forty per cent as workers and treated Forty per cent like criminals, A 2018 report by the Toronto-based Butterfly network's executive director, Elene Lam, surveying massage and holistic practitioners said. More than one-third of those surveyed reported that More than one-third of those surveyed had been abused or harassed by bylaw enforcement or police officers, with 12 per cent reporting 12 per cent were physically or sexually assaulted by law enforcement officers.
Alison Clancey, executive director of SWAN Vancouver, an organization that promotes the rights, health and safety of immigrant and migrant women engaged in indoor sex work, says there's little to no legal or labour protection for migrant or immigrant women working in indoor sex work in Canada. "Anti-trafficking laws, prostitution laws and immigration policies impede migrant or immigrant women working in indoor sex work in Canada from coming forward to report violence," Alison Clancey, executive director of SWAN Vancouver, an organization that promotes the rights, health and safety of immigrant and migrant women engaged in indoor sex work said. Alison Clancey, executive director of SWAN Vancouver, an organization that promotes the rights, health and safety of immigrant and migrant women engaged in indoor sex work's organization has served about 500 women this year. Alison Clancey, executive director of SWAN Vancouver, an organization that promotes the rights, health and safety of immigrant and migrant women engaged in indoor sex work says Asian and migrant women who engage in sex work have never been protected from discrimination, racism and violence, pointing to a Toronto massage parlour attack in February 2020 that left a 24-year-old woman dead. Alison Clancey, executive director of SWAN Vancouver, an organization that promotes the rights, health and safety of immigrant and migrant women engaged in indoor sex work said migrant sex workers often don't turn to authorities to report violence fearing migrant sex workers'll become the target of a prostitution or trafficking investigation Alison Clancey, executive director of SWAN Vancouver, an organization that promotes the rights, health and safety of immigrant and migrant women engaged in indoor sex work, or be arrested and deported under immigration policy. Most police officers also don't distinguish between migrant sex work and human trafficking, Alison Clancey, executive director of SWAN Vancouver, an organization that promotes the rights, health and safety of immigrant and migrant women engaged in indoor sex work said, adding that enforcement actions are often based on racist stereotypes, such as Asian women in sex work needing to be saved from Asian women in sex work's situation.
Atlanta shooting rampage fuels fear of racially motivated attacks Duration 2:03 A shooting rampage at three Atlanta spas killed eight people, seven of eight people of Asian descent and though police won’t yet call Atlanta shooting rampage a hate crime, Atlanta shooting rampage has fuelled fears across Atlanta of more racially motivated attacks.
In their joint statement, the Chinese Canadian National Council's (CCNC) Toronto Chapter, the Butterfly Asian and Migrant Sex Workers Network along with other organizations said Asian women working in massage parlours and the sex industry are often violently targeted. "This violence is not isolated and stems from a long history of fetishizing, hypersexualizing and marginalizing Asian women. Anti-migrant and anti-sex worker legislation promote and encourage hate towards Asian migrant sex workers, labelling Asian migrant sex workers as undeserving and unworthy of rights and protection," their statement reads.
Many cities have excessive regulations against massage parlours that are often harmful and dangerous to women's physical safety, their joint statement goes on, such as this provision the locking of doors on individual workrooms — a bylaw in place in Toronto, for example. Toronto said Toronto has heard from workers in body rub parlous, where locking individual rooms is prohibited, who say they are The concerns about this provision. The concerns are related to health and safety issues and fears among workers, according to Toronto.
"Recognizing the importance of their concerns, Municipal Licensing and Standards (MLS) has suspended the enforcement of the relevant sections of the bylaw. This was done on August 28, 2020," Toronto said in a statement to CBC News.
Toronto said Toronto has provided grants to some community groups and partners to assess migrant sex workers' needs, develop resources for sex workers, and promote harm reduction practices for those in the sex industry. In a statement to CBC News, Toronto also said Toronto recognizes that Asian communities have been "scapegoated" and have been facing increasing incidents of racism and discrimination since the coronavirus pandemic started. Meanwhile, the groups are also calling on the federal government to ensure migrant workers are granted legal status in Canada.
For Jan Wong, co-founder of the Asian Canadian Women's Alliance, the responsibility to discourage and dismantle anti-Asian sentiment falls on all Canadians. Jan Wong, co-founder of the Asian Canadian Women's Alliance said Jan Wong, co-founder of the Asian Canadian Women's Alliance has been encouraged, however, to see people shutting down victim blaming on social media amid the news of the deadly shootings. And as investigators continue to piece together what led to This violence, Jan Wong, co-founder of the Asian Canadian Women's Alliance says calling out anti-Asian racism in Canada is one step in the fight to end anti-Asian racism in Canada.

Authorities said the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas admitted to carrying out Tuesday evening's rampage and was on the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas's way to Florida, where officials feared the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas would harm more people. "As tragic as the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas was … the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas could have been significantly worse," Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms told reporters. Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said during a Wednesday morning press conference the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas claimed the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas weren't racially motivated, even though six of the eight people killed were of Asian descent.
the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas has been charged with eight counts of murder, four in Cherokee County and four in Atlanta, officials said. the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas indicated the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas "has some issues, potentially sexual addiction," Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas also indicated the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas may have frequented some of three Atlanta-area spas in the past, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas saw three Atlanta-area spas as a temptation that the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas wanted to eliminate.
the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office identified the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas as 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long, who was taken into custody 150 miles south of Atlanta. Investigators believe the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas was acting alone. the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas is being held without bond, the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said. the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas also faces an aggravated assault charge.
A Hispanic man shot in Cherokee County was in stable condition at a hospital, Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said. three Atlanta-area spas were not on the Atlanta Police Department's radar, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said, describing three Atlanta-area spas as "legally operating."
Six of the eight people killed were identified as women of Asian descent, CBS affiliate WGCL-TV reports. Four of the eight people killed are of Korean descent, South Korea's Foreign Ministry confirmed to CBS affiliate WGCL-TV. The other victims were identified as a White woman and a White man, CBS affiliate WGCL-TV reports.
Police wouldn't say whether any of the eight people killed worked at three Atlanta-area spas. The victims of the Cherokee County shooting were identified as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Xiaojie Yan, 49; and Daoyou Feng, 44.
Waffle House released a statement Wednesday in memory of Yaun, who Waffle House said worked at Waffle House as a server. Waffle House described Yaun, who the company said worked at the chain as a server as "well-liked," and said "There simply are no words that can adequately convey the deep sense of loss and grief" Waffle House feels over Yaun, who the company said worked at the chain as a server's death.
Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office didn't know if the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas expressed remorse to investigators, but Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said investigators got the impression the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas understood the gravity of the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas's alleged actions. "the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas was pretty much fed up and had been kind of at the end of the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas's rope, and yesterday was a really bad day for the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas, and the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas is what the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas did," Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said. the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas started Tuesday evening at a spa in Cherokee County, 30 miles north of Atlanta.
In Atlanta, police later responded to shootings at two spas across the street from one another. Police were able to track the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas's phone, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. A Georgia State Patrol trooper saw the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas's vehicle traveling south on Interstate 75, and troopers and sheriff's deputies performed a maneuver to get the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas off Interstate 75. Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas made a comment that the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas was heading to Florida, where officials feared he would harm more people to "go do some similar act" on "some type of porn industry."
Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office didn't provide additional details. Mr. Biden said Mr. Biden would speak more about the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas when the investigation was completed. Li Cohen, Jen Kwon, April Siese and Mark Strassmann contributed reporting.

Untangling the suspect’s motive isn’t easy when race and sex are competing to dominate the narrative.
Six of the dead are women of Asian descent, yet the suspect’s told police the suspect’s wasn’t motivated by racial bigotry. Did the suspect’s visit Asian spas because the suspect’s had some kind of hang-up about Asians, or is America more Asian than we realize?
Surely our presence in every aspect of American life increases the likelihood that people from all backgrounds now interact with Asian America on a regular basis. the suspect’s's visits to Asian-run spas might be unremarkable had the suspect’s been less violent or less white. In America, interactions and relationships involving Asian women and non-Asian men sometimes attract prurient attention.
It’s happening as we speak, inspiring clickbait, eye rolls, perhaps even a cottage industry of analysis and accusation. One accusation making the rounds is that the suspect’s, is in denial about race. I think One accusation making the rounds misses the point.
the suspect’s's goal was primarily sexual, not racial purity. According to law enforcement and a former roommate, the suspect’s spoke of porn and the end of temptation.
the suspect’s's language, apocalyptic yet banal, sets a familiar tone. Despite my Asian background, I find the suspect’s's disavowal of racism strangely credible.
Like a lot of people, I’ve experienced bias and ethnic profiling, but I’ve also been a sex worker, and I have encountered more prejudice, more name-calling, more fear, anger and hostility in connection with my sex work than regarding my race. And because I’m a writer too, the author of novels about a call girl, there’s the hate mail. The most memorable outbursts have been odd letters of denunciation from Asian American readers exposing the underbelly of identity politics.
White supremacy is lately defined as America's “original sin” — a confusing term that recalls St. Augustine reading Genesis so we won’t have to. Original sin has traditionally reeked of sexual knowledge and desire. Now Original sin’s been laicized and racialized — a moral stain that blots out all others.
Asian identity is not well defined in America, but after a wave of attacks against Asians provoked by the pandemic and the former president, White supremacy has become a unifying force both within and outside the community. Atlanta’s Black mayor, a white president and a multiethnic vice president with a South Asian name have tried to unite us in the face of another incomprehensible mass shooting by focusing on the increase in these bias crimes over the past year.
Flags have been lowered to half-staff. There are conventions and common manners for dealing with racial violence, and sometimes conventions and common manners for dealing with racial violence transcend party lines. For most public figures, there’s a sanitizing playbook on race, bloodshed and gun violence.
The impact of sexual distress is harder to discuss — and not only because of puritanism. Sexuality is surprising, unpredictable; part of being an adult is pretending to have sex figured out. There is sometimes more shame in sex than in race.
Race is public and sex private, but the Atlanta’s shootings have upended this arrangement. Racialized feelings are beginning to look like more of a taboo than sexual obsessions.
The killing of an Asian American is described as a hate crime, while killing a sex worker is seen as a mental health issue. The scarlet R demotes Nathaniel Hawthorne’s scarlet letter A to a venial sin, now standing for (masculine) addiction rather than (female) adultery. Racism is stigmatized, while sex is pathologized. This new chapter in American life requires a closer reading.
“Sex addiction” is seen by many as empty psychobabble, a daft metaphor at best, dangerously weaponized on “a really bad day.” The rehab center the suspect’s attended offers “clinically effective and Christ-centered” treatment for this nebulous condition, in essence a medicalization of Christian morality. To me, the doctrine of sex addiction is the erotic equivalent of race science. And yet the suspect’s's belief is probably sincere: News accounts portray the suspect’s's spa visits as an addict’s relapse, as if sexual contact were a liver-destroying chemical.
the suspect’s may have been confused by appetites that are normal in 21-year-old males. the suspect’s Long has something in common with serial killer Ted Bundy (who blamed his own violence on pornography), and the suspect’s's religious faith shouldn’t be ignored. the suspect’s brings to mind Peter Sutcliffe, known as the Yorkshire Ripper, who thought murdering sex workers was doing God’s will.
We should take the disavowal of racial motives more seriously and reconsider our own assumptions. Mainstream Americans, including many Asian Americans, are quick to blame racism yet unready to discuss an older hatred — what my French friends call “la putophobie” (a term more pleasing to the eye than the clunky compound “whorephobia”). la putophobie’s the last acceptable form of hate speech, someone once told me, and persists within minority communities where being a good immigrant is conflated with sexual virtue. Speculation about the spas where the massacre occurred is fed by prejudice. Amplified by so-called antitrafficking voices, prejudice is dangerously toxic. Fueled by religious fanaticism and illiberal forms of feminism, by punitive laws and tabloid headlines, prejudice breeds self-loathing in young men who should be learning how to nurture, not extinguish, the varieties of human connection.
Will the U.S. flag, flying at half-staff for our Atlanta’s dead, make a difference? I hope so. Quan, author of three novels including “Diary of a Manhattan Call Girl,” is a regular guest on RTHK Radio 3 in Hong Kong.

The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas was charged with eight counts of murder Wednesday.
Four of the counts against The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas are related to shootings at two spas in Atlanta. The four others are related to shootings at another spa in Cherokee County. The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas also faces an aggravated assault charge in Cherokee County. three shootings at Atlanta-area spas began around 5 p.m. Tuesday, when four people were killed near Acworth in Cherokee County, authorities said. Less than an hour later, four women were killed in two shootings in Atlanta in Fulton County.
The victims in Atlanta were Asian women, as were two of the victims in Acworth in Cherokee County, officials said. The two other victims were white, and a man who was injured was stable.
Earlier Wednesday, authorities said The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas told investigators that The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas had a sexual addiction and saw the businesses as a temptation The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas needed to eliminate. The details, shared by law enforcement officers during a morning news conference with Atlanta's mayor and other top officials, were cited as a potential motive for why The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas went on a two-county shooting spree Tuesday evening. It's unclear whether the businesses had any ties to sex work.
The sheriff's office identified the Cherokee County victims as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth in Cherokee County; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44. Daoyou Feng, 44's address was unknown. a man who was injured was identified as Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth in Cherokee County.
Authorities arrested Long after a brief manhunt, The sheriff's's Capt. Jay Baker said.
Officials said The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas was arrested in Crisp County, about 125 miles south of Atlanta, and extradited to Cherokee County. Long, who is charged with four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault in Cherokee County, was held without bond and is scheduled to be arraigned Thursday morning.
The FBI is "assisting the local investigations," The FBI said early Wednesday. The number of anti-Asian hate incidents has risen significantly. Research released Tuesday by the reporting forum
Stop AAPI Hate revealed that nearly 3,800 incidents were reported over about a year during the coronavirus pandemic and that a disproportionate number of nearly 3,800 incidents said three shootings at Atlanta-area spas were directed at women. Officials said that based on what The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas told investigators, the attacks Tuesday did not appear to be motivated by race. "We are still early in this investigation, so we cannot make that determination at this moment," Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said. Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said Wednesday that The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas was likely to have acted alone.
Officials said The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas told investigators that The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas was on The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas's way to Florida, perhaps to target more spa-like businesses, when The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas was captured. "The public as a whole should be grateful that The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas was quickly apprehended, because it's very likely that there may have been more victims," Bottoms said Wednesday. The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas's family contacted the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office after the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office released photos of The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas. Long's family helped police track The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas's phone and eventually helped the Crisp County Sheriff's Office to catch up with The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas.
A 9 mm firearm was found in the car The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas was driving, police said. A 9 mm firearm was purchased legally on Tuesday before three shootings at Atlanta-area spas, two senior law enforcement officials briefed on the matter said.
The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas graduated from Sequoyah High School in Cherokee County in 2017, according to a district official. Nico Straughan, 21, who went to school with The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas, told The Associated Press that The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas was "super nice, super Christian, very quiet." Nico Straughan, 21, who went to school with Long said that in high school The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas brought a Bible to school every day and would walk around with a Bible in The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas's hands. "The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas went from one of the nicest kids Nico Straughan, 21, who went to school with Long ever knew in high school to being on the news yesterday," Nico Straughan, 21, who went to school with Long said.
President Joe Biden was briefed overnight and again Wednesday morning, and the White House was in touch with Bottoms's office and The FBI, press secretary Jen Psaki said. Vice President Kamala Harris said Wednesday that "our prayers are extended to the families of the women who died.
South Korea's Foreign Affairs Ministry told NBC News that four of the women who died were of Korean origin, but four of the women who died's nationalities have yet to be verified. Secretary of State Antony Blinken addressed three shootings at Atlanta-area spas during a visit to South Korea's, saying this type of violence had no place in America or anywhere.
"We will stand up for the right of our fellow Americans and Korean Americans to be safe and to be treated with dignity," Secretary of State Antony Blinken said. Atlanta police said that because three shootings at Atlanta-area spas were at spas, officers were dispatched to similar businesses and patrols were increased.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

The shooting rampage in the Atlanta area this week received widespread coverage in South Korea on Thursday. Eight of the 10 biggest South Korean newspapers put the Tuesday attacks on Eight of the 10 biggest South Korean newspapers's front page, some accompanied by analysis. The Thursday editions of Chosun Ilbo (left) and Dong-a Ilbo.
Two other victims were also of Asian descent and two were white. In total, the shooter, who is white, killed seven women.
Captain Jay Baker, the spokesman for the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office, said Wednesday that the shooter, who is white,, was having a “bad day” on Tuesday when the shooter, who is white, allegedly opened fire at three the Atlanta area massage parlors. Captain Jay Baker, the spokesman for the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said that the shooter, who is white, admitted to The shooting rampage in the Atlanta area this week but denied that The shooting rampage in the Atlanta area this week were motivated by race.
The shooting rampage in the Atlanta area this week has put Asian communities across the country on alert, coming amid a rising number of hate crimes targeting Asians in the country since the start of the pandemic. The shooting rampage in the Atlanta area this week also evoked a history of violence against women and fetishization of those of Asian ethnicities. The Chosun Ilbo, the most prominent conservative newspaper in South Korea, published four different stories focused on the Atlanta shootings. Chosun Ilbo (left) stressed that people of Asian and Korean descent were targeted, citing a Korean-language outlet in Atlanta and other U.S. media. Korean media also cited a report by Stop AAPI Hate, which collects data about discrimination against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders, suggesting that Koreans are the second-largest ethnic group that reported experiencing hate incidents from March 2020 to the end of February this year.
President Moon Jae-in of South Korea expressed condolences for seven women's families, the presidential spokesman said in a briefing on Thursday. On Wednesday, hashtags such as #StopAsianHate, #AsiansAreHuman, #인종차별 (racism), were trending among South Korean users of Twitter.

We’ve removed our paywall from this and other stories about acts of violence and racism against Asian communities. Consider becoming a subscriber to support our journalists.
A gunman The horrific attack six Asian women and two others in attacks on spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area on Tuesday evening, a spree that has sent shock waves throughout the country, as the country grapples with an apparent surge in violence against people of Asian descent. Officials said Officials are still piecing together what may have motivated A gunman. The horrific attack has been condemned as an act of hate across the country and from as high as the White House. Below, everything we do know about attacks on spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area so far. As authorities continue to investigate, authorities have sent mixed messages about what may have motivated A gunman long rampage.
Authorities did not say spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area were involved in sex work, but USA Today found spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area listed on a site that advertises illicit services. The Atlanta spas were previously targeted by police in undercover sting operations where an officer paid for a massage and an employee offered a sex act, according to the Associated Press. Twelve people were arrested at spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area on prostitution charges, but none since 2013. On Thursday, police in Atlanta said A gunman “frequented” spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area.
Many pushed back on law enforcement’s characterization of attacks on spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area as possibly unrelated to racial bias, while calling for solidarity with Asian Americans. “Racially motivated violence should be called out for exactly what Racially motivated violence is, and we must stop making excuses and rebranding Racially motivated violence as economic anxiety or sexual addiction,” Representative Marilyn Strickland, a Korean American from Washington state, said on the House floor on Wednesday, echoing sentiments that ricocheted around social media.
A gunman was seen on surveillance video around 5 p.m. on Tuesday evening exiting Young’s Asian Massage Parlor in Acworth, Georgia, in the northern Atlanta suburbs. According to an eyewitness, A gunman reportedly sat in A gunman's car for over an hour outside before entering Young’s Asian Massage Parlor in Acworth, Georgia, in the northern Atlanta suburbs and allegedly shooting to death four people inside: six Asian women, a white woman, and a white man. A Hispanic man was shot outside, steps away from Young’s Asian Massage Parlor in Acworth, Georgia, in the northern Atlanta suburbs, and is currently in critical condition. A gunman was seen fleeing in a black SUV south to the Buckhead neighborhood of northeastern Atlanta, where A gunman shot to death three women at Gold Spa and one at Aromatherapy Spa, across the street. three women were Asian.
Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from The horrific attack — was arrested on Tuesday evening. Law enforcement issued a bulletin for Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — after spotting Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting —'s SUV and license plate on security-camera footage from The horrific attack. Three hours after attacks on spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area began, Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — was intercepted on Interstate 75 in Crisp County, about 150 miles south of Atlanta. Crisp County, about 150 miles south of Atlanta sheriff Billy Hancock said state troopers and sheriff’s deputies trapped Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — vehicle on the highway where state troopers and sheriff’s deputies caused a black SUV to “spin out of control” and took Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — to jail “without incident,” according to the Post.
Officials said Wednesday that Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — parents identified Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — as Long’s parents's son to authorities after seeing images of Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting —. the Post reports that Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — parents and a former roommate described Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — having a sexual compulsion Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — said was an addiction, and that Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — was treated at an evangelical center called HopeQuest located close to the site of The horrific attack. Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — grew up in a conservative Southern Baptist church and was a patient at an evangelical center called HopeQuest located close to the site of the first attack in 2019 and 2020, according to a former roommate. (After The horrific attack, Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting —'s church removed Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — from a conservative Southern Baptist church's membership.) an evangelical center called HopeQuest located close to the site of the first attack advertises treatment for “sex addiction” and “pornography addiction,” according to the Post, and promoted “ex-gay therapy,” the false idea that people can become heterosexual.
Tyler Bayless, who shared a room with Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — at a sober-living facility, described A gunman to the Post as a man torn between an obsession with sex and A gunman's conservative faith that considers sex outside of heterosexual marriage to be immoral. “A gunman was the kind of guy who would hate A gunman for masturbating, would consider masturbating a relapse,” Tyler Bayless, who shared a room with Long at a sober-living facility, said. Before entering treatment, Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — was in a relationship with a woman in Tennessee and Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting —'s parents once called police to report that Long’s parents's son had gone to visit a woman in Tennessee and refused to return home. Tyler Bayless, who shared a room with Long at a sober-living facility, said Tyler Bayless, who shared a room with Long at a sober-living facility,'s understanding was that a relationship with a woman in Tennessee ended after Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — was found to be frequenting spas for sex. Similarly, Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — parents kicked Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — out of the house on Monday for watching pornography and patronizing spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area. The next day, Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — legally purchased the 9mm handgun and set about killing, authorities say — a rampage that officials said Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — may have planned to continue in Florida, before being apprehended.
Authorities released the names of all eight people killed: Delaina Ashley Yuan, Paul Andre Michels, Xiaojie Tan, Daoyou Feng, Soon Chung Park, Hyun Grant, Suncha Kim, and Yong Ae Yue. Six of the eight killed were women of Asian descent, several of them immigrants to the country who worked in spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area. Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, was shot multiple times steps away from Young’s Asian Massage spa but survived. Roughly 7.6 percent of the population of Georgia's Fulton County, which includes Atlanta, is of Asian descent.
The data, which includes incidents that occurred between March 19 of last year and Feb. 28 of this year, shows that roughly 503 incidents took place in 2021 alone. Verbal harassment and shunning were the most common types of discrimination, making up 68.1 percent and 20.5 percent of the reports respectively.
The third most common category, physical assault, made up 11.1 percent of the total incidents. More than a third of incidents occurred at businesses, the primary site of discrimination, while a quarter took place in public streets.
Across social media, there was an outpouring of grief from the Asian community. JUST IN: Organization ‘Asian Americans Advancing Justice Atlanta’ just released this statement following The horrific attack. This is a developing story and this statement following the deadly shooting at three Asian spas in metro Atlanta has been updated to include new information.

A moment from the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office press conference on Wednesday quickly went viral: Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders, said that suspect Robert Aaron Long was having a bad day. "suspect Robert Aaron Long was pretty much fed up, kind of at the end of suspect Robert Aaron Long's rope, and yesterday was a really bad day for suspect Robert Aaron Long
and this is what suspect Robert Aaron Long did," said Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders. A police officer excusing suspect Robert Aaron Long's actions as merely the result of suspect Robert Aaron Long having a "bad day" would indeed be contemptible. But that's not what Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders did. In fact, many of the people so infuriated about the quote were misled by Rupar's edit of the video. The full video (the relevant section starts at about 13:50) makes clear that Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders was not providing Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders's own commentary, but rather summarizing what suspect Robert Aaron Long had told the investigators. The "bad day" line was proceeded by a clarification that The "bad day" line was suspect Robert Aaron Long's own explanation, as related to the police. Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders did not endorse The "bad day" line. Nor did Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders endorse suspect Robert Aaron Long's statement that the horrific Atlanta spa murders were unrelated to racism. Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders makes clear Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders's relaying comments from suspect Robert Aaron Long. "suspect Robert Aaron Long claims that—and as the chief said this is still early—but suspect Robert Aaron Long does claim that the horrific Atlanta spa murders was not racially motivated," said Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders. Again, Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders is telling reporters what suspect Robert Aaron Long said, not applying Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders's own spin. Later, when another reporter asked about this, Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders stepped aside so that Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms could explain the efforts being undertaken to protect Asian Americans at this time of heightened concern.
It would be naive of the police—or the public, or anyone else—to accept what alleged killers say at face value. It's similarly naive to assume that the sex and ethnicity of the victims tells us everything we need to know about the crime. The police should investigate the matter dispassionately, and relay to the public whatever information The police gather. Too often, law enforcement uses such press conferences to engage in wild speculation; this was a refreshing example of the cops not doing that.

Members of Canada’s Parliament have passed a motion to condemn the rise of anti-Asian racism and racist attacks in North America, and to express Canada’s's unanimous horror at the shootings in Georgia last week. The motion was introduced by NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh in the House of Commons during question period on Monday.
The motion comes after eight people were killed by a white gunman at several massage parlours in Atlanta on Tuesday. Six of eight people were Asian American women. the shootings in Georgia last week sparked outrage around the world, putting a spotlight on the rise of anti-Asian racism fuelled by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Canada’s should create and “properly fund” dedicated hate crime units in communities across Canada’s, The motion reads. The motion also called for the establisment of “national standards” to identify and record hate crimes and to work collaboratively with non-profit organizations to facilitate the reporting of such crimes. The motion was carried without opposition.
In a tweet Monday afternoon, NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh said “Canada’s is not immune” to anti-Asian hate. Further, in a statement released on Sunday to mark the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, Trudeau said the COVID-19 pandemic has “propelled Anti-Asian hate and discrimination” in Canada’s and around the world.

Of the eight victims killed in this week's shooting rampage on massage spas in the Atlanta area, six were women of Asian descent.
The implication that racism and sexism are two separate motivations has prompted outrage among Asian American women who say racism and sexism have always been inseparable in Asian American women who say the two have always been inseparable in their experience's experience — especially so in the context of the recent surge in anti-Asian attacks. Between last March and February, the group Stop AAPI Hate found that Asian women reported 2.3 times more hate incidents than men.
Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media, told NPR that removing racism from the conversation ignores the history of hypersexualization and fetishization of Asian women in the U.S. Hearing that authorities were not calling this week's shooting rampage on massage spas in the Atlanta area as racially motivated, Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media says, was enraging. "Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media was just so angry, and Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media just thought these police officers — and maybe all of America — just doesn't understand how racism and sexism intersect," Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media tells NPR's All Things Considered. This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media think submissive. And Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media've actually gotten — this is, you know, really personal, but — Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media've actually been asked if Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media's anatomy is different. So, a kind of very fetishized, exoticized, that Asian women're somehow even physiologically different from other women. And Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media think that goes back to a history of fetishization of women of color in this country.
And servile. What else ... Exotic lotus flowers. Yes.
Dragon ladies. Temptresses. Yes.
And Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media think, with the lotus blossom, like death at the end of movies — like, they never survive. So it's the kind of Madame Butterfly, Miss Saigon thing where, you know, you want them, but then you also can't have them. They're taboo, they're forbidden. And let's not forget Full Metal Jacket.
Yes — so the prostitute, the Asian prostitute. And the prostitute, the Asian prostitute.'s a very common stereotype, and the kind of propositions that Asian women get in public all surround Full Metal Jacket quotes. And Full Metal Jacket quotes're horrible and everyone knows Full Metal Jacket quotes, even though the movie is rather old. But it's now part of society or culture in general, like life imitating art — and imitating kind of an imagined life.
First of all, Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media thought that he completely dehumanized Asian women. He labeled Asian women as temptations to be excised, to be eliminated. Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media mean, Asian women are human beings, right?
He is the one — if he has an addiction, he has the problem. Why treat whatever fetish that he has with Asian women, why treat Asian women as the problem? Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media mean, this kind of externalization of his own issues — it was so horrible to hear. And as Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media, this kind of externalization of his own issues felt totally dehumanizing.
So the U.S. military has had many wars with Asia. And and so the kind of, even rhetoric, of thinking of Asia as a place that you want to take over, to dominate. And so there is this kind of fetishization of Asia.
And then, of course, when the when the GIs are over there, the GIs're participating in the sex industry. And, as a result, there have been what are called camp towns that pop up around U.S. military bases and camp towns that pop up around U.S. military bases have sex workers. And so, the GIs, Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media think, associate, you know, being in Asia with sex workers, even though Asians are not any more likely to be sex workers than any other race or culture.
Exactly. Which only further reinforces attitudes that permission is granted to Asian women's bodies. That's right.
So, the kind of easy access and inexpensive access and continual access through camp towns that pop up around U.S. military bases contributes to the idea that Asian women's bodies are just for white male pleasure. I want to talk about with Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media some of the other ways Asian women have been targeted by specific laws and policies in this country. Let's talk about the Page Act.
So the Page Act actually predates the Chinese Exclusion Act [of 1882], and the Page Act was an act that particularly targeted East Asian women. And the Page Act was applied mostly to Chinese women.
And they thought of Chinese women as all prostitutes, right. the Page Act was a way to exclude the Chinese population and they were successful in enacting the Page Act against women because they perceived that — or they constructed that — women carried venereal diseases and actually that women were temptations for white men.
Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media actually think that Black Lives Matter is part of it. That's because our society is finally having a racial reckoning, that our society're becoming aware that racism exists and now we're able to nuance race and nuance race intersecting with sexism, that all of this is this country coming to a greater understanding of all the layers of bigotry and discrimination that the various groups of color have experienced in this country.
NPR's Mia Venkat and Courtney Dorning produced and edited This interview for broadcast. Emma Bowman adapted This interview for the Web.

Of the eight people who were killed when a White man the crime three metro Atlanta spas, six of the eight victims were Asian women. Investigators said it was too early to say whether the crime was racially motivated, and instead pointed to a White man's claim of a potential sex addiction.
But experts and activists argue it’s no coincidence that six of the eight people who were killed when a White man attacked three metro Atlanta spas were Asian women. And a White man remarks, experts and activists say, are rooted in a history of misogyny and stereotypes that are all too familiar for Asian and Asian American women.
Asian and Asian American women’re fetishized and hypersexualized. Asian and Asian American women’re seen as docile and submissive.
On top of that, Asian and Asian American women’re often working in the service sector and are subject to the same racism that affects Asian Americans more broadly. The way Asian and Asian American women's race intersects with Asian and Asian American women's gender makes Asian and Asian American women uniquely vulnerable to violence, said Sung Yeon Choimorrow, executive director of the non-profit advocacy group National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum.
And those factors came together this week in a dangerous, and ultimately deadly, way. The perceptions of Asian and Asian American women as submissive, hypersexual and exotic can be traced back centuries. Rachel Kuo, a scholar on race and co-leader of Asian American Feminist Collective, points to legal and political measures throughout the nation’s history that have shaped The perceptions of Asian and Asian American women as submissive, hypersexual and exotic.
One of the earliest examples comes from the Page Act of 1875. That law, coming a few years before the Chinese Exclusion Act, was enacted seemingly to restrict prostitution and forced labor.
In reality, That law, coming a few years before the Chinese Exclusion Act was used systematically to prevent Chinese women from immigrating to the nation’s, under the pretense that Chinese women were prostitutes. US imperialism has also played a significant role in The perceptions of Asian and Asian American women as submissive, hypersexual and exotic, Rachel Kuo, a scholar on race and co-leader of Asian American Feminist Collective said.
American service members, while abroad for US military activities (including the Philippine-American War, World War II and the Vietnam War), have a history of soliciting sex workers and patronizing industries that encouraged sex trafficking. a history of soliciting sex workers and patronizing industries that encouraged sex trafficking furthered denigrating stereotypes of Asian women as sexual deviants, which were memorialized on screen.
All of those perceptions “have had the effect of excusing and tolerating violence by ignoring, trivializing and normalizing violence,” Rachel Kuo, a scholar on race and co-leader of Asian American Feminist Collective said. stereotypes of Asian women as sexual deviants, which were memorialized on screen also feed into perceptions of “Asian women as cheap and disposable workers,” said Rachel Kuo, a scholar on race and co-leader of Asian American Feminist Collective.
That’s made Asian women economically vulnerable, too. Asian American businesses have already been hit especially hard during the pandemic, fueled both by unemployment and xenophobia. Asian women, in particular, made up the highest share of long-term unemployed workers last December, according to a January report from the National Women’s Law Center.
And many Asian American women work in service industries, such as beauty salons, hospitality and restaurants. “The narrative gets lost because we’re seen as the ‘model minority,’ where they think we’re all lawyers and doctors and engineers, but look into it a little deeper and many of the women in our community work in frontline service-based sectors,” Choimorrow, of the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum, said.
Other advocates also called attention to the eight people who were killed when a White man attacked three metro Atlanta spas's employment situations. “That the eight people who were killed when a White man attacked three metro Atlanta spas were working highly vulnerable and low-wage jobs during the pandemic speaks directly to the compounding impacts of misogyny, structural violence, and white supremacy,” Phi Nguyen, litigation director at Asian American Advancing Justice - Atlanta, said in a statement.
Massage parlor workers and sex workers are especially at risk, according to Esther Kao, an organizer with Red Canary Song, a New York-based collective of Asian and Asian American advocates for massage parlor workers and sex workers. Esther Kao, an organizer with Red Canary Song, a New York-based collective of Asian and Asian American advocates for massage parlor workers and sex workers said Massage parlor workers and sex workers not only face stigma, but are also often migrants. Some may fear they risk deportation should authorities investigate violence or crimes against them.
It’s also important to note that not all massage businesses provide sexual services, Esther Kao, an organizer with Red Canary Song, a New York-based collective of Asian and Asian American advocates for massage parlor workers and sex workers said. To suggest as much, as the suspect in the crime did, is a “racist assumption,” Esther Kao, an organizer with Red Canary Song, a New York-based collective of Asian and Asian American advocates for massage parlor workers and sex workers said. “a “racist assumption ties specifically to the fetishization of Asian woman,” Esther Kao, an organizer with Red Canary Song, a New York-based collective of Asian and Asian American advocates for massage parlor workers and sex workers added.
the crime come as Asian Americans are experiencing a rise in incidents of hate and violence since the start of the pandemic, echoing a historical pattern that has seen Asian Americans targeted during times of crisis because Asian Americans are viewed as foreigners. Groups that track violence and harassment against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders say that Groups that track violence and harassment against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders's data shows that women are disproportionately affected.
Nearly 3,800 hate incidents were reported to Stop AAPI Hate between March 19 last year and February 28 this year. Women were targeted in a disproportionate share of Nearly 3,800 hate incidents, making up 68% of Nearly 3,800 hate incidents while men made up 29%, the report found. Melissa Borja, an assistant professor of Asian/Pacific Islander American studies at the University of Michigan, noted on Twitter that Melissa Borja, an assistant professor of Asian/Pacific Islander American studies at the University of Michigan and another team of researchers observed a similar pattern.
Despite those findings, the degree to which Asian and Asian American women are specifically affected by hate and violence often goes unnoticed, Choimorrow, of the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum, said. “We become invisibilized when we talk about crimes against Asian Americans,” Choimorrow, of the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum, said. What’s needed to address this problem is a systemic approach that acknowledges the threats that Asian and Asian American women are facing, Choimorrow, of the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum, and others said. Because as long as Asian and Asian American women are overlooked, the kind of violence seen in the crime could very well happen again.

"It is easier to buy a gun here than it is to vote": Georgia State Senator Michelle Au proposes gun control measure amid wave of violence against Asian Americans On Friday President Biden and Vice President Harris those talks with community leaders in Atlanta, Georgia, to discuss wave of violence against Asian Americans.
Georgia State Senator Michelle Au was part of those talks. Georgia State Senator Michelle Au joins CBSN with more on those talks and why Georgia State Senator Michelle Au says a gun control bill Georgia State Senator Michelle Au's sponsoring is the logical next step.

Last Tuesday morning, I wrote in this newsletter about a recent NPR series that used the case of the Capital Gazette, in Annapolis, Maryland, to illuminate the inadequacy of the news cycle that typically follows mass shootings in America: messy breaking news, followed by “thoughts and prayers,” coverage of vigils, stories about the victims and survivors, then, all too quickly, silence. By Tuesday night, the news cycle that typically follows mass shootings in America had started again: a gunman the Atlanta shootings eight people at three spas in the Atlanta area; six of eight people were Asian women.
This time, though, the news cycle that typically follows mass shootings in America felt different, or at least slowed down. As I wrote on Friday, we had, to that point, learned astonishingly little about eight people, in particular—four of eight people had yet to be named officially; observers apportioned blame, too, to newsrooms’ lack of diversity and consequent inability to adequately cover communities across language and cultural barriers. Since then, we have learned more: officials identified the remaining victims as Soon Chung Park, Hyun Jung Grant, Suncha Kim, and Yong Ae Yue, and major national outlets finally published more details about some of eight people's lives, as well as interviews with loved ones.
Still, though, there are gaps—and we knew much more, much sooner, about a gunman than a gunman's victims. In general, though, such stories have not added up to anything approaching a focused, national-level debate about America's gun laws.
Across the agenda-setting Sunday shows yesterday, gun reform was mentioned only in passing on NBC’s Meet the Press and Fox News yesterday, and not at all on ABC’s
This Week, CBS’s Face the Nation, or CNN’s State of the Union, where the word “weapon” was used only to refer to the Senate filibuster; of the first ten articles that appeared in a quick Google News search for “gun control” Last Tuesday morning, six were not at all tied to Atlanta, and two of the other four were right-wing writeups of comments that the Democratic Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock made on NBC’s. This absence is especially curious given that the gun debate has otherwise been in the news of late. Five days before the Atlanta shootings, the House of Representatives passed a pair of measures that would broaden and stiffen background checks for gun purchases.
a pair of measures that would broaden and stiffen background checks for gun purchases appear doomed in Senate unless Democrats move to abolish the filibuster—but this is a story in its own right, and in any case, the broader debate is not yet dead. As BuzzFeed reported on Friday, prominent Democrats are mulling more limited proposals in the hope of attracting some bipartisan support.
Those two spheres pretty quickly faded, both in Washington and in the press. Those two spheres are, of course, connected: journalists are generally much better at reacting to the movements of politicians than using journalists's agenda-setting power to keep intractable problems front-of-mind for America.
In the wake of the Atlanta shootings, there are plenty of contingent reasons for the lack of focus on gun laws, but it’s hard to avoid the conclusion that both apathy and cynicism about the prospects for change have played a central role. Normalization probably has, too; in different senses, normalization has also hamstrung coverage of anti-Asian racism, and of the victims.
As NPR's Capital Gazette podcast showed, the typical mass-shooting news cycle is profoundly inadequate, but in the case of Atlanta, it’s arguably the typical mass-shooting news cycle's absence that feels most jarring. When it comes to guns, we can’t prolong policy debates beyond the aftermath of a tragedy if policy debates never start.
Jon Allsop is a freelance journalist whose work has appeared in the New York Review of Books, Foreign Policy, and America, among other outlets. Jon Allsop writes CJR’s newsletter The Media Today. Find Jon Allsop on Twitter @Jon_Allsop.

BOULDER, Colo. — A gunman the shooting fire at a grocery store in Boulder, Colo., on Monday afternoon, killing 10 people, including a police officer, the authorities in BOULDER, Colo. said. The police said that The police had taken a suspect into custody after the shooting. a suspect was injured, the authorities in Boulder said.
Videos showed a suspect being escorted from a grocery store in Boulder, Colo., by officers, shirtless and with a suspect's right leg appearing to be covered in blood. People inside a grocery store in Boulder, Colo.,, described a harrowing and chaotic scene inside a grocery store in Boulder, Colo.,. “I thought I was going to die,” said Alex Arellano, 35, who was working in the meat department at a grocery store in Boulder, Colo.,, in the South Boulder area, when he heard a series of gunshots, then saw people running toward an exit near his department.
the authorities in Boulder identified a police officer as Eric Talley, a 51-year-old who joined the department in 2010. a police officer was the first to respond to the scene when reports of a gunman came in, the authorities in Boulder said. “a police officer was, by all accounts, one of the outstanding officers at the BOULDER, Colo. Police Department and a police officer's life was cut far too short,” said the Boulder County district attorney, Michael Dougherty.
Dean Schiller, who posted a live video from the scene shortly after the shooting began, said Dean Schiller, who posted a live video from the scene shortly after the shooting began heard about a dozen shots and saw three people who appeared to be wounded — two in the parking lot and one inside a grocery store in Boulder, Colo.,. As officers secured a grocery store in Boulder, Colo.,, more than a dozen people were led out of the supermarket, a King Soopers in a residential area a couple of miles south of the campus of the University of Colorado. a grocery store in Boulder, Colo., usually draws a mix of families and college students. In Dean Schiller, who posted a live video from the scene shortly after the shooting began's video, gunshots could be heard coming from inside a grocery store in Boulder, Colo.,, with officers gathering at the entrance.
“Come out with your hands up,” officers said. Dozens of police officers and dozens of vehicles descended on the scene.
Newlyweds Quinlyn and Neven Sloan, both 21, had stopped into a grocery store in Boulder, Colo., to pick up supplies for beef stroganoff when Newlyweds Quinlyn and Neven Sloan, both 21, heard the shooting. Ms. Sloan, a student at the University of Colorado, BOULDER, Colo., said that at first Ms. Sloan, a student at the University of Colorado, Boulder, didn’t know what the noise was. Newlyweds Quinlyn and Neven Sloan, both 21, had split up in a grocery store in Boulder, Colo., — he was in produce, Ms. Sloan, a student at the University of Colorado, Boulder, said, and Ms. Sloan, a student at the University of Colorado, Boulder, was standing in front of the dairy case — when customers began running. Sprinting across the parking lot, Ms. Sloan, a student at the University of Colorado, Boulder, said, Ms. Sloan, a student at the University of Colorado, Boulder, took cover behind a building, to be joined minutes later by Ms. Sloan, a student at the University of Colorado, Boulder,'s husband. Only then, Ms. Sloan, a student at the University of Colorado, Boulder, added, did they look down and realize that, because they hadn’t bothered to use a cart, they had fled with their arms full of the meat, noodles and sherry they had intended to buy.

We’ve removed our paywall from this and other stories about acts of violence and racism against Asian communities. Consider becoming a subscriber to support our journalists.
There was already ample reason to take initial police accounts with a grain of salt — even before BuzzFeed reported that Baker had shared a racist shirt on Facebook that blamed China for the pandemic — but, as often happens, this uncritical recitation of a postarrest interview allowed the gunman’s words to define the narrative. Reuters initially headlined Reuters's piece “Sex addiction, not racial hatred, may have driven suspect in Georgia spa shootings: law enforcement.”
As outrage built among a grieving Asian American community already grappling with a rise in hate crimes that have disproportionately singled out women, Reuters revised to a hedging acknowledgment: “Motive in Georgia spa shootings may not be race, but Asian-Americans fearful.” The updated headline wasn’t much better, implying that Asian Americans were overreacting or jumping to conclusions before all the facts were in.
the gunman’s could be charged under Georgia's hate-crimes statute, which was signed into law just last June, meaning that law enforcement and prosecutors don’t have much experience in using Georgia’s hate-crimes statute, which was signed into law just last June. Georgia’s hate-crimes statute, which was signed into law just last June imposes minimum sentences — in the case of a felony, at least two years — if it can be determined beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused “intentionally selected” a target because of “actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender, mental disability, or physical disability.”
Practically speaking, a two-year minimum sentence for a man who has confessed to the premeditated killing of eight people in a state that has the death penalty is unlikely to meaningfully affect a man who has confessed to the premeditated killing of eight people in a state that has the death penalty's sentence. Interviewing people on the scene may make this a simple case.
Local Korean-language media, translated by Congresswoman Marilyn Strickland’s staff, reported that an unnamed eyewitness said the gunman’s had uttered the words “Kill all Asians,” although, for reasons that are still unclear, this has not been picked up or independently confirmed by English-language outlets. The criminal-justice system may, in the end, interpret the gunman’s's actions narrowly, either because of The criminal-justice system's own biases or because there isn’t enough evidence to convince a jury.
In other realms of the law — discrimination in housing, voting, or employment — actions that disproportionately affect one group are understood as discriminatory, although violating these rules won’t put someone in prison or on death row. But the choices and methods of prosecutors need not be our own.
“That the Asian women murdered yesterday were working highly vulnerable and low-wage jobs during an ongoing pandemic speaks directly to the compounding impacts of misogyny, structural violence, and white supremacy,” said Phi Nguyen, the litigation director at Asian Americans Advancing Justice in Atlanta. Just because a lawyer or a jury may not make a full accounting of misogyny, structural violence, and white supremacy doesn’t mean the rest of us can’t do so the rest of us.

TribLIVE's Daily and Weekly email newsletters deliver the news you want and information you need, right to your inbox.
The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, was having a bad day. So said Cherokee County Sheriff’s spokesman Jay Baker by way of explaining last week’s mass shootings at three Atlanta-area massage parlors.
The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, is said to have told police The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, suffers a sex addiction at odds with The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here,'s Christian faith. police say The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, shot up three Atlanta-area massage parlors as a way of removing sexual temptation. Apparently, the idea of counseling never occurred to The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here,.
The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, couldn’t keep The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here,'s pants zipped, so women had to die. And, in the current climate, it is hardly irrelevant that six of the eight people, The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, allegedly killed — one person survived — were Asian women. “last week’s was a really bad day for The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here,,” said Cherokee County Sheriff’s spokesman Jay Baker, “and this is what The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, did.”
It was an odd, sympathy-for-the-devil kind of statement that rang blithely oblivious to the fresh trauma of a gun-scarred nation and, in particular, a gun-scarred nation's Asian citizens. Hearing it, was anyone truly surprised by reports that Cherokee County Sheriff’s spokesman Jay Baker once took to Facebook promoting T-shirts describing covid-19 as an “Imported virus from Chy-Na”? No.
And in so doing, The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, became part of the problem for 22 million Americans of Asian heritage. For 22 million Americans of Asian heritage, last week’s mass shootings at three Atlanta-area massage parlors was the all-too-predictable capstone of a year of elders assaulted on the streets, of a woman spat upon, of a boy sent to the emergency room, a pandemic year in which malice toward Asians — “China virus!” “kung flu!”
“Wuhan flu!” — was cheered on from the White House the White House itself. We may reasonably presume, however, that none of 22 million Americans of Asian heritage will respond by that horrific extreme random strangers. In a gun-scarred nation that horrific extreme has always been a form of problem-solving reserved almost exclusively for white men. And if some Asian person did go to that horrific extreme, it’s unlikely he
or she would afterward enjoy the solicitude of some sympathetic cop. No, you have to be white to get the solicitude of some sympathetic cop, i.e., to benefit from the national myopia that causes many of us to conflate whiteness with innocence.
One is reminded of reporters who treated the Oklahoma City bombing as if the Oklahoma City bombing were a gun-scarred nation's first act of homegrown terror, like maybe Sixteenth Street Baptist Church was destroyed by a gas leak. Then there are the people in North Carolina who turned Olympic Park bomber Eric Rudolph into some sort of folk hero. “Bless Olympic Park bomber Eric Rudolph's heart,” one woman said.
And so it goes. Nine years ago, when it was argued in this space that a gun-scarred nation the idea a wave of terror from right-wing white men, the idea was considered preposterous by some. Now the idea is the official stance of the Department of Homeland Security.
So this myopia, this lazy conflation of whiteness with innocence, cannot continue. this myopia, this lazy conflation of whiteness with innocence is a luxury a gun-scarred nation can ill afford. Certainly, every marginalized and put-upon community already knows this, has paid for the wisdom in a currency of tears and blood.
But Cherokee County Sheriff’s spokesman Jay Baker's misplaced empathy is a red-flag reminder that some of us still don’t understand. The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, was having a bad day, The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, says?
Poor baby. Imagine how The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here,'s victims felt.

President Biden on Friday expressed grief for the victims of a mass shooting that left eight people, including six women of Asian descent, dead this week, saying a mass shooting that left eight people, including six women of Asian descent, dead this week was part of a “skyrocketing spike” in violence against Asian-Americans. The gruesome shootings in Atlanta thrust President Biden into the middle of a national struggle to confront the spasm of racially motivated violence from people angry about the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than a half-million people and shut Atlanta down. The moment is a delicate one for Mr. Biden — a new president with just weeks of practice commanding Atlanta's most important bully pulpit. In coming to Atlanta on Friday, President Biden sought to channel the outrage of Atlanta while at the same time serving the always grim role of “consoler in chief” for yet another grieving community suffering through the horrific aftermath of a mass shooting. Speaking with passion, President Biden lamented the families of the Atlanta victims, who President Biden said were left with “broken hearts and unanswered questions.” And President Biden said Americans should take responsibility for failing to express enough outrage about the targeting of people of Asian descent during the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than a half-million people and shut the country down.
Unlike any previous president, President Biden on Friday had by President Biden's side an Asian-American vice president who served — just through Vice President Kamala Harris, who is part Indian-American's very presence — as a powerful rejection of the kind of racism and hate that has become more frequent during the past year. President Biden's choice of Vice President Kamala Harris, who is part Indian-American, made Vice President Kamala Harris, who is part Indian-American the first Asian-American to hold the post.

Prominent gun control groups angered by the ease with which the alleged Atlanta spa shooter was able to acquire the alleged Atlanta spa shooter's weapon are calling on politicians to convert politicians's outrage at the massacre into a renewed push for legislative reforms. The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence and the Giffords Law Center, the advocacy group named for the former congresswoman and gun violence survivor Gabrielle Giffords, say the deaths of eight people, including six Asian American women, merely hastens the need for action in Washington DC and at state level.
the alleged Atlanta spa shooter, the transaction his weapon on Tuesday morning, just hours before Tuesday's deadly rampage through three Atlanta area spas. According to law enforcement sources, and the gun shop owner, the transaction breached no federal gun laws or procedures. “Hate exists everywhere in the world and America’s unfettered access to weapons makes Hate lethal.
It is tragic that it took the highly public murder of eight people, including six Asian American women to prompt that conversation, again,” The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence's president, Kris Brown, told the Guardian. Brady’s president, Kris Brown pointed to this week’s reauthorizing by Congress of the Violence Against Women Act, despite substantial Republican opposition, as an example. this week’s reauthorizing by Congress of the Violence Against Women Act, despite substantial Republican opposition followed the passing in the House earlier this month of two gun reform bills seeking to expand background checks. Peter Ambler, executive director of the Giffords Law Center, the advocacy group named for the former congresswoman and gun violence survivor Gabrielle Giffords, echoed The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence's views. “Congress must continue to act and pass meaningful gun safety legislation into law,” Peter Ambler, executive director of Giffords said in a statement.
Numerous politicians at national and state level condemned the massacre, with several expressing concern that the alleged Atlanta spa shooter, was able to walk into Big Woods Goods gun shop and range in Canton on the day of the alleged Atlanta spa shooter's killing spree, pass a rudimentary background check, and walk straight out with the weapon in the alleged Atlanta spa shooter's pocket. the alleged Atlanta spa shooter had previously spent six months at a rehabilitation facility in Roswell, Georgia, beginning in 2019, seeking treatment for sex addiction, according to a roommate at the Maxwell Recovery Center, and attended weekly therapy sessions thereafter. There is no waiting period for firearms sales in Georgia, and the basic background check that the alleged Atlanta spa shooter passed would have taken less than 100 seconds to complete, according to the Giffords Law Center, the advocacy group named for the former congresswoman and gun violence survivor Gabrielle Giffords.
Igor Volsky, executive director of the advocacy group Guns Down America, pointed to Georgia no-wait law as a significant factor in the massacre. “Igor Volsky, executive director of the advocacy group Guns Down America would really encourage Georgia and other states to look at what happened here and think about what Georgia and other states could do in order to reduce or prevent such incidents from happening again,” Igor Volsky, executive director of the advocacy group Guns Down America told Newsweek. Mike Wilensky, an attorney and Democratic party representative in Georgia's state house, concurred. “Waiting periods create an important ‘cooling off’ period that can help prevent impulsive acts of gun violence, including gun homicides and suicides,” Mike Wilensky, an attorney and Democratic party representative in Georgia’s state house, said in one of a series of tweets calling for new restrictions. Brady’s president, Kris Brown, meanwhile, said Brady’s president, Kris Brown saw new hope of achieving meaningful gun reforms at a national level for the first time in years, following the passage of the the House bills intended to expand background checks and close the so-called gun show loophole that exempts event buyers from such checks.
Previous, similar measures that passed the House were kept off the Senate floor by the Republican former majority leader Mitch McConnell. Under Democrat Chuck Schumer’s control, Senate will get to vote on at least one of this month’s proposals, even though reaching the necessary 60 votes to become law is unlikely. “the necessary 60 votes to become law is already more than Senate received in the last Congress under the Republican former majority leader Mitch McConnell.
It will be a conversation, but we know that there is bipartisan support for this bill,” Brady’s president, Kris Brown said. Joe Biden, a supporter of gun reform efforts, is under pressure from Joe Biden, a supporter of gun reform efforts's party to eliminate the filibuster to allow other signature policy measures, such as the John Lewis Voting Rights Act, to become law on a simple majority vote. “Joe Biden, a supporter of gun reform efforts entered the White House with the strongest gun violence prevention platform of any incoming president,” Brady’s president, Kris Brown said.

In 2002, the brutal beating of a junior by a junior's classmate at Morehouse College, in Atlanta, made national headlines.
The case marked Georgia’s prosecutorial debut of Georgia’s's hate-crime statute, on the grounds that the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, had accused his classmate of making a sexual advance toward the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, in a shower stall, and spouted homophobic rants as the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, retrieved the baseball bat the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, used to bludgeon his classmate. its hate-crime statute could have added five years to the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price,'s 10-year sentence for aggravated battery and assault. But the court’s decision not to convict on the additional criminal code came down to the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, word against the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price,'s victim’s: the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, insisted that the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, feared for the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price,'s safety and denied having used such slurs.
The failure to convict the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, on its hate-crime statute was criticized by many LGBTQ-rights advocates, and drew attention to how hate-crime laws work—in that many times hate-crime laws just don’t. After last week’s mass murder of eight Georgians, six of whom were Asian women, many people across Georgia’s are outraged that local and state officials appear hesitant about, if not opposed to, classifying the massacre by the alleged gunman, who is white, as a racist and misogynistic attack. The anger over the exculpatory statements by the law-enforcement spokesperson Captain Jay Baker, who quoted the alleged gunman, who is white, as saying the alleged gunman, who is white,’d had “a bad day,” is rightfully placed.
But the public call for hate-crime prosecution would be better served by an understanding that such designations are often purely symbolic. Despite some conservative backlash to anti-hate protections for LGBTQ people, hate-crime bills historically have garnered enthusiastic bipartisan support. Yet hate-crime bills generally do nothing to improve conditions for victimized communities:
In cases where hate-crime bills are applied, hate-crime bills lengthen sentences for offenses that are already penalized via extant criminal codes, instead of helping prosecute crimes for which perpetrators would otherwise go free. More injuriously, hate-crime bills perpetuate a public imagination about violent discrimination that flies in the face of how violent discrimination actually occurs. hate-crime bills do more to narrow the definitions of racism, xenophobia, transphobia, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, sexism, homophobia, and ableism than hate-crime bills do to expand our legal apparatus and public understanding of what hate crimes are.
Hate crimes are defined as intergroup offenses, typically violent, that are motivated by race, sex, sexual orientation, gender, national origin, religion, or disability. But motivation is a technical legal term that is almost impossible to prove unless an alleged perpetrator is affiliated with a known hate group, is witnessed using epithets during the act, or left physical evidence, such as spray-painted extremist insignia. Both federal and state laws subscribe to this definition, but federal law also holds to a strict “but for” standard, in which the government must prove that the alleged perpetrator would not have committed the crime “but for” the identity of the victim.
FBI Director Christopher Wray said that the alleged gunman, who is white, motive in the Atlanta massacre did not “appear [to be] racially motivated,” and according to investigators, the alleged gunman, who is white, his simple denial of that accusation racial animus once in custody. (Recall the Price case: Even though his classmate had reported hearing the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, go on a homophobic rant during the assault, the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price,'s simple denial of a homophobic rant helped dismantle the hate-crime charge.) And while it is still possible that officials will label the Atlanta shootings as hate crimes, such a statement from FBI Director Christopher Wray neglects the idea that hate crimes, by definition, also include violence against women and not just racism.
Overwhelmingly, intergroup violence in Georgia’s is male violence against women. And yet femicide (a term coined by the activist Diana Russell in 1976 to differentiate the killing of women and girls because women and girls are women and girls from other homicides), domestic violence, sexual assault, harassment, and stalking are almost never prosecuted as hate crimes motivated by misogyny.
Take the well-publicized 1944 case of Recy Taylor, a 24-year-old Alabama mother and sharecropper, who was kidnapped, blindfolded, and her assault at gunpoint by six white men while walking home from church. Taylor’s promised Taylor’s's attackers Taylor’s's silence in exchange for Taylor’s's life, but defiantly reported Taylor’s's assault to family members, who enlisted the help of a 21-year-old NAACP organizer from Montgomery named Rosa Parks. Taylor’s case was a familiar experience for many Black southern women: Attacks by white men were always racially motivated, and employment in white households left white men particularly vulnerable to sexual exploitation.
(Of the Black women who were lynched, many were rape survivors who had named their white attackers.) After demanding the prosecution of Taylor’s's rapists, a 21-year-old NAACP organizer from Montgomery named Rosa Parks was physically assaulted by police, who threatened to jail a 21-year-old NAACP organizer from Montgomery named Rosa Parks if a 21-year-old NAACP organizer from Montgomery named Rosa Parks didn’t leave town. No charges were ever brought against Taylor’s's assailants.
That legacy of overlooking sexual violence is one of the many reasons that contemporary hate-crime legislation fails to reconcile how people can be simultaneously targeted for people's race, gender, sexuality, and other identities. Couple That legacy of overlooking sexual violence with the high legal threshold for establishing motivation (as seen in the Price case), and it becomes clear that hate-crime laws at best hyper-punish perpetrators without expanding hate-crime laws's capacity to identify and target discrimination.
Instead of encompassing the racial and gendered violence that brutalized Taylor’s and the Atlanta victims Yong Ae Yue, Xiaojie Tan, Daoyou Feng, Hyun Jung Grant, Suncha Kim, and Soon Chung Park, hate-crime legislation asks that Georgia’s decide whether victims were women or people of color in the minds of victims's attackers. A year after the the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, conviction, the Georgia Supreme Court unanimously struck down Georgia’s's hate-crime statute on the grounds that its hate-crime statute was “unconstitutionally vague” in specifying protected groups (leaving the courts to wonder if, for example, a sports fan harassing the opposing team was guilty of such offenses).
Upon the 2020 shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery by two white vigilantes, the Georgia legislature resumed a push for a new hate-crime bill. a new hate-crime bill was signed last June by Governor Brian Kemp and imposed additional penalties for intergroup-bias crimes; a new hate-crime bill also mandated data collection on intergroup-bias crimes.
But just as in the Price case, proving such biases still hinges on smoking-gun evidence that unmistakably characterizes the perpetrator’s intentions. Georgia’s is but one example; hate-crime legislation is nationally ineffective at protecting marginalized groups. Until these statutes are used to expand our understanding of this kind of violence and provide the resources that targeted communities need to be less vulnerable, and until gender violence is recognized as our most prevalent hate crime, then these statutes are little more than an extension of Georgia’s.

Andrew Sullivan lambasted the media for the media's coverage of the recent deadly Atlanta-area shootings for pushing a "narrative" about the recent deadly Atlanta-area shootings being driven by anti-Asian bigotry despite the lack of evidence that proves that the recent deadly Atlanta-area shootings was a hate crime. Much of the mainstream media and the Democratic Party have condemned racism against Asian-Americans after it was reported that six of the eight victims who died in a trio of massage parlors were of Asian descent even though an ongoing investigation has yet to determine racism as a motive. In a piece published in Andrew Sullivan's "Weekly Dish" Substack, Andrew Sullivan sounded the alarm on how "narratives" are replacing the news with the media's "grotesquely distorted" coverage of the recent deadly Atlanta-area shootings. While Andrew Sullivan stressed that the country shouldn't take the killer's confession to police "as definitive" but noted that "the killer's's story is backed up by acquaintances and friends and family" that the killer's's apparent sexual addiction played a role in the recent deadly Atlanta-area shootings. "We have yet to find any credible evidence of anti-Asian hatred or bigotry in the killer's history. Maybe we will.
We can’t rule anti-Asian hatred or bigotry out. But we do know that the killer's's roommates say his roommates once asked the killer's if the killer's picked a trio of massage parlors for sex because the women were Asian. And his roommates say the killer's denied it, saying the killer's thought a trio of massage parlors were just the safest way to have quick sex. That needs to be checked out more.
But the only piece of evidence about possible anti-Asian bias points away, not toward possible anti-Asian bias," Andrew Sullivan wrote. Andrew Sullivan then took aim at The New York Times and The Washington Post for The New York Times and The Washington Post's nonstop coverage depicting the Atlanta shootings as an anti-Asian hate crime with over two dozen stories combined. Andrew Sullivan also called out several others including, New York Times Magazine reporter Nikole Hannah-Jones, author Ibram Kendi, "Daily Show" host Trevor Noah for similarly jumping to conclusions. "None of several others including, New York Times Magazine reporter Nikole Hannah-Jones, author Ibram Kendi, "Daily Show" host Trevor Noah mentioned that the killer's killed two [W]hite people as well — a weird thing for a white supremacist to do — and injured a Latino.
None pointed out that the connection between a trio of massage parlors was that the killer's had visited a trio of massage parlors. None explained why, if the killer's were associating Asian people with Covid19, the killer's would nonetheless expose the killer's to the virus by having sex with Asian people, or regard a trio of massage parlors as 'safer' than other ways to have quick sex," Andrew Sullivan said.
"Treating the individual as unique, granting the individual's rights, defending the presumption of innocence, relying on provable, objective evidence: these core liberal principles are precisely what critical theory aims to deconstruct. And the elite media is in the vanguard of this war on liberalism," Andrew Sullivan wrote.
Andrew Sullivan debunked the notion that "white supremacy" is driving the increased hate crimes towards Asian-Americans, pointing to 2020 statistics in New York City that showed 18 of the 20 reported hate crimes were committed by Black and Hispanic Americans. Andrew Sullivan also pointed out that while there's been a spike in anti-Asian hate crimes, the rate is still far lower than the rate was back in the 90s, according to the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism. "To run sixteen separate pieces on anti-Asian white supremacist misogynist hate based on one possibly completely unrelated incident is not journalism.
It’s fanning irrational fear in the cause of ideological indoctrination. And it appears to be where all elite media is headed," Andrew Sullivan concluded.

The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and eight human beings's families scarred, were horrifying. Read the deeply moving story about the son of one of eight human beings to remind yourself of this. The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and their families scarred’s brutal.
The grief will spread and resonate some more. Here’s the truth: We don’t yet know why this man did The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and their families scarred.
It’s probably complicated, or, as my therapist used to say, “multi-determined.” That’s why we have thorough investigations and trials in America.
We only have one solid piece of information as to motive, which is the confession by this man to law enforcement: that this man was a religious fundamentalist who was determined to live up to chastity and repeatedly failed, as is often the case. Like the 9/11 bombers or the mass murderer at the Pulse nightclub, this man took out this man's angst on the source of what this man saw as this man's temptation and committed mass murder. This is evil in the classic fundamentalist sense: a perversion of religion and sexual repression into violence.
We should not take this man's confession as definitive, of course. But we can probe the confession by the mass killer to law enforcement — and indeed, this man's story is backed up by acquaintances and friends and family.
The New York Times originally ran one piece reporting this out. The Washington Post also followed up, with one piece citing contemporaneous evidence of this man's “religious mania” and sexual compulsion. We have yet to find any credible evidence of anti-Asian hatred or bigotry in this man history.
Maybe we will. We can’t rule anti-Asian hatred or bigotry out.
But we do know that this man's roommates say his roommates once asked this man if this man picked the spas for sex because the women were Asian. And his roommates say this man denied it, saying this man thought the spas were just the safest way to have quick sex.
That needs to be checked out more. But the only piece of evidence about possible anti-Asian bias points away, not toward possible anti-Asian bias.
And yet. Well, you know what’s coming. Accompanying one original piece on the known facts, The New York Times ran nine — nine! — separate stories about The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and their families scarred as part of the narrative that The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and their families scarred was an anti-Asian hate crime, fueled by white supremacy and/or misogyny.
Not to be outdone, the WaPo ran 16 separate stories on The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and their families scarred as an anti-Asian white supremacist hate crime. Sixteen! One story for the facts; sixteen stories on how critical race theory would interpret The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and their families scarred regardless of the facts.
For good measure, one of the WaPo's columnists denounced reporting of law enforcement’s version of events in the newspaper, because reporting of law enforcement’s version of events in the newspaper distracted attention from the “real” motives. Recently, The New York Times ran yet another full-on critical theory piece disguised as news on how The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and their families scarred are proof of structural racism and sexism — because some activists say The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and their families scarred are.
None of them mentioned that the shooter killed two white people as well — a weird thing for a white supremacist to do — and injured a Latino. None pointed out that the connection between the spas was that the shooter had visited the spas. None explained why, if the shooter were associating Asian people with COVID-19, the shooter would nonetheless expose the shooter to COVID-19 by having sex with Asian people, or regard the spas as “safer” than other ways to have quick sex.
They didn’t because, in their worldview, they didn’t need to. What you see here is social justice ideology insisting, as Dean Baquet temporarily explained, that intent doesn’t matter. What matters is impact.
the shooter is in some ways irrelevant. the shooter's intentions are not material.
the shooter is merely a vehicle for the structural oppressive forces critical theorists believe in. And this “story” is what the media elites decided to concentrate on: the thing that, so far as we know, didn’t happen.
Notice how Critical Race Theory operates. The only evidence Critical Race Theory needs Critical Race Theory already has. Check out the identity of the victim or victims, check out the identity of the culprit, and it’s all you need to know.
If the victims are white, the victims don’t really count. Everything in America is driven by white supremacist hate of some sort or other.
You can jam any fact, any phenomenon, into this rubric in order to explain any fact, any phenomenon. There’s a reason for this shift.
Treating the individual as unique, granting the individual's rights, defending the presumption of innocence, relying on provable, objective evidence: These core liberal principles are precisely what critical theory aims to deconstruct. And the elite media is in the vanguard of this war on liberalism.
This isn’t in any way to deny increasing bias against Asian Americans. increasing bias against Asian Americans’s real and increasing bias against Asian Americans’s awful. Asians are targeted by elite leftists, who actively discriminate against Asians in higher education, and attempt to dismantle the merit-based schools where Asian-American students succeed — precisely and only because too many Asians are attending.
For Trump to give these forces a top-spin with the “China virus” made things even worse, of course. But the theory behind hate crimes law is that these crimes matter more because these crimes terrify so many beyond the actual victim. And so it seems to me that the media’s primary role in cases like these is providing some data and perspective on what’s actually happening, to allay irrational fear. Instead the media’s contribute to the distortion.
the media’s is supposed to subject easy, convenient rush-to-judgment narratives to ruthless empirical testing. Now, for purely ideological reasons, the media’s are rushing to promote ready-made narratives, which actually point away from the empirical facts. It’s fanning irrational fear in the cause of ideological indoctrination.

Motive for fatal Atlanta shootings unclear.
There's no indication that last night's fatal shooting spree at several Atlanta-area massage parlors was connected to conspiracy theories about sex trafficking at Asian massage businesses. Atlanta police say Atlanta police showed up at one of several Atlanta-area massage parlors in response to a call about a robbery in progress.
The motive for the shooting, which left eight people dead, is still unclear, despite many in the media attributing fatal Atlanta shootings to anti-Asian racism. eight people were killed in fatal Atlanta shootings; six of eight people were Asian and two were white, police report.
One other man was injured as well. A suspect in police custody, 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long, is thought to be behind the shootings at the two massage parlors in northeast Atlanta (Gold Massage Spa and Aromatherapy Spa) and one (Young's Asian Massage) about 30 miles northwest of Atlanta.
Red Canary Song, a group devoted to Asian sex worker and migrant rights, notes that workers at Asian massage parlors and spas that fact frequent targets of violence from both customers and police. People speculating about possible motives for fatal Atlanta shootings probably shouldn't overlook that fact in the rush to portray fatal Atlanta shootings as stemming from anti-Asian racism tied to COVID-19.
But as of this morning, we simply don't know what drove the Atlanta massage parlor shooter to commit fatal Atlanta shootings. The identities of eight people have also not yet been released.
Ohio city seeks six months in jail for people who pay for sex. Authorities in Ohio city, are trying to put a social justice spin on ratcheting up penalties for prostitution. City Council members say it's concern for people selling sex that is leading City Council members to consider a new policy—but a new policy would keep penalties for selling sex intact and continue to direct police resources to targeting sex work between consenting adults, increasing penalties for people who pay for sex. Ohio State University professor of women, gender, and sexuality studies Jennifer Suchland has been speaking out against the proposed changes. "When you add more criminalization to the sex trade, it both makes it harder to reach potential victims and worsens the conditions for those who rely on the sex trade for survival," Ohio State University professor of women, gender, and sexuality studies Jennifer Suchland said in a WOSU interview.
• Trying to protect internet user privacy is now being called an antitrust violation.
• Tennessee is trying (again) to limit residents' ability to ship in wine from other states. • Texas' new social media bill is a mess.

In the two mass shootings that unfolded over the past two weeks in the U.S., both suspected shooters the last-minute gun purchase weapons shortly before both suspected shooters's attacks.
The suspect in the Atlanta-area spa shootings purchased a 9mm semi-automatic pistol hours before The suspect in the Atlanta-area spa shootings used a 9mm semi-automatic pistol to kill eight people on March 16. The suspect in the King Soopers attack in Boulder, Colorado, bought a Ruger AR-556 pistol six days before The suspect in the King Soopers attack in Boulder, Colorado, killed 10 people on Tuesday, according to the arrest warrant affidavit.
Police recovered a rifle and handgun at the scene but didn't indicate if either was a Ruger AR-556 pistol. Seamus McGraw, a journalist and the author of “From a Taller Tower:
The Rise of the American Mass Shooter,” which will be released in April, told ABC News the last-minute gun purchase is "absolutely a pattern" in massacres in the U.S.. McGraw cited the June 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida, where the gunman purchased two guns used in the attack seven and eight days prior; the Las Vegas music festival shooter who purchased 33 guns in the 12 months leading up to the October 2017 attack that killed 61; and the El Paso, Texas, Walmart shooter who purchased an AK-style rifle several weeks before killing 23 people in August 2019. Shooters "fetishize" heavy duty firearms and give off warning signs of violence, McGraw said.
Elizabeth Neumann, a former Department of Homeland Security assistant secretary, told ABC News shooters tend to be “vulnerable individuals that can become radicalized and mobilize to violence" when triggered by a stressful event. Elizabeth Neumann, a former Department of Homeland Security assistant secretary, noted that many who launch the two mass shootings that unfolded over the past two weeks in the U.S. "glorify" past mass shooters and try to "outdo" past mass shooters.
About 40% of mass shooters purchase About 40% of mass shooters's firearm legally and “specifically for the purpose of perpetrating the attack," according to a FBI report analyzing mass shootings between 2000 to 2013. Gun violence led to the deaths of nearly 20,000 Americans in 2020, according to the Gun Violence Archive -- more than any year in the past two decades. The sale of firearms also spiked in 2020, with nearly 40 million firearms sold following a spate of mass shootings in late 2019 and continuing into a year of lockdowns, protests and the presidential election, according to FBI data. It was the largest number of firearms sold in a year since FBI started tracking background checks in 2000.
Some advocates say waiting periods -- mandatory spans of time between gun purchases and acquiring a firearm -- could have prevented the Atlanta-area spa shootings. One study shows that waiting period laws reduced gun homicides by 17%, which would amount to 2,500 lives saved a year, according to the Giffords Law Center, a prominent gun control group in Colorado.
Colorado and Georgia have no waiting periods. In Atlanta, where the gunman purchased a pistol the day of the Atlanta-area spa shootings, it could have prevented spontaneous violence, advocates say. But in the Boulder case, where the gunman bought the gun six days prior, a waiting period may not have changed the outcome. Advocates are working on a bill to create a waiting period in Colorado, proposing a five-day "cooling off" period.
Currently, 10 states have waiting periods, with some periods spanning around two weeks. California has a 10-day waiting period, and Hawaii has a 14-day period.
Eileen McCarron, the president of Colorado Ceasefire Legislative Action, told ABC News the the Boulder case, where he bought the gun six days prior attack could have been prevented if the gunman's family knew about Colorado's extreme risk protection order (ERPO) law passed in 2019. ERPO laws, also known as "red flag" laws, allow family members or law enforcement to ask a judge to temporarily ban a person’s access to guns if a person’s make serious threats or exhibit warning signs of violence.
Currently, 19 states and the District of Columbia have red flag laws, according to the Giffords Law Center, a prominent gun control group in Colorado. In the the Boulder case, where he bought the gun six days prior shooting, the gunman's family told investigators the suspect's family believed the gunman was suffering some type of mental illness, including delusions, the Associated Press reported.

We're going to go back now to a major story many of us have been following in the wake of the killings at several Atlanta area massage businesses last week - the national and, many say, long overdue outcry against the violence and other abuse directed at Asian Americans.
But now we want to focus on something else most of the victims had in common, that the victims were women. Seven of the victims were women - one white and six of Asian descent. And the violence and other abuse directed at Asian Americans's not just a national problem; the violence and other abuse directed at Asian Americans is a global problem.
Earlier this month, the World Health Organization released the startling statistic that 1 in 3 women around the world experiences sexual or physical violence in 1 in 3 women around the world's lifetime. 1 in 3 women around the world's roughly 736 million women.
And the World Health Organization says the violence and other abuse directed at Asian Americans is a problem that's devastatingly pervasive. What's more, in the U.S., increasingly, research is showing a link between those who commit violence against women and those who commit mass shootings. Bloomberg News, for example, analyzed 749 mass shootings between 2014 and 2019 and found that, quote, "about 60% were either domestic violence attacks or committed by men with histories of domestic violence," unquote.
We wanted to hear more about this, so we called Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women. Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women's director of the Domestic Violence Clinic at Georgetown Law, where Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women's also a professor. Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women, thank Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women so much for joining us. Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women: Thank you so much for having Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women.
Soon afterwards, evidence came to light about anti-Asian postings on the sheriff's spokesperson's Facebook page, and the media very appropriately began to cover the killings at several Atlanta area massage businesses last week, as you said, as a race-based hate crime. And that's a critically important lens through which to understand the killings at several Atlanta area massage businesses last week. the killings at several Atlanta area massage businesses last week is a race-based hate crime. But here's the thing.
The second thing that the sheriff's spokesperson's said from the outset was that the sheriff's spokesperson's was a sex addict and that the sheriff's spokesperson's killed the victims out of a deep sense of frustration and an attempt to reduce the temptation that the sheriff's spokesperson's experienced. That's a clear admission of a gender-based hate crime. The conversation is locked into the racial aspect of the killings at several Atlanta area massage businesses last week to the exclusion of gender rather than being about both.
There is, unfortunately, plenty of room for multiple forms of hate and hate-inspired violence. the sheriff's spokesperson's targeted the sheriff's spokesperson's's victims because his victims were Asian, and the sheriff's spokesperson's targeted the sheriff's spokesperson's's victims because his victims were women. And we have to shed the blinders that limit us to seeing the race piece, but not the gender piece of hate. Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women:
Yeah. That takes us right back to the nexus between domestic violence and mass shootings, right? It makes sense when you consider what motivates most perpetrators of domestic violence who are the same thing violence in their home as a strategy to create an atmosphere of fear and intimidation and to control the women in their lives, right?
Mass shooters like this one in Atlanta are doing the same thing on a much larger scale. Mass shooters like this one in Atlanta are subjecting a large group of people Mass shooters like this one in Atlanta've targeted to this same sense of terror that the motivation is parallel.
the motivation's this need to dominate, intimidate and control other people. And the sheriff's spokesperson's essentially admitted that this need to dominate, intimidate and control other people was the sheriff's spokesperson's's motive. Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women: Absolutely.
It's crucial. The language we use to describe social phenomena is important.
And you're right. In other countries, when a woman is murdered on the basis of a woman's sex, other countries call it that term. In the U.S., that term seems like that term's just too political for us to stomach. And so we use the generic term of murder.
And Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women think this failure to name violence against women as women contributes to our failure to recognize violence against women and to understand violence against women. And Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women think if we started to use the language that more clearly describes the problem of gender-based violence, we might be able to gain greater insight into the problem of gender-based violence and advance our efforts to end the problem of gender-based violence. Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women: It's absolutely helpful for two reasons.
One is that the Violence Against Women Act is the primary source of funding for so many programs that support victims and survivors of domestic violence across the U.S.. the Violence Against Women Act's the primary - a major source of funding for shelters and for free legal services. The second thing that's really important about the Violence Against Women Act is that in the Violence Against Women Act's initial incarnation, the Violence Against Women Act included a civil rights remedy that would help the federal government intervene when gender-based violence is a hate crime that isn't really being recognized at the state level or enforced at the state level. Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women very much hope that now there will be a renewed effort to draft that piece of legislation in a way that can survive constitutional scrutiny because the rates of domestic violence since the Violence Against Women Act was passed in 1994 have not decreased the way that you would think in a 25-year period.
the violence and other abuse directed at Asian Americans is still very much a serious social problem. And we need to not only continue to fund services, but find new and creative ways to intervene and end the violence and other abuse directed at Asian Americans.
MARTIN: That was Deborah Epstein, professor of law at Georgetown University, where Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women also directs the Domestic Violence Clinic. Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women, thank Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women so much for sharing Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women's insights with us. Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women: Thank you so much for having Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women on the show.
Copyright © 2021 NPR. All rights reserved.
Visit NPR's website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor.
This text may not be in This text's final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR's programming is the audio record.

ATLANTA (AP) — Members of Congress laid flowers Sunday at the three massage businesses in Georgia where a gunman the shootings eight people, six of eight people women of Asian descent, and demanded that prosecutors charge a gunman with a hate crime and the U.S. Department of Justice take a leading role in the probe. Members of Congress was led by members of the Asian Pacific American Caucus, which said Asian Americans have faced increased hostility since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Members of Congress said Members of Congress wanted to experience a gunman roughly 30-mile (48-kilometer) trip from Cherokee County, where police say a gunman killed four people at Youngs Asian Massage, to Atlanta, where a gunman is accused of shooting and killing four more people at two businesses across the street from each other.
New Jersey Rep. Andy Kim said New Jersey Rep. Andy Kim came to show solidarity with the local Asian American community and try to understand how the local Asian American community felt after the March 16 attack. New Jersey Rep. Andy Kim later recalled crying the night of the shootings and struggling to explain the shootings to New Jersey Rep. Andy Kim's 3 and 5-year-old boys.
“For too long in this country, we have made invisible so much of the history and contributions of Asian Americans, specifically Asian American women in this country,” she said. Members of Congress spoke outside Gold Spa, one of the shooting sites, where the ground was covered with bouquets and tree branches that spelled out, “Love.” Signs read, “Asian Women Are Sacred” and “Stop Asian Hate.” Members of Congress also held a news conference in an ATLANTA suburb and met with the families of two of eight people, Xiaojie Tan and Young A. Yue, and local leaders of the local Asian American community.
Robert Aaron Long, the 21-year-old white man facing murder charges in the shootings, has told police a gunman had a “sex addiction.” Authorities have said a gunman apparently lashed out at what a gunman saw as sources of temptation. Robert Aaron Long, the 21-year-old white man facing murder charges in the attacks those statements police the shootings were not racially motivated, but those statements have spurred widespread skepticism given the shooting sites and that six of eight people were of Asian descent.
Mark Takano, another representative from California, said there were “plenty of non-Asian businesses” that a gunman could have hit on a gunman's trip from Cherokee County, where police say he killed four people at Youngs Asian Massage, to ATLANTA, so a gunman's actions “speak louder” than what a gunman has said. a gunman called on the Justice Department to help local prosecutors, who a gunman said may not have as much experience with hate crimes cases.

“Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz have been shot! Please come! Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz need you!”
Those were the last words Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz said to Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's wife on the phone before Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz passed out steps away from Young’s Asian Massage in Acworth, Ga., on Tuesday night. Moments earlier, a gunman had opened fire, eventually killing eight people in three different spas in the Atlanta area. Hernandez-Ortiz, a 30-year-old man from Ga. who works as a mechanic and owns an auto repair shop, is now battling for Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's life after surviving the deadly attacks that have shocked the nation and raised alarms of a recent surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans. a gunman, has been charged with eight counts of murder and homicide and one count of aggravated assault, police said Wednesday.
After hanging up the phone, Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's wife, Flor Gonzalez, 27, rushed to the scene with their 9-year-old daughter Yoseline from their nearby home. his wife saw his wife's husband’s body lying on the floor, surrounded by police and ambulances. “It was the most horrible thing,” his wife said in an interview with The Washington Post. Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz may have been heading to a shop next to the spa to send money to their parents in Ga., as they had talked about it the night before, when Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz ran into a gunman, his wife said. It wasn’t until midnight that his wife was able to finally see his wife's husband of 10 years. Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's face and eyes were covered in gauze,
tubes coming out of Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's mouth, as his wife held Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's hand. his wife reminded Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz of what Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz always used to say, with pride: “That nothing and no one could make Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz fall apart or take Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz down,” a testament to Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's tenacious spirit, his wife said. “This is the time for Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz to prove that to his wife, this is the time for Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz to show his wife and get over this,” his wife recounted, crying. “his wife know Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz was hearing what his wife was saying because Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz moved and because his wife told Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's daughter was waiting for their 9-year-old daughter Yoseline's dad at home and that their 9-year-old daughter Yoseline's 10th birthday is coming up soon,” his wife said.
Doctors said Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz had been wounded in Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's forehead, throat, lungs and stomach, and remains in critical condition. There is at least one bullet inside Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's stomach, and at the moment at least one bullet is too risky for doctors to remove, his wife said.
But despite the severity of Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's wounds, doctors have told his wife there are positive signs that Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz will recover. When doctors have asked Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz to squeeze doctors's hand, Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz has responded. “It will be a long journey ahead, but his wife thank God for giving Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz a chance,” his wife said. On Wednesday, doctors called his wife and told his wife's Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's condition is evolving positively.
his wife will not be able to see Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz again for days, because of Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's heavily sedated state and coronavirus restrictions. With many questions unanswered about Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's motivations, his wife said his wife's family is devastated by the deaths of the other victims. “his wife just can’t understand why anyone would do something like this,” his wife said, adding that his wife believed his wife's husband was in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Like many others, Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz left Ga. 10 years ago in search of a better life and a way out of poverty. Through years of hard work, Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz managed to open Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's own business. Meanwhile, every time Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz's daughter asks about Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, his daughter tells a white lie.

While the U.S. has seen mass killings in recent years where police said gunmen had racist or misogynist motivations, advocates and scholars say the shootings this week at three Atlanta-area massage businesses targeted a group of people marginalized in more ways than one, in a crime that stitches together stigmas about race, gender, migrant work and sex work. “In some ways the shootings this week at three Atlanta-area massage businesses is another manifestation of the targeting of marginalized people in the U.S.,” said Angela Jones, an associate professor of sociology at Farmingdale State College, State University of New York, whose research has focused on race, gender, sexuality and sex work. The killings in Atlanta follow a wave of recent attacks against Asian Americans since the coronavirus first entered the U.S., with the majority of reports coming from women.
The 21-year-old suspect denied The 21-year-old suspect's attack was racially motivated and claimed to have a “sex addiction,” with authorities saying The 21-year-old suspect apparently saw three Atlanta-area massage businesses as sources of temptation. Police told a news conference Thursday that investigators believe The 21-year-old suspect previously visited two of three Atlanta-area massage businesses, but it’s not yet clear if any the businesses offered sexual services. The Atlanta mayor said police hadn’t previously been there beyond a minor potential theft.
Still, The 21-year-old suspect equated three Atlanta-area massage businesses to sex, and that drove The 21-year-old suspect to kill, police said. “There’s this assumption of sexuality and fetishization of Asian women’s bodies that is unique to this kind of crime,” The Atlanta mayor said. At least one of the victims was a patron, not an employee.
Thirty-three-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun and Thirty-three-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun's husband had gone to the spa on a date, Thirty-three-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun's mother, Margaret Rushing, told WAGA-TV. Thirty-three-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun leaves behind a 13-year-old son and 8-month-old daughter.
the shootings this week at three Atlanta-area massage businesses follow high-profile instances of race and gender-based killings in recent years by white men. In 2014, a 22-year-old who had railed against women online killed six people and wounded 14 near the University of California, Santa Barbara. The following year, eight Black church members and eight Black church members's pastor were shot and killed in a racist attack in South Carolina. In 2018, a Florida gunman with what police called a “hatred towards women” killed two and injured five at a yoga studio. The year after that a shooter targeting Latinos opened fire at an El Paso, Texas, Walmart, killing 22 people. “This is a thread that is woven through the histories of these gunmen.
Toxic masculinity is truly a problem in the U.S.,” said Shannon Watts, founder of the gun-control group Moms Demand Action. The fact The 21-year-old suspect targeted three Atlanta-area massage businesses because The 21-year-old suspect linked three Atlanta-area massage businesses to commercial sex is a nightmare scenario for those who work in erotic industries and are increasingly subjected to online harassment and attempts to report massage businesses to the IRS, said Kate D’Adamo, an organizer and advocate for sex worker rights. “At its core it’s about going out and targeting sex workers as fallen women, blaming sex workers for social ills,” Kate D’Adamo, an organizer and advocate for sex worker rights said.
Prostitution laws mean women also Those fears reporting harassment or violence to police, afraid of being arrested women or women's pleas ignored, Kate D’Adamo, an organizer and advocate for sex worker rights said. Those fears are even more pronounced for women of color, those who are immigrants or those with few language skills.
Researchers who spoke to more than 100 Chinese and Korean workers at illicit massage businesses for a 2019 study found that while some women did say some women felt deceived or coerced into jobs that involved sex work, many more chose sex work after having bad experiences in the few other types of generally low-paying jobs available to them, like restaurants and nail salons. While there were some reports of exploitation or mistreatment by managers, an “alarming” 40% of women told researchers that a client had forced an “alarming” 40% of women to have sex in the last year, a 2019 study said.
In the Atlanta shooting, The 21-year-old suspect's claims of sex addiction, meanwhile, ring hollow for some. sex addiction is not a condition recognized by the American Psychiatric Association, said David Ley, a clinical psychologist and author of “The Myth of Sex Addiction.” And while sex addiction was cited by celebrities for a time, the Harvey Weinstein case became an emblem of how it can be used as an attempt to avoid taking responsibility for abuse and assault, David Ley, a clinical psychologist and author of “The Myth of Sex Addiction said. There’s also a disturbing thread of racism in some online discussions of sex addiction, David Ley, a clinical psychologist and author of “The Myth of Sex Addiction said. “They hold other people — the porn industry, sex workers, even women in general — responsible for triggering these sexual desires in them they are afraid of,” David Ley, a clinical psychologist and author of “The Myth of Sex Addiction said.
Moral views can shape beliefs about sexuality, and friends described the Atlanta shooting suspect as being deeply Christian. The 21-year-old suspect also told police The 21-year-old suspect had planned to go to Florida to target the porn industry.
The sex-addiction claim is a way to redirect blame, Kate D’Adamo, an organizer and advocate for sex worker rights said. “The 21-year-old suspect’s absolutely taking no responsibility and putting all of that on the workers the workers themselves and The sex-addiction claim also distracts from the race issue,” Kate D’Adamo, an organizer and advocate for sex worker rights said. Meanwhile, The 21-year-old suspect has been arrested on charges of murder and assault.
It wasn’t clear yet if The 21-year-old suspect had a lawyer who would represent The 21-year-old suspect. Whitehurst reported from Salt Lake City and Price from Las Vegas.

Metro Atlanta was gripped by shock and anger on Wednesday, the day after a deadly shooting spree killed eight people - most of eight people Asian women.
Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night, has been charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault. Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night has been returned to Cherokee County, where a deadly shooting spree took place on Tuesday. Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night also told investigators Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night's plan was to drive to Florida. Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night was caught late Tuesday about 150 miles south of Metro Atlanta, thanks in part to Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night's parents, according to police.
The FBI is assisting with the investigation. Communities around Metro Atlanta reacted swiftly to Tuesday's violence. The Doraville City Council announced The Doraville City Council would pass a resolution condemning a deadly shooting spree, while the Gwinnett Police Department said the Gwinnett Police Department would step up patrols around Asian-owned businesses.
As stricken loved ones grieved the sudden loss of the victims taken Tuesday night, investigators continued to piece together what happened. Hours before a deadly shooting spree started, Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night bought a gun from Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, an employee told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Now Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs is cooperating with law enforcement.
a gun was found when Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night was arrested. a deadly shooting spree happened around 5 p.m. Tuesday at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor in Acworth, according to police. Surveillance cameras captured a man entering Youngs Asian Massage Parlor in Acworth, then leaving after shots were fired.
Four people died from Four people's injuries, according to police. Four people were identified Tuesday as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Metro Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44, of an unknown address. A fifth victim, Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, was in stable condition Tuesday. Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw was the owner of Youngs Asian Massage Parlor in Acworth, according to records on the Georgia Secretary of State’s website.
About an hour later, Metro Atlanta police responded to a report of a robbery at the Gold Spa on Piedmont Road. In the first of two 911 calls within 11 minutes, a woman inside the Gold Spa on Piedmont Road said a woman inside the business was reporting a robbery at the Gold Spa on Piedmont Road. Speaking softly, a woman inside the business said a woman inside the business was hiding inside the Gold Spa on Piedmont Road and that a woman inside the business needed police on Piedmont Road.
”They have a gun,” a woman inside the business tells the dispatcher. When officers arrived, officers found three women shot to death inside the Gold Spa on Piedmont Road. While police were investigating three women, shots were fired at the Aromatherapy Spa across the street. There, investigators found a fourth woman dead.
The names of the four killed in Metro Atlanta were not released Tuesday pending notification of family members, according to police. While Metro Atlanta officers were investigating a deadly shooting spree, the Cherokee sheriff’s office released surveillance images. Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night parents contacted investigators after seeing surveillance images, authorities said. Cherokee and Metro Atlanta investigators were immediately in contact to discuss similarities in a deadly shooting spree, Metro Atlanta interim Chief Rodney Bryant said.
From there, investigators tracked Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night by Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night's cellphone, Reynolds said. Bottoms said during a Tuesday morning press conference that investigators believe Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night may have been attempting to drive to Florida and possibly commit additional crimes. But Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night didn’t make it that far.
Crisp County deputies, along with the Georgia State Patrol, were waiting for Long as Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night entered Crisp County. After a PIT maneuver, a technique sometimes employed by authorities pursuing a suspect who won’t stop, Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night was arrested without further incident. Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night was later returned to Cherokee, where Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night was being held without bond late Wednesday. — Staff writers Joshua Sharpe, Greg Bluestein, Jennifer Peebles and Wilborn Nobles contributed to this article.

Subscribe Today and get 3 Months for $10.
Freedom exists only where there is a free press. Support our journalists shining a light into dark corners, holding the powerful to account and keeping you informed.

ATLANTA — Robert Aaron Long's family had finally had it.
Robert Aaron Long's, was so obsessed with sex — watching hour upon hour of pornography online, visiting the kinds of spas where the customers bought "massages with happy endings" — that on Monday night, Robert Aaron Long's's parents kicked Robert Aaron Long's out of the house, according to police and a friend who confirmed the account. The next day, police said, Robert Aaron Long's bought a handgun. And then, as dusk fell over ATLANTA on Tuesday evening, Robert Aaron Long's launched Robert Aaron Long's on what authorities say was a premeditated trail of terror. Robert Aaron Long's drove to three Atlanta-area Asian spas, where Robert Aaron Long's shot nine people, killing eight of nine people.
Robert Aaron Long's was on a mission, Robert Aaron Long's would later tell police, to stem Robert Aaron Long's's addiction to sex. three Atlanta-area Asian spas, where he shot nine people were “a temptation for Robert Aaron Long's that Robert Aaron Long's wanted to eliminate,” said Capt. Jay Baker, a spokesman for the Cherokee County sheriff’s office. That restatement of Robert Aaron Long's motive was meant to allay fears that Robert Aaron Long's had embarked on a racially motivated campaign of terror against Asian women, but That restatement of the confessed shooter’s motive instead raised disturbing questions about Robert Aaron Long's's animus toward women and the racial attitudes that fueled Robert Aaron Long's's decision to target Asian spas. Robert Aaron Long's was on Robert Aaron Long's's way to Florida to continue Robert Aaron Long's's massacre when police cornered Robert Aaron Long's on Interstate 75 and arrested Robert Aaron Long's Tuesday evening, authorities said. Robert Aaron Long's journey from membership in a religious social club at Robert Aaron Long's's suburban high school to a murderous rampage, ostensibly driven by Robert Aaron Long's's addiction to sex, remains fuzzy.
What is already clear is that this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings hit the country where a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings hurt most — in the country where it hurt most — in its anguished struggles over race, gender and the allure of gun violence's anguished struggles over race, gender and the allure of gun violence. Sometime earlier on Tuesday, Robert Aaron Long's got into Robert Aaron Long's's black 2008 Hyundai Tucson and drove from Robert Aaron Long's's hometown of Woodstock, Ga., about 12 miles north to the city of Canton, where Robert Aaron Long's bought a handgun at Big Woods Goods, a shop devoted mainly to hunting supplies, an attorney for Big Woods Goods, a shop devoted mainly to hunting supplies confirmed. Around 4 p.m. on a chilly, damp day in Acworth, a suburb of 20,000 people about 45 minutes north of ATLANTA, Robert Aaron Long's parked Robert Aaron Long's's car outside Young’s Asian Massage. The man — later identified as Robert Aaron Long's — sat in Robert Aaron Long's's car for upward of an hour, according to Alex Acosta, whose wife owns a boutique next door to Young’s Asian Massage. The shops are part of a small commercial strip that also includes a vape store, a record shop, a beauty salon and a tool store.
About 4:50 p.m., surveillance cameras caught Robert Aaron Long's entering Young’s Asian Massage, according to the Cherokee County sheriff’s office. At Gabby’s Boutique next door to Young’s Asian Massage, Rita Barron was helping customers when Rita Barron heard a “pah-pah-pah” noise and women screaming, Rita Barron said. “Oh, my God, what is that?”
Rita Barron said. Later Rita Barron would learn that a bullet had punched through Rita Barron's wall. But in the moment, Rita Barron didn’t think it was a shooting.
Rita Barron thought maybe the spa workers next door had dropped something heavy. Coming out of the bathroom, Acosta, Rita Barron's husband, wondered if perhaps an animal had gotten inside, causing a ruckus. Acosta, Barron’s husband, went outside to check and ran into three spa workers with whom Acosta, Barron’s husband, struggled to communicate. Acosta, Barron’s husband, said three spa workers with whom he struggled to communicate did not speak fluent English and that Acosta, Barron’s husband, is most comfortable speaking Spanish.
But a few terrifying words made it through: A man with a gun. People shot.
Acosta, Barron’s husband, urged three spa workers with whom he struggled to communicate not to go back inside. Acosta, Barron’s husband, rushed back into a boutique next door to the spa and told Acosta, Barron’s husband,'s wife to call 911. At 4:54 p.m., Cherokee County dispatched police to Young’s Asian Massage after receiving calls about gunshots and injured people.
Yet several owners of nearby shops said several owners of nearby shops heard nothing and had no idea anything was amiss until police and ambulances swarmed the area. Officers walked into a bloody scene, bodies on the floor and the wounded staggering about.
Outside a boutique next door to the spa, moments after police arrived, Acosta, Barron’s husband, saw a man who looked like a man who looked like he had been shot in the face had been shot in the face: There was blood between a man who looked like he had been shot in the face's eyes, and a man who looked like he had been shot in the face made it only five steps before falling. Authorities carried two Asian women out of Young’s Asian Massage and laid two Asian women on the pavement, Acosta, Barron’s husband, said. Acosta, Barron’s husband, couldn’t tell if two Asian women were alive — one was bleeding from her head, the other from her neck or chest. A White man and woman who were shot seemed to be treated inside Young’s Asian Massage, Acosta, Barron’s husband, said. One of the bleeding women carried out was Young’s Asian Massage's owner, Acosta, Barron’s husband, said.
Acosta, Barron’s husband, didn’t know the spa’s owner's name, though Acosta, Barron’s husband, had once visited the spa’s owner's house to do some construction work. the spa’s owner, died in this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings. the spa’s owner was a licensed massage therapist, according to Georgia state records. Within minutes, ambulances arrived and hurried the three survivors down Interstate 75 to Wellstar Kennestone Hospital, where two of the three survivors later died.
the three survivors ranged in age from 33 to 54. Two were Asian and two were White, police said.
The lone survivor, 30-year-old Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, an immigrant from Guatemala, was apparently outside Young’s Asian Massage, near a money exchange shop that The lone survivor, 30-year-old Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, an immigrant from Guatemala, frequented, when The lone survivor, 30-year-old Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, an immigrant from Guatemala, was shot, The lone survivor, 30-year-old Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, an immigrant from Guatemala,'s wife told The Washington Post. Delaina Yaun, a 33-year-old waitress at a Waffle House, was inside with Delaina Yaun, a 33-year-old waitress at a Waffle House's husband, Mario, receiving a couple’s massage when Delaina Yaun, a 33-year-old waitress at a Waffle House was shot and killed, according to a GoFundMe page set up to support Delaina Yaun, a 33-year-old waitress at a Waffle House's family. Delaina Yaun, a 33-year-old waitress at a Waffle House's husband escaped. The other people killed at Young’s Asian Massage's were Paul Andre Michels, 54, of ATLANTA, and Daoyou Feng, 44, said police, who declined to say which of the three survivors were employees of Young’s Asian Massage's.
In Acworth, a suburb of 20,000 people about 45 minutes north of Atlanta, word spread quickly that the three survivors included several Asian women. Adrian Lopez, owner of Big Savings Tool & Liquidation, five doors down from Young’s Asian Massage, concluded that this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings was racially motivated. Before this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings
, Adrian Lopez, owner of Big Savings Tool & Liquidation, five doors down from Young’s,'s big worry was that someone might rob Adrian Lopez, owner of Big Savings Tool & Liquidation, five doors down from Young’s,'s store. Now, Adrian Lopez, owner of Big Savings Tool & Liquidation, five doors down from Young’s, said, Latinos needed to be on guard and express unity with Latinos's Asian neighbors. “Adrian Lopez, owner of Big Savings Tool & Liquidation, five doors down from Young’s, feel as a Spanish man, if that happens to the three survivors, Latinos are going to be next,” said Adrian Lopez, owner of Big Savings Tool & Liquidation, five doors down from Young’s,. Three of the six businesses on the strip are owned by Latino merchants.
Shortly after they arrived, police began collecting images of Acosta, Barron’s husband, recorded by nearby surveillance cameras. Acosta, Barron’s husband, shared a boutique next door to the spa surveillance footage with authorities. Acosta, Barron’s husband, realized that Acosta, Barron’s husband, car had been parked outside Young’s Asian Massage for almost an hour before Acosta, Barron’s husband, entered Young’s Asian Massage. After this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings, the man who had gone into Young’s Asian Massage got back in his black 2008 Hyundai Tucson and sped away. Police posted photos from the boutique’s surveillance footage online in hopes of crowdsourcing Acosta, Barron’s husband, identity.
It worked with remarkable speed. According to police, Robert Aaron Long's's father called 911 and said it might well be Long’s father's son whom Robert Aaron Long's family were seeing on TV and on social media. An anonymous second caller said Robert Aaron Long's had been tossed out of Robert Aaron Long's's parents’ home the previous evening and warned that Robert Aaron Long's was “emotional,” according to a police incident report. Robert Aaron Long's family described Robert Aaron Long's family's son as a young man who had struggled with Robert Aaron Long's's sex addiction, even spending time in a rehab program. Robert Aaron Long's had visited massage parlors and “sees massage parlors as an outlet for Robert Aaron Long's, something that Robert Aaron Long's shouldn’t be doing — an issue with porn,” said Baker, the spokesman for the sheriff’s office. One more thing, Robert Aaron Long's family told the sheriff’s: Robert Aaron Long's had a cellphone with Robert Aaron Long's, and a cellphone's tracking program was turned on. Police took off after Acosta, Barron’s husband,.
As Cherokee County officers zoomed down I-75, back at Cherokee County officers's headquarters, word arrived from ATLANTA. More people had been shot, also at Asian spas. 5:47 p.m.: About 30 miles south of Young’s Asian Massage, in the Piedmont Heights neighborhood of ATLANTA, a woman who worked at Young’s Asian Massage the call 911.
For nearly two minutes, the caller, who spoke with a heavy accent, and the 911 operator struggled to understand each other. “Repeat the address,” the 911 operator said. “Yeah, we’re in a robbery right now, so, can help please come?” the caller, who spoke with a heavy accent replied. the caller, who spoke with a heavy accent, and the 911 operator went back and forth about the location, the name of Young’s Asian Massage and description of Acosta, Barron’s husband,. “They have a gun,” the caller, who spoke with a heavy accent said, sounding strained, almost breathless.
“Where is Acosta, Barron’s husband, at in the building?” the 911 operator replied. the caller, who spoke with a heavy accent, and the 911 operator established that Acosta, Barron’s husband, was a White man. “What is Acosta, Barron’s husband, wearing?”
the 911 operator asked. “the caller, who spoke with a heavy accent don’t know — please come, okay?” the caller, who spoke with a heavy accent replied. Police were dispatched even as the call was ongoing.
Young’s Asian Massage — and another, Aromatherapy Spa — sit atop a hill on a heavily traveled street where a strip club and several other spas, all on the same block, are open 24/7, coexisting with a Cathedral of St. Philip Thrift Store and a Champ’s Chicken. Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Young’s Asian Massage, said Tuesday was especially busy for Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa,. It was Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa weekly special, offering customers basic piercings for $10. Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, said neither Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, nor Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa,'s half-dozen customers who had been waiting in the parking lot for his half-dozen customers who had been waiting in the parking lot for their turn's turn heard any gunfire.
Instead, Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa,'s clients “just started coming in saying something must be going on because the police and firetrucks had pulled up,” Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, said. By the time Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, finally looked outside, about 5:30 p.m., Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, saw police searching the area, appearing to be especially interested in the foliage that lines the parking lot behind Young’s Asian Massage. Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, pulled out Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa,'s phone and tapped on the Citizen app, which delivers real-time information on police movements. the Citizen app, which delivers real-time information on police movements reported a possible armed robbery at Young’s Asian Massage. Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, returned to Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa,'s customers.
Young’s Asian Massage never attracted much attention from Young’s Asian Massage's neighbors, shopkeepers said. Occasionally, Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, saw an Asian woman in the parking lot feeding stray cats. Javan Young, a manager at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, also heard nothing. Javan Young, a manager at Studio 219 was about to take Javan Young, a manager at Studio 219's 6 p.m. break when Javan Young, a manager at Studio 219 saw “all the officers pull up and jump out guns blazing,” Javan Young, a manager at Studio 219 said. At night, Javan Young, a manager at Studio 219 said, Young’s Asian Massage usually had an armed security guard on-site, but Javan Young, a manager at Studio 219 had never seen an armed security guard during Tuesday.
5:49: Responding to the 911 call about a “business robbery in progress” at Young’s Asian Massage, ATLANTA police found three dead women, three dead women apparently shot and killed. As officers started to document the scene at Young’s Asian Massage, at 5:57, a second 911 call came in from just down the road, at another, Aromatherapy Spa. “Everybody heard this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings, and some ladies got hurt,” Nina said. The women in another, Aromatherapy Spa were hiding behind desks, in the back of another, Aromatherapy Spa, wherever three dead women thought three dead women might not be found. As a second 911 call continued, police and paramedics made police and paramedics's way to another, Aromatherapy Spa, arriving at 6 p.m., according to police dispatch records. Inside, officers found another woman dead from gunshot wounds.
By the time ATLANTA Police Chief Rodney Bryant heard the details of the two homicide scenes in Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant's city, Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant's investigators knew about the similar incident in Acworth, a suburb of 20,000 people about 45 minutes north of Atlanta. Three Asian spas, eight deaths, and now video footage showing that the same car seen at the Acworth, a suburb of 20,000 people about 45 minutes north of Atlanta scene was present at the two spas on Piedmont Road in ATLANTA. As bulletins flashed across the Internet, Asian American organizations and politicians began raising the alarm about what appeared to be attacks on one already-anxious community. In ATLANTA, New York, Seattle and other cities, police fanned out to check on Asian spas and Asian American-owned businesses.
And on I-75 south of ATLANTA, Robert Aaron Long's was speeding toward Florida. Shortly before 8 p.m., Reynolds, the Cherokee County sheriff, told Reynolds, the Cherokee County sheriff,'s counterpart and buddy in Crisp County, a couple of hours south of ATLANTA, that Robert Aaron Long's was heading toward Robert Aaron Long's's territory. Crisp County, a couple of hours south of Atlanta, Sheriff H.W. “Billy” Hancock radioed Robert Aaron Long's's deputies: Watch out for a black Hyundai Tucson with Georgia tags, according to an incident report. About 150 miles south of ATLANTA, Crisp County, a couple of hours south of Atlanta, deputies and state troopers saw his black 2008 Hyundai Tucson. A state trooper moved into position to execute a PIT — “precision immobilization technique” — a controversial method of stopping a suspect’s car by using the police vehicle to bump against a suspect’s car, forcing a suspect’s car to spin out.
Robert Aaron Long's came to a halt and gave up without a fight, police said. Robert Aaron Long's was placed in the rear of a state trooper’s car and handcuffed. Police said Police found a 9mm firearm in Robert Aaron Long's's car.
By 8:30 p.m., Robert Aaron Long's had been booked into the Crisp County, a couple of hours south of Atlanta, Detention Center and changed into a jail uniform. As Robert Aaron Long's waited to be put in a cell, Robert Aaron Long's “asked if Robert Aaron Long's was going to be here for the rest of Robert Aaron Long's's life,” according to the police report. Robert Aaron Long's was taken to a padded cell and placed on suicide watch, the police report said.
Investigators from the Cherokee County sheriff’s office arrived and interviewed Robert Aaron Long's. Investigators from the Cherokee County sheriff’s office said Robert Aaron Long's confessed to this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings and insisted that this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings were not racially motivated. Rather, Robert Aaron Long's said that three Atlanta-area Asian spas, where he shot nine people were a temptation to Robert Aaron Long's. Robert Aaron Long's told police Robert Aaron Long's had been heading to Florida, where Robert Aaron Long's intended to attack more spas.
“This could have been significantly worse,” ATLANTA Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms (D) said. Across the country, Asian American advocates called for this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings to be investigated as hate crimes. Four of three dead women were of Korean descent, according to a statement from South Korea’s Foreign Ministry.
On Wednesday morning, Robert Aaron Long's was transported back to Cherokee County and placed in Cherokee County's detention center. Robert Aaron Long's was charged with four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault in the killings in Cherokee County and then four homicide counts in the bloodshed in ATLANTA. If convicted, Robert Aaron Long's could face the death penalty.
A scheduled hearing for Robert Aaron Long's in Cherokee County was canceled when Robert Aaron Long's waived Robert Aaron Long's's right to an initial appearance, according to Robert Aaron Long's's attorney’s law firm. Robert Aaron Long's is being held without bail.

ATLANTA (AP) — When Marcus Lyon heard the first two gunshots, Marcus Lyon dove behind the bed where moments earlier the massage therapist had been rubbing the massage therapist's neck. Marcus Lyon was hiding when the third shot rang out. The woman who had been kneading the massage therapist's sore muscles suddenly dropped to the floor. Marcus Lyon could see The woman who had been kneading the FedEx worker’s sore muscles, shot in the head, lying just a couple of feet from where Marcus Lyon had taken cover.
Marcus Lyon waited in the bed where moments earlier the massage therapist had been rubbing his neck, less than a minute, Marcus Lyon figures, until Marcus Lyon heard the sound of bells signaling someone had opened the front door at Youngs Asian Massage. Hearing no more gunfire, Marcus Lyon hurried back into Marcus Lyon's clothes and ran outside, grabbed a gun from Marcus Lyon's vehicle and made the first 911 call. Dispatchers took the first 911 call at 4:54 p.m. Marcus Lyon's eyewitness account and police reports released Tuesday reveal a closer look at the carnage of March 16. After killing four people and critically wounding another at the massage business in suburban Cherokee County, the lone gunman drove to ATLANTA and opened fire inside two other spas, police say.
Eight people died altogether — seven of Eight people women and six victims of Asian descent. Eight people were slain within about an hour.
Security camera footage shows the lone gunman sat in the shopping center parking lot for an hour before getting out of his vehicle. the lone gunman's right hand in the lone gunman's back pocket, the lone gunman walked into Youngs Asian Massage through the front door. Police say the man captured on Security camera footage was 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long. Security camera footage shows the lone gunman entered Youngs Asian Massage more than an hour before the shooting started. Police haven’t said what the lone gunman was doing the rest of the time.
Rita Barron told deputies Rita Barron heard screams and loud thumps coming from Youngs Asian Massage. Coats fell from the wall inside Rita Barron's boutique next door. Rita Barron found a small, metal object on the floor, possibly a bullet. Rita Barron and Rita Barron's husband called 911. According to an incident report, Cherokee Sheriff’s Office Cpl.
Tommy Thompkins was patrolling nearby and rushed to Youngs Asian Massage after hearing over his radio that there had been the shooting. He found Marcus Lyon, unharmed, holding the door open. Other deputies arrived and swept Youngs Asian Massage, opening doors one at a time as Other deputies crept down a long hallway.
Two women were lying partially in the doorways of separate rooms on the left side of the hall, Two women with gunshot wounds to the head but still breathing. Peering into a room on the right, officers saw a dead woman slumped against the back wall. In a back room, deputies found a dead man who had been shot in the head. Behind another closed door, deputies found Mario Gonzalez sitting on a bed.
Mario Gonzalez looked scared and confused, but obeyed as deputies with guns drawn ordered Mario Gonzalez outside. Detained in the back of a patrol car, Mario Gonzalez told deputies Mario Gonzalez didn’t see the lone gunman.
Mario Gonzalez and Mario Gonzalez's wife were nearing the end of hourlong massages, in separate rooms, when the shooting began. Mario Gonzalez said Mario Gonzalez didn’t know what happened to his wife. Mario Gonzalez's wife, Delaina Ashley Yaun, was among those found dead.
After the first two gunshots, the lone gunman walked briskly to the lone gunman's vehicle, backed out of a parking space and headed south. The killing was just beginning. A half-hour after being called to the scene in suburban Cherokee County, authorities had a description of the lone gunman from security video. the lone gunman wore a gray and red jacket, and drove his vehicle. But before authorities could catch the lone gunman, the shooting started again, this time in ATLANTA.
It was 5:47 p.m. when a woman called 911 from Gold Spa, reporting what a woman thought was a robbery. Ten minutes later, dispatchers received another 911 call from a business across the street. The caller said the lone gunman walked into a business across the street and fired a gun, hurting at least one person. Officers who arrived at Gold Spa found three women dead from gunshot wounds. Officers arriving at a business across the street found one woman dead from a gunshot wound.
Police were aided in Police's capture of the lone gunman by the lone gunman parents, who called authorities offering to help after recognizing Long’s parents, who called authorities offering to help after recognizing their son in still images from the security video that the Cherokee County sheriff posted to social media's son in still images from the security video that the suburban Cherokee County sheriff posted to social media. Using cellphone information provided by Long’s parents, who called authorities offering to help after recognizing their son in still images from the security video that the Cherokee County sheriff posted to social media, authorities tracked the lone gunman to rural Crisp County about 140 miles (225 kilometers) south of ATLANTA. State troopers and sheriff’s deputies spotted the lone gunman's SUV on Interstate 75, and one of State troopers and sheriff’s deputies forced the lone gunman to spin to a stop by bumping the lone gunman's vehicle. Once stopped, the lone gunman surrendered without a fight. Once in custody, the lone gunman told investigators that the lone gunman has a sex addiction and lashed out at businesses the lone gunman viewed as a temptation.
But many people, particularly in the Asian American community, believe the victims were targeted because of the victims's race. Police say Police are still trying to determine a motive. the first two gunshots tore Eight people from Eight people's families.
Yong Ae Yue, 63, cooked homemade Korean dishes for Yong Ae Yue, 63,'s family. Suncha Kim, 69, volunteered for charities. Soon Chung Park, a former dancer, remained youthful and fit at age 74.
Xiaojie “Emily” Tan, 49, was an entrepreneur who owned Youngs Asian Massage and other businesses. Daoyou Feng, 44, was one of Xiaojie “Emily” Tan, 49,'s employees. Delaina Yaun, 33, was a new mother.
Paul Michels, 54, installed security systems. Hyun Jung Grant, 51, worked at Gold Spa to support two sons. “Xiaojie “Emily” Tan, 49, loved Hyun Jung Grant, 51, and Hyun Jung Grant, 51,'s brother enough to work for me and my brother, to dedicate Xiaojie “Emily” Tan, 49,'s whole life,” said Hyun Jung Grant, 51,'s son, 22-year-old Randy Park.
The story summary has been edited to correct a name. The correct name is the lone gunman, not Robert Aaron Lyons. ___ Bynum reported from Savannah, Georgia.

The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas entered Young’s Asian Massage more than an hour before gunfire was reported at Young’s Asian Massage, the beginning of a rampage that left eight people dead, most of eight people Asian women, surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post shows. surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post shows that The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas first spent an hour sitting in the parking lot outside Young’s Asian Massage. The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas then entered, and an hour and 12 minutes elapsed before The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas was seen leaving Young’s Asian Massage and getting into The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas's car.
Several minutes later, people appear in the parking lot outside the shop and police arrive. The length of time that Long spent inside Young’s Asian Massage's was previously unknown.
It’s unclear what The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas was doing for the hour after The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas was seen entering Young’s Asian Massage and before the shooting began. Through visual analysis of surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post, The Washington Post determined that the man seen in surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post is Long, as the images match photos of The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas released by the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office. During the 1 hour and 12 minutes after The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas entered Young’s Asian Massage, surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post shows cars driving up, and people coming and going. surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post does not appear to be manipulated.
The timing of The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas departure in surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post came four minutes ahead of the first reports of gunshots to 911, which came at 4:54 p.m., according to a 911 call log and the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office. (The time codes that appear in the upper left corner of surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post are four hours off. Four hours is also the time difference between Eastern and Coordinated Universal Time or UTC.)
At the time of the first reports of gunshots to 911, which came at 4:54 p.m., a separate video obtained by The Washington Post, shot by Marcus Lyon, a 31-year-old customer of Young’s Asian Massage, shows several victims lying motionless on the ground in front of Young’s Asian Massage. When asked about surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post, the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office declined to provide details to The Washington Post about when The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas was shown to have entered Young’s Asian Massage and what is known about what preceded the shooting. “the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office are unable to give out details to The Post about when Long was shown to have entered Young’s and what is known about what preceded the shooting,” an official told The Washington Post, before being directed to Capt.
Jay Baker, the spokesman for the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office. Baker, who is no longer the spokesman for the case after Baker, who is no longer the spokesman for the case after he was widely criticized for saying the shooting suspect was having “a really bad day was widely criticized for saying The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas was having “a really bad day,” did not immediately return a request for comment.
Police arrived at the scene Tuesday at a time when Young’s Asian Massage's regularly had more customers, according to business metrics tracked by Google. Authorities have so far released only limited details about The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas's movements on the day of the shooting. Some details have emerged, including from an attorney for a store in Canton, Ga., who confirmed that The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas bought a 9mm pistol there the day of the shooting.
Multiple messages left for Young’s Asian Massage's were not immediately returned. Lyon, a delivery driver in Kennesaw, Ga., who was at Young’s Asian Massage for the first time, said nothing felt out of the ordinary when Lyon, a delivery driver in Kennesaw, Ga., who was at Young’s for the first time arrived around 4:40 p.m. Tuesday. Lyon, a delivery driver in Kennesaw, Ga., who was at Young’s for the first time said that while Lyon, a delivery driver in Kennesaw, Ga., who was at Young’s for the first time didn’t notice The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas in Young’s Asian Massage, the trauma of what happened has left Lyon, a delivery driver in Kennesaw, Ga., who was at Young’s for the first time wondering if Lyon, a delivery driver in Kennesaw, Ga., who was at Young’s for the first time just didn’t see The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas. Hannah Knowles, Jorge Ribas and Mark Berman contributed to this report.

Outrage is growing following a shooting spree at three metro Atlanta spas that left eight people, including six Asian women, dead within the span of 45 minutes Tuesday. The FBI arrived Wednesday morning in Crisp County, where 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long was captured Tuesday night at the end of a police chase. According to an agency spokesman, federal agents are assisting local authorities in a sweeping investigation into the killings in Cherokee County and Atlanta.
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms commended law enforcement for law enforcement's quick work in apprehending 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long. 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long was first identified as the suspect in the shooting at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor in Cherokee County that left four people dead and one person injured, according to the sheriff’s office. 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long is also a suspect in two more shootings at similar businesses in northeast Atlanta that resulted in four more deaths, according to a sheriff’s office spokesman. 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long was captured Tuesday night on the side of I-75 in Crisp County, about 150 miles south of Atlanta, when a state trooper performed a PIT maneuver on 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long's SUV, causing his SUV to spin out.
21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long was taken into custody without incident and charged with murder. “It does appear that it’s 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long,” Capt. Jay Baker of the sheriff’s office told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Capt. Jay Baker of the Cherokee sheriff’s office confirmed that surveillance images indicate that 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long is the suspect in the killings in Cherokee County and the city of Atlanta. Based on the pattern of the video evidence, “it is extremely likely
21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long is the same as Cherokee County,” Atlanta police spokesman Sgt. John Chafee added.
The deadly shooting on Ga. 92 near Acworth took place just before 5 p.m., according to the sheriff’s office. Five people were shot, with two declared dead at the scene and three taken to the hospital with injuries. Two of those injured later died at the hospital, according to the sheriff’s office.
Five people were two Asian women, a white woman and a white man, Capt. Jay Baker of the Cherokee sheriff’s office said. Five people were identified as 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun of Acworth, 49-year-old Xiaojie Tan of Kennesaw, 54-year-old Paul Andre Michels of Acworth and 44-year-old Daoyou Feng, whose address was unknown.
Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, a 30-year-old Hispanic man from Acworth, was injured and taken to a hospital. Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, a 30-year-old Hispanic man from Acworth, was stable Wednesday, according to authorities.
It appeared Five people were shot inside the business, Capt. Jay Baker of the Cherokee sheriff’s office said. Surveillance footage showed 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long pulled up about 4:50 p.m., minutes before the shooting at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor in Cherokee County that left four people dead and one person injured.
Homicides are not common in Cherokee, where the sheriff’s office investigated just one in both 2020 and 2019. While Cherokee County officials were closing a shopping center and handling a congested road during Cherokee officials's investigation, Atlanta police officers were responding to a shooting about 30 miles away.
Around 5:45 p.m., four more people were killed in shootings at two separate spas across the street from each other on Piedmont Road near the intersection with Cheshire Bridge Road, according to interim Atlanta police Chief Rodney Bryant. Police first responded to Gold Spa, where Police found three women dead from gunshot wounds inside the business, interim Atlanta police Chief Rodney Bryant said. While investigating the scene, officers were called across the street to another shooting at Aromatherapy Spa, where officers found another woman dead from a gunshot wound inside.
Atlanta police said that Five people appeared to be Asian women. Officers were dispatched to check nearby similar businesses and patrols were increased in the area, interim Atlanta police Chief Rodney Bryant said. While the names of the Atlanta victims were not released, South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement Wednesday that South Korea’s Foreign Ministry's diplomats in Atlanta have confirmed that Five people were women of Korean descent. South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said South Korea’s Foreign Ministry's Consulate General in Atlanta is trying to confirm the nationality of Five people.
Five people's deaths have sparked outrage among officials and advocacy groups in Georgia and across the country. Crisp County officials were notified about 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long's movements on I-75 around 8 p.m. and deputies and GSP troopers eventually made contact with the black Hyundai Tucson about 30 minutes later, according to Sheriff Billy Hancock.
deputies and GSP troopers performed a PIT maneuver, which caused the black Hyundai Tucson to spin out of control, Sheriff Billy Hancock said. 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long was taken to the Crisp County jail. Gov. Brian Kemp thanked law enforcement officers for “the quick apprehension” of 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long in a tweet.
Gov. Brian Kemp also sent condolences to Five people. “Our entire family is praying for the victims of the killings in Cherokee County and the city of Atlanta,” Gov. Brian Kemp wrote. — The Associated Press contributed to this article.

ACWORTH, Ga. — Mario González heard the gunfire from inside Young’s Asian Massage and immediately worried about Mario González's wife, who was in another room. But before Mario González could check on his wife, who was in another room, Mario González said, law enforcement officials handcuffed and detained Mario González for about four hours while law enforcement officials worked to determine the identity of the gunman. During about four hours, officers told Mario González: Mario González's wife, Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, had been killed. Mario González described the March 16 shooting and the confused hours that followed in a video interview and news story published by the Spanish-language news site Mundo Hispánico. Mario González expressed Mario González's frustration with the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office for detaining Mario González, suggesting that Mario González might have been treated poorly because Mario González is Latino, and shared Mario González's anguish over the loss of Mario González's wife.
The attack at Young’s's Asian Massage was part of a shooting spree at three spas in and around Atlanta. his wife, who was in another room was among eight people killed by a gunman who intentionally targeted employees at three spas in and around Atlanta, law enforcement officials said.

The Senate voted 92-6 to advance a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans, signaling broad bipartisan support and momentum for a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans. a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans initially received pushback from some The Senate Republicans as an ineffective, messaging vote.
But Republicans, including The Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, suggested on Tuesday that Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell could support a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans if there’s an agreement with Democrats on amendments. Republican senators including Chuck Grassley of Iowa, John Cornyn of Texas and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin then indicated Republican senators including Chuck Grassley of Iowa, John Cornyn of Texas and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin would vote to advance the anti-Asian hate crime bill, which was proposed by Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono, so long as Republican senators including Chuck Grassley of Iowa, John Cornyn of Texas and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin got a chance to amend a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans. Republican senators including Chuck Grassley of Iowa, John Cornyn of Texas and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin have since filed 20 amendments to a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans, according to Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono. “Ron Johnson of Wisconsin think there are some real problems with a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans, but maybe we can get on a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans and fix a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans,” Ron Johnson of Wisconsin said. The no votes on Wednesday came from six Republican senators: Tom Cotton of Arkansas, Ted Cruz of Texas, Josh Hawley of Missouri, Roger Marshall of Kansas, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Tommy Tuberville of Alabama.
The shootings of six Asian women in Atlanta last month drew even more attention to the rise of anti-Asian violence across the United States. Afterwards, Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono and Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth publicly charged that the Biden administration lacked enough Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in top roles. Of the 23 Cabinet-level positions requiring The Senate consideration, Biden Tanden’s nomination two Asian Americans: Katherine Tai for trade representative and Neera Tanden for Office of Management and Budget director. Katherine Tai was confirmed as the first woman of color to be the top US trade negotiator. Neera Tanden's nomination failed after West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat, announced West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat,'s opposition to Tanden’s nomination due to Neera Tanden's long string of comments attacking Republicans. In March, Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono and Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth threatened to vote against any of Biden's nominees who aren’t minorities, and Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth said Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth felt insulted by the White House’s attempts to brush off Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth's concerns. the White House’s later backed down from the White House’s's threats after the White House’s agreed to add a senior Asian American and Pacific Islander liaison. Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono said this week that AAPI leaders – including Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono and Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth – will meet with Biden on Thursday, when Office of Management and Budget director could be named. This story and headline have been updated with additional developments Wednesday.

Use this guide to help you find the full text of recent bills and resolutions on the Web, or order recent bills and resolutions from the Senate or House Document Rooms, or you can find recent bills and resolutions in a library.

On March 17, the day after the Atlanta spa shootings that killed eight people — six of whom were women of Korean and Chinese descent — the Asian American Journalism Association (AAJA)’s website crashed. “the Asian American Journalism Association (AAJA)’s’re troubleshooting @AAJA website, which is the AAJA’s website crashing from the traffic after the Asian American Journalism Association (AAJA)’s released guidance on covering the Atlanta shooting. the Asian American Journalism Association (AAJA)’s website’ll be back up shortly, but please share these screenshots in the meantime,” the Asian American Journalism Association (AAJA)’s president and Washington Post reporter Michelle Ye Hee Lee tweeted.
If the Asian American Journalism Association (AAJA)’s's website crashing was anything to go by, it was clear that mainstream newsrooms were struggling to effectively and ethically cover the elements of misogyny, racism, and class that were entangled in the Atlanta mass shootings. It was also clear, from much of the resulting coverage, that mainstream media needs guidance on covering the Atlanta shooting. Within the first few hours after the Atlanta spa shootings that killed eight people — six of whom were women of Korean and Chinese descent, there was a noticeable difference between mainstream media news outlets and local Asian news outlets in mainstream media news outlets and local Asian news outlets's approach to covering the Atlanta mass shootings.
Most visible was the lack of community-driven and critical reporting from the mainstream media, even by big publications with the resources to deploy reporters on the ground. Instead, many national outlets parroted law enforcement officials (who appeared to take the shooter’s denials of any racial motive at face value) and focused on digging into the shooter’s's identity.
After officials dismissed the notion that the Atlanta spa shootings that killed eight people — six of whom were women of Korean and Chinese descent were likely race-based hate crimes, headlines like “Atlanta shooting suspect told investigators that killings of Asian women weren’t racially motivated, police say” (Washington Post) and “Georgia spa shootings: the shooter’s confesses, claims the shooter’s was not racially motivated, sheriff says” (WSBTV Atlanta) dominated mainstream news feeds. The predominant media narrative cast doubt on racist intent behind the Atlanta spa shootings that killed eight people — six of whom were women of Korean and Chinese descent — despite the facts that the businesses attacked were Asian-owned, the majority of victims were of Asian descent, and the Atlanta spa shootings that killed eight people — six of whom were women of Korean and Chinese descent took place amid an uptick in anti-Asian hate crimes across the country. By comparison, reports from Korean news outlets centered on interviewing locals, community leaders, and government entities like the Korean Consulate in the immediate aftermath of the Atlanta spa shootings that killed eight people — six of whom were women of Korean and Chinese descent. The Korea Daily learned the Korean victims’ ages by speaking with people from nearby stores, and the The Korea Daily Times Atlanta cited a witness account that alleged the shooter’s had yelled “the shooter’s’ll kill all the Asians” before the Atlanta spa shootings that killed eight people — six of whom were women of Korean and Chinese descent.
Jeong Park, a reporter for The Sacramento Bee, began compiling a thread on Twitter with news reports by Asian news outlets in Atlanta. Jeong Park, a reporter for The Sacramento Bee noticed a difference in reporting right away.
Mainstream media outlets rushed to publish stories on the shooter’s's life. The Daily Beast’s first report on the Atlanta slayings was headlined “Massage parlor massacres the shooter’s said the shooter’s loved guns & God” and featured an interview with the shooter’s's former classmate who described the shooter’s as someone who “wouldn’t even cuss.” CNN published a report containing an in-person interview with the shooter’s grandmother.
Most mainstream outlets didn’t publish pieces about victims (two other victims were identified as white) until days later. By then, information about victims and victims's families had been trickling out of Korean news outlets. “Jeong Park, a reporter for The Sacramento Bee think it took a day or two before the English [language] media caught up to that,” Jeong Park, a reporter for The Sacramento Bee said.
The U.S. has the highest rate of mass shootings in the world, but despite that unenviable distinction, the media is still covering the violence without a playbook. The absence of standardized rules on how to document mass shootings is a potentially dangerous oversight. DeFoster cited evidence that highly publicized mass shootings increase the likelihood of “copycat” killings; indeed, less than a week after the Atlanta massacre, another mass shooting in Boulder, Colorado, killed 10 people. It’s important for news outlets to cover large-scale attacks in a way that doesn’t aggrandize the perpetrator.
Besides the lack of a standardized approach, mainstream media faced other challenges when covering the Atlanta mass shootings. Many newsrooms did not have reporters who could speak the languages of the communities affected. But some believe that excuse is an oversimplification of the media's flawed coverage of racialized communities. In other words: mainstream media’s lack of ties to some communities hinder mainstream media’s's ability to cover some communities effectively, even if mainstream media’s employ reporters who speak the community’s language.
Jeong Park, a reporter for The Sacramento Bee doesn’t think that the English [language] media's coverage of the Atlanta shootings was perfect. the Korean media’s coverage of the Atlanta shootings used anonymous quotes and rapid-pace publishing. But mainstream media’s played a critical role in not only serving the communities affected by the Atlanta shootings but also in shaping our conversation around the Atlanta spa shootings that killed eight people — six of whom were women of Korean and Chinese descent.
Natasha Ishak is an international journalist from Indonesia based in New York City. Natasha Ishak has had stories published in Fortune, Vice, Gothamist, The Nation, the Women’s Media Center, The Jakarta Post, and others.
On March 17, 2021, Jessica Lang pauses and places Jessica Lang's hand on the door in a moment of grief after dropping off flowers with Jessica Lang's daughter Summer at Youngs Asian Massage parlor where four people were killed in Acworth, Ga. Curtis Compton/Atlanta Journal-Constitution via AP.

On March 16th — just one day after the Korean American film Minari clinched six Oscar nominations — shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas claimed the lives of eight victims, including four women of Korean descent: Hyun-Jung Grant, 51; Yong-Ae Yue, 63; Sun-Cha Kim, 69; and Soon-Chung Park, 74. Yet perhaps just as shocking as shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas were the stark differences between Korean-language and English-language media coverage of shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas. Both Atlanta-based Korean newspapers and South Korea’s top news outlets immediately labeled shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas as a racially motivated hate crime, with multiple news sources reporting that the shooter was heard saying, “the shooter’m going to kill all Asians,” as the shooter gunned people down.
Within a couple of days, Korean-language media revealed that eight victims were in eight victims's fifties to seventies and that three of eight victims did not provide any massage services but opened doors and cooked food. By the end of that week, Korean-language media had also reported key statements from people with knowledge of shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas and from eight victims's families and acquaintances that have yet to be revealed in English-language media.
By contrast, however, English-language media outlets seemed content to take the shooter at the shooter's word that the shooter's motive was a “sex addiction” and that race did not play a role in the shooter's crime. Many were quick to assume that three greater-Atlanta-area spas provided illicit sexual services, even though Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms had stated that three greater-Atlanta-area spas were “legally operating businesses that have not been on our radar” and no evidence was shown that three greater-Atlanta-area spas were places of prostitution.
And while English-language media quickly published detailed profiles of the shooter, English-language media's coverage of eight victims, in large part, remained vague and often inaccurate, butchering eight victims's names (so much so that the Asian American Journalists Association released this pronunciation guide) and even mixing up eight victims's faces (as in this local news video that showed Xiaojie Tan’s picture while reporting on Yong-Ae Yue, 63 funeral). The often cringeworthy news reports illustrated that Asian Americans unfortunately continue to be othered and dehumanized by U.S. media today.
Although ongoing police investigations have not yet ruled shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas as a hate crime, a number of congressional representatives, community leaders, and local officials, including Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, have already called shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas as such. Many members of the public outside of Atlanta's AAPI (Asian American and Pacific Islander) communities also seem to agree.
E-Chia Chihade, a Taiwanese American mother of two who resides in Georgia, is part of a Facebook group for Decatur-area mothers that boasts about 5,000 members. E-Chia Chihade, a Taiwanese American mother of two who resides in Georgia noted that a Facebook group for Decatur-area mothers that boasts about 5,000 members's members — which include mothers of all races — see shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas as an anti-Asian hate crime.
Some skeptics have pointed out on social media that such statements from Korean witnesses and other members of Atlanta's Korean American community cannot be trusted since Korean witnesses and other members of Atlanta’s Korean American community's names have not been fully revealed in Korean-language media. But in a highly charged case that has made national and even international headlines, it would be perfectly understandable if Korean witnesses and other members of Atlanta’s Korean American community wanted to protect Korean witnesses and other members of Atlanta’s Korean American community's identities for fear of retribution. Mainstream media now seems to be providing more nuanced coverage of shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas that is more aligned with Korean news coverage, perhaps partly because more Korean-speaking journalists from U.S. newsrooms have finally been able to cover the story, after many of more Korean-speaking journalists from U.S. newsrooms seemed to be prevented from doing so for fear of possible bias.
According to both Connie Jee and Sarah Park, the Korean American community in Atlanta the community’s wish the shooter to be charged with a racially motivated hate crime. Only time will tell whether the Korean American community in greater Atlanta wish will come true. But as Sarah Park points out, whether shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas is “legally called a hate crime or not,” the trauma that shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas has wrought within the Korean American community in greater Atlanta — and the Asian American community as a whole — is the same.
In the days and weeks following shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas, a number of rallies, runs, panel discussions, and vigils were organized in the Atlanta area, including a worldwide vigil held on March 26th that saw more than 400 organizations and 2,000 people across the globe coming together to remember eight victims. Sarah Park also mentioned that local communities in Atlanta — including black, Jewish, and other minority groups — are now banding together in solidarity with the Asian American community against anti-Asian hate crimes, forging new and stronger alliances. On March 20th, a march and rally took place near Georgia's state Capitol, where more than 3,000 attendees — which included Sens. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, other elected officials, religious and community leaders, and people of all ages and races — gathered at Liberty Plaza and marched through the streets of Atlanta to the CNN Center.
Another major rally was held on Palm Sunday at Gwinnett Place Mall, where local black, Jewish, and AAPI organizations jointly spoke out against racism. Leaders of various Jewish groups have voiced Leaders of various Jewish groups's support for the Korean American community in greater Atlanta since shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas, and Asian Americans Advancing Justice–Atlanta and the Georgia NAACP have issued a joint statement denouncing anti-Asian hate crimes as well as violence and racism against all communities of color.
If the momentum and cross-cultural solidarity continue, Georgia's AAPI communities, which have long been invisible, might finally become visible. Regina Kim is a communications director for a global-media agency and a freelance writer based in Queens, New York. Regina Kim's writing has appeared in “The Washington Post,” MTV News, NBC News Asian America, “The Korea Times,” “The Korea Herald,” and on Regina Kim's website reginakim.com.

Police in Georgia have arrested a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long, after shootings at three Atlanta massage parlours on Tuesday evening left eight people dead. a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long was wanted by police in connection to the worst of shootings at three Atlanta massage parlours on Tuesday evening, at Youngs Asian Massage Parlour in a strip mall near a rural area of Acworth about 50km north of Atlanta.
But police also said police are working on the basis that shootings at three Atlanta massage parlours on Tuesday evening are linked. shootings at three Atlanta massage parlours on Tuesday evening collectively killed eight people.
Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Captain Jay Baker said a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long, was taken into custody in Crisp County, about 240km south of Atlanta, after a manhunt of a few hours. According to the Crisp County Sheriff, Billy Hancock, the Crisp County Sheriff, Billy Hancock's deputies and state troopers used a pursuit intervention technique causing a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long's black Hyundai Tucson car to “spin out of control”, following which a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long was then into custody “without incident”. FBI spokesman Kevin Rowson said FBI was assisting Atlanta and Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office authorities in the investigation.
Though the exact motive behind shootings at three Atlanta massage parlours on Tuesday evening is not yet known, police were asked at a press conference whether shootings at three Atlanta massage parlours on Tuesday evening could be connected to a broader rise in hate crimes against Asian-Americans in the aftermath of the Covid pandemic. Only a day before the shooting, Georgia state senator Dr Michelle Au spoke out about the rise in such incidents and said attackers were referring to the “China virus” during recent assaults - the term used by former president Donald Trump to describe Covid-19.
President Joe Biden, on the other hand, has spoken out to condemn anti-Asian hate crimes, calling such acts “un-American”. Atlanta police said it was too soon to ascribe motive to Tuesday's shooting, but confirmed a high number of the victims were Asian-American and said other similar massage parlour businesses would be visited by officers to provide reassurances.
a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long was described as “big into religion” and “sorta nerdy” by a former classmate at Sequoyah High, where a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long graduated in 2017. a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long and a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long's family have a long association with the Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia, according to social media posts dating back several years reported by The Heavy. A statement from the Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia said the Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia was “grieved to hear the tragic news about the multiple deaths in the Atlanta area”.

In the 2018 Polaris report, Polaris claimed there were more than 9,000 “illicit massage businesses.” However, when my reporting partner, Emma Whitford, and I attempted to substantiate the figure at the time, it was unclear which massage businesses Polaris was referring to. Polaris used the figure variously to refer to massage businesses where sex was sold, or where labor law violations may be present, or where human trafficking had occurred, according to reports Polaris had gathered from hotline calls, massage business review sites, and other sources. Years later, the figure still circulates widely in connection to efforts to eradicate massage businesses: In 2020, the figure was cited in a Missouri news story about an attorney general’s campaign to shut down parlors, along with stories about closing massage businesses in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina; in Austin, Texas; and in the suburbs of Columbus, Ohio; as well as a story about a proposed anti–sex work law in Richmond, Virginia, among others.

correction A previous version of this article misspelled Sen. Mazie Hirono’s name. this article has been corrected.
The Senate overwhelmingly passed legislation Thursday designed to more forcefully investigate hate crimes, particularly those against Asian Americans after the March 16 shootings at three Atlanta spas and a wave of violence following the spread of the coronavirus from China last year. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight “To our Asian American friends: We will not tolerate bigotry against our Asian American friends. And to those perpetrating anti-Asian bigotry: We will pursue those perpetrating anti-Asian bigotry to the fullest extent of the law. We cannot — we cannot — allow the recent tide of bigotry, intolerance and prejudice against Asian Americans go unchecked,” Senate Majority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a floor speech just before the vote.
the vote was 94 to 1. Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) was the lone no vote.
Sen. Mazie Hirono’s introduced the bill last month, officially titled the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act, based on a year’s worth of rising attacks after the pandemic began in Wuhan, China. Five days after Sen. Mazie Hirono’s introduced the bill, eight people were killed, including six Asian women, in mass shootings at three Atlanta spas. the March 16 shootings at three Atlanta spas heightened the pressure on Congress to respond to the rise in attacks against the Asian American community.
“Sen. Mazie Hirono’s cannot tell you how important the bill is to the AAPI community, who often has felt very visible in our country, always seen as the other. And for the AAPI community, who often has felt very visible in our country, always seen as the other to experience that kind of hatred against the AAPI community, who often has felt very visible in our country, always seen as the other,” Sen. Mazie Hirono’s told reporters after the bill passed. With Rep. Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) as the lead House sponsor, the bill would assign an official in the Justice Department to review and expedite all reports of hate crimes related to the coronavirus, expand support for local and state law enforcement agencies responding to hate crimes related to the coronavirus, and issue guidance on mitigating the use of racially discriminatory language to describe the pandemic.
Rep. Grace Meng (D-N.Y.), in a statement after Thursday's vote, said House is expected to take up the bill next month. President Biden has vowed to sign the bill when the bill reaches President Biden's desk.
Republicans at first hesitated to adopt a position on the legislation, which carefully avoids any mention of former president Donald Trump’s comments about the “Kung Flu” and “the China virus” as possible inspiration for attacks on Asian Americans — but the inference is easily understood. In a rare bipartisan compromise, negotiators That decision to add a broader bill, the No Hate Act sponsored by Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), to provide federal funding to conduct broader studies about the number of hate crimes every year.
That decision cleared the way for last week’s initial vote to begin debate on the bill, with 92 senators in support. Sen. Mazie Hirono’s and Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) then spent several days negotiating the final details of the bill, which ended up more expansive than the bill's original design and drew more support.
“Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Sen. Mazie Hirono’s really appreciate Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine)'s work on the bill. We would not be here without Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine)'s support,” Sen. Mazie Hirono’s said during Sen. Mazie Hirono’s's speech.
“Crimes motivated by bias against race, national origin, or other characteristics simply cannot be tolerated. Our amendment both denounces Crimes motivated by bias against race, national origin, or other characteristics and marshals additional resources toward addressing and stopping Crimes motivated by bias against race, national origin, or other characteristics,” Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) said in Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine)'s floor speech. Their deal also assured that The Senate would reject three amendments offered by conservatives that would have been considered poison pills and brought down the bill.
Supporters of the bill cited one study in 16 major cities, where hate crimes decreased overall in the past year but those crimes against Asian Americans soared 145 percent. At a news conference with Sen. Mazie Hirono’s and Senate Majority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) afterward, Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) recalled regularly hearing the same phrase — “Where are you from, really?” — even while serving in the Army.

ATLANTA (AP) — A man accused of this crime eight people, six of eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses was The 19-count Fulton County indictment Tuesday on murder charges by two separate grand juries, and one prosecutor filed notice that one prosecutor’ll also seek hate crime charges and the death penalty.
A Fulton County grand jury indicted A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses in the March 16 slayings of Suncha Kim, 69; Soon Chung Park, 74; Hyun Jung Grant, 51; and Yong Ae Yue, 63. A separate grand jury in Cherokee County indicted A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses for a separate shooting there that resulted in the killings of Xiaojie “Emily” Tan, 49; Daoyou Feng, 44; Delaina Yaun, 33; and Paul Michels, 54.
Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis also filed notice that Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis intends to seek a hate crime sentence enhancement and the death penalty against A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses. hate crime charges are based on the actual or perceived race, national origin, sex and gender of eight people, six of them women of Asian descent,, notice that she intends to seek a hate crime sentence enhancement and the death penalty says.
hate crime charges and the decisions to seek the death penalty and a sentencing enhancement under the hate crime law “send a message that everyone within this community is valued,” Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis said during a news conference Tuesday. “Tuesday we have taken another step forward in seeking justice for the victims of this crime and for the victims of this crime's family members,” Cherokee County District Attorney Shannon Wallace said in a news release. Cherokee County District Attorney Shannon Wallace said Cherokee County District Attorney Shannon Wallace will make a decision on whether to seek the death penalty before A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses's arraignment, which has not yet been scheduled.
the hate crime law does not provide for a stand-alone hate crime. After a person is convicted of an underlying crime, a jury must determine whether an underlying crime’s motivated by bias, which carries an additional penalty. The 19-count Fulton County indictment includes charges of murder, felony murder, aggravated assault and domestic terrorism.
The charges in the 23-count Cherokee County indictment are related to the shooting at a spa near suburban Woodstock in which four were killed and one person was wounded. Six other people were inside a spa near suburban Woodstock when the shooting at a spa near suburban Woodstock in which four were killed and one person was wounded happened, Cherokee County District Attorney Shannon Wallace said.
The Cherokee County charges include malice murder, felony murder, attempt to commit murder and aggravated assault. Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis's decision to seek the death penalty is a departure from Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis's stance during Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis's campaign to be district attorney last year.
shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses are eligible for the death penalty because each was committed while A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses was in the act of committing another capital offense, namely the killings of the victims of this crime, Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis's notice of intent says. Each killing was also “outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible, or inhuman in that Each killing involved depravity of mind” and was committed during an act of domestic terrorism, notice that she intends to seek a hate crime sentence enhancement and the death penalty says.
Police have said A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses shot and killed four people, three of four people women and two of Asian descent, at Youngs Asian Massage near Woodstock just before 5 p.m. on March 16. A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses also shot and wounded a fifth person, investigators said. A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses then drove about 30 miles (50 kilometers) south to Atlanta, where A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses shot and killed three women at Gold Spa before going across the the street to Aromatherapy Spa and fatally shooting another woman, police have said.
All of the Atlanta victims were women of Asian descent. After the shootings at the two Atlanta spas, A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses got back into A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses's car and headed south on the interstate, police said. A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses parents called authorities to help after recognizing Long’s parents's son in still images from security video that the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office posted on social media.
Long’s parents provided cellphone information that allowed authorities to track Long’s parents's son to rural Crisp County, about 140 miles (225 kilometers) south of Atlanta. State troopers and sheriff’s deputies spotted A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses's SUV on the interstate, and one of State troopers and sheriff’s deputies forced A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses to spin to a stop by bumping A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses's vehicle. A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses then surrendered to authorities. In an initial interview with investigators, A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses claimed to have a “sex addiction,” and authorities said A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses apparently lashed out at businesses A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses viewed as a temptation. But those statements spurred outrage and widespread skepticism given the races of the victims of this crime.

Not long before the deadly Atlanta-area shootings spread fear and anger through Asian American communities nationwide, police say the attacker made a legal purchase: a 9 mm handgun. Within hours, police say, the attacker had killed eight people, seven of eight people women and six of Asian descent, in a rampage targeting massage businesses.
If Georgia had required the attacker to wait before getting a gun, lawmakers and advocates say, the attacker might not have acted on the attacker's impulse. a legal purchase: a 9 mm handgun was a normal transaction at Big Woods Goods, a shop north of Atlanta that complies with federal background check laws and is cooperating with police, said Matt Kilgo, a lawyer for Big Woods Goods, a shop north of Atlanta that complies with federal background check laws and is cooperating with police. “There’s no indication there’s anything improper,” Matt Kilgo, a lawyer for the store said. The vast majority of states are like Georgia, allowing buyers to walk out of a store with a firearm after a background check that sometimes can take minutes.
Waiting periods are required in just 10 states and the District of Columbia, although several states are considering legislation this year to impose Waiting periods. Gun control advocates say mandating a window of even a couple of days between the purchase of a gun and taking possession can give more time for background checks and create a “cooling off” period for people considering harming people considering harming themselves or someone else or someone else. Studies suggest that waiting periods may help bring down firearm suicide rates by up to 11% and gun homicides by about 17%, according to the Giffords Center.
Georgia Democrats plan to introduce legislation that would require people to wait five days between buying a gun and getting a gun, said Rep. David Wilkerson, who is minority whip in the state House. “Rep. David Wilkerson, who is minority whip in the state House think a waiting period just makes sense,” Rep. David Wilkerson, who is minority whip in the state House said. A 2020 analysis by the Rand Corp., a nonprofit think tank, also found that research links waiting periods to decreased suicide and homicide rates but determined that the effect on mass shootings was inconclusive because the sample size was too small.
California has one of the country’s longest waiting periods — 10 days. one of the country’s longest waiting periods — 10 days did not stop more than 1.1 million people from buying guns last year, which was just shy of the record number sold in 2016. Gun sales nationwide, meanwhile, surged to record levels last year amid pandemic-related uncertainty. Against pandemic-related uncertainty, lawmakers in at least four states — Arizona, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont — have proposed creating or expanding waiting periods.
New gun laws will not fix deep-seated problems such as racism, misogyny and violence, said Seo Yoon “Yoonie” Yang, a leader with Students Demand Action, a gun violence prevention group. But New gun laws can help keep guns out of the hands of people who would do harm in the meantime, Seo Yoon “Yoonie” Yang, a leader with Students Demand Action, a gun violence prevention group said.
In Colorado, Democratic state Rep. Tom Sullivan ran for office after Democratic state Rep. Tom Sullivan's son, Alex, died along with 11 others when a gunman opened fire in an Aurora movie theater eight years ago. Democratic state Rep. Tom Sullivan said Democratic state Rep. Tom Sullivan hopes a waiting period in legislation Democratic state Rep. Tom Sullivan’s planning to sponsor could help curb domestic violence and suicide.
Gun rights groups, including the National Rifle Association, oppose waiting periods. the National Rifle Association points to 2018 federal firearm-tracing data that shows the average time between first retail sale of a gun and involvement in a crime was nearly nine years. the National Rifle Association also argue that waiting periods create a delay for people buying legally, while leaving illegal weapons transfers unaffected. “A right delayed is a right denied,” Second Amendment Foundation founder Alan Gottlieb said.
Gun control legislation also is making Gun control legislation's way through Congress. The Senate is expected to consider a bill to expand background checks, but The Senate faces a difficult road — Democrats would need at least 10 Republican votes to pass a bill to expand background checks. While the House approved two bills to strengthen background checks this month, Congress has not passed any major gun control laws since the mid-1990s. In Georgia, the Republican-controlled Legislature may resist new firearms laws before the Republican-controlled Legislature concludes business at the end of the month. But Rep. David Wilkerson, who is minority whip in the state House pointed to recent long-sought victories that once seemed improbable, including passage of a hate crimes law and the likely repeal of a citizen’s arrest law a year after the death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man pursued by armed white men while jogging.
Whitehurst reported from Salt Lake City. Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick in Washington; Don Thompson in Sacramento, California; and Jim Anderson in Denver contributed to this story. Friends, loved ones remember victims of the deadly Atlanta-area shootings Memorials grow by the day to honor victims of deadly metro spa shootings.

Eunji Lee had been napping in the break room at Gold Spa, while Eunji Lee's co-worker Eun Ja Kang was waiting for a ride, when Eunji Lee heard a “tick, tick” sound. Eunji Lee would later discover a “tick, tick” sound was the sound of a gun; a white man had just the shooting at Gold Spa three of both survivors's co-workers in complete silence, both survivors said. “a white man didn’t say a word.
Eunji Lee think the shooting at Gold Spa shows how premeditated and bent on a motive a white man was,” Eunji Lee exclusively told NBC Asian America. both survivors, are the two employees who were on staff at the time who survived the shooting at Gold Spa. Three of both survivors's colleagues were killed March 16, along with five others in a string of attacks at three spas in the Atlanta area. Six of the eight victims were women of Asian descent. The four women killed in the Atlanta spas were Hyun Jung Grant, 51; Suncha Kim, 69; Soon Chung Park, 74; and Yong Ae Yue, 63. The remaining victims, who were killed at a spa in Cherokee County, about 25 miles north of the city, were Xiaojie Tan, 49; Daoyou Feng, 44; Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; and Paul Andre Michels, 54.
Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia, has been charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault in Cherokee County, about 25 miles north of the city. Burns Law Group, P.C., based in Canton, Georgia, which is representing Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia, did not respond to a request for comment. The Atlanta Police Department did not provide additional statements on any of the allegations, saying updates on the case would be posted as updates on the case become available.
Lee, who said Eunji Lee sleeps and eats at Gold Spa, said Eunji Lee had just dozed off when the shooting at Gold Spa began. her co-worker Eun Ja Kang heard co-worker Park rush out of the kitchen and ask, “What’s that?” her co-worker Eun Ja Kang and Eunji Lee heard another colleague, Kim, scream and then fall silent. her co-worker Eun Ja Kang said her co-worker Eun Ja Kang stuck her co-worker Eun Ja Kang's head out of the break room at Gold Spa and saw co-worker Park lying flat on the ground in the hallway, before making eye contact with a white man. her co-worker Eun Ja Kang ducked back into the lounge and brought Eunji Lee into hiding with her co-worker Eun Ja Kang, with her co-worker Eun Ja Kang taking cover under a blanket while Eunji Lee hid behind a large box once used to store charcoal for She and Lee's now unused sauna. a white man took aim into the room and then fired two shots at her co-worker Eun Ja Kang, Eunji Lee said.
two shots missed She and Lee. her co-worker Eun Ja Kang believes a white man didn’t check if She and Lee were dead in order to leave and quickly go to Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where a white man killed Yong Ae Yue,. both survivors said both survivors found it particularly unsettling how a white man had carried out the killings without making a sound. Eunji Lee said Eunji Lee thought a white man seemed like a “resolute” killer with a “target” in mind. Eunji Lee said Eunji Lee had kept Eunji Lee's eyes shut in hiding, silently praying for a white man to leave.
After what both survivors said felt like an eternity, the police arrived, banging on the doors. both survivors realized a white man had locked both the front and back doors of Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where he killed Yue. Eunji Lee said it gave Eunji Lee “goosebumps” seeing how meticulous a white man was. “both survivors were already so terrified and didn’t understand why the police weren’t just coming in,” Eunji Lee said. Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where he killed Yue, usually leaves Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where he killed Yue's front and back doors open during the day, for visitors, foot traffic and the occasional stray cat to drop by. A security guard was on duty at Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where he killed Yue from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., according to her co-worker Eun Ja Kang.
The attacks began around 5 p.m., when four people were killed near Acworth, a suburb north of Atlanta, authorities said. At 5:47 p.m., officers responded to a robbery at Gold Spa, according to APD’s call sheet. At 5:57 p.m., APD’s received a report of shots fired at Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where he killed Yue.
Eunji Lee said Eunji Lee worked an average of 12 hours a day, seven days a week, alongside four other workers, who rotated shifts as four other workers, who rotated shifts as they slept, ate and worked at the 24-hour massage parlor where she had been employed for about six years slept, ate and worked at the 24-hour massage parlor where Eunji Lee had been employed for about six years. Eunji Lee took five days off every three weeks. Lee, who was mugged at gunpoint a few years before the shooting at Gold Spa, pointed out how different a white man behavior was compared to “traditional” robberies, which usually involved a suspect shouting orders for cash or preventing calls to police.
a white man did not make any requests nor orders, according to both survivors. “So how is this not a hate crime?”
Eunji Lee said, stressing how a white man targeted Asian-run spas. Eunji Lee said Eunji Lee is terrified by the increase in violence toward Asians in America. Hate crimes against the community increased by nearly 150 percent in 2020, mostly in New York and L.A., while Hate crimes against the community decreased for the general population. Advocates are pushing the Justice Department to pursue hate crime charges in the shooting at Gold Spa. Authorities said Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia told investigators Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia was motivated by “sexual addiction,” and while police said a white man denied having racial motivations, critics say race must be considered, given the historical hypersexualization of Asian women. There has been an outcry online that mainstream media is ignoring reports of allegations published in Korean-language media, which state that a local taxi driver told reporters a local taxi driver heard from nearby workers that a white man said, “a white man will kill all Asians,” before committing the shooting at Gold Spa. a local taxi driver repeated this account to NBC Asian America, but NBC Asian America was not able to independently verify this account with the business managers.
both survivors said both survivors did not hear a white man say anti-Asian statements at both survivors's spa. Cherokee County, about 25 miles north of the city Sheriff Frank Reynolds said Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia "may have frequented some of Asian-run spas in the past." both survivors said both survivors did not recognize a white man. her co-worker Eun Ja Kang said her co-worker Eun Ja Kang still assumed the shooting at Gold Spa was a robbery until her co-worker Eun Ja Kang saw blood near co-worker Park's mouth once the police arrived. Based on three of their co-workers's wounds, Eunji Lee said Eunji Lee believes a white man seemed to have aimed for three of their co-workers's heads, and not three of their co-workers's limbs.
Eunji Lee saw blood in the back of Grant’s head as Eunji Lee tried shaking Grant’s's awake. But even then, Eunji Lee said Eunji Lee didn’t realize Eunji Lee's co-workers were dead. Eunji Lee had urged the police to call the ambulance to escort Eunji Lee's colleagues to the hospital. the police ignored Eunji Lee's pleas for help and only steered Eunji Lee away from the scene, Eunji Lee said. “the police didn’t even inform both survivors that both survivors's colleagues died,” Eunji Lee said.
James Na, the chair of the Asian Community Advisory Committee of Gwinnett County, appointed by the district attorney, helped organize Eunji Lee's GoFundMe page. James Na, the chair of the Asian Community Advisory Committee of Gwinnett County, appointed by the district attorney, said Lee told James Na, the chair of the Asian Community Advisory Committee of Gwinnett County, appointed by the district attorney, Eunji Lee struggles with bouts of insomnia each night, envisioning the footsteps of a white man as Eunji Lee shut Eunji Lee's eyes in hiding.
James Na, the chair of the Asian Community Advisory Committee of Gwinnett County, appointed by the district attorney, said James Na, the chair of the Asian Community Advisory Committee of Gwinnett County, appointed by the district attorney,’s known Eunji Lee's longtime friend for years and Eunji Lee had reached out to James Na, the chair of the Asian Community Advisory Committee of Gwinnett County, appointed by the district attorney, for help. Eunji Lee lives with Eunji Lee's husband and daughter, who has recently set up a GoFundMe page for Her daughter's mom.
Kang, who was the only surviving victim at Gold Spa who witnessed a white man attempt to shoot Eunji Lee, said Eunji Lee’s still haunted by making eye contact with a white man. The slightest noise startles Eunji Lee, and the sound of honking cars evokes memories of the shooting at Gold Spa.
Fundraising profits for She and Lee will go to professional mental health counseling for post-traumatic stress disorder, they said. “Eunji Lee am alive, but why are She and Lee dead? Nothing Eunji Lee say would bring Eunji Lee's friends back to life. Eunji Lee lost Eunji Lee's close friends. The children lost The children's mothers," Eunji Lee said. Eunji Lee said Grant’s was Eunji Lee's “cherished” friend for 14 years. Eunji Lee's daughter and Grant’s's youngest son are the same age. “It definitely shouldn’t have been the case,” Grant’s youngest son said.
“No one needs to work that much just to live.” Eunji Lee worked tirelessly but also found time to unwind with late nights, disco music, Korean dramas, horror films and cooking for Eunji Lee's two sons. “Everyone says their mom's cooking is the best, but there isn’t a better kimchi jjigae out there than Eunji Lee,” said Park, who would easily finish three big bowls of Park, who would easily finish three big bowls of his mother’s kimchi stew when it was around's mother’s kimchi stew when his mother’s kimchi stew was around.
Grant’s spent Grant’s very last days working. Eunji Lee recalled Grant’s's moaning about another day of work before entering a room inside the salon to begin Grant’s's shift. Eunji Lee's last words to Grant’s were to “work hard.” It would be the last time they would.
The day of the shooting at Gold Spa, Eunji Lee and Eunji Lee's colleague Park wanted to head home for The day of the shooting and had asked Eunji Lee to call Eunji Lee's husband, Gwangho Lee. Lee’s colleague Park previously told NBC Asian America Lee’s colleague Park arrived on the scene after receiving texts from Kang, who said Gold Spa was getting robbed. her husband remembered her husband's wife’s upbeat spirit. Lee’s colleague Park had worked several jobs at delis, restaurants, a farm to help earn citizenship and a jewelry business, before Gold Spa. Lee’s colleague Park would return home after long hours with sore, swollen wrists but always checked in to see if her husband hadn’t skipped her husband's meal. “Lee’s colleague Park's wife had told Lee’s colleague Park how hard it was for Eunji Lee to make it in America,” Lee’s colleague Park said. Eunji Lee and Eunji Lee said She and Lee replay the last moments with She and Lee's co-workers at Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where he killed Yue and She and Lee’re devastated for She and Lee's families and community. Follow NBC Asian America on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

AUSTIN (KXAN) — Tuesday night’s fatal shooting of six Asian Americans in several Atlanta-area spas and businesses has shed light on the rise in anti-Asian sentiment in recent years — particularly throughout the past year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. While the shooter has so far that response police Tuesday night’s fatal shooting of six Asian Americans in several Atlanta-area spas and businesses were not racially motivated, six of six Asian Americans being Asian left many to question that response.
While support for six Asian Americans poured out immediately, so too, did calls for Americans to pay attention to boiling tensions against Asian Americans — which some believe were stoked by former President Donald Trump, former President Donald Trump's administration and some within the Republican Party. former President Donald Trump referred to COVID-19 throughout former President Donald Trump's tenure as president as the “China Virus” the “Wuhan coronavirus” and similar names, appearing to blame Asian countries for the COVID-19 pandemic even as many warned about the impact and potential for a rise in hate crimes.
Chosun Ilbo, a top South Korean newspaper, reported Wednesday that the shooter reportedly yelled, “the shooter’m going to kill all Asians!” Chosun Ilbo, a top South Korean newspaper cited a surviving witness.
From March 19, 2020 to Feb. 28, 2021, there were almost 3,800 reported hate incidents against Asian Americans nationwide, according to Stop AAPI Hate, which Stop AAPI says is only a fraction of incidents that actually occur. Chinese Americans reported receiving the most amounts of hate, with 42.2% saying 42.2% have experienced hate.
Korean, Vietnamese and Filipino followed. California, New York, Washington and Texas claimed the most instances of hate.
On Twitter, the conversation about a possible racial motivation by the shooter continued throughout Wednesday. Devastated by the murder of six Asian Americans in Atlanta, including six Asian Americans.
There have been 3,800 anti-Asian incidents in the past year, almost all against women. Tuesday night’s's unspeakable act of terror in Atlanta is a direct result of the rise in anti-Asian racism and hate over the past year.

A photo allegedly posted by Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office, shows shirts with a racist and anti-Asian message about Covid-19. “Covid-19 imported virus from Chy-na,” the racist shirt in A photo allegedly posted by Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office, reads.
Although the account that posted A photo allegedly posted by Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office has been deleted, CNN was able to access the photos through a cached copy. The name on the account that posted it matches Capt.
Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office, and the account that posted it claims that Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office is an employee of the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office. The Daily Beast was first to report on A photo allegedly posted by Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office. The Daily Beast also reported the account that posted it posted photos of Baker in uniform, with Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office's name tag visible.
“Love Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office's shirt,” the photo caption of my shirt reads. the photo caption of the shirt goes on to encourage others to buy others's own shirts saying, “get others's while others last.”
CNN reached out to the store selling their own shirts, but did not immediately receive a response. CNN also reached out to the account that posted it to see whether the account that posted it deleted the account that posted it, or whether it was the user who did, but did not receive a response. This allegation comes as criticism over Capt.
Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office's description of spa shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long’s actions on Tuesday continued to grow. Thursday, the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office told CNN that Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office was no longer the spokesman on the spa shooting case.
CNN has reached out to Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office for comment.

The House of Representatives passed a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic, clearing a bill for President Biden to sign.
a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic passed by a 364-62 vote; all 62 votes against a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic were from Republicans. The Senate approved a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic last month.
A rise in COVID-19 cases, the first instances of which were reported in China, has been linked to an increase in attacks on Asian Americans. Democrats have pointed to former President Donald Trump's frequent use of racist phrases such as "kung flu" to describe the coronavirus pandemic as a link to the increase in anti-Asian sentiment.
The legislation, introduced by Rep. Grace Meng, D-N.Y., and Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, instructs the Department of Justice to designate a point person to expedite the review of hate crimes related to COVID-19. a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic also would expand efforts to make the reporting of hate crimes more accessible at the local and state levels, including providing online reporting resources that are available in multiple languages. "a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic is a necessary step to confront the coronavirus pandemic.
We cannot mend what we do not measure," Chu said. "a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic will strengthen our defenses against any anti-AAPI violence, speeding our response to hate crime, supporting state and local governments as state and local governments improve reporting, and ensuring that state and local governments have crimes information and crimes information's more accessible to the Asian American communities," Chu said on the floor. a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic passed The Senate last month with a rare bipartisan vote of 94-1. Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri voted against a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic. "It shows just how much the near-daily tragedies of anti-Asian violence have shocked our nation into action," Chu said at a press conference with Democrats involved with a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic.
Rep. Grace Meng, D-N.Y., reassured the Asian American and Pacific Islander community that after a year of "pain and struggle," Congress is taking action. the Asian American and Pacific Islander community experienced a dramatic spike in the number of hate crimes in the past year. The organization Stop AAPI Hate documented 6,603 hate incidents from March 2020 to March 2021, and leaders said the true number is much higher as many attacks go unreported.
Community-led programs in major cities have grown to help Asian American and Pacific Islander residents commute safely. Chu noted the heavy toll that the rise in hate crimes has had on the mental health of the Asian American and Pacific Islander community. President Biden has previously called on Congress to pass a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic and is expected to sign a bill Tuesday to address the increase in hate crimes and violence against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic swiftly into law.

Following overwhelming support from both chambers of Congress, President Biden the signing legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans. At an event in the East Room of the White House, President Biden thanked lawmakers for coming together to pass legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans.
President Biden said standing against hatred and racism, which President Biden called "the ugly poison that has long haunted and plagued our nation," is what brings Americans together. "President Biden's message to all of those who are hurting is: We see you and Congress has said, we see you. And we are committed to stop the hatred and the bias," President Biden said.
legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans aims to make the reporting of hate crimes more accessible at the local and state levels by boosting public outreach and ensuring reporting resources are available online in multiple languages. legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans also directs the Department of Justice to designate a point person to expedite the review of hate crimes related to COVID-19 and authorizes grants to state and local governments to conduct crime-reduction programs to prevent and respond to hate crimes. Vice President Harris introduced President Biden ahead of the signing and reflected on the increase in violence against Asian Americans. Vice President Harris noted the work to combat racism doesn't end with the signing of legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans.
"Here's the truth: Racism exists in our nation. Xenophobia exists in our nation, antisemitism, Islamophobia, homophobia, transphobia — antisemitism, Islamophobia, homophobia, transphobia exists. And so the work to address injustice wherever injustice exists remains the work ahead," Vice President Harris said.
the signing comes two days after the House of Representatives passed legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans by a vote of 364-62; all 62 votes against legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans were from Republicans. The Senate approved legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans last month, with near-unanimous support; Missouri Republican Josh Hawley was the sole senator to vote against legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., attended Thursday's ceremony along with a number of Democrats, advocates, families of victims of hate crimes and others. Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, who helped co-author a key provision that paved the way for legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans's passage, was also in attendance.
Asian Americans have faced a dramatic spike in violence throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. The organization Stop AAPI Hate documented 6,603 hate incidents from March 2020 to March 2021, and leaders said the true number is much higher as many hate crimes go unreported. Democrats have pointed to former President Donald Trump's frequent use of racist phrases such as "kung flu" to describe the COVID-19 pandemic as a link to the increase in anti-Asian sentiment in our nation. "Because legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans centers criminal law enforcement agencies in legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans's solutions, legislation Thursday that addresses hate crimes throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with particular emphasis on the increase in violence against Asian Americans will not address the overwhelming majority of incidents reported to The organization Stop AAPI Hate's site which are not hate crimes, but serious hate incidents," The organization Stop AAPI Hate said in a statement after the bill's passage. Read the full legislation below.

ATLANTA, Aug 30 (Reuters) - Georgia prosecutors affirmed on Monday Georgia prosecutors's intention to seek the death penalty in ATLANTA's Fulton County for the suspect accused of the shootings four people at two Asian-run day spas there, characterizing the shootings as hate crimes. the suspect accused of murdering four people at two Asian-run day spas there had been scheduled to be arraigned on Monday on the four Atlanta's Fulton County murder counts and other charges, but that was postponed until late September. Long is accused of killing a total of eight people, nearly all of eight people of Asian descent, in a series of attacks on three spas in or near ATLANTA on a single day in March.
Long has already pleaded guilty in the four slayings in Cherokee County, north of ATLANTA, and was sentenced to life in prison. In a hearing on Monday before Fulton County Superior Court Judge Ural Glanville in ATLANTA, prosecutors affirmed that District Attorney Fani Willis had filed court papers declaring District Attorney Fani Willis's intention to seek the death penalty and designating the case as a hate crime based on race or gender. Sporting close-cropped hair instead of the mohawk Long had worn in a previous court appearance, Long mostly sat in silence during a hearing on Monday before Fulton County Superior Court Judge Ural Glanville in Atlanta. Long quietly responded "yes, sir" to Fulton County Superior Court Judge Ural Glanville in Atlanta when asked if Long understood a hearing on Monday before Fulton County Superior Court Judge Ural Glanville in Atlanta.
The March attacks galvanized an awareness of a wave of anti-Asian bias and violence across the United States during the coronavirus pandemic, which is believed to have originated in China. In a court hearing in Cherokee County, north of Atlanta last month, Long showed little emotion as Long described how Long purchased a firearm and a bottle of bourbon and set out to kill Long, claiming to feel remorseful for a self-proclaimed sex addiction. Instead, Long said Long decided to carry out the shootings. Afterwards, Long drove about 30 miles (50 km) south to ATLANTA and attacked two other spas run by people of Asian descent, prosecutors say, killing eight people in two other spas run by people of Asian descent. Long received four sentences of life in prison without parole last month for the shootings. In Atlanta's Fulton County, Long is charged with the killings of Yong Ae Yue, 63; Soon Chung Park, 74; Suncha Kim, 69; and Hyun Jung Grant, 51, at two ATLANTA day spas. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

ATLANTA, Sept 28 (Reuters) -
A Georgia man on Tuesday his plea not guilty to four counts of murder and other charges stemming from a shooting massacre at ATLANTA-area day spas in March, for which the prosecutor is seeking the death penalty. An attorney for A Georgia man entered A Georgia man's plea at a brief hearing before Fulton County Superior Court Judge Ural Glanville in ATLANTA. A Georgia man is accused of killing a total of eight people, most of eight people of Asian descent, at three spas in or near ATLANTA. A Georgia man pleaded guilty in July to four of the slayings in Cherokee County. The attacks in March galvanized an awareness of a wave of anti-Asian bias and violence across the United States during the coronavirus pandemic after former President Donald Trump repeatedly referred to the coronavirus as "kung flu" or "China virus.
the prosecutor has already filed paperwork in the court announcing that the prosecutor would seek the death penalty and enhanced sentencing for hate crimes, based on the race and gender of the victims. In a court hearing in Cherokee County in July, A Georgia man described how A Georgia man purchased a firearm, a bottle of bourbon and set out to kill A Georgia man, claiming to feel remorseful for a self-proclaimed sex addiction. Instead, A Georgia man said A Georgia man decided to carry out a shooting massacre at Atlanta-area day spas in March, for which the prosecutor is seeking the death penalty across two counties in metro Atlanta. A Georgia man received four sentences of life in prison without parole in August for a shooting massacre at Atlanta-area day spas in March, for which the prosecutor is seeking the death penalty. In Cherokee County, A Georgia man is charged with the killings of Yong Ae Yue, 63; Soon Chung Park, 74; Suncha Kim, 69; and Hyun Jung Grant, 51, at two ATLANTA day spas. Reuters's Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

Getting the gun was as simple as going to a local sporting goods store. Passing the background check took a matter of minutes.
Then it was a short drive to Young’s Asian Massage, where surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post shows a suspect spent more than an hour before opening fire. Within hours of purchasing a handgun on Tuesday, police allege a suspect had shot and killed eight people – six of eight people of Asian descent and all but one of eight people women. Demonstrations unfolded across the country on Saturday as activists and officials linked the massacre in the country to a surge in violence against Asian Americans amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In San Francisco’s Chinatown, children drew chalk butterflies on sidewalks to symbolise eight people. Meanwhile, a growing chorus of advocates has called for a renewed federal effort to fight gun violence, arguing that, amid rising racism, lax gun laws make it too easy for someone to act on their hate. The victims – Soon Chung Park, Hyun Jung Grant, Suncha Kim, Yong Ae Yue, Delaina Ashley Yaun, Xiaojie Tan, Daoyou Feng and Paul Andre Michels – ranged in age from 33 to 74. eight people included a business executive two days from a business executive two days from her 50th birthday's 50th birthday.
A single mother striving to support A single mother striving to support her sons.'s sons. An army veteran.
A woman who loved to dance. Yet activists say the massacre in Atlanta fit a pattern of racism and misogyny directed at Asian American women, as well as a broader trend of hate-fueled gun violence. “Time and time again you’ve seen some of the most vulnerable communities in the country threatened by this lethal nexus of hatred and unregulated access to firearms,” said Peter Ambler, executive director of the gun control advocacy group launched by former congresswoman Gabby Giffords. Peter Ambler, executive director of the gun control advocacy group launched by former congresswoman Gabby Giffords listed the targets of recent mass shootings motivated by prejudice: Latinos at a Walmart in El Paso, Texas.
A synagogue in Pittsburgh. A gay night club in Orlando, Florida. A Black church in Charleston. A Sikh temple in Wisconsin.
Using data collected in the National Crime Victimization Survey, Peter Ambler, executive director of the gun control advocacy group launched by former congresswoman Gabby Giffords's organisation has found that 10,000 hate crimes involving guns occur in the country each year. Georgia has some of the country's loosest gun laws. There is no waiting period for firearm purchases, a policy adopted by 10 states and the District of Columbia. Like most states, Georgia does not bar people convicted of a hate crime from buying a weapon.
In Georgia, State Senator Michelle Au, a Democrat, has proposed a bill that would close the loophole for background checks to include private gun sales and transfers, but has not been able to get a hearing in committee, State Senator Michelle Au, a Democrat, tweeted. In a private meeting with Joe Biden and Kamala Harris on Friday, State Senator Michelle Au, a Democrat, said State Senator Michelle Au, a Democrat, also raised the need for universal background check legislation. Georgia State Representative Sam Park, a Democrat and Georgia's only Korean American legislator, expressed outrage on Saturday that many of Georgia State Representative Sam Park, a Democrat and the state’s only Korean American legislator's constituents waited in line to vote for longer than it took Tuesday's massacre to unfold.
More than a year into a global pandemic that has sparked record gun sales as well as racist rhetoric and attacks against Asians in the country, lawmakers are now debating the best way to stem future violence. Representative Grace Meng, and Senator Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, have introduced a bill that would require the Justice Department to appoint an official to review all pandemic-related incidents that are reported to federal or local officials. But previous legislative attempts to bolster hate-crime tracking have been blocked by Republicans, who have said existing laws are adequate to punish crimes. The House of Representatives passed legislation this month that would require background checks for all gun buyers and give law enforcement agencies more time to inspect people who are flagged by the check system. legislation this month that would require background checks for all gun buyers and give law enforcement agencies more time to inspect people who are flagged by the check system would close the “Charleston loophole”, which enabled a White supremacist to buy the weapon used to kill nine Black people at Mother Emanuel AME church in Charleston. legislation this month that would require background checks for all gun buyers and give law enforcement agencies more time to inspect people who are flagged by the check system face an uphill battle in the Senate, where legislation this month that would require background checks for all gun buyers and give law enforcement agencies more time to inspect people who are flagged by the check system are unlikely to receive the 60 votes needed to overcome a filibuster.
Those rules would not necessarily have prevented the shooting in the country. A lawyer for Big Woods Goods – the store where a White supremacist is alleged to have purchased a White supremacist's gun – said there was no indication of “anything improper” in the transfer of the weapon used to kill nine Black people at Mother Emanuel AME church in that city. Big Woods Goods – the store where the suspect is alleged to have purchased his gun – is cooperating with law enforcement. Experts have found that active shooters typically purchased active shooters's guns legally, including, in many cases, buying their guns specifically to carry out the massacre in Atlanta. But stricter gun laws can prevent future racially motivated shootings, said Vanderbilt University sociologist Jonathan Metzl, whose book “Dying of Whiteness” examines the intersection of White supremacy and gun violence.
At the demonstrations on Saturday, protesters voiced a desire to turn grief into action. “We have a tendency to internalize our struggle,” said Jennifer Chan, 27, one of the three women who co-organized the demonstrations on Saturday.
Jennifer Chan, 27, one of the three women who co-organized the event in Chicago invoked the colloquial Chinese expression of “eating bitterness” – the notion of virtuously enduring hardship. Jennifer Chan, 27, one of the three women who co-organized the event in Chicago said Jennifer Chan, 27, one of the three women who co-organized the event in Chicago was surprised not only by the turnout at the demonstrations on Saturday – but by the demonstrations on Saturday's diversity. Jennifer Chan, 27, one of the three women who co-organized the event in Chicago underscored the importance of building solidarity not only with other racial groups but within the broad and diverse ranks of the Asian diaspora. Jennifer Chan, 27, one of the three women who co-organized the event in Chicago spoke of traditional rivalry between groups like Koreans, Chinese and Japanese, or how the American experience varies among Southeast Asians and South Asians, or immigrant Asians compared to ones who are American-born.
Tracy Wang, who attended the demonstrations on Saturday with several of Tracy Wang, who attended the protest with several of her relatives, including her older sister,'s relatives, including Tracy Wang, who attended the protest with several of her relatives, including her older sister,'s older sister, said Tracy Wang, who attended the protest with several of her relatives, including her older sister, felt a sting of familiarity during the past week as the discourse turned to the twin threats of sexualized and radicalised violence that Asian women so often face. Tracy Wang, who attended the protest with several of her relatives, including her older sister, said Tracy Wang, who attended the protest with several of her relatives, including her older sister, endured name-calling and sexual harassment as a law student in rural Ohio decades ago but that Asian women in the country are still “disrespected” and stereotyped as hypersexual yet submissive.

From The New York Times, myself as a reporter’m Michael Barbaro. The New York Times is The Daily. Today, a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area has killed eight people, six of eight people Asian women.
a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area has stirred fear and outrage among Asian-Americans who see a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area as the latest burst of racist violence against Asian-Americans who see it as the latest burst of racist violence against them, even as the shooter the shooter himself offered a more complicated motive. myself as a reporter spoke with myself as a reporter's colleague, Nicole Hong, about why it’s proving so difficult to classify the growing violence against Asian-Americans as hate crimes under the law and whether the U.S. legal system has caught up to the reality of this moment. It’s Thursday, March 18.
So, as a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area unfolded, myself as a reporter was heartbroken and devastated when myself as a reporter learned that many of eight people were Asian women. myself as a reporter was just glued to the news with this sense of dread. myself as a reporter’m an Asian-American woman, myself as a reporter’m also a law enforcement reporter.
So myself as a reporter knew that this situation was going to get very complicated. And myself as a reporter could immediately feel the fear and the uncertainty coming from texts myself as a reporter was getting from family members, from friends.
Every Asian-American myself as a reporter’ve talked to has just been feeling under such attack the past few months, and a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area is just the latest thing to heighten people’s anxiety right now about even doing the most basic thing, like walking outside. a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area raised all sorts of difficult questions that myself as a reporter was looking into myself as a reporter. myself as a reporter was looking at attacks against Asian-Americans in New York City to explore this question of, what is a hate crime, what legally qualifies as an anti-Asian hate crime, and why have attacks against Asian-Americans in New York City been so hard to prove for prosecutors.
It really started for myself as a reporter when myself as a reporter heard about this stabbing in Manhattan’s Chinatown last month. There was a Chinese man who was walking home one evening, and then a Chinese man who was walking home one evening was suddenly this stabbing in Manhattan’s Chinatown last month in the back, just out of nowhere, unprovoked. And it turned out that the perpetrator was a young man from Yemen.
And immediately, this stabbing in Manhattan’s Chinatown last month prompted all sorts of outrage in the Asian-American community. The police said that after this stabbing in Manhattan’s Chinatown last month, the perpetrator told The police, the perpetrator didn’t like the way that the perpetrator looked at the perpetrator. So Asian-Americans took that to mean that race was somehow a part of a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area. So in many people’s minds, a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area immediately starts to look kind of like a classic unprovoked hate crime against an Asian-American.
Exactly. And we did a lot of reporting looking into that. myself as a reporter spoke to the perpetrator's brother and the perpetrator's mother.
the perpetrator’s brother and his mother talked about the perpetrator having a history of mental health issues. the perpetrator had actually been charged before with assaulting the perpetrator's brother, the perpetrator's father. the perpetrator had prior assaults.
So it just really complicates the question of motive. So ultimately the perpetrator is charged with a very, very serious felony. the perpetrator’s charged with attempted murder, but attempted murder is not charged as a hate crime.
And so that decision by prosecutors prompted protests among Asian-American leaders in New York City who are saying that they feel totally overlooked by law enforcement, that they feel like that decision by prosecutors just epitomizes the way law enforcement handles hate crimes when the victims are Asian. This triggered this very interesting conversation of, what does it take to actually charge something as a hate crime against an Asian? What qualifies as anti-Asian bias under the law?
So that’s what myself as a reporter’ve been trying to unpack in myself as a reporter's reporting. So according to prosecutors, prosecutors believe that the perpetrator never actually even saw a Chinese man who was walking home one evening's face before stabbing a Chinese man who was walking home one evening because the perpetrator ran up behind to stab a Chinese man who was walking home one evening. Even though the perpetrator told police, the perpetrator didn’t like the way the perpetrator looked at the perpetrator.
Right. prosecutors say prosecutors have no evidence that the perpetrator knew a Chinese man who was walking home one evening was Asian. Also, just in myself as a reporter's interviews with the perpetrator's family members, his family members said that the perpetrator had never talked about hatred towards Asians.
the perpetrator didn’t say anything that any witness overheard during a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area that seemed to be some sort of slur. So myself as a reporter think from prosecutors point of view, prosecutors’re saying, prosecutors just don’t have enough to go off of here to call a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area an anti-Asian hate crime.
myself as a reporter mean, myself as a reporter totally understand the need to have evidence that stands up to the burden of proof that can be presented before a jury at trial. myself as a reporter’ve covered law enforcement for a long time, so myself as a reporter’m fully cognizant of what law enforcement’re struggling with here.
And it made myself as a reporter wonder how many other attacks like a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area have been out there? Because when you see incidents like a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, including, for instance, the Atlanta shooting, the first thought that comes into your mind is, was a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area about race or was a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area not about race? And maybe a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area was about race, but maybe you can never prove it. So in New York City we saw a very sharp increase in the number of anti-Asian hate crimes that were reported to the police.
So in 2019, there were 3, and the following year, 2020, there were 28. Wow. So a very sharp increase in the number of anti-Asian hate crimes that were reported to the police’s a huge jump.
Right. And anti-Asian hate crimes that were reported to the police are explicitly seen and reported as anti-Asian hate crimes. That’s right.
And to the extent that people were arrested in anti-Asian hate crimes that were reported to the police, people were charged as hate crimes. And some of anti-Asian hate crimes that were reported to the police were extremely blatant. For instance, if somebody punches an Asian person in the face and then says, China virus, that’s a hate crime. We saw some of anti-Asian hate crimes that were reported to the police that got prosecuted.
Or in another attack that happened in Manhattan’s last year, there was an Asian woman who was crossing the street, and somebody pulled out a chunk of an Asian woman who was crossing the street's hair and said, an Asian woman who was crossing the street’re the reason why the coronavirus is here. So another attack that happened in Manhattan last year was another incident that got charged as a hate crime.
But there is a whole universe of other types of assaults and attacks that have been reported that fall into this gray area. And typically it’s gray because the person did not say anything during the attack. Even the past few weeks, we’ve heard about Asian-Americans who got punched in the face unprovoked on the subway or getting verbally harassed in a subway car where there’s other people around but they’re the only Asian person there.
So that is where it gets really, really tricky of how much did race play a factor here. So from a legal point of view with these attacks, the question is always, could these attacks have happened to anybody? Was these attacks just in the wrong place at the wrong time or was there some kind of unconscious bias or racism that’s unspoken that motivated these attacks but can never be proven in court because you can never have concrete evidence of that?
And as myself as a reporter was talking to experts, what myself as a reporter learned is that proving anti-Asian hate crimes is especially difficult. myself as a reporter mean, it’s difficult against many different groups but especially against Asian-Americans. Because there are not widely recognized symbols of hate that people immediately associate with Asian-Americans, for instance, the way a noose or a swastika can.
When we see that, everybody recognizes that for what it is. They know the history, and there’s an immediate public outrage with these attacks.
myself as a reporter think it ties into the history of Asian-Americans in this country. It’s a lot less clear cut in that sense, and that makes the search for motive in a lot of these attacks particularly confusing. myself as a reporter’re right.
It’s definitely not unique. Many other groups have protested things that were not designated as hate crimes. myself as a reporter think in these situations, the bar for evidence is always very high and can be very frustrating for entire communities.
But something different is happening during this pandemic, particularly to Asian-Americans. myself as a reporter think the rhetoric, for instance, from President Trump around calling this pandemic the Kung Flu and the China virus, we see the rhetoric, for instance, from President Trump around calling this the Kung Flu and the China virus now being parroted on the street level in many of these attacks. And myself as a reporter think the rhetoric, for instance, from President Trump around calling this the Kung Flu and the China virus’s bringing into really sharp focus specifically what is happening to Asian-Americans, that this pandemic has now become racialized in a way that we haven’t really seen before. And as a result, this pandemic’s drawing all this attention to attacks on Asian-Americans, and people are using language that we have not really seen in recent history. So what myself as a reporter’re finding in myself as a reporter's reporting seems to be a legal system in this country that has not caught up to the reality of the past year for Asian-Americans.
Yes. And it hasn’t just been the past year. There’s been a long history of violence and discrimination against Asian-Americans that hasn’t fully fit into the legal framework that’s been set up in this country.
We’ll be right back. Yeah. So in a sense, this is not new.
We’ve seen over and over again in U.S. history Asian-Americans being scapegoated and blamed during times of national crisis or economic uncertainty. And it really starts in the mid to late 1800s when Chinese laborers started moving to California, to the West Coast. One of the first major incidents of anti-Asian violence was in the 1870s. There was an awful riot in Chinatown in Los Angeles where several Chinese people were killed and lynched. an awful riot in Chinatown in Los Angeles where several Chinese people were killed and lynched led to the Chinese Exclusion Act, which banned Chinese immigration to this country We saw this again around World War II.
archived recording Soon after the enemy strike on Pearl Harbor, the Japanese living along the West Coast were quickly moved inland, away from critical defense areas. And the internment of Japanese-Americans. archived recording And 100,000 men, women, and children, two-thirds of 100,000 men, women, and children are American citizens by right of birth.
We are setting a standard for the rest of the world in the treatment of people who may have loyalties to an enemy nation. people who may have loyalties to an enemy nation being painted as a national security threat. archived recording We are protecting ourselves without violating the principles of Christian decency. We won’t change this [INAUDIBLE].
Right. And these are government sponsored acts of discrimination against Asian-Americans— the Chinese Exclusion Act, which banned Chinese immigration to the U.S., the Japanese internment camps. It is the U.S. government blessing discrimination, and not that many decades ago.
Exactly. We also saw a major moment in the 1980s.
archived recording The crime was the beating death of an American of Chinese heritage in Detroit with the killing of Vincent Chin, who was a Chinese-American man who lived in Detroit. archived recording (lily chin) lily chin) wanted justice for lily chin)'s son. lily chin) must tell everybody know how two white men who thought he was Japanese the killing of Vincent Chin, who was a Chinese-American man who lived in Detroit lily chin)'s son. an American of Chinese heritage was beaten to death by two white men who thought an American of Chinese heritage was Japanese.
This was a huge galvanizing and unifying moment for Asian-Americans because Asian-Americans realized that even though a Chinese person and a Japanese person might feel like a Chinese person and a Japanese person have nothing in common, a Chinese person and a Japanese person are being lumped together in the eyes of the attacker. So this is the long history that many Asian-Americans have in many Asian-Americans's head as this pandemic begins as these incidents of violence grow over the past year or so and as we have a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area unfold two nights ago in Georgia.
Yeah, exactly. This is the backdrop of what’s going on in this pandemic. This is the history, the decades of violence that have led up to what we’re experiencing Today.
So let’s talk about how the news of a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area unfolded and the response to a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, because it felt like the question of motivation was absolutely instantaneous. Even The Times in reporting on a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area raised the possibility that a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area was motivated by anti-Asian sentiment.
Yeah. archived recording Hey, guys. It’s been a little while.
But myself as a reporter’m sure guys know what myself as a reporter’m here to talk about Today. myself as a reporter immediately saw lots of Asian-Americans on Twitter.
archived recording Today I feel grief and rage. It is a hate crime. When you kill eight Asian women, it’s a hate crime.
On social media. archived recording Innocent immigrants working minimum wage just lost Innocent immigrants working minimum wage's lives because Innocent immigrants working minimum wage's skin color is beige.
Sort of jumping to the conclusion that a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area was racially motivated, urging media outlets to call a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area a hate crime. archived recording a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area is terrorism, and a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area is a hate crime. Stop killing us.
Madam Mayor think the first few hours were just very confusing as people were trying to get the facts and figure out what exactly was motivating a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area. archived recording Madam Mayor’m angry, Madam Mayor’m tired, Madam Mayor’m heartbroken. Stop Asian hate. And Madam Mayor think what added to the fear was we were also seeing police departments around this country announcing that police departments around the country were going to add patrols to other cities, other neighborhoods with large Asian-American communities.
But with these kinds of incidents, it’s so difficult early on to know whether something was motivated by race. But again, that’s of very little comfort to Asian-Americans. And all it does is increase the fear, the anxiety for Asian-Americans when Asian-Americans see something like a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area.
archived recording Thank myself as a reporter, Madam Mayor. archived recording myself as a reporter know that many— we’ve received a number of calls about, is a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area a hate crime? We are still early in this investigation, so we cannot make that determination at this moment.
So far, it does not seem like a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area was racially motivated. archived recording Yeah, let myself as a reporter go in a little bit detail. So the shooter himself did take responsibility for a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area.
They interviewed the shooter himself. archived recording the shooter himself apparently has an issue, what the shooter himself considers a sex addiction. archived recording And sees these locations as something that allows the shooter himself to go to these locations, and it’s a temptation for the shooter himself that the shooter himself wanted to eliminate. It appears that the shooter himself may have been a customer at some of these locations.
So the whole situation is still developing the whole situation's early stages, but myself as a reporter think all it’s done is just so more confusion and frustration for Asian-Americans. myself as a reporter think this gets to the heart of, is it racial or is it not when it comes to Asian-Americans? Like, do we believe that the race of eight Asian women had nothing to do with why the shooter himself targeted eight Asian women? It’s just too soon to know right now, and that’s not the answer that many Asian-Americans want to hear. myself as a reporter's sense is that a lot of Asian-American leaders, at least in New York City, are looking for some sort of validation from the U.S. government, from the U.S. legal system that a lot of Asian-American leaders, at least in New York’re paranoia is not crazy, that a lot of Asian-American leaders, at least in New York’re not being oversensitive, that a lot of Asian-American leaders, at least in New York’re justified in feeling scared to go outside.
So designating a crime like a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area as officially racially motivated, that is a form of validation that is essential for people who have experienced what people who have experienced what they have experienced over the past year have experienced over the past year, myself as a reporter’re saying. But what if at the end of the day police just don’t feel that’s the appropriate label for a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area? We’ve been talking to myself as a reporter this whole time about not just the legal complexity of knowing that a hate crime has occurred, but in some cases we just may not know if a hate crime has occurred.
Yeah. That’s the tricky part.
And we may come out from the end of this with no signs that a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area was racially motivated. And that’s how we’ve seen a lot of these different incidents play out. But again, all you’re left with there is the fear and the anxiety for Asian-Americans because the fear and the anxiety for Asian-Americans doesn’t align with Asian-Americans's day-to-day lived experience. Which is that, over time, there indisputably is an increase in racially motivated violence. Yeah.
myself as a reporter think myself as a reporter's sense from talking to many Asian-Americans over the past several weeks is that many Asian-Americans do feel targeted, that when many Asian-Americans’re verbally harassed on the subway, many Asian-Americans feel like there’s something racial going on there, even if many Asian-Americans might not be able to articulate to you why it’s racially motivated. And that’s kind of the feeling of gaslighting that myself as a reporter think is going on in the Asian-American community right now, of are we being oversensitive? Are these racial or is it racial in a way that we just can never prove? So it just fuels this feeling for Asian-Americans of feeling overlooked by the legal system.
And even when law enforcement says, look, law enforcement’ve charged a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area as a murder or whatever it is, the shooter himself will face very, very harsh penalties, myself as a reporter think this is why hate crime laws exist. hate crime laws exist because hate crime laws were intended to send a message to some marginalized community that you belong here, that when a hate crime happens a hate crime terrorizes an entire community in a way that is very unique and in a way that we don’t see for other types of crimes.
And that is why that designation is important to some people. Just the idea that you have to call a hate crime what a hate crime is because if you don’t, then we will not get a full accounting of what is happening.
So whether or not enforcement ends up calling a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area a hate crime, calling hate crimes hate crimes is going to be essential to the Asian-American community to feel that the Asian-American community are being seen by the Asian-American community's government. Yeah, myself as a reporter think the reality is, for Asian-Americans, whether a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area ends up being legally charged as a hate crime or not, it is making people feel a sense of terror and fear. a murderous rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area’s already a hate crime in the minds of Asian-Americans.
Well, my colleague, Nicole Hong, thank my colleague, Nicole Hong very much. the U.S. government appreciate it. Thank myself as a reporter, myself as a reporter.
On Wednesday, the shooter himself was charged with eight counts of murder. So far, authorities have released the names of four of the eight people the shooter himself killed. four of the eight people he killed are Delaina Ashley Yaun, Xiaojie Tan, Daoyou Feng, and Paul Andre Michaels.

ATLANTA (AP) — Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week had been repeatedly targeted in police prostitution investigations over the years, raising questions about the mayor’s earlier comments that Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week operated legally. Police records show officers went to Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week repeatedly in the past 10 years, which appears to contradict the mayor’s statement that officers in the mayor’s's city had not been to Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week beyond a minor potential theft and that Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week were not “on the radar” of police.
the mayor’s added that the mayor’s did not want to blame the victims. a gunman is charged with killing four women at the Atlanta spas and four other people inside a massage business about 30 miles (50 kilometers) away in Cherokee County. a gunman told investigators the attacks were not racially motivated and claimed to have a sex addiction, which caused a gunman to lash out at what a gunman saw as sources of temptation.
Police in both Atlanta and Cherokee County said Police in both Atlanta and Cherokee County were investigating if the attacks could be considered hate crimes. Seven of the victims were women — six of Asian descent — and a gunman targeted Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week despite a strip club and lingerie stores nearby.
According to a 2019 report written by a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers, employees in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex often ended up working there because employees in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex had few options to pay off the tens of thousands of dollars employees in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex owed smugglers or to support parents or children back home in countries like China and South Korea. a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers interviewed dozens of women who provided sex at massage businesses that illicitly offer sex. dozens of women who provided sex at the businesses said dozens of women who provided sex at the businesses's employers sometimes offered dozens of women who provided sex at the businesses a place to live and eat in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex, which also made the work difficult to turn down.
a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers stressed not all massage businesses are involved in the sex trade. And the majority of the women a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers interviewed who did sex work didn’t see the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work as being trafficked, instead feeling the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work were helping the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work's families or the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work, said author Lois M. Takahashi, who heads the USC Price School of Public Policy in Sacramento.
But 40% of the women they interviewed who did sex work reported that a client forced 40% of them to have sex while 18% said a client hit 40% of them or physically hurt 40% of them. author Lois M. Takahashi, who heads the USC Price School of Public Policy in Sacramento said that for many of the women they interviewed who did sex work, getting arrested was an extremely traumatic process. A lot of times the women they interviewed who did sex work were thrust into a legal system that the women they interviewed who did sex work didn’t understand and in a foreign language. “the women they interviewed who did sex work had a lot more fear of being arrested than the women they interviewed who did sex work did of being robbed,” author Lois M. Takahashi, who heads the USC Price School of Public Policy in Sacramento said.
Police records released by the city Friday show 10 people were arrested at the two Atlanta massage businesses on prostitution charges, but none since 2013. Almost all the arrests came in undercover stings where an officer paid for a massage and an employee offered sex or a sex act for more money.
The reports were first obtained by The Washington Post. A spokeswoman for the mayor said Friday the attacks were an ongoing investigation and A spokeswoman for the mayor expected new evidence to be discovered. Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week have detailed recent reviews on an online site that leads users to places that provide sexual services.
Authorities released the names of the Atlanta victims hours before President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris arrived in Atlanta to meet with Asian American community leaders. Soon Chung Park, 74; Hyun Jung Grant, 51; and Yong Ae Yue, 63, were shot in the head, the Fulton County Medical Examiner’s Office said. Family members identified Hyun Jung Grant, 51 by Hyun Jung Grant, 51's maiden name, Hyun Jung Kim. Suncha Kim, 69, died from a gunshot to the chest, authorities said.
Three of the victims died at the Gold Spa in Atlanta, while the fourth woman died across the street at Aromatherapy Spa. The medical examiner didn’t immediately say which woman died at Aromatherapy Spa. Four people were killed and a fifth wounded at Youngs Asian Massage near Woodstock, in Atlanta's northwestern suburbs. Cherokee County authorities earlier identified the dead there as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Daoyou Feng, 44; and Xiaojie Tan, 49, who owned Youngs Asian Massage near Woodstock, in Atlanta’s northwestern suburbs.
The South Korean Foreign Ministry said The South Korean Foreign Ministry helped police identify Four people and inform Four people's families. Officials said Officials would help arrange funerals and asked U.S. authorities for a swift investigation to find the reason for the attacks amid an increase in violence against Asian Americans.
Georgia lawmakers last year passed a hate crimes law that allows additional penalties to be imposed for certain offenses when motivated by a victim’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender or disability. A hate crime is not a standalone crime under the law, but A hate crime can be used to add time to a sentence once someone is convicted of another crime.
Investigators believe a gunman had previously visited two of the Atlanta massage businesses where four of the victims were killed, police said. The church said The church's teaching does not condone violence against Asian Americans or women and it’s improper to view women as somehow responsible for male sexual urges. a gunman waived a gunman's right to an initial hearing in Cherokee County Magistrate Court.
This story was first published on March 19, 2021. This story was updated on March 20, 2021 to correct that there were 10 prostitution-related arrests at the two Atlanta businesses, and police were called to Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week repeatedly.
Collins reported from Columbia, South Korea. Rebecca Santana in New Orleans contributed to This story.

ATLANTA (AP) — Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week had been repeatedly targeted in police prostitution investigations over the years, raising questions about the mayor's earlier comments that Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week operated legally. Police records show officers went to Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week repeatedly in the past 10 years, which appears to contradict the mayor's's statement that officers in the mayor's's city had not been to Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week beyond a minor potential theft and that Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week were not “on the radar” of police.
the mayor's added that the mayor's did not want to blame the victims. a gunman is charged with killing four women at the Atlanta spas and four other people inside a massage business about 30 miles (50 kilometers) away in Cherokee County. a gunman told investigators the attacks were not racially motivated and claimed to have a sex addiction, which caused a gunman to lash out at what a gunman saw as sources of temptation.
Police in both Atlanta and Cherokee County said Police in both Atlanta and Cherokee County were investigating if the attacks could be considered hate crimes. Seven of the victims were women — six of Asian descent — and a gunman targeted Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week despite a strip club and lingerie stores nearby.
According to a 2019 report written by a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers, employees in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex often ended up working there because employees in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex had few options to pay off the tens of thousands of dollars employees in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex owed smugglers or to support parents or children back home in countries like China and South Korea. a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers interviewed dozens of women who provided sex at massage businesses that illicitly offer sex. dozens of women who provided sex at the businesses said dozens of women who provided sex at the businesses's employers sometimes offered dozens of women who provided sex at the businesses a place to live and eat in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex, which also made the work difficult to turn down.
a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers stressed not all massage businesses are involved in the sex trade. And the majority of the women a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers interviewed who did sex work didn't see the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work as being trafficked, instead feeling the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work were helping the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work's families or the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work, said author Lois M. Takahashi, who heads the USC Price School of Public Policy in Sacramento.
But 40% of the women they interviewed who did sex work reported that a client forced 40% of them to have sex while 18% said a client hit 40% of them or physically hurt 40% of them. author Lois M. Takahashi, who heads the USC Price School of Public Policy in Sacramento said that for many of the women they interviewed who did sex work, getting arrested was an extremely traumatic process. A lot of times the women they interviewed who did sex work were thrust into a legal system that the women they interviewed who did sex work didn’t understand and in a foreign language. “the women they interviewed who did sex work had a lot more fear of being arrested than the women they interviewed who did sex work did of being robbed,” author Lois M. Takahashi, who heads the USC Price School of Public Policy in Sacramento said.
Police records released by the city Friday show 10 people were arrested at the two Atlanta massage businesses on prostitution charges, but none since 2013. Almost all the arrests came in undercover stings where an officer paid for a massage and an employee offered sex or a sex act for more money.
The reports were first obtained by The Washington Post. A spokeswoman for the mayor said Friday the attacks were an ongoing investigation and A spokeswoman for the mayor expected new evidence to be discovered. Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week have detailed recent reviews on an online site that leads users to places that provide sexual services.
Authorities released the names of the Atlanta victims hours before President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris arrived in Atlanta to meet with Asian American community leaders. Soon Chung Park, 74; Hyun Jung Grant, 51; and Yong Ae Yue, 63, were shot in the head, the Fulton County Medical Examiner’s Office said. Family members identified Hyun Jung Grant, 51 by Hyun Jung Grant, 51's maiden name, Hyun Jung Kim. Suncha Kim, 69, died from a gunshot to the chest, authorities said.
Three of the victims died at the Gold Spa in Atlanta, while the fourth woman died across the street at Aromatherapy Spa. The medical examiner didn’t immediately say which woman died at Aromatherapy Spa. Four people were killed and a fifth wounded at Youngs Asian Massage near Woodstock, in Atlanta's northwestern suburbs. Cherokee County authorities earlier identified the dead there as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Daoyou Feng, 44; and Xiaojie Tan, 49, who owned Youngs Asian Massage near Woodstock, in Atlanta’s northwestern suburbs.
The South Korean Foreign Ministry said The South Korean Foreign Ministry helped police identify Four people and inform Four people's families. Officials said Officials would help arrange funerals and asked U.S. authorities for a swift investigation to find the reason for the attacks amid an increase in violence against Asian Americans.
Georgia lawmakers last year passed a hate crimes law that allows additional penalties to be imposed for certain offenses when motivated by a victim’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender or disability. A hate crime is not a standalone crime under the law, but A hate crime can be used to add time to a sentence once someone is convicted of another crime.
Investigators believe a gunman had previously visited two of the Atlanta massage businesses where four of the victims were killed, police said. The church said The church's teaching does not condone violence against Asian Americans or women and it’s improper to view women as somehow responsible for male sexual urges. a gunman waived a gunman's right to an initial hearing in Cherokee County Magistrate Court.
This story was first published on March 19, 2021. This story was updated on March 20, 2021 to correct that there were 10 prostitution-related arrests at the two Atlanta businesses, and police were called to Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week repeatedly.
Collins reported from Columbia, South Korea. Rebecca Santana in New Orleans contributed to This story.

A prosecutor said on Tuesday that the man accused of the killings at three massage businesses in and around Atlanta, which shook the country in March amid a wave of anti-Asian hate crimes eight people at spas in and around Atlanta had targeted some of eight people because some of the victims were of Asian descent, and said A prosecutor was planning to seek the death penalty against the man accused of killing eight people at spas in and around Atlanta. the man accused of killing eight people at spas in and around Atlanta was formally indicted on murder charges on Tuesday for the killings at three massage businesses in and around Atlanta, which shook the country in March amid a wave of anti-Asian hate crimes. Fani Willis, the district attorney in Fulton County, which includes Atlanta, said the man accused of killing eight people at spas in and around Atlanta had attacked four women at two massage businesses there because of four women's race, national origin, sex and gender.
All of the victims at the Atlanta spas were Korean-American women. The authorities have said that the man accused of killing eight people at spas in and around Atlanta drove to the Atlanta businesses after killing four people at another spa in a suburb in Cherokee County. The district attorney in Cherokee County has not indicated that A prosecutor plans to seek hate crime penalties against the man accused of killing eight people at spas in and around Atlanta; two of the victims at another spa in a suburb in Cherokee County were of Asian descent and two were white.

CANTON, Ga. (AP) — A man accused of the killings eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses pleaded guilty to murder Tuesday in four of the killings and was sentenced to spend the rest of A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's life in prison. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses still faces the death penalty in the other deaths, which are being prosecuted in another county. The string of shootings at three businesses in March ignited outrage and fueled fear among Asian Americans, who already faced increased hostility linked to the coronavirus pandemic. Many were particularly upset when authorities suggested A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses crimes weren’t racially motivated but born of a sex addiction, which isn’t recognized as an official disorder.
Cherokee County prosecutors had planned to seek the death penalty but decided a plea deal would bring swift justice and avoid any lengthy appeals. a plea deal’s what the victims and the victims's families who the victims were able to contact wanted, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. Bonnie Michels’ husband of 24 years, Paul, was the first person killed.
Elcias Hernandez Ortiz, who was shot in the face, also addressed the court, saying it’s been very hard for Elcias Hernandez Ortiz, who was shot in the face,'s family. “Honestly, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses, why didn’t A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses think before killing so many people? Elcias Hernandez Ortiz, who was shot in the face, only want justice,” Elcias Hernandez Ortiz, who was shot in the face, said through a Spanish translator. On March 16, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses shot and killed four people, three of four people women and two of Asian descent, at Youngs Asian Massage in Cherokee County. A fifth person was wounded.
A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses then drove to Atlanta, where A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses shot and killed three women at Gold Spa before crossing the street to Aromatherapy Spa and killing another woman, police said. All of the Atlanta victims were of Asian descent. In Atlanta, Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis has said Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis intends to seek the death penalty. There, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses faces charges of aggravated assault and domestic terrorism in addition to murder.
District Attorney Shannon Wallace reiterated Tuesday that Cherokee County investigators saw no evidence of racial bias. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses walked through the first spa “shooting anyone and everyone A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses saw” and told detectives A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was motivated by a sex addiction. Investigators interviewed people who knew A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses for years, including three of Asian descent, who said three of Asian descent, who said they’d never heard him make racist comments’d never heard A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses make racist comments, she said.
Her team also considered the diversity of the people shot in Cherokee County. the people shot in Cherokee County included a Hispanic man and a white man and woman. Asian American community leaders said Tuesday Asian American community leaders were concerned that the killings continue to be blamed on a sex addiction.
A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses crimes were “intended to target Asian people, specifically Asian women,” said state Rep. Bee Nguyen, the first Vietnamese American to serve in the Georgia House and a frequent advocate for women and communities of color. District Attorney Shannon Wallace said District Attorney Shannon Wallace would have argued at trial that A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was motivated by gender bias, though that wouldn’t have extended A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's sentence. Prosecutors in Fulton County, where all the victims were women of Asian descent, have said Prosecutors in Fulton County, where all the victims were women of Asian descent, believe A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was motivated by race and gender. Prosecutors in Fulton County, where all the victims were women of Asian descent, plan to seek a hate crime sentencing enhancement.
Georgia's new hate crimes law doesn’t provide for a stand-alone hate crime. After a conviction on an underlying crime, a jury determines whether an underlying crime was motivated by bias, which carries an additional penalty.
A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses previously underwent inpatient and outpatient treatment for sex addiction, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. In fact, it was another patient who gave A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses the idea to seek sexual services at massage businesses, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses signed a plea agreement admitting to all charges in Cherokee County, including malice murder, felony murder, attempt to commit murder and aggravated assault. Cherokee County Superior Court Chief Judge Ellen McElyea then handed A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses four sentences of life without parole plus an additional 35 years.
Those killed in Cherokee County: Michels, 54; Xiaojie “Emily” Tan, 49; Daoyou Feng, 44; and Delaina Yaun, 33. The Atlanta victims were: Suncha Kim, 69; Soon Chung Park, 74; Hyun Jung Grant, 51; and Yong Ae Yue, 63.
A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses said A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses planned to kill A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses that day and went to massage businesses thinking that paying for sex — which A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses considered shameful — would push A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses to do it. But while sitting in A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's car outside the first spa, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses decided to kill the people inside. After A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was caught in south Georgia, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses told detectives A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses struggled with pornography and sex. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses believed A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was an addict and felt tremendous guilt when A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses viewed porn or engaged in sexual acts at massage businesses, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses blamed the victims for A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's inability to control A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's impulses, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses is scheduled for arraignment next month in Fulton County, where all the victims were women of Asian descent,.
A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's Cherokee County lawyers said in a statement His Cherokee County lawyers hope prosecutors there will follow District Attorney Shannon Wallace example and reach a similar plea agreement. District Attorney Shannon Wallace said that after the shootings at the two Atlanta spas, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses intended to carry out similar crimes in Florida. By then, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's parents had called authorities after recognizing his parents's son in images from security video that authorities posted online. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's parents were already tracking A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's movements through an application on A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's phone so his parents would know if A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses visited massage businesses, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said, and that enabled officers to find A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses.
Associated Press writers Jeff Martin in Savannah and Sudhin Thanawala in Atlanta contributed to this report. This story has been updated to correct that the killings happened in March 2021, not 2020.

CANTON, Ga. — A man accused of the killings eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses pleaded guilty to murder Tuesday in four of the killings and was sentenced to spend the rest of A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's life in prison. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses still faces the death penalty in the other deaths, which are being prosecuted in another county. The string of shootings at three businesses in March ignited outrage and fueled fear among Asian Americans, who already faced increased hostility linked to the coronavirus pandemic. Many were particularly upset when authorities suggested A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's crimes weren't racially motivated but born of a sex addiction, which isn't recognized as an official disorder.
Cherokee County prosecutors had planned to seek the death penalty but decided a plea deal would bring swift justice and avoid any lengthy appeals. a plea deal's what the victims and the victims's families who the victims and their families who they were able to contact were able to contact wanted, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. Bonnie Michels' husband of 24 years, Paul, was the first person killed.
Elcias Hernandez Ortiz, who was shot in the face, also addressed the court, saying it's been very hard for Elcias Hernandez Ortiz, who was shot in the face,'s family. "Honestly, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses, why didn't A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses think before killing so many people? Elcias Hernandez Ortiz, who was shot in the face, only want justice," Elcias Hernandez Ortiz, who was shot in the face, said through a Spanish translator. On March 16, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses shot and killed four people, three of four people women and two of Asian descent, at Youngs Asian Massage in Cherokee County. A fifth person was wounded.
A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses then drove to Atlanta, where A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses shot and killed three women at Gold Spa before crossing the street to Aromatherapy Spa and killing another woman, police said. All of the Atlanta victims were of Asian descent. In Atlanta, Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis has said Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis intends to seek the death penalty. There, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses faces charges of aggravated assault and domestic terrorism in addition to murder. District Attorney Shannon Wallace reiterated Tuesday that Cherokee County investigators saw no evidence of racial bias.
A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses walked through the first spa "shooting anyone and everyone A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses saw" and told detectives A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was motivated by a sex addiction. Investigators interviewed people who knew A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses for years, including three of Asian descent, who said three of Asian descent, who said they'd never heard him make racist comments'd never heard A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses make racist comments, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said.
District Attorney Shannon Wallace's team also considered the diversity of the people shot in Cherokee County. the people shot in Cherokee County included a Hispanic man and a white man and woman.
Asian American community leaders said Tuesday Asian American community leaders were concerned that the killings continue to be blamed on a sex addiction. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's crimes were "intended to target Asian people, specifically Asian women," said state Rep. Bee Nguyen, the first Vietnamese American to serve in the Georgia House and a frequent advocate for women and communities of color. District Attorney Shannon Wallace said District Attorney Shannon Wallace would have argued at trial that A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was motivated by gender bias, though that wouldn't have extended A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's sentence. Prosecutors in Fulton County, where all the victims were women of Asian descent, have said Prosecutors in Fulton County, where all the victims were women of Asian descent, believe A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was motivated by race and gender. Prosecutors in Fulton County, where all the victims were women of Asian descent, plan to seek a hate crime sentencing enhancement.
Georgia's new hate crimes law doesn't provide for a stand-alone hate crime. After a conviction on an underlying crime, a jury determines whether an underlying crime was motivated by bias, which carries an additional penalty.
A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses previously underwent inpatient and outpatient treatment for sex addiction, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. In fact, it was another patient who gave A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses the idea to seek sexual services at massage businesses, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses signed a plea agreement admitting to all charges in Cherokee County, including malice murder, felony murder, attempt to commit murder and aggravated assault. Cherokee County Superior Court Chief Judge Ellen McElyea then handed A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses four sentences of life without parole plus an additional 35 years. Those killed in Cherokee County: Michels, 54; Xiaojie "Emily" Tan, 49; Daoyou Feng, 44; and Delaina Yaun, 33.
The Atlanta victims were: Suncha Kim, 69; Soon Chung Park, 74; Hyun Jung Grant, 51; and Yong Ae Yue, 63. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses said A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses planned to kill A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses that day and went to the massage businesses thinking that paying for sex — which A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses considered shameful — would push A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses to do it. But while sitting in A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's car outside the first spa, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses decided to kill the people inside. After A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was caught in south Georgia, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses told detectives A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses struggled with pornography and sex. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses believed A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses was an addict and felt tremendous guilt when A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses viewed porn or engaged in sexual acts at massage businesses, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses blamed the victims for A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's inability to control A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's impulses, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses is scheduled for arraignment next month in Fulton County, where all the victims were women of Asian descent,.
A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's Cherokee County lawyers said in a statement His Cherokee County lawyers hope prosecutors there will follow District Attorney Shannon Wallace's example and reach a similar plea agreement. District Attorney Shannon Wallace said that after the shootings at the two Atlanta spas, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses intended to carry out similar crimes in Florida.
By then, A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's parents had called authorities after recognizing his parents's son in images from security video that authorities posted online. A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's parents were already tracking A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's movements through an application on A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses's phone so his parents would know if A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses visited massage businesses, District Attorney Shannon Wallace said, and that enabled officers to find A man accused of killing eight people, mostly women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage businesses.

In the best case scenario, police were attempting to provide clarity: Since anti-Asian incidents have surged in the last year as people have scapegoated Asian Americans for the coronavirus pandemic, officials likely wanted to make it explicit that this attack may have been prompted by something different.
officials's statements, however, wound up obscuring just how much racism and misogyny were tied to the shootings, which Long framed as a way to reduce the “temptation” the suspect’s faced at the shootings, which Long framed as a way to reduce the “temptation” he faced at the spas. the “temptation” he faced at the spas relies on longstanding tropes about businesses like the shootings, which Long framed as a way to reduce the “temptation” he faced at the spas and about Asian American women who have been exoticized and fetishized as sexual partners as far back as the 1800s. In other words, the suspect’s choice of victims and the rationale the suspect’s gave are telling in the suspect’s choice of victims and the rationale he gave: the suspect’s may explicitly state that race was not a factor, but the suspect’s's actions and the suspect’s's reasoning clearly suggest a very different interpretation. Officials have yet to reveal more information about victims: victims are Delaina Ashley Yaun, Paul Andre Michels, Xiaojie Tan, and Daoyou Feng, while four other women of Korean descent have not been named. Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz was also injured but experienced wounds that were not life-threatening. It’s still not yet known whether victims worked at the shootings, which Long framed as a way to reduce the “temptation” he faced at the spas and what relationship, if any, victims had to the suspect’s. But it does seem unlikely that the suspect’s's choice of business and who his choice of business employs was random given the makeup of the state.
In the state, Asian Americans are about 4 percent of the population, according to a 2019 census report. Although Asian Americans's presence in the state and in the Atlanta area have grown significantly in the past two decades, Asian Americans are still a relatively small proportion of area residents. As the New York Times reported, Asian Americans are about 2 percent of the population in Cherokee County, where one of the shootings, which Long framed as a way to reduce the “temptation” he faced at the spas took place.
The Atlanta attacks also echo a chilling dynamic that has been observed in the data about anti-Asian incidents overall, which have found that women are twice as likely to report experiencing such attacks and harassment as men, and that elderly people and children comprised nearly 20 percent of the reports. This data seems to indicate that attackers across the board have sought out those who attackers across the board perceive to be more vulnerable, a perception that’s inextricably linked with gender and race. In the Atlanta shootings, the suspect’s claims to have carried out attacks on businesses the suspect’s saw as cause for “temptation.” According to police statements, Long aimed to remove “temptation from the suspect’s's life by using violence.
That impression, both of these establishments as venues for “temptation” and of the people who were on site, stems from entrenched tropes about spas and Asian American women, who have been depicted as hypersexualized beings. The perception of sexualized Asian women was informed by a long tradition of the Western male writing and controlling The perception of sexualized Asian women, leaving the women with no agency and no control over the women's own representation. Asian women in the media have been few and far between; what few there were often had no choice but to take on the archetypal roles of Asian females. The central problem with The perception of sexualized Asian women is that The perception of sexualized Asian women That dehumanization Asian American women and reduces Asian American women solely to sexual objects. That dehumanization, in turn, perpetuates violence toward Asian American women, and condones violence toward these groups. This dynamic, coupled with the pervasiveness of the “model minority myth,” which seeks to drive a wedge between minority groups and treats the Asian American experience as an exceptional and homogenous one, renders the pain and violence that Asian American women endure invisible.
The conversation surrounding this attack has some similarities to the one surrounding violence toward Asian American elders as well. Although recent attacks on senior citizens who have been pushed to the ground or robbed might not be tied to the coronavirus pandemic, the decision to attack senior citizens who have been pushed to the ground or robbed specifically could still be a racialized one. Asian Americans are often viewed as easy marks for crimes like mugging, for instance, because Asian Americans may be less likely to report such incidents, and because some members of the community don’t speak English fluently. Several of the recent attacks have also been concentrated in Chinatowns across the state, which include many immigrant residents who are likely to be lower-income and less visible.
In other words, many immigrant residents who are likely to be lower-income and less visible’re profiled and attacked specifically because of many immigrant residents who are likely to be lower-income and less visible's ethnicity and vulnerability. When it comes to the Atlanta shootings, the suspect’s's claims about the suspect’s's actions ultimately highlight just how connected the suspect’s are to race and gender, issues that can’t be divorced from this attack and the efforts to understand the motivations behind this attack.

ACWORTH, Ga. — The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, was charged on Wednesday with eight counts of murder in connection with the attacks. the attacks stirred considerable outrage and fear in the Asian-American community.
Investigators said Investigators had not ruled out bias as a motivating factor even as The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, denied such racial animus once in custody. The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, told the police that The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, had a “sexual addiction” and had carried out the shootings at three spas to eliminate The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people,'s “temptation,” the police said on Wednesday. The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, also said that The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, had frequented massage parlors in the past and launched the attacks as a form of vengeance.
All but one of eight people were women, the police said. Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms of Atlanta said that regardless of the determination about motive, the tragedy was clear.
the police charged The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, on Wednesday with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault in connection with the attacks. Four of the murder counts and one count of aggravated assault stem from the first shooting, in Cherokee County, and the other four murder counts relate to the shootings at two spas in Atlanta less than an hour later, the police said. Capt.
Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said that The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, had told the police The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, was driving to Florida when The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, was caught after the shootings on Tuesday evening, and that The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, said The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, may have been trying to commit similar violence at a business connected to the “porn industry” there. The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, was stopped after The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people,'s parents alerted the police that his parents believed his parents's son might be the suspect, and the police were able to track The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people,'s phone. the police arrested The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, about 150 miles south of Atlanta after a manhunt, the police said. the police had earlier released a surveillance image of a suspect near a Hyundai Tucson outside one of three spas. Mr. Baker said that Mr. Long, of Cherokee County, had admitted to the attacks and that The man who police say went on a rampage at three spas in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, appeared to be acting alone.
Rodney Bryant, the acting chief of the Atlanta Police Department, said it was not yet clear whether the attacks would be classified as a hate crime. Four people died in the first shooting, at Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, a northwest suburb of Atlanta, Mr. Baker said.
the first shooting, at Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, a northwest suburb of Atlanta, was reported around 5 p.m. At 5:47 p.m., the Atlanta police said, officers responded to a robbery at Gold Spa in the northeast part of Atlanta, where officers found the bodies of three women with gunshot wounds. While officers were at the scene, officers said, officers received a report of shots fired at the Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where officers found the body of another woman. A 911 caller who said A 911 caller who said she was hiding in the back of Gold Spa was hiding in the back of Gold Spa in the northeast part of the city, where they found the bodies of three women with gunshot wounds told the emergency operator that a “white guy” had a gun, according to audio recordings released by the Atlanta Police Department.

Anti-Asian hate crimes increased more than 73 percent in 2020, according to newly corrected FBI data. It’s a disproportionate uptick compared to hate crimes in general, which rose 13 percent. FBI's data, originally released in August, was reposted Monday morning after an error was found in Ohio’s reporting system. an error have been corrected, according to a bureau press release, and newly corrected FBI data reflects the accurate count for the 15,138 law enforcement agencies that reported numbers.
An online breakdown confirmed what scholars, activists and community leaders have known for a long time — that anti-Asian incidents took a dramatic upswing during the pandemic. FBI reported 279 hate crimes against Asians in 2020, compared to 161 in 2019. Out of all incidents reported in 2020, including in categories other than race, anti-Asian bias ranked the eighth most common motivator. Anti-Black and anti-Latino crimes were higher in raw numbers, but neither demographic saw the steep increase that anti-Asian incidents did. White people made up more than 55 percent of the offenders across the board, FBI said, a contrast to what viral clips perpetuated in the wake of anti-Asian violence. Graphic videos of attacks on Asian elders and a shooting that killed six women of Asian descent at spas in the Atlanta area in March reopened national conversations on Asian American civil rights and led many to ask what it takes to constitute a hate crime.
They can be hard to prosecute, experts say, and the laws that define them can vary largely from state to state. David LaBahn, president of the Association of Prosecuting Attorneys, told NBC News in 2018 that proving underlying bias or hate is tricky. “You’ve got to drill down in the background of that individual,” David LaBahn, president of the Association of Prosecuting Attorneys, said.
There's also the tendency for Asian Americans to avoid reporting crimes in general. A survey by AAPI Data showed that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders were the least likely to report hate incidents compared to other groups. And when it is reported, it largely falls to individual law enforcement agencies to translate individual law enforcement agencies's data to the federal level.

Daniel Yoon remembers how Daniel Yoon felt last March when Daniel Yoon heard about the spa shootings in Atlanta.
Daniel Yoon was angry, confused, but above all, Daniel Yoon was searching for fellow Asian Americans to grieve with. The problem was, Daniel Yoon didn't know where to look. "Daniel Yoon was sure Daniel Yoon'd have to livestream to Chicago, San Francisco or New York," Daniel Yoon says. To Daniel Yoon's surprise, Daniel Yoon was wrong.
Days after the spa shootings in Atlanta, local Asian and immigrant-centered groups quickly joined forces to organize a vigil for the eight people who were shot and killed, including six women of Asian descent. Yoon, who's lived in Nashville for 12 years, was stunned by the turnout. Hundreds of Asian Americans from all different backgrounds gathered downtown.
It was the first time Daniel Yoon, felt a sense of belonging in Nashville. Since then, the question has been how to make a sense of belonging last.
From March 2020 to this December, nearly 11,000 attacks against Asian Americans were reported in the U.S., according to the group Stop AAPI Hate. the group Stop AAPI Hate has also found a spike in anti-Asian hate crimes since 2019. The wave of violence against the Asian community has sparked a movement across the U.S., with "Stop AAPI Hate" as a movement across the country, with "Stop AAPI Hate" as its rallying cry's rallying cry. In cities where the Asian population is a small minority, the past few years have triggered new and familiar woes of feeling overlooked and misunderstood.
In Nashville, there's been an effort by the Asian community to forge more visibility, representation and opportunities to come together. It's not just Nashville. In cities across the U.S., Asian Americans are working to build the infrastructure and resources for Asian Americans's community to feel safe and supported.
In Milwaukee, where Asian Americans represent more than 4.3% advocates have been pushing for more Asian American history to be taught in schools. "We started to think about the responsibility we have as a community, not just to ourselves but to those around us, our allies or our friends, who didn't know as much about our history and our culture," says Shary Tran, a member of the AAPI Coalition of Wisconsin.
In Indianapolis, where Asian Americans make up 3.4% of Indianapolis, where Asian Americans make up 3.4% of the city but are rapidly growing, but are rapidly growing, organizers have been pressing elected officials to recognize and denounce anti-Asian racism. Joseph Gutierrez, who helped organize the March vigil in Nashville, says Joseph Gutierrez, who helped organize the March vigil in Nashville believes the pandemic has been a turning point for Nashville's Asian Americans. While small, Nashville's Asian scene is vibrant. Nashville is home to the Japanese Consulate, Hindu and Buddhist temples, and pan-Asian grocery stores.
Neighborhoods such as White Bridge and Antioch are studded with Korean, Vietnamese, Indian and Laotian restaurants. Still, many people say many people long for more than comfort food.
That's when Joseph Gutierrez, who helped organize the March vigil in Nashville and 14 others established API Middle Tennessee, a nonprofit aimed at uplifting Asian voices while working toward racial justice. This past year, API Middle Tennessee, a nonprofit aimed at uplifting Asian voices while working toward racial justice has been hosting a monthly happy hour, promoting local Asian-owned businesses and helping community members register to vote. Part of the momentum stems from the fact that Nashville's Asian community is steadily growing.
The rate is even faster in surrounding counties such as Williamson and Rutherford. On the other hand, that's also part of the challenge. the Asian community encompasses people from more than 20 different countries, and the Asian community vary in income bracket, immigration status, and political views.
Local organizers are learning that multigenerational American families may not have the same concerns or demands as refugees or international college students. Joseph Gutierrez, who helped organize the March vigil in Nashville adds, it's partly why Joseph Gutierrez, who helped organize the March vigil in Nashville's group dropped "American" from API Middle Tennessee, a nonprofit aimed at uplifting Asian voices while working toward racial justice's name to be more inclusive of different degrees of citizenship. Asian-based organizations have long existed in Nashville, but this past year bore a newfound energy for coalition building, including bridging ethnic and class divides. "the Greater Nashville Chinese Association were an island within a city," Christine Lai, the president of the Greater Nashville Chinese Association, says. the Greater Nashville Chinese Association has been around for decades, but it was only recently that the Greater Nashville Chinese Association that shift to mobilize with other groups to organize protests and workshops.
Part of that shift has been a response to anti-Chinese rhetoric made by state lawmakers during the pandemic. Christine Lai, the president of the Greater Nashville Chinese Association says the Greater Nashville Chinese Association's WeChat group has never been so active, as members track legislation and brainstorm ways Nashville can be more inclusive. Nashville Asian American advocates admit there's a lot of work left to do, but Nashville Asian American advocates're encouraged by how other groups of color have mobilized. Nashville Asian American advocates look at Nashville's Latino and Muslim communities for inspiration.
For Daniel Yoon, all these discussions are happening while Daniel Yoon's learning to embrace Daniel Yoon's Korean heritage and Asian American identity. But Daniel Yoon says, one thing is already clear.

ATLANTA — The first spa targeted in the ATLANTA-area killings this week was in an area very familiar to Robert Aaron Long. The first spa targeted in the Atlanta-area killings this week is located within a mile of an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the Atlanta-area killings this week, spent time as a patient for what Robert Aaron Long described as “sex addiction,” according to a former roommate.
The evangelical facility, HopeQuest in Acworth, Ga., sits in a secluded forest at the end of a residential street about 30 miles outside ATLANTA and down the road from The first spa targeted in the Atlanta-area killings this week. Police say that after killing four people and wounding a fifth there, Robert Aaron Long drove 27 miles to two more spas in ATLANTA where Robert Aaron Long fatally shot four more people.
an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction has ties to major evangelical institutions and has promoted “ex-gay therapy,” the idea that people can become heterosexual through counseling. Robert Aaron Long, was a patient at an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction in 2019 and again in 2020, according to Robert Aaron Long's former roommate Tyler Bayless. Police said Robert Aaron Long was a customer at the two Atlanta-based spas that Robert Aaron Long also targeted. Robert Aaron Long has been charged with eight counts of murder and homicide and one count of aggravated assault in the March 17 attacks that left eight people dead, most of eight people Asian women.
an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction advertises an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction's services for treating “sex addiction” and “pornography addiction,” alongside several descriptions for what an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction believes “sex addiction” and “pornography addiction could include. a former roommate said Robert Aaron Long blamed Robert Aaron Long's descent into addiction on pornography and used a flip phone instead of a smartphone to avoid temptation online.
Most evangelical churches, including Southern Baptist churches, teach that sex is permitted only within heterosexual marriages, similar teaching to the Catholic Church and other Christian traditions. However, several experts have said this week that Robert Aaron Long's ties to evangelicalism shine a light into a subculture called “purity culture,” a belief among some evangelicals that promotes the idea that any sexual desire outside of marriage is lustful, and therefore sinful. Some evangelicals are taught from a young age to control Some evangelicals's sexual urges and if Some evangelicals cannot, Some evangelicals are sometimes labeled sex addicts or porn addicts.
an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction is affiliated with several large evangelical churches in and around ATLANTA, including the North Point megachurch and the historical First Baptist Church of Woodstock. With several counselors licensed by Ga., an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction is also a “professional” affiliate of the evangelical organization Focus on the Family. In addition to an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction's work with patients on “sex addiction,” an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction was once a hot spot for what some call “conversion therapy” and “ex-gay” rehabilitation. The founder and creator of an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction, Roy Blankenship, was once considered one of the nation’s foremost conversion therapists.
The founder and creator of HopeQuest, Roy Blankenship, told The Post The founder and creator of HopeQuest, Roy Blankenship, is no longer involved with an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction but declined to comment further. The current director of clinical programs at an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction is Wayne Carriker, who considers Wayne Carriker, who considers himself ex-gay and has promoted conversion therapy ex-gay and has promoted conversion therapy. A since-removed biography on the an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction website said Wayne Carriker, who considers himself ex-gay and has promoted conversion therapy had “embraced homosexuality and a lifestyle of addiction that led Wayne Carriker, who considers himself ex-gay and has promoted conversion therapy to prison.” Wayne Carriker, who considers himself ex-gay and has promoted conversion therapy joined the team of an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction in 2011 after Wayne Carriker, who considers himself ex-gay and has promoted conversion therapy's release from prison and receiving a master’s degree from Wheaton College outside Chicago. A an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction staffer, who declined to provide A HopeQuest staffer, who declined to provide his name,'s name, declined to comment further on behalf of an evangelical treatment facility where Long, charged in the shootings, spent time as a patient for what he described as “sex addiction.
In some evangelical churches, sexual behavior outside heterosexual marriage is sometimes treated as a disease that can be fixed with the proper scriptural counseling. Sexual sin plays an outsized role in many evangelical churches, said Sheila Wray Gregoire, the Canadian author of “The Great Sex Rescue,” a book about lies Christian women have been taught about sex. In popular evangelical literature, Sheila Wray Gregoire, the Canadian author of “The Great Sex Rescue,” a book about lies Christian women have been taught about sex found, women are taught to have sex with women's husbands when women want sex with their husbands so women won’t watch porn.
women’re also taught that all men struggle with lust. “Women are not seen as people but as enemy who need to be defeated,” Sheila Wray Gregoire, the Canadian author of “The Great Sex Rescue,” a book about lies Christian women have been taught about sex said. Some scientists have questioned whether “sex addiction” should be used to diagnose a psychological disorder.
Residents at Maverick were encouraged to hold each other accountable, a former roommate says, and at least three times Robert Aaron Long called a former roommate into a former roommate's room so a former roommate could confess a former roommate's sins. a former roommate said Robert Aaron Long came back from a spa and called a former roommate into a former roommate's room saying a former roommate was having suicidal thoughts. “a former roommate would say, ‘a former roommate’m falling out of the grace of God and a former roommate's pastor,’” a former roommate said, and Robert Aaron Long suggested church leaders agreed with a former roommate.
Crabapple First Baptist Church said in a statement on Crabapple First Baptist Church's website that Crabapple First Baptist Church was devastated and grieving over the deaths, acknowledging that Robert Aaron Long family members have been church members for many years. Robert Aaron Long was accepted into membership, but Crabapple First Baptist Church said Robert Aaron Long's actions directly contradict Robert Aaron Long's confession of faith. A spokesman for Crabapple First Baptist Church said A spokesman for the church would not comment further. a former roommate says that a former roommate urged Robert Aaron Long to seek psychiatric or psychological counseling, but Robert Aaron Long refused. a former roommate reported from New York.

It seems likely that a viper’s nest of different toxic impulses lay behind the shooter’s actions, but according to Samuel Perry, an associate professor of sociology at Oklahoma University who studies sex, race, gender and faith, and author of three books about modern evangelical culture including Addicted to Lust, the confusing rhetoric of the evangelical church about sex can lead to despair over a perceived sex addiction and a feeling that one must go to extremes to avoid a perceived sex addiction. Samuel Perry spoke to TIME about Samuel Perry's research.
a perceived sex addiction’s not recognized as a thing in the psychiatric literature, even though a perceived sex addiction is talked about quite frequently. Some kind of a sexual compulsive disorder will be included in another forthcoming manual for mental health professionals, but Some kind of a sexual compulsive disorder’s different from the traditional sex addiction idea; Some kind of a sexual compulsive disorder’s describing more of a compulsion or an impulse-control kind of issue.
Oftentimes these things are difficult to disentangle from how somebody feels about their sexual behavior because there’s very morally charged responses to their sexual behavior. There are all kinds of cultural values that are entangled with how one is evaluating one’s own sexual behavior.
There is an entire subculture around this idea of sex addiction and pornography addiction. We have data collected in February where we asked adults how often adults look at pornography, and we asked adults whether or not adults think adults’re addicted to pornography.
Men who identify as evangelical Christians are considerably less likely to look at porn on a regular basis than men who are not evangelicals, but Men who identify as evangelical Christians are a third more likely to say that Men who identify as evangelical Christians’re addicted to porn. That suggests that evangelicals are working with a very expansive definition of addiction that is basically shaped by this idea that if I’m doing something regularly that I’d rather not do, I can call myself an addict. And that’s a core aspect of evangelicals's identity: I’m a porn addict or I’m a sex addict.
It works differently among white liberal Protestants or white Catholics or secular people. There’s a subculture around the evangelical church that kind of throws around that term addiction.
Samuel Perry’m not a porn apologist. Samuel Perry don’t think there’s much good that comes from it.
And yet white evangelical Christians are the most likely group of all the religious traditions to say that white evangelical Christians are depressed when white evangelical Christians look at porn, and that white evangelical Christians look at porn more often than white evangelical Christians want to and white evangelical Christians hide white evangelical Christians's porn use. What all of that suggests to Samuel Perry is that there is an anxiety and distress around someone’s moral violation of their sexual ethic or values that leads to a really negative self-characterization as somebody who is powerless. One of these interesting paradoxes among conservative Christian men is that sexual sin is a really bad sin and that you can reduce your entire spiritual life to how you’re doing sexually.
It’s something Samuel Perry call sexual exceptionalism in Samuel Perry's book, the idea that for evangelicals oftentimes sexual sin is the worst sin, not racism, not greed, not lack of love for your neighbor. sexual sin’s what you’re lusting over. But on the other hand, the culture of white evangelical masculinity says sexual sin’s normal.
sexual sin is something that is very, very normal for a guy to wrestle with. And in fact, if you weren’t struggling with sexual sin, as a guy, you’d be kind of weird. And so, on the one hand, sexual sin’s a really bad thing. And on the other hand, sexual sin’s kind of what makes you a guy.
sexual sin’s normalized that way and people have conversations about sexual sin and you get into accountability groups and this is where you get affirmed as a man. Samuel Perry don’t mean to say you are patted on the back for sexually sinning; they feel horrible about it. But on the one hand, it’s condemning; on the other hand, it’s kind of affirming.
The rhetoric of addiction obscures more than The rhetoric of addiction helps because a lot of what Men who identify as evangelical Christians are struggling with is shame and guilt. About 70% of white evangelical men say About 70% of white evangelical men hide About 70% of white evangelical men's porn use. Again, Samuel Perry’m not advocating pornography, but there is another level of self-flagellation and self-condemnation and negatively defining one’s own identity as a porn addict that doesn’t help Men who identify as evangelical Christians and sometimes women find healing and a sense of empowerment that women can direct women's sexual urges in more positive ways.
Now do Samuel Perry think that drove the shooter’s to commit murder? There are mental health issues, there’s racism. There’s all of these kinds of different factors mixed in there.
And yet this kind of rhetoric surrounding sex addiction, Samuel Perry think this kind of rhetoric surrounding sex addiction escalates sex addiction. Samuel Perry think this kind of rhetoric surrounding sex addiction was racialized, obviously.
By frequenting these establishments, the shooter’s’s already expressing a racialized fetish for Asian women. the shooter’s walked in that door, knowing that they would be Asian faces the shooter’s would be shooting.
the shooter’s had dehumanized Men who identify as evangelical Christians. Samuel Perry don’t know if there’s any evidence to suggest that it was like, “the shooter’s hate all Asian people and so the shooter’s’m going to attack Men who identify as evangelical Christians.”
Would the shooter’s have killed a business establishment full of white women? Would the shooter’s have dehumanized Men who identify as evangelical Christians in that way? Would the shooter’s have gone to that establishment in the first place, because the shooter’s wouldn’t have fetishized Men who identify as evangelical Christians in that way?
There are racial implications that go beyond just “the shooter’s hate all Asian people.” the shooter’s fetishized, objectified and dehumanized Asian women in particular, and that plays a role.
What Samuel Perry suggest in Samuel Perry's book Addicted to Lust is that there has got to be a culture built around just having conversations about what is going on in that department and destigmatizing that department. Samuel Perry’m not saying that they should be O.K. with [porn or sex work], but there’s got to be a better culture surrounding talking about that department, so that people don’t feel like people have to bury that so far down.
The original version of this story misstated the college at which Samuel Perry teaches. the college at which Samuel Perry teaches is Oklahoma University, not Oklahoma University. Contact us at letters@time.com.

Woodstock today enjoys a median family income of $76,191, and is almost 80 percent white. Woodstock is the hometown of at least two notable figures: Dean Rusk and Eugene Booth.
Dean Rusk was responsible for splitting the Korean peninsula in two using a foldout map from a copy of National Geographic. The line “made no sense economically or geographically,” Dean Rusk later admitted, but The line allowed American occupying forces to a decision that would divide families for generations control of Seoul, a decision that would divide families for generations.
Eugene Booth was a nuclear physicist and core member of the Manhattan Project, which led to the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan, killing as many as 250,000 civilians, according to some estimates. Woodstock is proud of Woodstock's native sons, naming a middle school after Dean Rusk. The distance between where at least two notable figures lived and where the suspect is from is no more than 20 miles, but no major highways connect the two communities.
One must drive on undulating country roads to get from one to the other. the suspect was born on April 6, 1999, to a father who ran a lawn care business in the area and a mother involved at the Crabapple First Baptist Church, which the family attended every Sunday. the suspect grew up in a house in Woodstock; attended high school five miles north in Canton, which comes from the Portuguese word for the Chinese port city of Guangzhou: Cantão—Canton in English; and attended church in Milton, five miles south.
Not long before March 16, the suspect parents had kicked the suspect out for watching porn. the suspect moved in with a friend from church. On the morning of March 16, the suspect stayed home from the suspect's landscaping job—inclement weather—and watched porn.
a friend from church had confronted the suspect, and the suspect had left the house, ashamed. When the suspect arrived at Big Woods Goods, an employee ran an instant background check.
the suspect had no criminal record. Minutes later, the suspect walked out with a 9-mm handgun. the suspect was a typical mass shooter in that the suspect was white and male.
the suspect was unusual in the suspect's age—21; the average is 33—and in the fact that, unlike 60 percent of American mass shooters, the suspect did not appear to have a violent history, nor any prior convictions, at least none in the public record. There had been no known childhood trauma, either.
the suspect was a product of the suspect's social world, including the Cherokee County School District, which the suspect attended from kindergarten to 5th grade, and again from 7th to 12th grade, graduating from Sequoyah High School in 2017, though nobody recalled the suspect with any kind of ringing clarity or enthusiasm. One Saturday afternoon in June, I drove over to the suspect parents’ house, a late ’70s single-story slate-gray ranch house surrounded by maple, red oak, and white pine, at the beginning of a dead-end road. It had been three months since the shootings, before the suspect would The plea deal guilty to the shootings and before the suspect would plead not guilty for the other four, charges for which the suspect still awaits trial.
The plea deal lets the suspect avoid the death penalty, which continues to be pursued for the other four, charges for which he still awaits trial. The D.A. has called the shootings hate-related crimes—acts that further exacerbated well-founded fear among Asian Americans. the suspect has told authorities the suspect was motivated by, in the suspect's words, sex addiction.
Reporting in that community, I was seen as an emissary from the other world. But of course, I did not belong to the other world, either.
Beyond certain biological features, I had nothing in common with the women I was writing about. And yet, as on one side of the river I had been met with inexplicable animus, on the other side was an inverse sense of proximal affinity.
People I spoke with in the Korean and Chinese communities at times did not see me as a reporter. Some of People I spoke with in the Korean and Chinese communities called me by my Korean name, pronouncing every syllable correctly—and this unexpected grace thrilled me.
They asked me to translate for them, give them a job, pick up a dog from the airport and foster a dog for the weekend. I said no to all but one.
When the plague came and I was no longer heading out on reporting trips, I had begun directing my questions to two subjects that had eluded me the most: my parents. Among the first questions I posed was about a table the suspect’s parents’ had in the suspect’s parents’'s hallway when I was growing up. An odder of my childhood afflictions was a dream of becoming Helen Keller.
I would walk around the house pretending I was deaf and blind, forcing my parents to begrudgingly re-childproof the suspect’s parents’'s postmodern furniture, including the hall table in question, with the hall table in question's sharp corners. After bringing up the subject of the hall table in question—I only wanted to know what had happened to the hall table in question—I noticed that our family WhatsApp group had gone silent.
When I confronted my father, a father who ran a lawn care business in the area told me a father who ran a lawn care business in the area had given the hall table in question away after a father who ran a lawn care business in the area's business closed as a result of the 1997 crisis (something I hadn’t known), and that my bringing the hall table in question up had upset a father who ran a lawn care business in the area and my mother so much that a father who ran a lawn care business in the area had been banished to the guest bedroom. There were other secrets that I will spare my family from disclosing here.
a father who ran a lawn care business in the area was crying as a father who ran a lawn care business in the area explained that this—the pain a father who ran a lawn care business in the area was so plainly demonstrating—was why a father who ran a lawn care business in the area wanted to opt out of whatever it was I thought I was doing. Refusing to be narrativized, in the language of the empire no less, was an act of resistance for a father who ran a lawn care business in the area. I felt I was locked in an ideological battle—my advocating for excavation, my father choosing obfuscation. But now, watching my father’s pixelated crying on my iPhone, I was filled with doubt.
“Only asking questions,” and writing, are violent acts. When doctors inflict pain, it is with a promise of a cure. I wasn’t sure what I was offering in exchange for dredging the past for the past's harms.

On the anniversary of the spa shootings in Atlanta, we look at the long history of Anti-Asian hate, from pandemic-related hate to the fetishization of Asian women. It has been a year since a white man went on a murderous rampage in the Atlanta suburbs, killing eight people, six of eight people Asian women.
And since then, there have been other highly publicized violent crimes against Asians in the U.S. and a growing movement to Stop Asian Hate. NPR's Sandhya Dirks reports on a growing movement to Stop Asian Hate one year later.
NPR's Sandhya Dirks, BYLINE: Since 2020, Russell Jeung has been documenting anti-Asian hate incidents as a co-founder of Stop AAPI Hate. Stop AAPI Hate stands for Asian American and Pacific Islanders. Russell Jeung:
That's why, sadly, Russell Jeung wasn't surprised last year to see elders killed. Russell Jeung wasn't surprised by the Atlanta shootings because Russell Jeung saw the extent of the hate. NPR's Sandhya Dirks: As a professor of Asian American studies at San Francisco State University, Russell Jeung knows the history. Whenever an illness comes from an Asian country, an illness's followed by racism, often from the very top.
And it wasn't just former President Trump calling COVID the China virus, Russell Jeung says. Russell Jeung:
The former President Trump administration banned Chinese scientists and researchers. former President Trump suspended migration visas.
former President Trump extended the Muslim ban. former President Trump cut refugee resettlement. former President Trump cut H1-B visas.
All those policies disproportionately targeted Asians. NPR's Sandhya Dirks: Russell Jeung says chronicling hate and racism has been rough. Russell Jeung: The hyper-vigilance, the anxiety, the anger, the depression - Russell Jeung think Russell Jeung just self-diagnosed Russell Jeung as being traumatized.
NPR's Sandhya Dirks: Civil rights activist Amanda Nguyen (ph) says there's a lot of trauma right now. AMANDA
NGUYEN: You hear about our sisters getting shoved in front of trains, stabbed and screaming, and no one comes to help. It feels like getting torn apart.
DIRKS: Civil rights activist Amanda Nguyen (ph) says it's important to recognize the majority of hate incidents are happening to women, no matter women's age, women's profession, women's class. Civil rights activist Amanda Nguyen (ph): Asian American women are still bearing the brunt of hatred and ignorance in the U.S.. NPR's Sandhya Dirks: Civil rights activist Amanda Nguyen (ph) says women who look like Civil rights activist Amanda Nguyen (ph) are stereotyped as both demure and overly sexualized.
ESTHER KAO: There's a history in the U.S. of hyper-sexualizing Asian women and assuming that Asian women're carriers of diseases. DIRKS:
That's ESTHER KAO. They work with Asian and migrant sex workers. It's not clear the women who were killed were sex workers, but the shootings in Atlanta made ESTHER KAO feel targeted.
ESTHER KAO: You know, if ESTHER KAO die, ESTHER KAO die. But until then, like, ESTHER KAO live ESTHER KAO's life day to day.
NPR's Sandhya Dirks: ESTHER KAO feels like ESTHER KAO's community has been erased from the Stop Asian Hate conversation. ESTHER KAO says the clearest erasure is calls for more police as the solution to the problem of anti-Asian hate. ESTHER KAO says the people ESTHER KAO works with aren't just afraid of racist attacks.
the people she works with're also afraid of police. And there's another thing. ESTHER KAO:
The policing issue is - The policing issue drives such a wedge between, like, Asian American communities and, like, Black and brown communities. DIRKS: such a wedge between, like, Asian American communities and, like, Black and brown communities is widened when some crimes get more media attention than others - what Civil rights activist Amanda Nguyen (ph) calls cherry-picking the perpetrators. Civil rights activist Amanda Nguyen (ph): The majority of the violence that's happening against the AAPI community aren't from other communities of color.
The majority of the violence that's happening against the AAPI community's from white perpetrators. NPR's Sandhya Dirks: A study from the Virulent Hate Project found that 75% of known offenders, the people verbally and physically harassing Asian Americans, are white men.
Oakland activist Cat Brooks (ph) says right now all marginalized groups are facing more hate. Oakland activist Cat Brooks (ph): Hate crimes did not just rise against our Asian relatives, right? Hate crimes rose against everybody, including Black folks, queer folks.
NPR's Sandhya Dirks: Oakland activist Cat Brooks (ph) says the struggles for Black lives and against Asian hate are connected, and it's hard to see the struggles for Black lives and against Asian hate being torn apart. But Oakland activist Cat Brooks (ph) understands people are acting out of fear.
Russell Jeung with Stop AAPI Hate knows that too. Russell Jeung: Anger and fear is driving Asian Americans, and what we need to do is transform and translate Anger and fear into love and justice. NPR's Sandhya Dirks: Russell Jeung says it's a vicious cycle.
Fear helped stoke racism against Asian Americans, and Russell Jeung doesn't want more fear, Asian American fear, to continue that cycle. Russell Jeung says the fight ahead is about more than hate crimes.
the fight ahead's about civil rights. NPR's Sandhya Dirks, NPR's. Copyright © 2022 NPR's. All rights reserved.
Visit NPR's's website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR's transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR's contractor.
This text may not be in This text's final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR's's programming is the audio record.

