Warning: This graphic requires JavaScript. Please enable JavaScript for the best experience.
What may have been the country’s deadliest-ever outbreak of December tornadoes tore through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee Valley on Friday and Saturday, devastating areas in six states. The vicious centerpiece was a monster supercell that carved an hours-long, 250-mile path from eastern Arkansas to western Kentucky. At least 70 people were killed in Kentucky alone.
A powerful storm system set up the chaos as it swept from the Rockies toward Canada, triggering high winds over large areas of the Mid-South, Midwest and Great Lakes. On Friday evening, the storm dragged a strong cold front through the zone from Arkansas to southern Illinois and western Kentucky. Violent thunderstorms erupted when the cold air collided with unseasonably warm air that had set records in the region, and those storms spawned more than 30 tornadoes.
The storm system and the front also generated very strong winds in the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley, where hundreds of thousands of customers lost power. The National Weather Service received reports of more than three dozen tornadoes from Friday night to Saturday morning, ranging from Illinois to Mississippi.
One of them caved in the roof of an Amazon distribution warehouse near Edwardsville, Ill., less than 20 miles northeast of St. Louis, killing at least six people inside. Another damaged buildings on the Western Kentucky University campus in Bowling Green, where a person was killed in off-campus housing.
In the wee hours of Saturday morning, a stretch of homes was badly damaged or destroyed along a road in Dickson County, Tenn., and several people were trapped. Near Defiance, Mo., at least one person died of injuries caused by an intense tornado.
But the largest and deadliest tornado — which may have been more than one tornado spawned by the same supercell — formed in Arkansas after 7 p.m. and chewed through swaths of towns and rural areas until nearly midnight, tossing debris more than 30,000 feet in the air as it went. Among the first places hit was Trumann, Ark. At 7:24 p.m., a tornado touched down in Monette, Ark., and ripped apart a nursing home, killing one person and injuring five.
Shortly afterward in nearby Leachville, a woman was killed inside a Dollar General store as the storm “wadded up” the store’s steel frame "like an aluminum can,” said Chuck Brown, a business owner and sheriff’s department lieutenant in the county. Cabins were turned to sticks at Cypress Point on the banks of Reelfoot Lake in the tiny town of Samburg, Tenn., where two people died. The National Weather Service in Paducah, Ky., estimated that the storm was three-quarters of a mile wide when it roared through Cayce, Ky., and headed for Mayfield.
About 9:30 p.m., the town of Mayfield, Ky., took a direct hit. Many of the buildings were leveled, homes were sheared from their foundations and commercial buildings were flattened, including a candle factory where scores of workers were trapped inside when the walls and roof caved in.
Dozens are feared dead. Minutes later, the storm slammed into a tiny burg of 2,600 up the road. “A good portion of Dawson Springs is gone,” said Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear of his father’s hometown.
Just before 11 p.m., 27 cars of a train were derailed and overturned in Earlington, Ky. One tanker car reportedly landed 75 yards away from the track. Another car landed on a nearby house, and other homes were reduced to debris.
About 11 p.m., at least 11 people were killed in tornadoes in Muhlenberg County, Ky. One slammed into the town of Bremen, two hours after a smaller storm had wrecked a hardware store, the local Leader News reported. Not long after, the massive supercell stopped rotating, but storms continued to plague the region into Saturday morning.
Lauren Tierney, Chiqui Esteban, Shelly Tan and Jason Samenow contributed to this story. Hourly wind speed data from NOAA Global Systems Laboratory. Satellite composite from European Space Agency. Tornado reports and supercell locations from National Weather Service.

WASHINGTON, Dec 10 (Reuters) - A score of people were trapped on Friday in a nursing home in northeastern Arkansas after it was struck by a tornado that killed two people and injured five, media said, citing a county official. The tornado that hit the nursing home in the city of Monette was among a string of tornadoes in the region, including one in the nearby town of Truman, according to the channel KAIT, an affiliate of broadcaster NBC in Jonesboro. It quoted the official, Judge Marvin Day of Craighead county, as saying two people were killed, five injured and at least 20 trapped in the Monette Manor nursing home near the Tennessee border. There were reports that a nursing home in Truman was also damaged, with fire and rescue teams heading for the area, it added. The U.S. National Weather Service had issued tornado warnings on Friday night for areas in several states including Arkansas, Tennessee, Missouri and Illinois. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

One of the deadly tornadoes that erupted under the cloak of darkness overnight Friday into the early hours of Saturday, leaving at least 70 dead, may have set the record for the longest continuous tornado in American history. The devastating outbreak, which included more than 30 tornado reports across six states stretching across the Mississippi Valley, Southeast and Midwest, is also an extremely rare event this late into the year.
One tornado, being called the "Quad-State Tornado" ripped across four states in four hours (Arkansas, Missouri, Tennessee and Kentucky), slamming communities such as Monette, Arkansas, and Mayfield, Kentucky, which were two of the hardest hit towns. There were at least eight tornado emergencies issued, a designation which is reserved for the most life-threatening tornado events when a confirmed large and dangerous tornado is headed toward people.
The tornado that devastated the town of Mayfield was produced by a parent thunderstorm that traveled more than 230 miles across four states over the course of four hours. The National Weather Service will perform the official tornado survey to confirm if it was a continuous tornado or several tornadoes produced by the same storm. If confirmed as one single and continuous tornado, it will set the record for the longest “long-track” tornado in U.S. history.
The National Weather Service office in Little Rock said Saturday night that, so far, there is no evidence of damage in Arkansas associated with the storm that went on to produce the long-track tornado. The longest on record is the “Tri-State” tornado from 1925, which tracked 219 miles across Missouri, Illinois and Indiana. While the National Weather Service provides the official intensities of the tornadoes after conducting storm surveys, there are several indications that the tornadoes, including the Mayfield one, were in the strong to violent categories, which meteorologists consider EF3, EF4 or EF5 on the Enhanced Fujita Scale.
One such indicator was debris lofted high into the air. Radar suggested that the Mayfield tornado threw debris over 30,000 feet into the air. That's the altitude commercial airplanes fly. And this event was rare for December.

The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day.

FRANKFORT, Ky. (WYMT) -
After significant damage from suspected tornadoes in the western part of the state, Governor Andy Beshear has declared a State of Emergency. Gov. Beshear has activated the Kentucky National Guard and the Kentucky State Police. Gov. Beshear is also set to provide an update with emergency management officials at 5:00 a.m. Saturday.
Copyright 2021 WYMT. All rights reserved.

More than 70 people are feared dead after a catastrophic series of tornadoes ripped through Kentucky and other states late Friday and early Saturday, Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said. The governor estimates that the “death toll from this event is north of 70 Kentuckians and may end of exceeding 100 before the day is done,” he said. “This is the most devastating, most deadly tornado event in Kentucky’s history,” Beshear said in a news conference Saturday afternoon. More than 181 guardsmen from the National Guard were activated early in the morning, a number that has gone up as requests for help continue to come in.
Twenty-seven fatalities connected to the severe weather have been confirmed so far, according to an NBC News tally. Along with the death of a 3-year-old in Graves County, Kentucky, there were 12 dead in Warren County, Kentucky, six dead in Illinois, four in Tennessee, two in Missouri, and two fatalities in Arkansas.
On Saturday afternoon, the White House approved Kentucky's state of emergency and ordered federal assistance to supplement state and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from severe storms, straight-line winds, flooding, and tornadoes. President Joe Biden said in a press conference shortly afterwards that he was willing to approve additional federal emergency declarations from other states as soon as they submit them.
Beshear said four tornadoes, one of which stayed on the ground for more than 200 miles after touching down, had swept through the state. Almost 60,000 Kentuckians had been left without power, he said.
Mayfield Assistant Fire Chief Jeremy Creason said that the bulk of their resources are going towards dealing with the candle factory's devastation. So far, 40 people have been rescued from inside the facility as of late Saturday morning. Authorities believe there were about 110 people inside the candle-making plant when it was leveled by the twister. Creason also added that he is looking for a temporary home for Mayfield's main fire station since it was destroyed by the tornado, leaving it "fully inoperable," he said.
In Arkansas, preliminary surveys from the National Weather Service showed three tornadoes across the northeastern part of the state. One person was dead and five were seriously injured when an apparent tornado struck the Monette Manor Nursing Home in Monette, Arkansas, Craighead County Judge Marvin Day said.
He initially said two people had died. One person died and one person was injured at a Dollar General in Mississippi County, and four people were injured in Poinsett County, according to the Arkansas Division of Emergency Management.
In a news conference, Kentucky Emergency Management Director Michael Dossett said the storm represented a significant massive disaster event. Trucks from the Federal Emergency Management Agency are on their way to Kentucky with search and rescue teams who will be assisting local authorities as well as temporary power systems, Dossett said late Saturday morning.
Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell and Rand Paul of Kentucky issued statements following the devastating event. "As I continue to get reports from my staff, local and state officials, we will work with the entire Kentucky federal delegation to support Governor Andy Beshear’s requests for federal assistance in order to aid these hard-hit communities with the funding and resources they need to rebuild,” McConnell said. “Our hearts are broken for all those suffering from last night’s terrible storms,” Paul said.
Mayfield Police Chief Nathan King also said that their police station was destroyed by the tornado, comprising their vehicle fleets and communications technology. But that's not stopping them from responding to the emergency, he said. Mayfield police will begin 12-hour shifts to help with the response, particularly enforcing a new curfew urging residents in the Kentucky town to remain indoors after 7 p.m. First responders will be the only ones allowed in the streets overnight, King said.
In Edwardsville, Illinois, outside St. Louis, there were at least six deaths and one injury after a 100-foot portion of a wall partially collapsed at an Amazon facility, officials with the Edwardsville Fire Department said. Authorities said 45 people were rescued from the facility after the collapse, Edwardsville Fire Chief James Whiteford said.
"Our focus is on supporting our employees and partners," he added. As a result of the severe weather, Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker activated the state’s Emergency Operations overnight.
The National Weather Service office in Paducah, Kentucky, tweeted Saturday that an aerial assessment of damage appears to show a "historic long track tornado" that was at least three-quarters of mile wide may have ripped through Western Kentucky. Damage, it said, appeared to be consistent with a tornado capable of producing winds as strong as 206 mph. The weather service also said Saturday that damage consistent with tornadoes that produce winds of 111 to 135 miles per hour is present in Illinois’ Cass and Shelby counties. Earlier in the day the weather service's office in Louisville, Kentucky, tweeted that damage in Bowling Green from Friday's front was consistent with a tornado that likely produced winds of roughly 150 mph.
More than 30 tornadoes have been reported across six states stretching across the Mississippi Valley, Southeast and Midwest. One of these tornadoes is being called the “Quad-State Tornado” after it ripped across Arkansas, Missouri, Tennessee and Kentucky in our hours.
The National Weather Service is expected to perform an official tornado survey to confirm if it was a continuous tornado or several tornadoes produced by the same storm. If confirmed as one single and continuous tornado, the so-called “Quad-State Tornado” will set the record for the longest “long-track” tornado in U.S. History.
The National Weather Service office in Little Rock said Saturday night that, so far, there is no evidence of damage in Arkansas that is associated with the storm that went on to produce the long-track tornado. Federal forecasters said the severe weather was the result of a strong low pressure system that extended from Kansas towards the Great Lakes region and produced thunderstorms, damaging winds, and tornadic activity across the Midwest and into the mid-Mississippi Valley. By nightfall Friday, the National Weather Service had issued dozens of tornado warnings for swaths of the United States impacted by the front. A possible tornado also struck in Samburg, Tennessee, where the local fire department was severely damaged, the Obion County Sheriff’s Office said.
At a press conference Saturday, Tennessee Emergency Management Agency Chief of Staff Alex Pellom said four people in the state are confirmed dead and another, a person from Lake County, was missing. Two people died in Lake County, one in Obion County, and one in Shelby County, Pellom said. Additionally, he said, 10 people were taken to hospitals; 64 sustained relatively minor injuries.
"Lives are changed forever," Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee said at the press conference. Two deaths have been confirmed in Missouri, a woman in St. Charles County and a young child in Pemiscot County, Gov. Mike Parson said. At least three people were rescued from collapsed structures flattened by the tornadoes, according to Kyle Gaines, spokesperson for the St. Charles County Ambulance District.
Earlier, the National Weather Service also issued a tornado emergency for the Kentucky cities of Madisonville, Earlington and Nortonville. Such a designation signifies that "severe threat to human life is imminent," catastrophic damage is likely, or that there's reliable information that a tornado touched down.

A Tornado Emergency was issued for Mayfield, Kentucky, as a large tornado was spotted moving through the city. Search and rescue operations are underway as catastrophic damage was reported.
The National Weather Service urged residents to take shelter as the tornado was confirmed. A tornado emergency is an enhanced warning to catch the attention of residents. The National Weather Service created the warning for the rare situation when a severe threat to human life is imminent or ongoing.
There were multiple reports of catastrophic damage within the city as a confirmed large tornado moved through the city. Storm chaser Brett Adair was there right after the tornado hit. "The scope is just so massive in terms of the damage that you know this was a higher-end destructive and possibly deadly tornado that moved through here," Adair said. Adair and his colleagues were helping deputies to help clear the roads, as they were impassable, along with searching for residents within the town.
Up to 200 people were reportedly trapped inside a candle factory. The National Weather Service said they took a power hit and handed over their duties to another weather service office. Kentucky's Governor issued a state of emergency overnight because of the significant damage. Continue to stay with FOX Weather as these storms continue.

Beshear said Sunday on CNN's State of the Union that he has received reports that show more than 80 people in the state were killed. Gov. Beshear has declared a state of emergency following tornadoes throughout Western Kentucky on Friday night.
One tornado moved through Mayfield, Kentucky, leaving a massive wake of damage and destroying several buildings. A plant in Mayfield could have more than a dozen dead, Beshear said.
"This has been the most devastating tornado event in our state’s history," Beshear said at a news conference Saturday morning. "It’s devastating. There were four tornadoes one of which was the 200-mile tornado. The longest one was a 227-mile tornado it touched down and stayed down for that period of time," he said at an earlier press conference.
The Kentucky National Guard and the Kentucky State Police have been activated to help communities impacted. "I can't get through to family I have in the area," he said. "I know there are other people going through the same thing.
It's going to be all right. It's going to be hard. We will make it through this too.
According to WPSD Local 6, The Graves County Emergency Management Office says a shelter has been opened at Mayfield High School. They're also saying that people who can safely walk can head to Fire Station 1 at 211 E. Broadway Street. West Kentucky Rural Electric says power outages in the area could be "lengthy," as transmission lines are down and there is 'widespread damage' to their system. They also add that cell towers have been damaged and that phone lines are overwhelmed. Storm spotters say that debris were thrown 30,000 feet into the air.

During winter, some may assume that the threat of tornadoes fades away as blasts of frigid air plunge into the Lower 48 states and snows blanket the northern landscape. But that chill doesn’t stop tornadoes in the central and southern United States; in fact, it can be a catalyst for spinning storms as it clashes with warm, humid air from the Gulf of Mexico.
History is replete with examples of devastating December tornadoes. But the tornado rampage from Arkansas to Illinois on Friday night and early Saturday morning rose to another level, unlike anything seen in modern records. In particular, the violence and longevity of the tornadic storm that crossed four states, from northeast Arkansas to western Kentucky, was unusual for December or any time of year, if not unprecedented.
On average, about two dozen tornadoes form in the Lower 48 states each December. Most of them occur in the western Gulf Coast region and lower Mississippi Valley. Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas and Mississippi are particularly vulnerable.
December tornadoes can be violent. Just two years ago, 40 tornadoes tore across the South on Dec. 16 and 17, killing three people.
But none of those events were as deadly or destructive as what transpired Friday and Saturday. More than 100 people are feared to have been killed, making it the deadliest December tornado outbreak on record. Beyond the human toll, the outbreak was exceptional for several meteorological reasons.
Here's a look at last night's most powerful supercell from a radar perspective. The storm was a discernable entity for just over 11 hours as it traveled 600 miles from AR to OH.
While it is still not clear whether the storm spawned just a single tornado or several twisters, a rotating storm of that duration is very unusual any time of year. The tornadic storm was extreme not only for its duration but also for its intensity.
Evan Bentley, a tornado specialist at the National Weather Service Storm Prediction Center, tweeted that radar data would indicate it unleashed winds of 190 to 205 mph, suggesting it would rate as an EF4 or top-tier EF5 on the 0-to-5 Enhanced Fujita scale for tornado intensity. Meteorologists at the Weather Service are surveying the storm damage to assign an exact rating; the process could take a few days.
If the storm rates as an EF5, it would join only two other December tornadoes this strong. Bentley also tweeted that the tornadic storm was rotating at an average speed of 94 mph for four hours, while noting that published research shows “only 1.5% of all tornadoes” spin at such speeds. Radar data also revealed that the storm lofted debris for more than three hours, which is practically unheard of.
Sometimes, radar detected debris above 30,000 feet, an incredibly rare occurrence. There have been numerous reports of items hurled by the storm found more than 100 miles away.
The Weather Service issued 146 tornado warnings during the event, the most on record during December. Only a highly anomalous storm environment could support such an extreme situation.
Often, in December, the amount of fuel available to storms is limited, which is why violent tornado outbreaks aren’t more common. But on Friday, temperatures over the zone where the storm erupted were record-setting.
The high temperatures, 20 to 30 degrees above normal, fast-forwarded the atmosphere to conditions more typical of April. The other key ingredient for tornadoes, wind shear, or a turning of winds with altitude, was also present in high quantities on Friday, as it often is in winter. The shear is generated as the jet stream, which separates cold air from warm air, dives into the Lower 48 states.
As the highly energetic winter jet stream dived into the central states and collided with this springlike environment, the atmosphere exploded. Many other atmospheric intricacies also contributed to the severity of the event, but it would not have been possible without the record-setting warmth. As temperatures warm because of human-induced climate change during winter, it might mean the odds of such events increase in the future.

MAYFIELD, Ky. (AP) — Residents of Kentucky counties where tornadoes killed dozens of people could be without heat, water or electricity in frigid temperatures for weeks or longer, state officials warned Monday, as the toll of damage and deaths came into clearer focus in five states slammed by the swarm of twisters.
Kentucky authorities said the sheer level of destruction was hindering their ability to tally the damage from Friday night’s storms. At least 88 people — including 74 in Kentucky — were killed by the tornado outbreak that also destroyed a nursing home in Arkansas, heavily damaged an Amazon distribution center in Illinois and spread its deadly effects into Tennessee and Missouri.
In Kentucky, as searches continued for those still missing, efforts also turned to repairing the power grid, sheltering those whose homes were destroyed and delivering drinking water and other supplies. “We’re not going to let any of our families go homeless,” Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said in announcing that lodges in state parks were being used to provide shelter. In Mayfield, one of the hardest hit towns, those who survived faced a high in the 50s and a low below freezing Monday without any utilities.
Across the state, about 26,000 homes and businesses were without electricity, according to poweroutage.us, including nearly all of those in Mayfield. More than 10,000 homes and businesses have no water, and another 17,000 are under boil-water advisories, Kentucky Emergency Management Director Michael Dossett told reporters.
Kentucky was the worst hit by far in the cluster of twisters across several states, remarkable because they came at a time of year when cold weather normally limits tornadoes. At least 74 people died in the state, Beshear said Monday, offering the first specific count of the dead. In Bowling Green, Kentucky, 11 people died on the same street, including two infants found among the bodies of five relatives near a residence, Warren County coroner Kevin Kirby said.
Beshear warned that it could take days longer to pin down the full death toll, with door-to-door searches impossible in some places. “With this amount of damage and rubble, it may be a week or even more before we have a final count on the number of lost lives,” the governor said.
Initially as many as 70 people were feared dead in the Mayfield Consumer Products candle factory, but the company said Sunday that eight deaths were confirmed and eight people remained missing, while more than 90 others had been located. Bob Ferguson, a spokesman for the company, said many employees gathered in a tornado shelter, then left the site and were hard to reach because phone service was out.
On Monday evening, Louisville Emergency Management Director E.J. Meiman said at a news conference that the company indicated everyone in the building during the storm had been accounted for. “We have a high level of confidence that nobody is left in this building,” Meiman said. He added the death toll from the factory has not changed.
Debris from destroyed buildings and shredded trees covered the ground in Mayfield, a city of about 10,000 in western Kentucky. Twisted sheet metal, downed power lines and wrecked vehicles lined the streets.
Windows were blown out and roofs torn off the buildings that were still standing. Five twisters hit Kentucky in all, including one with an extraordinarily long path of about 200 miles (322 kilometers), authorities said.
In addition to the deaths in Kentucky, the tornadoes also killed at least six people in Illinois, where the Amazon distribution center in Edwardsville was hit; four in Tennessee; two in Arkansas, where the nursing home was destroyed and the governor said workers shielded residents with their own bodies; and two in Missouri. The federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration announced Monday that it has opened an investigation into the collapse of the Amazon warehouse in Illinois. Amazon’s Kelly Nantel said the Illinois warehouse was “constructed consistent with code.”
Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker said there would be an investigation into updating code “given serious change in climate that we are seeing across the country” that appears to factor into stronger tornadoes. Not far from Mayfield, 67 people spent Sunday night at a church serving as a shelter in Wingo, and 40 more were expected to arrive Monday. Organizers were working to find a mobile outdoor shower facility and a laundry truck, expecting many of the displaced to need a long-term place to stay.
Volunteers were scrambling to meet more immediate needs, too, such as underwear and socks. Lifelong Mayfield resident Cynthia Gargis, 51, is staying with her daughter after the storm tore off the front of her apartment and sucked out almost everything inside. She came to the shelter to offer help and visit with friends who lost their homes.
Glynda Glover, 82, said she had no idea how long she would stay at the Wingo shelter: Her apartment is uninhabitable since the wind blew out the windows and covered her bed in glass and asphalt. On the outskirts of Dawson Springs, another town devastated by the storms, homes were reduced to rubble and trees toppled, littering the landscape for a span of at least a mile.
“It looks like a bomb went off. It’s just completely destroyed in areas,” said Jack Whitfield Jr., the Hopkins County judge-executive. “A full recovering is going to take years,” he said.
Tim Morgan, a volunteer chaplain for the Hopkins County Sheriff’s Department, said he’s seen the aftermath of tornadoes and hurricanes before, but nothing like this. “Just absolute decimation. There is an entire hillside of houses that are 3 feet tall now,” he said. Schreiner reported from Dawson Springs, Kentucky.

MAYFIELD, Ky. — As a catastrophic tornado approached this city Friday, employees of a candle factory — which would later be destroyed — heard the warning sirens and wanted to leave the building.
But at least five workers said supervisors warned employees that they would be fired if they left their shifts early. For hours, as word of the coming storm spread, as many as 15 workers beseeched managers to let them take shelter at their own homes, only to have their requests rebuffed, the workers said. Fearing for their safety, some left during their shifts regardless of the repercussions.
At least eight people died in the Mayfield Consumer Products factory, which makes scented candles. The facility was leveled, and all that is left is rubble.
Photos and videos of its widespread mangled remains have become symbols of the enormous destructive power of Friday’s tornado system. Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said Monday that 74 people were confirmed dead in the state.
McKayla Emery, 21, said in an interview from her hospital bed that workers first asked to leave shortly after tornado sirens sounded outside the factory around 5:30 p.m. Employees congregated in bathrooms and inside hallways, but the real tornado wouldn’t arrive for several more hours. After employees decided that the immediate danger had passed, several began asking to go home, the workers said.
“People had questioned if they could leave or go home,” said Emery, who preferred to stay at work and make extra money. Overtime pay was available, but it wasn’t clear whether those who stayed were offered additional pay.
Supervisors and team leaders told employees that leaving would probably jeopardize their jobs, the employees said. About 15 people asked to go home during the night shift shortly after the first emergency alarm sounded outside the facility, said another employee, Haley Conder, 29. There was a three- to four-hour window between the first and second emergency alarms when workers should have been allowed to go home, she said.
Initially, Conder said, team leaders told her they wouldn’t let workers leave because of safety precautions, so they kept everyone in the hallways and the bathrooms. Once they mistakenly thought the tornado was no longer a danger, they sent everyone back to work, employees said.
Anyone who wanted to leave should have been allowed to, Conder said. Elijah Johnson, 20, was working in the back of the building when several employees wanting to head home walked in to speak with supervisors.
He joined in on the request. “I asked to leave and they told me I’d be fired,” Johnson said.
“Even with the weather like this, you’re still going to fire me?” he asked. “Yes,” a manager responded, Johnson told NBC News.
Johnson said managers went so far as to take a roll call in hopes of finding out who had left work. Company officials denied the allegations.
He also denied that managers told employees that leaving their shifts meant risking their jobs. Ferguson said managers and team leaders undergo a series of emergency drills that follow guidelines of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. “Those protocols are in place and were followed,” he said.
A 24-hour hotline is available as of Monday for employees to call about hazard pay, grief counseling and other assistance, he said. Autumn Kirks, a team lead at the factory who was working that night, denied Monday afternoon on MSNBC that people’s jobs were threatened if they didn’t go in. But another employee, Latavia Halliburton, said she witnessed workers’ being threatened with termination if they left.
“Some people asked if they could leave,” but managers told them they would be fired if they did, she said. The first tornado warning passed without any damage, but several hours later, another warning was issued.
Once the second tornado siren sounded sometime after 9 p.m. Friday, Conder and a group of others approached three managers asking to go home. Mark Saxton, 37, a forklift operator, said that he would have preferred to leave but that he wasn’t given the option.
As the storm moved forward after the second siren, the employees took shelter. The lights in the building started to flicker.
Moments later, Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room, was struck in the head by a piece of concrete. Emery, who was trapped for six hours, had several chemical burn marks on her legs, her buttocks and her forehead from the candle wax.
She also sustained kidney damage, her urine is black, and she still can’t move her legs because of the swelling and from having been motionless for so long. Employees who wanted to go home early said they were mistreated.

Workers at a Kentucky candle factory have said they pleaded with managers to be allowed to leave as a deadly tornado barreled towards them last weekend – but say they were told they would be fired if they left their posts.
The barrage of tornadoes that tore through Kentucky and surrounding states killed a dozen children, including a two-month-old infant, Governor Andy Beshear said on Tuesday. A total of 74 people died in Kentucky, with the oldest victim at 98 years old. Eight people have yet to be identified.
More than 18,000 homes remained without power on Tuesday. Beshear said the storms produced “the strongest set of tornadoes that we have ever seen in Kentucky and what we believe will probably be one of the most devastating tornado events in US history”.
The fatalities included eight at a candle factory in Mayfield, Kentucky, that was reduced to rubble. Deaths at the candle factory were initially feared to be much higher, but a company spokesman said on Monday that the remaining 102 workers on duty at the time are alive and have been accounted for. In Washington, the House of Representatives plans to hold a moment of silence on Tuesday evening for the victims.
On Wednesday, Joe Biden plans to visit the hard-hit areas of Kentucky, with the US president noting at the weekend that he wasn’t rushing there immediately in order not to get in the way of the huge scale of urgent rescue and recovery work that was under way. More bad weather is on the way for the survivors, who have been warned by authorities in Kentucky to brace for being without power and even running water for some time, because of damage to utilities, while temperatures have been below freezing at night.
Multiple employees of the Mayfield Consumer Products factory told NBC News that they took shelter in bathrooms and hallways when they first heard tornado warning sirens, then supervisors ordered them back to work when they mistakenly assumed the danger had passed. “I asked to leave and they told me I’d be fired,” Elijah Johnson, 20, told NBC, claiming that he was among a group of about 15 concerned colleagues who were refused permission to evacuate. “‘Even with the weather like this, you’re still going to fire me?’” he said he asked his manager.
The manager replied, “Yes,” Johnson said, adding that bosses took a roll call to find out if anybody had already left. Images of the wreckage of the scented candle factory, one of the largest employers in western Kentucky, has become symbolic of the devastation caused by the unseasonal tornado that killed dozens across several states.
Some have already questioned why the factory was even operational that night. The factory workers’ claims cast an even darker shadow over the events of the evening.
According to NBC, citing another night shift worker, there was a three to four hour lull between the first alarm sounding and the arrival of the tornado that leveled the building, time in which she said the 110 workers should have been sent home but weren’t. Haley Conder, 29, said she was one of a number of employees who approached three managers again at about 9pm when the alarm sounded a second time.
McKayla Emery, 21, interviewed by NBC from her hospital bed, said she overheard a group receiving a similar answer earlier in the evening. The Guardian was unable to reach Mayfield Consumer Products representatives for comment on Tuesday, but according to NBC the company is denying the allegations. “It’s absolutely untrue.
We’ve had a policy in place since Covid began. Employees can leave any time they want to leave and they can come back the next day,” said Bob Ferguson, a company spokesperson. Ferguson said managers had not told employees that leaving their shifts meant risking their jobs, and that company management had followed emergency protocols from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Beshear told reporters that the Kentucky Division of Occupational Safety and Health Compliance would undertake a months-long review of the deaths at the factory. The governor said that such reviews are done whenever workers are killed on the job.
“So it shouldn’t suggest that there was any wrongdoing. But what it should give people confidence in, is that we’ll get to the bottom of what happened,” he said.
Jim Douglas, a candle factory worker, on Tuesday told CNN from hospital how he was crushed by wreckage and eventually rescued, with crews having to burrow many feet and break a glass door that was on top of him before they could pull him out. “I was totally being crushed,” Douglas said, noting that unwitting co-workers were running across him as they tried to escape, adding to the compression on his body.

Almost all of southern Ontario will need to brace for strong winds as Environment Canada issued a wind warning Saturday morning.
According to a statement issued by the weather agency, wind gusts are expected to reach up to 90 km/h. “A cold front will sweep through southern Ontario this afternoon and evening bringing strong winds,” the statement read.
Environment Canada warned residents to be prepared for possible power outages and potential damages in their neighbourhood. “Damage to buildings, such as to roof shingles and windows, may occur. High winds may toss loose objects or cause tree branches to break,” the statement said.
Drivers are also reminded to be cautious on the roads. They’re advised to adjust their driving due to high winds. Rainfall warnings were issued for parts of Ontario on Friday but have since been lifted.

Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend have now filed a lawsuit against their employer alleging that they were threatened with termination if they left the facility in the hours leading up to the deadly disaster.
The lawsuit filed against Mayfield Consumer Products in state court – which seeks compensatory and punitive damages – comes as the death toll from the severe weather in Kentucky has risen to 76, according to the Associated Press. Eight of those deaths happened at the candle factory in Mayfield.
The lawsuit claims the factory had "up to three and half hours before the tornado hit its place of business to allow its employees to leave its worksite as safety precautions." It added that the company showed "flagrant indifference to the rights" of the workers and violated Kentucky occupational safety and health workplace standards by refusing to do so.
Factory employee Haley Conder told the AP on Tuesday that a supervisor threatened her with written disciplinary action if she went home early because storms were approaching. Conder questioned why the company did not encourage workers to go home — or at least give them a better understanding of the danger — between a first tornado siren around 6 p.m. Friday and another one around 9 p.m., shortly before the tornado hit. The only plaintiff identified in the lawsuit is Elijah Johnson, who was working the night shift at the candle factory when the storm struck. The wording of the lawsuit says it was filed by Johnson and on behalf of "others similarly situated."
The "others" aren't identified by name for "fear of reprisal," Amos Jones, a Washington, D.C.-based attorney representing employees, told the AP Thursday. Bob Ferguson, speaking on behalf of the company located in the western Kentucky town of Mayfield, previously insisted that employees were free to leave anytime, and he denied that they would have faced retribution if they left the factory. The company’s CEO, Troy Propes, said in a statement Wednesday that the company was retaining "an independent expert team" to review the actions of managers and employees leading up to when the tornado struck the factory.
Meanwhile, the body of missing teenager Nyssa Brown was found Thursday in Bowling Green, making her the seventh member of her family to die in the tornado that swept through that area last week. Warren County coroner Kevin Kirby said the 13-year-old's body was found Thursday morning in a wooded area near her subdivision. The girl’s parents, three siblings ranging in age from 4 to 16, and a grandmother also died in the tornado, the AP reported.
Kirby added that eight children were among the 12 victims who died on a single street in Bowling Green, Moss Creek Avenue. Also among the dozen were five relatives from another family. The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week say they were told they would be fired if they tried to leave their shifts early, according to reports.
At least four workers at the Mayfield Consumer Products factory in Mayfield, Kentucky told NBC News that bosses refused them permission to leave the building even as warning sirens began to wail. At least eight people died in the factory when it was torn apart on Friday night, part of a confirmed death toll that has already climbed to 74 with 100 still missing as of Monday afternoon. Dozens more deaths have been confirmed across Arkansas, Missouri, Tennessee and Illinois, where workers were trapped in an Amazon warehouse when it collapsed, killing six people.
A spokesperson for the company categorically denied that employees had been threatened with firing or told not to leave. Factory worker McKayle Emery, 21, who was trapped under rubble for six hours, told NBC from her hospital bed that staff had first asked to leave not long after sirens sounded around 5.30pm, when the immediate danger seemed to have passed.
She said she overheard managers telling a group of workers that "if you leave, you’re more than likely to be fired", adding herself: "I heard that with my own ears." Another employee, Latavia Halliburton, backed that story up.
Worker Haley Conder, 29, said about 15 people asked to go home and were initially told that they should not leave because it was unsafe, but then were told to go back to work afterwards. He denied that managers told any employees they would lose their jobs if they left early, and that all managers followed disaster protocols that comply with federal emergency management and health and safety guidelines. Autumn Kirks, a team leader at the factory who was working that night, said nobody’s jobs had been threatened if they left early.

Honor Flight Kentucky aims to fly World War II, Korean War, and Vietnam veterans to Washington, D.C., for a one-day, all-expenses-paid visit to the memorials that are dedicated to their service and sacrifices. The goal is to take as many of these brave heroes from around the state as possible to see the memorials before they pass away. More than 500 veterans are on the waiting list for next year's flights.

updating fatalities on the tornado. We can now confirm and I believe with accuracy that the most accurate number is 76 Kentucky lives lost And here is how we get to the 76. Remember as of the last update?
Uh, the Department for Public Health had 75 but we were trying to track three people from Dawson Springs that had been at one point included in Hopkins County. Those three we believe are in the caldwell County numbers. Dawson Springs goes just barely into caldwell and three um of the deceased from um That town are Caldwell County residents.
So that would have pushed us back to 75. We've lost one additional employee of the candle factory that made it out but has since succumb to their injuries, that person I believe lives in Callaway, but it's included as a graves death, Which brings that to 22 and it reminds us that this might not be the last update. We have to it because we have a lot of people hurting uh, you know, we, I was in um, we'll talk about in a minute.
I was Penny Royal huh? Yesterday given out shoes to people that didn't have them. Um I saw a kid that had been through the worst two on a new pair of shoes and run around and jump up and down. It was well at this moment since last saturday uh or that saturday that we have certainly had, but I also talked to a woman was picking up her kids that had lost her mom and her dad's in in pretty tough condition at Vanderbilt.
So please keep praying. 76 is devastating. It's far too many Kentucky ins to lose. But there are still people that are fighting to hold on that are out there and they need our prayers, our love, our support and so do their family members, uh, zero people missing and now no active search or rescue operations. So those are two pieces of good news.

That Breeana Glisson and her two children are still alive after a tornado tore through Dawson Springs, Kentucky, on Friday night seems like a miracle.
With tornado sirens wailing, Glisson wrapped her daughter, 2, and son, 4, in her arms in her bed – the most interior part of her home – to ride out the storm. The roof collapsed, crushing her right arm.
“And then, after that, in a millisecond, we were no longer in the bed or in our house. We were on the ground all the way up there somewhere,” Glisson said Sunday, her voice shaking as she pointed to an area perhaps 200 feet away.
Glisson’s arm was broken, her head injured and face bruised. Her house was destroyed. But she is alive, and her children were miraculously unhurt. “I think being on the mattress saved us because for the most part of flying through the air, we weren’t just flying through the air, we were on the bed,” she said.
Among the some 30 tornadoes reported in eight states Friday night, at least four tore through Kentucky, destroying whole towns. About 75% of Dawson Springs was wiped out, according to Mayor Chris Smiley. More than 100 people of the town’s some 2,500 have been reported missing, said Nick Bailey, director of emergency management in the county. And “hundreds and hundreds” of those who survived no longer have a home, Bailey said.
President Joe Biden is expected to visit the area on Wednesday. Thirteen people were killed in Hopkins County, according to the coroner, and at least five of them were in Glisson’s neighborhood, including two elderly sisters, who lived next door to her.
Glisson, her two children and her mother are now in a motel room, an expense that’s eating into the little savings the family had. Friends have donated some nights there, and they have been given blankets and food.
“But we have nowhere to go,” Glisson said. Glisson is a stay-at-home mom, with two children who need her full-time attention.
Her son is severely autistic and has a long list of other diagnoses, she said. Along with friends and volunteers, she was still searching the rubble Sunday for his medication, which he desperately needs to sleep.
Glisson, 26, and so many others in Dawson Springs have no clear path for rebuilding. According to the mayor, about a third of the city’s population lives below the poverty line. The median average household income is just over $25,000, according to the US Census Bureau.
Glisson wasn’t optimistic her family would spring back at all. Walking through the ruins of her street, Glisson ran into a man who helped her and her children emerge from the rubble and seek shelter in his basement immediately after the storm hit. As he hugs her, she breaks down, sobbing. “Thank you for helping us,” she said. “That’s what we do,” the man answered.

and through the very moment that we are standing here, we have lived through some of the toughest hours of our lives as Kentucky ins. This event is the worst, most devastating, most deadly tornado event in Kentucky's history.
I believe that by the end of today for tomorrow um We will be north of at least 70 lives lost here in Kentucky. I think we will have lost more than 100 people and I think it could rise significantly in those numbers. About 1:00 AM.
I was at the state Emergency Operations Center hearing the reports coming in live places like my parents hometown, Dawson Springs, which I just came from and how hard it was hit hearing about families trapped in a basement and actually thinking they're lucky as long as we can get to them based on what happened from so many other families. Hearing about the amazing efforts of our first responders so many in this room.
We thank you every day. But we, we have absolutely thank you today. Um thank you so much for what you've done for our people over these last hours. I know you haven't slept, I know what that feels like.
I know the efforts that you've put in and I know when you were out there, especially in the first part of it was incredibly dangerous uh to you, we have seen people come together from all over the state, all over the country. Federal partners like a T. F. We had the Coast Guard down in Mayfield and then we are seeing people come in from other states and other regions.
I just want everybody to know that you are not alone today, Kentucky is absolutely united. We are united with our people. We are united to find and rescue as many as possible. We are united to grieve with I think over 100 families that will have lost individuals and we are united to be here for those families and this and every other impacted community not just today and this week, but in the coming years so that we rebuild and get those families back on their feet.
The devastation is unlike anything I have seen in my life and and I have trouble putting it into words but it was safe to travel this morning. I flew to Mayfield.
My first stop was that candle factory, 110 people working in it at the time. The storm hit rescue 40
There's at least 15 ft of metal with cars on top of it, barrels of corrosive chemicals that are there. It'll be a miracle if anybody else has found alive in it.
A downtown completely devastated from there. Um, My dad's hometown of Dawson Springs Population 20 700. They're going to lose a whole lot of people. One block from my grandparents house, there's no house standing, there's no house standing and we don't know where all those people are.
This was four different tornadoes and I'm told we're actually gonna see a little bit more on that that hit us including one that touched down in Arkansas and then stayed on the ground for 227 straight miles, which we believe is likely the longest in U. S. History folks. 200 of those miles.
We're in Kentucky, We're ground zero and I know this community is hit has been hit really hard. We're with you, the whole state is with you.
It's about just before midnight last night that we um signed, I signed a state of emergency that allowed us to call up the National Guard. Now, hundreds deploying all over Kentucky to help to help going door to door see if we can find people uh to help clearing the roadways and yes to help in law enforcement in some towns that are going to have any power. Uh tonight we've been able to get our transportation cabinet with all of our heavy trucks out on the roads clearing them off because it's hard to reach people in need. When the roads are unpassable.
Our division of Forestry is out there helping with that as well. Finding any and everything we can do, including bringing some of the largest generators we've ever seen to some of these communities where they can power a school hospital, where it is needed. Uh Since our last stop, there are two new announcements at this point in the day.
First, the president has signed the Federal emergency disaster declaration for those who do this work that rarely happens in the midst of a disaster. It shows how bad it is. It opens up us up to significantly more resources and things like almost immediate reimbursement for a lot of the things we're doing which is going to help our cities and our county's uh to to really do even more. I've talked today directly to the president twice the uh huh head of Homeland Security, the secretary and as well as the director of fema who is going to be in Kentucky tomorrow, they have all pledged whatever we need and I plan to ask so make sure you communicate those needs to us and we'll either satisfy them or we will go out and get them.
It's getting close tonight. It's getting cold. It's gonna be a tough night for a lot of people across Kentucky.
The second new announcement is people have been asking all day how can we help? And we've been telling them to things with the third coming. The first we said is if you are in a community that has been hit and hit hard and you're safe and you have powers stay off the roads.
Let our first responders like the ones that we have here get to everybody don't go to some of these areas because you want to see it. We need to make sure that those who do this work that are so good at it can do it at the fastest possible speed. 2nd, Let's give blood.
We're already pretty short with Covid out there and have been pushing. We're going to have, we have a lot of deaths were also going to have a lot of of injuries.
But the third is, we have now been able to set up a single fund connected with the state that people who want to help in Kentucky or outside of it can give to that is solely dedicated to helping the on the ground efforts going on right now and the relief efforts that these families are going to need to rebuild that as a team Western Kentucky tornado relief fund. It is now live at team W Ky relief fund dot ky dot gov. I'll do it again. Team W ky relief fund dot ky dot gov.
We've been, we've been hearing from folks again all around the country. I've heard from some folks outside the country that run great companies inside of Kentucky, they are mourning for this and other communities with that.
We're gonna have a number of folks give us updates on where we are right now. I think we're first turning it over to the mayor to talk about specifically what we're seeing here.
Um, let me say, I know, I know that lives lost are gonna be in double digits. They're going to be and multiple counties.
I know Mulan bark. I know Hopkins um, here certainly graves, we believe in marshall. Um, it's tough but also your folks have done incredible work on top of it since the very beginning, and I'm really proud of the response here in Warren County.

A Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a killer tornado — and where workers said they were threatened with dismissal if they left their posts before it hit — is closing and half the employees are being laid off. "We hope they all come back," he said.
At least nine people were killed Dec. 10 when the twister ripped through Mayfield and flattened the factory while more than 100 workers were still inside making scented candles. One of the dead was a deputy jailer who was supervising a group of inmates who were employed at the factory as part of a work release program.
Five workers said in interviews with NBC News that fearing for their safety, they pleaded with their bosses to allow them to leave and shelter at home. In an interview from her hospital bed, McKayla Emery, 21, said that worried workers first asked to leave shortly after tornado sirens sounded outside the factory around 5:30 p.m. Another Mayfield worker, 20-year-old Elijah Johnson, echoed Emery in an interview.
“I asked to leave and they told me I’d be fired,” Johnson said. Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear announced the state was launching an investigation shortly after the NBC News report appeared. Ferguson denied the allegations.

A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night is poised to become the worst on record to strike the United States during December.
Wp Get the full experience. Choose your plan ArrowRight Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear (D) said he expects the death toll in his state alone to reach at least 70 to 100.
If that is the case, it will become the deadliest December tornado outbreak on record and among the 15 deadliest in any month. “Last night was one of the most shocking weather events in my 40 years as a meteorologist — a violent tornado (in December!) drawing comparisons to the deadliest and longest-tracking tornado in U.S. history,” tweeted Jeff Masters, a meteorologist and expert on extreme weather. The National Weather Service received 37 reports of tornadoes in six states Friday.
The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, carved an approximately 250-mile path through northeast Arkansas, southeast Missouri, northwest Tennessee and western Kentucky. Should it be confirmed as single, continuous tornado rather than a series of twisters, the “quad-state tornado” would rank as the longest-track tornado in U.S. history and the first to track across four states.
The National Weather Service reported that the storm lofted debris into the sky for over three straight hours, and the Weather Service declared a tornado emergency in eight different locations; such alerts are issued only when a large, violent tornado threatens highly populated areas. As the tornado blasted through Mayfield, Ky., it sheared entire homes off their foundations and lofted debris more than 30,000 feet into the air, indicative of a twister of top-tier intensity.
The Weather Service will survey damage over the weekend to assign the tornado a specific rating on the zero-to-5 Enhanced Fujita (EF) scale. In addition to the quad-state storm, destructive and deadly tornado activity erupted in Illinois and there was one report of a twister in northern Mississippi.
More than 18 million people were under tornado watches amid the outbreak, and the Weather Service issued 146 tornado warnings, the most on record during December. Fueled by record-setting warm temperatures, the disaster was unprecedented in many ways for the time of year and is raising questions about the possible role of human-caused climate change. The event was triggered by a powerful low-pressure system that lifted from the Southern Plains into the Great Lakes.
The low-pressure intensified as the polar jet stream, the high-altitude current along which storms track, plunged into the central United States ahead of a pulse of record-setting warmth. The same system ended a record-setting snowless streak in Denver and unloaded a foot of snow in Minneapolis. As a cold front attached to the zone of low pressure encountered the exceptionally warm, unstable air Friday evening, numerous thunderstorms erupted. With temperatures in the 70s to near 80, “[t]he atmosphere didn’t know it was December,”
tweeted Craig Ceecee, a researcher in meteorology at Mississippi State University. Memphis soared to 79 degrees, 26 degrees above average, one of dozens of locations that reached record-high temperatures.
Meanwhile, powerful winds at the jet stream level blew from a different direction than those lower to the ground, helping the thunderstorms rotate or become supercells. The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) developed from a cluster of storms over central Arkansas. These storm cells congealed to the east of the cold front, separate from any other storms that could compete for available energy or disrupt them.
While passing through northeast Arkansas, the quad-state storm encountered an increasingly favorable tornadic environment, with extreme spin-inducing low-level winds. These ingredients remained in place as it tracked about 250 miles into western Kentucky.
The Weather Service in Memphis issued the first tornado warning for the storm at 7:06 p.m. Central time,
stating that a “confirmed large and extremely dangerous tornado” had formed. The storm moved over Monette, Ark., where it severely damaged a nursing home, at 7:24 p.m. Central time. Meteorologists observed an intense velocity “couplet” on radar, in which air racing in one direction clashes with air racing in another.
A sign of rotation, the couplet seen on the quad-state storm was among the strongest observed by modern radar. The storm may have “cycled” once while passing over northwest Tennessee, a process in which the initial tornado dissipates and a new one develops.
But by the time the storm hit Mayfield at 9:27 p.m., the radar signature again indicated a devastating tornado. Aside from the extreme rotation indicated by radar wind data, a dramatic debris signature was seen as the storm approached the Kentucky city.
Not until after 11:30 p.m., when the storm was southwest of Louisville, did it stop rotating. Although intensity estimates could take many days to finalize, the radar signature was at times indicative of a violent twister, or an EF4 or EF5.
If rated an EF5, it would end a record eight-year absence of such top tier tornadoes. It would be the first EF5 since the devastating Moore, Okla., tornado on May 20, 2013, and the first of such intensity in December since 1957. If the tornado is rated at least EF4, it would be the first in the region in December since 2015, when a twister hit near the border of Mississippi and Tennessee. It would also be just the second EF4 tornado of 2021 in the United States, while a typical year produces seven EF4 or stronger tornadoes.
There have been only 59 previous tornadoes with path lengths of 100 or more miles since 1950. That shrinks to 12 for path lengths of 150 miles or greater. During the Super Outbreak of 2011, there were three such tornado paths, the last such instances.
The longest paths on record top 200 miles, with caveats. A 235-mile track in March 1953 is the modern record holder, according to data from the Storm Prediction Center data.
Since none of these tornadoes have happened since 1971, it is certainly possible some of them were tornado families, or cyclic tornadoes forming one after another, rather than one long-track event. The 219-mile-long Tri-state Tornado of March 1925 is also considered the longest tornado path by many sources. The deadliest tornado in U.S. history, it killed 695 people as it passed through Missouri, Illinois and Indiana during the overnight hours.
This event’s path length could exceed that. However, Rick Smith, a meteorologist at the Weather Service office in Norman, Okla., tweeted that the quad-state tornado was more likely a series of twisters than just one.
On-the-ground surveys to sort this out may be “a complex process that could take some time,” Smith wrote. Even if the damage was caused by more than one tornado, the longevity of the intense supercell is unusual for any time of year, and probably is unprecedented for December.
Victor Gensini, a professor of meteorology at Northern Illinois University who has published studies on links between climate change and severe storms, said in an email that events like this may become more common in a warming world. “[I]t’s absolutely fair to say that the atmospheric environments will be more supportive for cool-season tornado events,” he wrote in an email.
Meteorologists fear nighttime tornadoes the most, as they are the most deadly. People may be sleeping or lack the visual cues of twisters that approach during daylight. Considering the likelihood of at least 70 fatalities, Friday night’s outbreak was a testament to the peril of nocturnal storms.
Both of these numbers are expected to be easily surpassed. And this tornado event is likely to be the deadliest in Kentucky history. It appears likely that this tornado will be the deadliest since the infamous Joplin tornado in May 2011, which killed 158 people.
In the modern record, since 1950, only 10 tornadoes have caused 50 or more deaths. Three of these happened in April 2011. Before that, they all occurred before 1971.
The high death toll for this event occurred despite timely warnings from the Weather Service. Roger Edwards, a tornado expert at the Weather Service, tweeted that a significant death toll was practically unavoidable, given the tornado’s ferocity.

Your notification has been saved. There was a problem saving your notification. Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

