Warning: This graphic requires JavaScript. Please enable JavaScript for the best experience.
What may have been the country’s deadliest-ever outbreak of December tornadoes tore through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee Valley on Friday and Saturday, devastating areas in six states. The vicious centerpiece was a monster supercell that carved an hours-long, 250-mile path from eastern Arkansas to western Kentucky. At least 70 people were killed in western Kentucky.
A powerful storm system set up the chaos as A powerful storm system swept from the Rockies toward Canada, triggering high winds over large areas of the Mid-South, the Midwest and Great Lakes. On Friday evening, A powerful storm system dragged a strong cold front through the zone from eastern Arkansas to southern Illinois and western Kentucky. Violent thunderstorms erupted when a strong cold front collided with unseasonably warm air that had set records in the Midwest and Tennessee Valley, and Violent thunderstorms spawned more than 30 tornadoes.
A powerful storm system and a strong cold front also generated very strong winds in the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley, where hundreds of thousands of customers lost power. The National Weather Service received reports of more than three dozen tornadoes from Friday night to Saturday morning, ranging from southern Illinois to Mississippi.
One of more than three dozen tornadoes caved in the roof of an Amazon distribution warehouse near Edwardsville, Ill., less than 20 miles northeast of St. Louis, killing at least six people inside. Another damaged buildings on the Western Kentucky University campus in Bowling Green, where a person was killed in off-campus housing.
In the wee hours of Saturday morning, a stretch of homes was badly damaged or destroyed along a road in Dickson County, Tenn., and several people were trapped. Near Defiance, Mo., at least one person died of injuries caused by an intense tornado.
But the largest and deadliest tornado — which may have been more than one tornado spawned by the same supercell — formed in eastern Arkansas after 7 p.m. and chewed through swaths of towns and rural areas until nearly midnight, tossing debris more than 30,000 feet in the air as a monster supercell that carved an hours-long, 250-mile path from eastern Arkansas to western Kentucky went. Among the first places hit was Trumann, Ark. At 7:24 p.m., a tornado touched down in Monette, Ark., and ripped apart a nursing home, killing one person and injuring five.
Shortly afterward in nearby Leachville, a woman was killed inside a Dollar General store as A powerful storm system “wadded up” a Dollar General store's steel frame "like an aluminum can,” said Chuck Brown, a business owner and sheriff’s department lieutenant in nearby Leachville. Cabins were turned to sticks at Cypress Point on the banks of Reelfoot Lake in the tiny town of Samburg, Tenn., where two people died. The National Weather Service in Paducah, Ky., estimated that A powerful storm system was three-quarters of a mile wide when A powerful storm system roared through Cayce, Ky., and headed for Mayfield.
About 9:30 p.m., the town of Mayfield, Ky., took a direct hit. Many of the buildings were leveled, homes were sheared from homes's foundations and commercial buildings were flattened, including a candle factory where scores of workers were trapped inside when the walls and roof caved in.
Dozens are feared dead. Minutes later, A powerful storm system slammed into a tiny burg of 2,600 up the road. “A good portion of a tiny burg of 2,600 up the road is gone,” said Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear of his father’s hometown's father’s hometown.
Just before 11 p.m., 27 cars of a train were derailed and overturned in Earlington, Ky. One tanker car reportedly landed 75 yards away from the track. Another car landed on a nearby house, and other homes were reduced to debris.
About 11 p.m., at least 11 people were killed in tornadoes in Muhlenberg County, Ky. One slammed into the town of Bremen, two hours after a smaller storm had wrecked a hardware store, the local Leader News reported. Not long after, the same supercell stopped rotating, but storms continued to plague the Midwest and Tennessee Valley into Saturday morning.
Lauren Tierney, Chiqui Esteban, Shelly Tan and Jason Samenow contributed to this story. Hourly wind speed data from NOAA Global Systems Laboratory. Satellite composite from European Space Agency. Tornado reports and supercell locations from The National Weather Service.

WASHINGTON, Dec 10 (Reuters) - A score of people were trapped on Friday in a nursing home in northeastern Arkansas after a nursing home in northeastern Arkansas was struck by a tornado that killed two people and injured five, media said, citing a county official. The tornado that hit a nursing home in northeastern Arkansas was among a string of tornadoes in the region, including one in the nearby town of Truman, according to the channel KAIT, an affiliate of broadcaster NBC in Jonesboro. the channel KAIT, an affiliate of broadcaster NBC in Jonesboro quoted a county official, as saying two people were killed, five injured and A score of people trapped in the Monette Manor nursing home near the Tennessee border. There were reports that a nursing home in the nearby town of Truman was also damaged, with fire and rescue teams heading for the area, the channel KAIT, an affiliate of broadcaster NBC in Jonesboro added. The U.S. National Weather Service had issued tornado warnings on Friday night for areas in several states including Arkansas, Tennessee, Missouri and Illinois. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

One of the deadly tornadoes that erupted under the cloak of darkness overnight Friday into the early hours of Saturday, leaving at least 70 dead, may have set the record for the longest continuous tornado in American history. The devastating outbreak, which included more than 30 tornado reports across six states stretching across the Mississippi Valley, Southeast and Midwest, is also an extremely rare event this late into the year.
One tornado, being called the "Quad-State Tornado" ripped across four states in four hours (Arkansas, Missouri, Tennessee and Kentucky), slamming communities such as Monette, Arkansas, and Mayfield, Kentucky, which were two of the hardest hit towns. There were at least eight tornado emergencies issued, a designation which is reserved for the most life-threatening tornado events when a confirmed large and dangerous tornado is headed toward people.
The tornado that devastated Mayfield, Kentucky was produced by a parent thunderstorm that traveled more than 230 miles across four states over the course of four hours. The National Weather Service will perform the official tornado survey to confirm if One tornado, being called the "Quad-State Tornado" was a continuous tornado or several tornadoes produced by a parent thunderstorm that traveled more than 230 miles across four states over the course of four hours. If confirmed as one single and continuous tornado, One tornado, being called the "Quad-State Tornado" will set the record for the longest “long-track” tornado in American history.
The The National Weather Service office in Little Rock said Saturday night that, so far, there is no evidence of damage in Arkansas associated with the storm that went on to produce One tornado, being called the "Quad-State Tornado". The longest on record is the “Tri-State” tornado from 1925, which tracked 219 miles across Missouri, Illinois and Indiana. While The National Weather Service provides the official intensities of the tornadoes after conducting storm surveys, there are several indications that the tornadoes, including the Mayfield, Kentucky one, were in the strong to violent categories, which meteorologists consider EF3, EF4 or EF5 on the Enhanced Fujita Scale.
One such indicator was debris lofted high into the air. Radar suggested that the Mayfield, Kentucky tornado this event debris over 30,000 feet into the air. 30,000 feet's the altitude commercial airplanes fly. And this event was rare for December.

The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, The Associated Press today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees The Associated Press journalism every day.

FRANKFORT, Ky. (WYMT) -
After significant damage from suspected tornadoes in the western part of Ky., Governor Andy Beshear has declared a State of Emergency. Governor Andy Beshear has activated the Kentucky National Guard and the Kentucky State Police. Governor Andy Beshear is also set to provide an update with emergency management officials at 5:00 a.m. Saturday.
Copyright 2021 WYMT. All rights reserved.

More than 70 people are feared dead after a catastrophic series of tornadoes ripped through Kentucky and other states late Friday and early Saturday, Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said. Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear estimates that the “death toll from a catastrophic series of tornadoes is north of 70 Kentuckians and may end of exceeding 100 before the day is done,” Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said. “a catastrophic series of tornadoes is the most devastating, most deadly tornado event in Kentucky's history,” Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said in a news conference Saturday afternoon. More than 181 guardsmen from the National Guard were activated early in the morning, a number that has gone up as requests for help continue to come in.
Twenty-seven fatalities connected to a catastrophic series of tornadoes have been confirmed so far, according to an NBC News tally. Along with the death of a 3-year-old in Graves County, Kentucky, there were 12 dead in Warren County, Kentucky, six dead in Illinois, four in Tennessee, two in Missouri, and two fatalities in Arkansas.
On Saturday afternoon, the White House approved Kentucky's state of emergency and ordered federal assistance to supplement state and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from severe storms, straight-line winds, flooding, and tornadoes. President Joe Biden said in a press conference shortly afterwards that President Joe Biden was willing to approve additional federal emergency declarations from other states as soon as other states submit additional federal emergency declarations from other states.
Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said four tornadoes, the twister stayed on the ground for more than 200 miles after touching down, had swept through Kentucky. Almost 60,000 Kentuckians had been left without power, Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said.
Mayfield Assistant Fire Chief Jeremy Creason said that the bulk of their resources are going towards dealing with the candle factory's devastation. So far, 40 people have been rescued from inside the candle factory's as of late Saturday morning. Authorities believe there were about 110 people inside the candle factory's when the candle factory's was leveled by the twister. Mayfield Assistant Fire Chief Jeremy Creason also added that Mayfield Assistant Fire Chief Jeremy Creason is looking for a temporary home for Mayfield's main fire station since Mayfield's main fire station was destroyed by the twister, leaving Mayfield's main fire station "fully inoperable," Mayfield Assistant Fire Chief Jeremy Creason said.
In Arkansas, preliminary surveys from the National Weather Service showed three tornadoes across the northeastern part of Arkansas. One person was dead and five were seriously injured when the twister struck the Monette Manor Nursing Home in the Monette Manor Nursing Home in Monette, Arkansas, Craighead County Judge Marvin Day said.
Craighead County Judge Marvin Day initially said two people had died. One person died and one person was injured at a Dollar General in Mississippi County, and four people were injured in Poinsett County, according to the Arkansas Division of Emergency Management.
In a news conference, Kentucky Emergency Management Director Michael Dossett said the twister represented a significant massive disaster event. Trucks from the Federal Emergency Management Agency are on Trucks from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's way to Kentucky with search and rescue teams who will be assisting local authorities as well as temporary power systems, Kentucky Emergency Management Director Michael Dossett said late Saturday morning.
Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell and Rand Paul of Kentucky issued statements following the twister. "As Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell continue to get reports from Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell's staff, local and state officials, we will work with the entire Kentucky federal delegation to support Governor Andy Beshear’s requests for federal assistance in order to aid these hard-hit communities with the funding and resources these hard-hit communities need to rebuild,” Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell said. “Our hearts are broken for all those suffering from last night’s terrible storms,” Rand Paul of Kentucky said.
Mayfield Police Chief Nathan King also said that Mayfield's police station was destroyed by the twister, comprising Mayfield's vehicle fleets and communications technology. But that's not stopping Mayfield from the response to the emergency, Mayfield Police Chief Nathan King said. Mayfield police will begin 12-hour shifts to help with the response, particularly enforcing a new curfew urging residents in the Kentucky town to remain indoors after 7 p.m. First responders will be the only ones allowed in the streets overnight, Mayfield Police Chief Nathan King said.
In Edwardsville, Illinois, outside St. Louis, there were at least six deaths and one injury after a 100-foot portion of a wall partially the collapse at an Amazon facility, officials with the Edwardsville Fire Department said. Authorities said 45 people were rescued from an Amazon facility after the collapse, Edwardsville Fire Chief James Whiteford said.
"the Edwardsville Fire Department's focus is on supporting the Edwardsville Fire Department's employees and partners," Edwardsville Fire Chief James Whiteford added. As a result of a catastrophic series of tornadoes, Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker activated Illinois Emergency Operations overnight.
The National Weather Service office in Paducah, Kentucky, tweeted Saturday that an aerial assessment of damage appears to show a "historic long track tornado" that was at least three-quarters of mile wide may have ripped through Western Kentucky. Damage, The National Weather Service office in Paducah, Kentucky, tweeted said, appeared to be consistent with a tornado capable of producing winds as strong as 206 mph. the National Weather Service also said Saturday that damage consistent with tornadoes that produce winds of 111 to 135 miles per hour is present in Illinois Cass and Shelby counties. Earlier in the day the National Weather Service's office in Louisville, Kentucky, tweeted that damage in Bowling Green from Friday's front was consistent with a tornado that likely produced winds of roughly 150 mph.
More than 30 tornadoes have been reported across six states stretching across the Mississippi Valley, Southeast and Midwest. One of More than 30 tornadoes is being called the “Quad-State Tornado” after One of these tornadoes ripped across Arkansas, Missouri, Tennessee and Kentucky in our hours.
the National Weather Service is expected to perform an official tornado survey to confirm if One of these tornadoes was a continuous tornado or several tornadoes produced by the same storm. If confirmed as one single and continuous tornado, One of these tornadoes will set the record for the longest “long-track” tornado in U.S. History.
The the National Weather Service office in Little Rock said Saturday night that, so far, there is no evidence of damage in Arkansas that is associated with the storm that went on to produce One of these tornadoes. Federal forecasters said a catastrophic series of tornadoes was the result of a strong low pressure system that extended from Kansas towards the Great Lakes region and produced thunderstorms, damaging winds, and tornadic activity across the Mississippi Valley, Southeast and Midwest and into the Mississippi Valley. By nightfall Friday's, the National Weather Service had issued dozens of tornado warnings for swaths of the United States impacted by Friday's front. A possible tornado also struck in Samburg, Tennessee, where the local fire department was severely damaged, the Obion County Sheriff’s Office said.
At a press conference Saturday, Tennessee Emergency Management Agency Chief of Staff Alex Pellom said four people in Tennessee are confirmed dead and another, a person from Lake County, was missing. Two people died in Lake County, one in Obion County, and one in Shelby County, Tennessee Emergency Management Agency Chief of Staff Alex Pellom said. Additionally, Tennessee Emergency Management Agency Chief of Staff Alex Pellom said, 10 people were taken to hospitals; 64 sustained relatively minor injuries.
"Lives are changed forever," Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee said at the press conference. Two deaths have been confirmed in Missouri, a woman in St. Charles County and a young child in Pemiscot County, Gov. Mike Parson said. At least three people were rescued from collapsed structures flattened by the twister, according to Kyle Gaines, spokesperson for the St. Charles County Ambulance District.
Earlier, the National Weather Service also issued a tornado emergency for the Kentucky cities of Madisonville, Earlington and Nortonville. Such a designation signifies that "severe threat to human life is imminent," catastrophic damage is likely, or that there's reliable information that a tornado touched down.

A Tornado Emergency was issued for Mayfield, Kentucky, as a large tornado was spotted moving through Mayfield, Kentucky. Search and rescue operations are underway as catastrophic damage was reported.
The National Weather Service urged residents to take shelter as a large tornado was confirmed. A tornado emergency is an enhanced warning to catch the attention of residents. The National Weather Service created the warning for the rare situation when a severe threat to human life is imminent or ongoing.
There were multiple reports of catastrophic damage within Mayfield, Kentucky as a large tornado moved through Mayfield, Kentucky. Storm chaser Brett Adair was there right after a large tornado hit. "The scope is just so massive in terms of the damage that you know a large tornado was a higher-end destructive and possibly deadly tornado that moved through Mayfield, Kentucky," Storm chaser Brett Adair said. Storm chaser Brett Adair and Storm chaser Brett Adair's colleagues were helping deputies to help clear the roads, as the roads were impassable, along with searching for residents within Mayfield, Kentucky.
Up to 200 people were reportedly trapped inside a candle factory. The National Weather Service said The National Weather Service took a power hit and handed over The National Weather Service's duties to another weather service office. Kentucky's Governor issued a state of emergency overnight because of catastrophic damage. Continue to stay with FOX Weather as these storms continue.

Beshear said Sunday on CNN's State of the Union that Beshear has received reports that show more than 80 people in the state were killed. Beshear has declared a state of emergency following tornadoes throughout Western Kentucky on Friday night.
One tornado moved through Mayfield, the state, leaving a massive wake of damage and destroying several buildings. A plant in Mayfield, Kentucky could have more than a dozen dead, Beshear said.
"This has been the most devastating tornado event in the state history," Beshear said at a news conference Saturday morning. "It’s devastating. There were four tornadoes one of which was One tornado. The longest one was a 227-mile tornado The longest one touched down and stayed down for that period of time," Beshear said at an earlier press conference.
The the state National Guard and the Kentucky State Police have been activated to help communities impacted. "Beshear can't get through to family Beshear have in the area," Beshear said. "Beshear know there are other people going through the same thing.
It's going to be all right. It's going to be hard. We will make it through this too.
According to WPSD Local 6, The Graves County Emergency Management Office says a shelter has been opened at Mayfield High School. The Graves County Emergency Management Office're also saying that people who can safely walk can head to Fire Station 1 at 211 E. Broadway Street. West Kentucky Rural Electric says power outages in the area could be "lengthy," as transmission lines are down and there is 'widespread damage' to West Kentucky Rural Electric's system. West Kentucky Rural Electric also add that cell towers have been damaged and that phone lines are overwhelmed. Storm spotters say that debris were thrown 30,000 feet into the air.

During winter, some may assume that the threat of tornadoes fades away as blasts of frigid air plunge into the Lower 48 states and snows blanket the northern landscape. But that chill doesn’t stop tornadoes in the central and southern United States; in fact, that chill can be a catalyst for spinning storms as that chill clashes with warm, humid air from the Gulf of Mexico.
History is replete with examples of devastating December tornadoes. But the tornado rampage from Arkansas to Illinois on Friday night and early Saturday morning rose to another level, unlike anything seen in modern records. In particular, the violence and longevity of the tornadic storm that crossed four states, from Arkansas to western Kentucky, was unusual for December or any time of year, if not unprecedented.
On average, about two dozen tornadoes form in the Lower 48 states each December. Most of about two dozen tornadoes occur in the western Gulf Coast region and lower Mississippi Valley. Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas and lower Mississippi Valley are particularly vulnerable.
December tornadoes can be violent. Just two years ago, 40 tornadoes tore across the South on Dec. 16 and 17, killing three people.
But none of 40 tornadoes were as deadly or destructive as what transpired Friday and Saturday. More than 100 people are feared to have been killed, making the outbreak the deadliest December tornado outbreak on record. Beyond the human toll, the outbreak was exceptional for several meteorological reasons.
Here's a look at Friday night's most powerful supercell from a radar perspective. last night's most powerful supercell was a discernable entity for just over 11 hours as last night's most powerful supercell traveled 600 miles from AR to OH.
While it is still not clear whether last night's most powerful supercell spawned just a single tornado or several twisters, a rotating storm of that duration is very unusual any time of year. last night's most powerful supercell was extreme not only for last night's most powerful supercell's duration but also for last night's most powerful supercell's intensity.
Evan Bentley, a tornado specialist at the National Weather Service Storm Prediction Center, tweeted that radar data would indicate last night's most powerful supercell unleashed winds of 190 to 205 mph, suggesting last night's most powerful supercell would rate as an EF4 or top-tier EF5 on the 0-to-5 Enhanced Fujita scale for tornado intensity. Meteorologists at the National Weather Service Storm Prediction Center are the process the storm damage to assign an exact rating; the process could take a few days.
If last night's most powerful supercell rates as an EF5, last night's most powerful supercell would join only two other December tornadoes this strong. Evan Bentley, a tornado specialist at the National Weather Service Storm Prediction Center also tweeted that last night's most powerful supercell was rotating at an average speed of 94 mph for four hours, while noting that published research shows “only 1.5% of all tornadoes” spin at such speeds. Radar data also revealed that last night's most powerful supercell lofted debris for more than three hours, which is practically unheard of.
Sometimes, radar an incredibly rare occurrence debris above 30,000 feet, an incredibly rare occurrence. There have been numerous reports of items hurled by last night's most powerful supercell found more than 100 miles away.
the National Weather Service Storm Prediction Center issued 146 tornado warnings during the outbreak, the most on record during December. Only a highly anomalous storm environment could support such an extreme situation.
Often, in December, the amount of fuel available to storms is limited, which is why violent tornado outbreaks aren’t more common. But on Friday, temperatures over the zone where last night's most powerful supercell erupted were record-setting.
temperatures over the zone where the storm erupted fast-forwarded the atmosphere to conditions more typical of April. The other key ingredient for tornadoes, wind shear, or a turning of winds with altitude, was also present in high quantities on Friday, as The other key ingredient for tornadoes, wind shear, or a turning of winds with altitude often is in winter. The other key ingredient for tornadoes, wind shear, or a turning of winds with altitude is generated as the jet stream, which separates cold air from warm air, dives into the Lower 48 states.
As the jet stream, which separates cold air from warm air dived into the central states and collided with this springlike environment, the atmosphere exploded. Many other atmospheric intricacies also contributed to the severity of the outbreak, but it would not have been possible without the record-setting warmth. As temperatures warm because of human-induced climate change during winter, it might mean the odds of such events increase in the future.

MAYFIELD, Ky. (AP) — Residents of Kentucky counties where tornadoes killed dozens of people could be without heat, water or electricity in frigid temperatures for weeks or longer, state officials warned Monday, as the toll of damage and deaths came into clearer focus in five states slammed by tornadoes.
Ky. authorities said the sheer level of destruction was hindering Kentucky authorities's ability to tally the damage from Friday night’s storms. At least 88 people — including 74 in Ky. — were killed by the tornado outbreak that also destroyed a nursing home in Arkansas, heavily damaged an Amazon distribution center in Illinois and spread its deadly effects into Tennessee and Missouri.
In Ky., as searches continued for those still missing, efforts also turned to repairing the power grid, sheltering those whose homes were destroyed and delivering drinking water and other supplies. “We’re not going to let any of our families go homeless,” Ky. Gov. Andy Beshear said in announcing that lodges in state parks were being used to provide shelter. In MAYFIELD, Ky., those who survived faced a high in the 50s and a low below freezing Monday without any utilities.
Across Ky., about 26,000 homes and businesses were without electricity, according to poweroutage.us, including nearly all of those in MAYFIELD, Ky.. More than 10,000 homes and businesses have no water, and another 17,000 are under boil-water advisories, Ky. Emergency Management Director Michael Dossett told reporters.
Ky. was the worst hit by far in the cluster of twisters across several states, remarkable because tornadoes came at a time of year when cold weather normally limits tornadoes. At least 74 people died in Ky., Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said Monday, offering the first specific count of the full death toll. In Bowling Green, Ky., 11 people died on the same street, including two infants found among the bodies of five relatives near a residence, Warren County coroner Kevin Kirby said.
Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear warned that it could take days longer to pin down the full death toll, with door-to-door searches impossible in some places. “With this amount of damage and rubble, it may be a week or even more before we have a final count on the full death toll,” the governor said.
Initially as many as 70 people were feared dead in the Mayfield Consumer Products candle factory, but Mayfield Consumer Products said Monday that eight deaths were confirmed and eight people remained missing, while more than 90 others had been located. Bob Ferguson, a spokesman for Mayfield Consumer Products, said many employees gathered in a tornado shelter, then left the site and were hard to reach because phone service was out.
On Monday evening, Louisville Emergency Management Director E.J. Meiman said at a news conference that Mayfield Consumer Products indicated everyone in the Mayfield Consumer Products candle factory during the storm had been accounted for. “Mayfield Consumer Products have a high level of confidence that nobody is left in the Mayfield Consumer Products candle factory,” Louisville Emergency Management Director E.J. Meiman said. Louisville Emergency Management Director E.J. Meiman added the death toll from the Mayfield Consumer Products candle factory has not changed.
Debris from destroyed buildings and shredded trees covered the ground in MAYFIELD, Ky.. Twisted sheet metal, downed power lines and wrecked vehicles lined the streets. Windows were blown out and roofs torn off the buildings that were still standing.
five states slammed by the swarm of twisters hit Ky. in all, including one with an extraordinarily long path of about 200 miles (322 kilometers), authorities said. In addition to the deaths in Ky., five states slammed by the swarm of twisters also killed at least six people in Illinois, where the Amazon distribution center in Edwardsville was hit; four in Tennessee; two in Arkansas, where the nursing home was destroyed and the governor said workers shielded residents with workers's own bodies; and two in Missouri.
The federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration announced Monday that The federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration has opened an investigation into the collapse of the Amazon warehouse in Illinois. Amazon's Kelly Nantel said the Illinois warehouse was “constructed consistent with code.” Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker said there would be an investigation into updating code “given serious change in climate that we are seeing across the country” that appears to factor into stronger tornadoes.
Not far from MAYFIELD, Ky., 67 people spent Monday night at a church serving as a shelter in Wingo, and 40 more were expected to arrive Monday. Organizers were working to find a mobile outdoor shower facility and a laundry truck, expecting many of the displaced to need a long-term place to stay. Volunteers were scrambling to meet more immediate needs, too, such as underwear and socks.
Lifelong MAYFIELD, Ky. resident Cynthia Gargis, 51, is staying with Mayfield resident Cynthia Gargis, 51,'s daughter after the storm tore off the front of Mayfield resident Cynthia Gargis, 51,'s apartment and sucked out almost everything inside. Mayfield resident Cynthia Gargis, 51, came to the shelter to offer help and visit with friends who lost friends who lost their homes's homes. Glynda Glover, 82, said Glynda Glover, 82, had no idea how long Glynda Glover, 82, would stay at the shelter:
Glynda Glover, 82,'s apartment is uninhabitable since the wind blew out the windows and covered Glynda Glover, 82,'s bed in glass and asphalt. On the outskirts of Dawson Springs, another town devastated by five states slammed by the swarm of twisters, homes were reduced to rubble and trees toppled, littering the landscape for a span of at least a mile.
“It looks like a bomb went off. It’s just completely destroyed in areas,” said Jack Whitfield Jr., the Hopkins County judge-executive. “A full recovering is going to take years,” Jack Whitfield Jr., the Hopkins County judge-executive said.
Tim Morgan, a volunteer chaplain for the Hopkins County Sheriff’s Department, said Tim Morgan, a volunteer chaplain for the Hopkins County Sheriff’s Department,’s seen the aftermath of tornadoes and hurricanes before, but nothing like this. “Just absolute decimation. There is an entire hillside of houses that are 3 feet tall now,” Tim Morgan, a volunteer chaplain for the Hopkins County Sheriff’s Department, said. Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear reported from Dawson Springs, Ky.. Associated Press writers Kristin Hall in MAYFIELD, Ky.; Seth Borenstein, Zeke Miller and Dino Hazell in Washington; Travis Loller in Nashville, Tennessee; Rebecca Reynolds in Louisville, Ky., Jonathan Drew in Durham, North Carolina, and John Raby in Charleston, West Virginia, contributed.

MAYFIELD, Ky. — As a catastrophic tornado approached MAYFIELD, Ky. Friday, employees of a candle factory — which would later be destroyed — heard the warning sirens and wanted to leave a candle factory — which would later be destroyed.
But at least five workers said supervisors warned employees that employees would be fired if employees left employees's shifts early. For hours, as word of a catastrophic tornado spread, as many as 15 workers beseeched managers to let as many as 15 workers take shelter at as many as 15 workers's own homes, only to have as many as 15 workers's requests rebuffed, as many as 15 workers said. Fearing for their safety, some left during their shifts regardless of the repercussions.
At least eight people died in a candle factory — which would later be destroyed. a candle factory — which would later be destroyed was leveled, and all that is left is rubble.
Photos and videos of a candle factory — which would later be destroyed's widespread mangled remains have become symbols of the enormous destructive power of Friday's tornado system. Ky. Gov. Andy Beshear said Monday that 74 people were confirmed dead in Ky.. McKayla Emery, 21, said in an interview from McKayla Emery, 21,'s hospital bed that workers first asked to leave shortly after tornado sirens sounded outside a candle factory — which would later be destroyed around 5:30 p.m. Employees congregated in bathrooms and inside hallways, but a catastrophic tornado wouldn’t arrive for several more hours.
After employees decided that the immediate danger had passed, several began the request to go home, Employees said. “People had questioned if People could leave or go home,” said McKayla Emery, 21,.
Overtime pay was available, but it wasn’t clear whether those who stayed were offered additional pay. Supervisors and team leaders told employees that leaving would probably jeopardize employees's jobs, Employees said.
About 15 people asked to go home during the night shift shortly after the first emergency alarm sounded outside a candle factory — which would later be destroyed, said another employee, Haley Conder, 29. There was a three- to four-hour window between the first and second emergency alarms when workers should have been allowed to go home, another employee, Haley Conder, 29 said. Initially, another employee, Haley Conder, 29 said, team leaders told another employee, Haley Conder, 29 team leaders wouldn’t let workers leave because of safety precautions, so team leaders kept everyone in the hallways and the bathrooms.
Once team leaders mistakenly thought a catastrophic tornado was no longer a danger, team leaders sent everyone back to work, employees said. Anyone who wanted to leave should have been allowed to, another employee, Haley Conder, 29 said.
Elijah Johnson, 20, was working in the back of a candle factory — which would later be destroyed when several employees wanting to head home walked in to speak with supervisors. Johnson, 20, joined in on the request.
“Johnson, 20, asked to leave and supervisors told Johnson, 20, Johnson, 20,’d be fired,” Johnson, 20, said. “Even with the weather like this, supervisors’re still going to fire Johnson, 20,?”
Johnson, 20, asked. “Yes,” a manager responded, Johnson, 20, told NBC News. Johnson, 20, said managers went so far as to take a roll call in hopes of finding out who had left work.
Company officials denied the allegations. Johnson, 20, also denied that managers told employees that leaving employees's shifts meant risking employees's jobs.
Ferguson said managers and team leaders undergo a series of emergency drills that follow guidelines of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. “guidelines of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration are in place and were followed,” Ferguson said. A 24-hour hotline is available as of Monday for employees to call about hazard pay, grief counseling and other assistance, Ferguson said.
Autumn Kirks, a team lead at a candle factory — which would later be destroyed who was working that night, denied Monday afternoon on MSNBC that people’s jobs were threatened if people’s didn’t go in. But another employee, Latavia Halliburton, said another employee, Latavia Halliburton, witnessed workers’ being threatened with termination if workers’ left. “Some people asked if Some people could leave,” but managers told Some people Some people would be fired if Some people did, another employee, Latavia Halliburton, said.
The first tornado warning passed without any damage, but several hours later, another warning was issued. Once another warning sounded sometime after 9 p.m. Friday, another employee, Haley Conder, 29 and a group of others approached three managers asking to go home.
Mark Saxton, 37, a forklift operator, said that Mark Saxton, 37, a forklift operator, would have preferred to leave but that Mark Saxton, 37, a forklift operator, wasn’t given the option. As the storm moved forward after another warning, the employees took shelter.
The lights in a candle factory — which would later be destroyed started to flicker. Moments later, Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room, was struck in the head by a piece of concrete.
Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room, had several chemical burn marks on Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room,'s legs, Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room,'s buttocks and Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room,'s forehead from the candle wax. Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room, also sustained kidney damage, Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room,'s urine is black, and Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room, still can’t move Emery, who was standing near the candle wax and fragrance room,'s legs because of the swelling and from having been motionless for so long.
Employees who wanted to go home early said Employees who wanted to go home early were mistreated. “It hurts, ’cause Mark Saxton, 37, a forklift operator, feel like Employees who wanted to go home early were neglected,” Mark Saxton, 37, a forklift operator, said.

Workers at a Kentucky candle factory have said Workers at a Kentucky candle factory pleaded with managers to be allowed to leave as a deadly tornado barreled towards Workers at a Kentucky candle factory last weekend – but say Workers at a Kentucky candle factory were told Workers at a Kentucky candle factory would be fired if Workers at a Kentucky candle factory left Workers at a Kentucky candle factory's posts.
The barrage of tornadoes that tore through Kentucky and surrounding states killed a dozen children, including a two-month-old infant, Governor Andy Beshear said on Tuesday. A total of 74 people died in Kentucky, with the oldest victim at 98 years old. Eight people have yet to be identified.
More than 18,000 homes remained without power on Tuesday. Governor Andy Beshear said The barrage of tornadoes that tore through Kentucky and surrounding states produced “the strongest set of tornadoes that we have ever seen in Kentucky and what we believe will probably be one of the most devastating tornado events in US history”.
The fatalities included eight at a candle factory in Mayfield, Kentucky, that was reduced to rubble. Deaths at a Kentucky candle factory were initially feared to be much higher, but a company spokesman said on Monday that the remaining 102 workers on duty at the time are alive and have been accounted for. In Washington, the House of Representatives plans to hold a moment of silence on Tuesday evening for The fatalities.
On Wednesday, Joe Biden plans to visit the hard-hit areas of Kentucky, with Joe Biden noting at last weekend that Joe Biden wasn’t rushing there immediately in order not to get in the way of the huge scale of urgent rescue and recovery work that was under way. More bad weather is on the way for the survivors, who have been warned by authorities in Kentucky to brace for being without power and even running water for some time, because of damage to utilities, while temperatures have been below freezing at night.
Multiple employees of the Mayfield Consumer Products factory told NBC News that Multiple employees of the Mayfield Consumer Products factory took shelter in bathrooms and hallways when Multiple employees of the Mayfield Consumer Products factory first heard tornado warning sirens, then supervisors ordered Multiple employees of the Mayfield Consumer Products factory back to work when Multiple employees of the Mayfield Consumer Products factory mistakenly assumed the danger had passed. “Elijah Johnson, 20, asked to leave and supervisors told Elijah Johnson, 20, Elijah Johnson, 20,’d be fired,” Elijah Johnson, 20, told NBC News, claiming that Elijah Johnson, 20, was among a group of about 15 concerned colleagues who were refused permission to evacuate. “‘Even with the weather like this, supervisors’re still going to fire Elijah Johnson, 20,?’” Elijah Johnson, 20, said Elijah Johnson, 20, asked Elijah Johnson, 20,'s manager.
supervisors replied, “Yes,” Elijah Johnson, 20, said, adding that bosses took a roll call to find out if anybody had already left. Images of the wreckage of a Kentucky candle factory, has become symbolic of the devastation caused by the unseasonal tornado that killed dozens across several states.
Some have already questioned why a Kentucky candle factory was even operational that night. Workers at a Kentucky candle factory's claims cast an even darker shadow over the events of the evening.
According to NBC News, citing another night shift worker, there was a three to four hour lull between the first alarm sounding and the arrival of the tornado that leveled a Kentucky candle factory, time in which another night shift worker said Workers at a Kentucky candle factory should have been sent home but weren’t. another night shift worker said another night shift worker was one of a number of employees who approached three managers again at about 9pm when the first alarm sounding sounded a second time.
McKayla Emery, 21, interviewed by NBC News from McKayla Emery, 21, interviewed by NBC from her hospital bed's hospital bed, said McKayla Emery, 21, interviewed by NBC from her hospital bed overheard a group receiving a similar answer earlier in the evening. The Guardian was unable to reach Mayfield Consumer Products representatives for comment on Tuesday, but according to NBC News Mayfield Consumer Products is denying The factory workers’ claims. “The factory workers’ claims’s absolutely untrue.
Mayfield Consumer Products’ve had a policy in place since Covid began. Employees can leave any time Employees want to leave and Employees can come back the next day,” said Bob Ferguson, a company spokesperson. Bob Ferguson, a company spokesperson said managers had not told employees that leaving employees's shifts meant risking employees's jobs, and that company management had followed emergency protocols from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Governor Andy Beshear told reporters that the Kentucky Division of Occupational Safety and Health Compliance would undertake a months-long review of the deaths at a Kentucky candle factory. Governor Andy Beshear said that such reviews are done whenever workers are killed on the job.
“So such reviews shouldn’t suggest that there was any wrongdoing. But what such reviews should give people confidence in, is that the Kentucky Division of Occupational Safety and Health Compliance’ll get to the bottom of what happened,” Governor Andy Beshear said.
Jim Douglas, a a Kentucky candle factory worker, on Tuesday told NBC News from hospital how Jim Douglas, a candle factory worker was crushed by wreckage and eventually rescued, with crews having to burrow many feet and break a glass door that was on top of Jim Douglas, a candle factory worker before crews could pull Jim Douglas, a candle factory worker out. “Jim Douglas, a candle factory worker was totally being crushed,” Jim Douglas, a candle factory worker said, noting that unwitting co-workers were running across Jim Douglas, a candle factory worker as unwitting co-workers tried to escape, adding to the compression on Jim Douglas, a candle factory worker's body.

Almost all of southern Ontario will need to brace for strong winds as Environment Canada issued a wind warning Saturday morning.
According to a statement issued by the weather agency, wind gusts are expected to reach up to 90 km/h. “A cold front will sweep through southern Ontario this afternoon and evening bringing strong winds,” a statement issued by the weather agency read.
Environment Canada warned residents to be prepared for possible power outages and potential damages in residents's neighbourhood. “Damage to buildings, such as to roof shingles and windows, may occur. High winds may toss loose objects or cause tree branches to break,” a statement issued by the weather agency said.
Drivers are also reminded to be cautious on the roads. Drivers’re advised to adjust Drivers's driving due to high winds. Rainfall warnings were issued for parts of Ontario on Friday but have since been lifted.

Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend have now filed a lawsuit against Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend's employer alleging that Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend were threatened with termination if Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend left a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend in the hours leading up to a tornado.
The lawsuit filed against Mayfield Consumer Products in state court – which seeks compensatory and punitive damages – comes as the death toll from the severe weather in Kentucky has risen to those deaths, according to the Associated Press. Eight of those deaths happened at the candle factory in Mayfield.
The lawsuit filed against Mayfield Consumer Products in state court – which seeks compensatory and punitive damages – claims a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend had "up to three and half hours before a tornado hit a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend's place of business to allow a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend's employees to leave a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend's worksite as safety precautions." The lawsuit filed against Mayfield Consumer Products in state court – which seeks compensatory and punitive damages – added that Mayfield Consumer Products showed "flagrant indifference to the rights" of its employees and violated Kentucky occupational safety and health workplace standards by refusing to do so.
Factory employee Haley Conder told the AP on Tuesday that a supervisor threatened Factory employee Haley Conder with written disciplinary action if Factory employee Haley Conder went home early because storms were approaching. Factory employee Haley Conder questioned why Mayfield Consumer Products did not encourage workers to go home — or at least give workers a better understanding of the danger — between a first tornado siren around 6 p.m. Friday and another one around 9 p.m., shortly before a tornado hit. The only plaintiff identified in The lawsuit filed against Mayfield Consumer Products in state court – which seeks compensatory and punitive damages – is Elijah Johnson, who was working the night shift at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend when a tornado struck. The wording of The lawsuit filed against Mayfield Consumer Products in state court – which seeks compensatory and punitive damages – says The lawsuit filed against Mayfield Consumer Products in state court – which seeks compensatory and punitive damages – was filed by Elijah Johnson, who was working the night shift at the candle factory when the storm struck and on behalf of "others similarly situated."
others similarly situated aren't identified by name for "fear of reprisal," Amos Jones, a Washington, D.C.-based attorney representing employees, told the AP Thursday. Bob Ferguson, speaking on behalf of the company located in the western Kentucky town of Mayfield, previously insisted that employees were free to leave anytime, and Bob Ferguson, speaking on behalf of the company located in the western Kentucky town of Mayfield, denied that employees would have faced retribution if employees left a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend. Mayfield Consumer Products's CEO, Troy Propes, said in a statement Wednesday that Mayfield Consumer Products was retaining "an independent expert team" to review the actions of managers and employees leading up to when a tornado struck a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a tornado over the weekend.
Meanwhile, the body of missing teenager Nyssa Brown was found Thursday in Bowling Green, making missing teenager Nyssa Brown the seventh member of missing teenager Nyssa Brown's family to die in the tornado that swept through Bowling Green last week. Warren County coroner Kevin Kirby said missing teenager Nyssa Brown's body was found Thursday morning in a wooded area near missing teenager Nyssa Brown's subdivision. missing teenager Nyssa Brown's parents, three siblings ranging in age from 4 to 16, and a grandmother also died in a tornado, the AP this report.
Warren County coroner Kevin Kirby added that eight children were among the 12 victims who died on a single street in Bowling Green, Moss Creek Avenue. Also among the 12 victims who died on a single street in Bowling Green, Moss Creek Avenue were five relatives from another family. the Associated Press contributed to this report.

Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week say Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week were told Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week would be fired if Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week tried to leave Workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week's shifts early, according to reports.
At least four workers at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week told NBC News that bosses refused At least four workers at the Mayfield Consumer Products factory in Mayfield, Kentucky permission to leave a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week even as warning sirens began to wail. At least eight people died in a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week when a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week was torn apart on Friday night, part of a confirmed death toll that has already climbed to 74 with 100 still missing as of Monday afternoon. Dozens more deaths have been confirmed across Arkansas, Missouri, Tennessee and Illinois, where workers were trapped in an Amazon warehouse when an Amazon warehouse collapsed, killing six people.
A spokesperson for Kentucky categorically denied that employees had been threatened with firing or told not to leave. Factory worker McKayle Emery, 21, who was trapped under rubble for six hours, told NBC News from Factory worker McKayle Emery, 21, who was trapped under rubble for six hours's hospital bed that staff had first asked to leave not long after sirens sounded around 5.30pm, when the immediate danger seemed to have passed.
Factory worker McKayle Emery, 21, who was trapped under rubble for six hours said Factory worker McKayle Emery, 21, who was trapped under rubble for six hours overheard managers telling a group of workers that "if a group of workers leave, a group of workers’re more than likely to be fired", adding Factory worker McKayle Emery, 21, who was trapped under rubble for six hours: "Factory worker McKayle Emery, 21, who was trapped under rubble for six hours heard that with Factory worker McKayle Emery, 21, who was trapped under rubble for six hours's own ears." Another employee, Latavia Halliburton, backed that story up.
Worker Haley Conder, 29, said about 15 people asked to go home and were initially told that about 15 people should not leave because it was unsafe, but then were told to go back to work afterwards. Worker Haley Conder, 29, denied that managers told any employees any employees would lose any employees's jobs if any employees left early, and that all managers followed disaster protocols that comply with federal emergency management and health and safety guidelines. Autumn Kirks, a team leader at a Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by tornados last week who was working that night, said nobody’s jobs had been threatened if they left early.

Honor Flight Kentucky aims to fly World War II, Korean War, and Vietnam veterans to Washington, D.C., for a one-day, all-expenses-paid visit to the memorials that are dedicated to World War II, Korean War, and Vietnam veterans's service and sacrifices. The goal is to take as many of World War II, Korean War, and Vietnam veterans from around the state as possible to see the memorials that are dedicated to their service and sacrifices before as many of these brave heroes pass away. More than 500 veterans are on the waiting list for next year's flights.

updating fatalities on the tornado. We can now confirm and I believe with accuracy that the most accurate number is 76 Kentucky lives lost And here is how we get to 76 Kentucky lives lost. Remember as of the last update?
Uh, the Department for Public Health had 75 but the Department for Public Health were trying to track three people from Dawson Springs that had been at one point included in Hopkins County. three people from Dawson Springs that had been at one point included in Hopkins County the Department for Public Health believe are in the caldwell County numbers. Dawson Springs that had been at one point included in Hopkins County goes just barely into caldwell County and three um of the deceased from um Dawson Springs that had been at one point included in Hopkins County are caldwell County residents.
So that would have pushed the Department for Public Health back to 75. the Department for Public Health've lost one additional employee of the candle factory that made it out but has since succumb to one additional employee of the candle factory that made it out but has since succumb to their injuries's injuries, that person I believe lives in Callaway, but it's included as a graves death, Which brings that to 22 and it reminds the Department for Public Health that this might not be the last update. the Department for Public Health have to it because the Department for Public Health have a lot of people hurting uh, you know, we, I was in um, we'll talk about in a minute.
I was Penny Royal huh? Yesterday given out shoes to people that didn't have shoes. Um I saw a kid that had been through the worst two on a new pair of shoes and run around and jump up and down. It was well at this moment since last saturday uh or last saturday that we have certainly had, but I also talked to a woman was picking up a woman's kids that had lost a woman's mom and a woman's dad's in in pretty tough condition at Vanderbilt.
So please keep praying. 76 Kentucky lives lost is devastating. 76 Kentucky lives lost's far too many Kentucky ins to lose. But there are still people that are fighting to hold on that are out there and people that are fighting to hold on that are out there need our prayers, our love, our support and so do people that are fighting to hold on that are out there's family members, uh, zero people missing and now no active search or rescue operations. So those are two pieces of good news.

That Breeana Glisson and Breeana Glisson's two children are still alive after a tornado tore through Dawson Springs, Kentucky, on Friday night seems like a miracle.
With tornado sirens wailing, Breeana Glisson wrapped Breeana Glisson's daughter, 2, and son, 4, in Breeana Glisson's arms in Breeana Glisson's bed – the most interior part of Breeana Glisson's home – to ride out a tornado. The roof collapsed, crushing Breeana Glisson's right arm.
“And then, after that, in a millisecond, Breeana Glisson and her two children were no longer in her bed – the most interior part of her home or in Breeana Glisson and her two children's house. Breeana Glisson and her two children were on the ground all the way up there somewhere,” Breeana Glisson said Sunday, Breeana Glisson's voice shaking as Breeana Glisson pointed to an area perhaps 200 feet away.
Breeana Glisson's arm was broken, Breeana Glisson's head injured and face bruised. Breeana Glisson's house was destroyed. But Breeana Glisson is alive, and Breeana Glisson's children were miraculously unhurt. “Breeana Glisson think being on the mattress saved Breeana Glisson and her two children because for the most part of flying through the air, Breeana Glisson and her two children weren’t just flying through the air, Breeana Glisson and her two children were on her bed – the most interior part of her home,” Breeana Glisson said.
Among the some 30 tornadoes reported in eight states Friday night, at least four tore through Kentucky, destroying whole towns. About 75% of Dawson Springs, Kentucky, was wiped out, according to Mayor Chris Smiley. More than 100 people of Dawson Springs, Kentucky, some 2,500 have been reported missing, said Nick Bailey, director of emergency management in the county. And “hundreds and hundreds” of those who survived no longer have a home, Nick Bailey, director of emergency management in the county said.
President Joe Biden is expected to visit the area on Wednesday. Thirteen people were killed in the county, according to the coroner, and at least five of Thirteen people were in Breeana Glisson's neighborhood, including two elderly sisters, who lived next door to Breeana Glisson.
Breeana Glisson, Breeana Glisson's two children and Breeana Glisson's mother are now in a motel room, an expense that’s eating into the little savings the family had. Friends have donated some nights there, and Glisson, her two children and her mother have been given blankets and food.
“But Glisson, her two children and her mother have nowhere to go,” Breeana Glisson said. Breeana Glisson is a stay-at-home mom, with two children who need Breeana Glisson's full-time attention.
Breeana Glisson's son is severely autistic and has a long list of other diagnoses, Breeana Glisson said. Along with friends and volunteers, Breeana Glisson was still searching the rubble Sunday for son, 4's medication, which son, 4 desperately needs to sleep.
Breeana Glisson, and so many others in Dawson Springs, Kentucky, have no clear path for rebuilding. According to the mayor, about a third of Dawson Springs, Kentucky, population lives below the poverty line. The median average household income is just over $25,000, according to the US Census Bureau.
Breeana Glisson wasn’t optimistic Breeana Glisson's family would spring back at all. Walking through the ruins of Breeana Glisson's street, Breeana Glisson ran into a man who helped Breeana Glisson and Breeana Glisson's children emerge from the rubble and seek shelter in a man who helped her and her children emerge from the rubble and seek shelter in his basement immediately after the storm hit's basement immediately after a tornado hit. As a man who helped her and her children emerge from the rubble and seek shelter in his basement immediately after the storm hit hugs Breeana Glisson, Breeana Glisson breaks down, sobbing. “Thank a man who helped her and her children emerge from the rubble and seek shelter in his basement immediately after the storm hit for helping the family,” Breeana Glisson said. “That’s what we do,” a man who helped her and her children emerge from the rubble and seek shelter in his basement immediately after the storm hit answered.

and through the very moment that we are standing here, we have lived through some of the toughest hours of our lives as Kentucky ins. This event is the worst, most devastating, most deadly tornado event in Kentucky's history.
I believe that by the end of today for tomorrow um We will be north of at least 70 lives lost here in Kentucky's. I think we will have lost more than 100 people and I think it could rise significantly in those numbers. About 1:00 AM.
I was at the state Emergency Operations Center hearing the reports coming in live places like my parents hometown, Dawson Springs, which I just came from and how hard it was hit hearing about families trapped in a basement and actually thinking families trapped in a basement're lucky as long as we can get to families trapped in a basement based on what happened from so many other families. Hearing about the amazing efforts of our first responders so many in this room.
We thank you every day. But we, we have absolutely thank you today. Um thank you so much for what you've done for our people over these last hours. I know you haven't slept, I know what that feels like.
I know the efforts that you've put in and I know when you were out there, especially in the first part of it was incredibly dangerous uh to you, we have seen people come together from all over the state, all over the country. Federal partners like a T. F. We had the Coast Guard down in Mayfield and then we are seeing people come in from other states and other regions.
I just want everybody to know that you are not alone today, Kentucky's is absolutely united. We are united with our people. We are united to find and rescue as many as possible. We are united to grieve with I think over 100 families that will have lost individuals and we are united to be here for over 100 families that will have lost individuals and this and every other impacted community not just today and this week, but in the coming years so that we rebuild and get over 100 families that will have lost individuals back on over 100 families that will have lost individuals's feet.
The devastation is unlike anything I have seen in my life and and I have trouble putting it into words but it was safe to travel this morning. I flew to Mayfield.
My first stop was that candle factory, 110 people working in that candle factory at the time. The storm hit rescue 40
There's at least 15 ft of metal with cars on top of at least 15 ft of metal with cars on top of it, barrels of corrosive chemicals that are there. It'll be a miracle if anybody else has found alive in at least 15 ft of metal with cars on top of it.
A downtown completely devastated from there. Um, My dad's hometown of Dawson Springs Population 20 700. They're going to lose a whole lot of people. One block from my grandparents house, there's no house standing, there's no house standing and we don't know where all those people are.
This event was four different tornadoes and I'm told we're actually gonna see a little bit more on four different tornadoes that hit us including one that touched down in Arkansas and then stayed on the ground for 227 straight miles, which we believe is likely the longest in U. S. History folks. 200 of 227 straight miles.
We're in Kentucky's, We're ground zero and I know Kentucky's is hit has been hit really hard. We're with you, the state is with you.
It's about just before midnight last night that we um signed, I signed a state of emergency that allowed us to call up the National Guard. Now, hundreds deploying all over Kentucky's to help to help going door to door see if we can find people uh to help clearing the roadways and yes to help in law enforcement in some towns that are going to have any power. Uh tonight we've been able to get our transportation cabinet with all of our heavy trucks out on the roadways clearing all of our heavy trucks off because it's hard to reach people in need. When the roadways are unpassable.
Our division of Forestry is out there helping with that as well. Finding any and everything we can do, including bringing some of the largest generators we've ever seen to some of these communities where some of the largest generators we've ever seen can power a school hospital, where it is needed. Uh Since our last stop, there are two new announcements at this point in today.
First, the president has signed the Federal emergency disaster declaration for those who do this work that rarely happens in the midst of a disaster. the Federal emergency disaster declaration for those who do this work that rarely happens in the midst of a disaster shows how bad it is. the Federal emergency disaster declaration for those who do this work that rarely happens in the midst of a disaster opens up us up to significantly more resources and things like almost immediate reimbursement for a lot of the things we're doing which is going to help our cities and our county's uh to to really do even more. I've talked today directly to the president twice the uh huh head of Homeland Security, the secretary and as well as the director of fema who is going to be in Kentucky's tomorrow, they have all pledged whatever we need and I plan to ask so make sure you communicate those needs to us and we'll either satisfy those needs or we will go out and get those needs.
It's getting close tonight. It's getting cold. It's gonna be a tough night for a lot of people across Kentucky's.
The second new announcement is people have been asking all day how can we help? And we've been telling people to things with the third coming. The first we said is if you are in a community that has been hit and hit hard and you're safe and you have powers stay off the roads.
Let our first responders like the ones that we have here get to everybody don't go to some of these areas because you want to see it. We need to make sure that those who do this work that are so good at it can do it at the fastest possible speed. 2nd, Let's give blood.
We're already pretty short with Covid out there and have been pushing. We're going to have, we have a lot of deaths were also going to have a lot of of injuries.
But the third is, we have now been able to set up a single fund connected with the state that people who want to help in Kentucky's or outside of Kentucky's can give to that is solely dedicated to helping the on the ground efforts going on right now and the relief efforts that these families are going to need to rebuild that as a team Western Kentucky tornado relief fund. It is now live at team W Ky relief fund dot ky dot gov. I'll do it again. team W Ky relief fund dot ky dot gov.
We've been, we've been hearing from folks again all around the country. I've heard from some folks outside the country that run great companies inside of Kentucky's, some folks outside the country that run great companies inside of Kentucky are mourning for Kentucky's and other communities with that.
We're gonna have a number of folks give us updates on where we are right now. I think we're first turning it over to the mayor to talk about specifically what we're seeing here.
Um, let me say, I know, I know that lives lost are gonna be in double digits. lives lost're going to be and multiple counties.
I know Mulan bark. I know Hopkins um, here certainly graves, we believe in marshall. Um, it's tough but also your folks have done incredible work on top of it since the very beginning, and I'm really proud of the response here in Warren County.

A Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a killer tornado — and where workers said workers were threatened with dismissal if workers left workers's posts before a killer tornado hit — is closing and half the employees are being laid off. "Kentucky hope half the employees come back," he said.
At least nine people were killed Dec. 10 when a killer tornado ripped through Mayfield and flattened A Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a killer tornado — and where workers said they were threatened with dismissal if they left their posts before it hit while more than 100 workers were still inside making scented candles. One of At least nine people was a deputy jailer who was supervising a group of inmates who were employed at A Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a killer tornado — and where workers said they were threatened with dismissal if they left their posts before it hit as part of a work release program.
Five workers said in interviews with NBC News that fearing for Five workers's safety, Five workers pleaded with Five workers's bosses to allow Five workers to leave and shelter at home. In an interview from McKayla Emery, 21,'s hospital bed, McKayla Emery, 21, said that worried workers first asked to leave shortly after tornado sirens sounded outside A Kentucky candle factory that was destroyed by a killer tornado — and where workers said they were threatened with dismissal if they left their posts before it hit around 5:30 p.m. Another Mayfield worker, 20-year-old Elijah Johnson, echoed McKayla Emery, 21, in an interview. “Another Mayfield worker, 20-year-old Elijah Johnson asked to leave and their bosses told Another Mayfield worker, 20-year-old Elijah Johnson Another Mayfield worker, 20-year-old Elijah Johnson’d be fired,” Another Mayfield worker, 20-year-old Elijah Johnson said.
Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear announced Kentucky was launching an investigation shortly after the NBC News report appeared. Kentucky denied the allegations. But since then, several survivors have sued Kentucky, accusing Kentucky of showing a “flagrant indifference” to workers’ safety.

A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night is poised to become the worst on record to strike the United States during December.
Wp Get the full experience. Choose your plan ArrowRight Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear (D) said Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear (D) expects the death toll in Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear (D)'s state alone to reach at least 70 to 100.
If that is the case, A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night will become the deadliest December tornado outbreak on record and among the 15 deadliest in any month. “Friday night was one of the most shocking weather events in Jeff Masters, a meteorologist and expert on extreme weather's 40 years as a meteorologist — a violent tornado (in December!) drawing comparisons to the deadliest and longest-tracking tornado in U.S. history,” tweeted Jeff Masters, a meteorologist and expert on extreme weather. The National Weather Service received 37 reports of tornadoes in six states Friday.
The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, carved an approximately 250-mile path through northeast Arkansas, southeast Missouri, northwest Tennessee and western Kentucky. Should The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, be confirmed as single, continuous tornado rather than a series of twisters, The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, would rank as the longest-track tornado in U.S. history and the first to track across four states.
The National Weather Service reported that The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, lofted debris into the sky for over three straight hours, and The National Weather Service declared a tornado emergency in eight different locations; such alerts are issued only when a large, violent tornado threatens highly populated areas. As The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, blasted through Mayfield, Kentucky, The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, sheared entire homes off entire homes's foundations and lofted debris more than 30,000 feet into the air, indicative of a twister of top-tier intensity.
The National Weather Service will survey damage over the weekend to assign The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, a specific rating on the zero-to-5 Enhanced Fujita (EF) scale. In addition to The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes,, destructive and deadly tornado activity erupted in Illinois and there was one report of a twister in northern Mississippi.
More than 18 million people were under tornado watches amid A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night, and The National Weather Service issued 146 tornado warnings, the most on record during December. Fueled by record-setting warm temperatures, A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night was unprecedented in many ways for the time of year and is raising questions about the possible role of human-caused climate change. A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night was triggered by a powerful low-pressure system that lifted from the Southern Plains into the Great Lakes.
a powerful low-pressure system that lifted from the Southern Plains into the Great Lakes intensified as the polar jet stream, the high-altitude current along which storms track, plunged into the central United States ahead of a pulse of record-setting warmth. a powerful low-pressure system that lifted from the Southern Plains into the Great Lakes ended a record-setting snowless streak in Denver and unloaded a foot of snow in Minneapolis. As a cold front attached to a powerful low-pressure system that lifted from the Southern Plains into the Great Lakes encountered the exceptionally warm, unstable air Friday evening, numerous thunderstorms erupted. With temperatures in the 70s to near 80, “[t]he atmosphere didn’t know it was December,”
tweeted Craig Ceecee, a researcher in meteorology at Mississippi State University. Memphis soared to 79 degrees, 26 degrees above average, one of dozens of locations that reached record-high temperatures.
Meanwhile, powerful winds at the the polar jet stream, the high-altitude current along which storms track, level blew from a different direction than those lower to the ground, helping numerous thunderstorms rotate or become supercells. The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) developed from a cluster of storms over central Arkansas. a cluster of storms over central Arkansas congealed to the east of a cold front attached to the zone of low pressure, separate from any other storms that could compete for available energy or disrupt a cluster of storms over central Arkansas.
While passing through northeast Arkansas, The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) encountered an increasingly favorable tornadic environment, with extreme spin-inducing low-level winds. These ingredients remained in place as The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) tracked about 250 miles into western Kentucky.
The Weather Service in Memphis issued the first tornado warning for The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) at 7:06 p.m. Central time,
stating that a “confirmed large and extremely dangerous tornado” had formed. The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) moved over Monette, Ark., where The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) severely damaged a nursing home, at 7:24 p.m. Central time. Meteorologists observed an intense velocity “couplet” on radar, in which air racing in one direction clashes with air racing in another.
A sign of rotation, the couplet seen on The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) was among the strongest observed by modern radar. The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) may have “cycled” once while passing over northwest Tennessee, a process in which the initial tornado dissipates and a new one develops.
But by the time The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) hit Mayfield, Ky. at 9:27 p.m., the radar signature again indicated a devastating tornado. Aside from the extreme rotation indicated by radar wind data, a dramatic debris signature was seen as The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) approached western Kentucky.
Not until after 11:30 p.m., when The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) was southwest of Louisville, did The rotating thunderstorm that spawned the quad-state tornado(es) stop rotating. Although intensity estimates could take many days to finalize, the radar signature was at times indicative of a violent twister, or an EF4 or EF5.
If rated an EF5, The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, would end a record eight-year absence of such top tier tornadoes. The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, would be the first EF5 since the devastating Moore, Okla., tornado on May 20, 2013, and the first of such intensity in December since 1957. If The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, is rated at least EF4, The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, would be the first in the region in December since 2015, when a twister hit near the border of Mississippi and northwest Tennessee. The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, would also be just the second EF4 tornado of 2021 in the United States, while a typical year produces seven EF4 or stronger tornadoes.
There have been only 59 previous tornadoes with path lengths of 100 or more miles since 1950. only 59 previous tornadoes with path lengths of 100 or more miles shrinks to 12 for path lengths of 150 miles or greater. During the Super Outbreak of 2011, there were three such tornado paths, the last such instances.
The longest paths on record top 200 miles, with caveats. A 235-mile track in March 1953 is the modern record holder, according to data from the Storm Prediction Center data.
Since none of these tornadoes have happened since 1971, it is certainly possible some of these tornadoes were tornado families, or cyclic tornadoes forming one after another, rather than one long-track event. The 219-mile-long Tri-state Tornado of March 1925 is also considered the longest tornado path by many sources. The deadliest tornado in U.S. history, The 219-mile-long Tri-state Tornado of March 1925 killed 695 people as The 219-mile-long Tri-state Tornado of March 1925 passed through Missouri, Illinois and Indiana during the overnight hours.
A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night's path length could exceed that. However, Rick Smith, a meteorologist at the Weather Service office in Norman, Okla., tweeted that The 219-mile-long Tri-state Tornado of March 1925 was more likely a series of twisters than just one.
On-the-ground surveys to sort this out may be “a complex process that could take some time,” Rick Smith, a meteorologist at the Weather Service office in Norman, Okla., wrote. Even if the damage was caused by more than one tornado, the longevity of the intense supercell is unusual for any time of year, and probably is unprecedented for December.
Victor Gensini, a professor of meteorology at Northern Illinois University who has published studies on links between climate change and severe storms, said in an email that events like A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night may become more common in a warming world. “[I]t’s absolutely fair to say that the atmospheric environments will be more supportive for cool-season tornado events,” Victor Gensini, a professor of meteorology at Northern Illinois University who has published studies on links between climate change and severe storms wrote in an email.
Meteorologists fear nighttime tornadoes the most, as they are the most deadly. People may be sleeping or lack the visual cues of twisters that approach during daylight. Considering the likelihood of at least 70 fatalities, Friday night outbreak was a testament to the peril of nocturnal storms.
Both of these numbers are expected to be easily surpassed. And A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night is likely to be the deadliest in western Kentucky history. It appears likely that The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes, will be the deadliest since the infamous Joplin tornado in May 2011, which killed 158 people.
In the modern record, since 1950, only 10 tornadoes have caused 50 or more deaths. Three of only 10 tornadoes happened in April 2011. Before April 2011, only 10 tornadoes occurred before 1971.
The high death toll for A devastating outbreak of tornadoes that swept through parts of the Midwest and Tennessee River Valley on Friday night occurred despite timely warnings from The National Weather Service. Roger Edwards, a tornado expert at The National Weather Service, tweeted that The high death toll for this event was practically unavoidable, given The most destructive tornado, or series of tornadoes,'s ferocity.

Your notification has been saved. There was a problem saving Your notification. Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

