the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the story was last updated.
JERSEY CITY, N.J.— Six people were killed, including a police officer, during a shootout in JERSEY CITY, N.J. Tuesday afternoon, authorities said. Detective Joseph Seals, 39, was shot and killed in a shootout in Jersey City Tuesday afternoon, officials said. Detective Joseph Seals, 39, had 15 years experience as an officer and was a married father of five.
Two officers were injured in a shootout in Jersey City Tuesday afternoon, Kelly said; one of Two officers was shot in the shoulder, while another sustained an injury to the body. Early reports said a civilian was also injured.
a shootout in Jersey City Tuesday afternoon happened in the vicinity of Martin Luther King Drive near Bayview Avenue. SWAT teams and federal agents responded to the vicinity of Martin Luther King Drive near Bayview Avenue, and police blocked off Martin Luther King Drive. Loud volleys of gunfire were heard at regular intervals.
Video shows a line of police officers armed with weapons pointed in several directions walking down the sidewalk. Authorities tell PIX11 at least one suspect fired shots from Bay View Cemetery before heading to a nearby supermarket, where a standoff ensued. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) division in Newark confirmed The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) division in Newark's agents responded to the reports of an active shooter. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) division in Newark was also on the vicinity of Martin Luther King Drive near Bayview Avenue, and asked the public to stay away from the area of MLK Drive near the light rail station as well as Bay View Cemetery.
JERSEY CITY, N.J. schools were on lockdown, with about 30,000 students impacted, according to Franklin Walker, Superintendent of Jersey City Public Schools. All students and staff were safe, officials said in a tweet. An official said schools planned to systematically release locked down schools at 4:15 p.m. By 5 p.m., reunions between kids and parents had begun at some schools.
Jersey City Medical Center has also been put on lockdown to protect patients, families and employees in response to the active situation. Everyone inside Jersey City Medical Center is safe, authorities said.
NYPD Special Operations officers have responded to JERSEY CITY, N.J. to assist law enforcement. No one is in custody in connection with a shootout in Jersey City Tuesday afternoon, according to a law enforcement official.
Amid a shootout in Jersey City Tuesday afternoon, several traffic and transit routes were impacted. Exit ramps on the New Jersey Turnpike at interchange 14B were closed. Martin Luther King Drive from Woodlawn to Claremont avenues was closed due to the police activity.
North Jersey buses operated on a detour in JERSEY CITY, N.J., North Jersey tweeted. Service to Hoboken used MLK Drive, Fulton, Culver, West Side and Monticello avenues as well as JFK Boulevard and Communipaw Avenue.
Hudson Bergen Light Rail Bayonne Branch Service was suspended in both directions between Liberty State Park and 8th Street due to ongoing local police activity. Shuttle bus service between Liberty State Park and West Side Avenue was also suspended. All schools in nearby Bayonne, New Jersey, were “in a shelter-in-place as a precaution due to police activity and investigation in JERSEY CITY, N.J.,” according to a tweet from the Bayonne Board of Education.
The White House tweeted that President Donald Trump has been briefed about a shootout in Jersey City Tuesday afternoon. President Donald Trump later addressed a shootout in Jersey City Tuesday afternoon a shootout in Jersey City Tuesday afternoon in a tweet. Associated Press contributed to this report.

A police officer and three civilians were killed during a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead, law enforcement officials said.
According to senior law enforcement officials, a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead began when A police officer saw a U-Haul truck possibly linked to the murder of a livery driver over the weekend in Bayonne. As A police officer approached, a suspect got out of a U-Haul truck possibly linked to the murder of a livery driver over the weekend in Bayonne to shoot A police officer before taking off.
That officer, later identified as Det. Joseph Seals, died from A police officer's injuries.
The preliminary investigation suggests A police officer was killed "while trying to interdict the two suspects" at a cemetery on Garfield Avenue, said Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly. A police officer had been a police officer for more than 15 years, and was with the Jersey City Police Department since 2006, officials said at a press conference Tuesday evening outside Jersey City Medical Center.
A police officer was a detective with the Cease Fire Unit, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said. Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said A police officer was the Jersey City Police Department's leading police officer in removing guns from Jersey City streets.
After shooting A police officer, the two suspects — fled and drove the two suspects's U-Haul truck to the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, where a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead started around 12:30 p.m., a senior law enforcement official said. Law enforcement sources told NBC New York surveillance video shows the two suspects shoot a Hasidic man on the street and then run into the store, where the two suspects began firing at three civilians. the two suspects were armed with long guns and plenty of ammo, and had a bomb-making materials inside a U-Haul truck possibly linked to the murder of a livery driver over the weekend in Bayonne, officials said.
While some were happy with how the Jersey City schools handled the whole situation during a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead, other students and parents were upset over the lack of communication from the Jersey City schools. NBC New York's Erica Byrfield reports.
A fusillade of at least 100 bullets were fired during the exchange between the two suspects and police. In addition to the officers injured outside the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, where the standoff started around 12:30 p.m., three civilians were killed as the two suspects saw heavily armed police vehicles approaching. Two of three civilians were customers at the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, where the standoff started around 12:30 p.m. and the third was working as a cashier, according to a representative of the community. Another civilian was injured but is expected to survive, officials said.
Citing The preliminary investigation, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said authorities believe the civilians killed inside the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, where the standoff started around 12:30 p.m. were killed by the two suspects." the two suspects have not yet been identified, but the detective killed was a 48-year-old man, law enforcement sources said.
Law enforcement officials initially believed a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead was not terror- or hate-related, despite a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead occurring in a Jewish neighborhood. However, Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop tweeted later in the night that the "the two suspects targeted the location the two suspects attacked." Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop added that there are no further threats, but the community "may see additional police resources" in the coming days and weeks.
The Jersey City police chief said that the detective killed was an officer for 15 years and was a father of five. A senior law enforcement official told News 4 the detective killed was approaching a van linked to a murder in Bayonne when the detective killed was shot and killed.
NBC New York's Ray Villeda and Jonathan Dienst report. a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead was still being treated as a criminal act, law enforcement officials said.
It was not immediately known why or how the U-Haul truck that Det. Seals approached was linked to the death of livery driver Michael Rumberger.
Tight security was evident at Jersey City Medical Center, where police responded en masse as local law enforcement groups sought prayers on behalf of local law enforcement groups's colleagues. Heavily armed local and state officers in SWAT trucks swarmed the scene, ducking behind doorways and store entrances -- some even crawling along sidewalks, closely pressed to the ground -- as Heavily armed local and state officers in SWAT trucks zeroed in on the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, where the standoff started around 12:30 p.m.. Seemingly dozens of gunshots continued to ring out throughout the afternoon, based on audio from the scene.
The streets in the immediate area were closed off entirely, totally empty of what would normally be heavy pedestrian and vehicular traffic. One police officer has been shot in the head amid an ongoing active shooter situation at a bodega in Jersey City Tuesday, according to The preliminary investigation, A senior law enforcement official tells News 4.
According to Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly, citing The preliminary investigation, it will take weeks for authorities to finish the probe due to the extensive crime scene, which includes at least three different locations. The other two locations that most be combed through for evidence is the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, where the standoff started around 12:30 p.m. and the cemetery, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said. Federal ATF and FBI agents in Newark confirmed Federal ATF and FBI agents in Newark responded to the scene to assist as needed, as was the NYPD's Special Ops team.
About a dozen schools in the vicinity were locked down initially. By 2 p.m., the lockdown order extended to every public school in Jersey City, Jersey City's superintendent said.
The schools, including an elementary school right across the street from the store where the two suspects holed up, remained on lockdown until around 4:30 p.m. Some parents were upset every public school in the entire city sent out robocalls during lockdown saying the lockdown order had been lifted before 4:15 p.m., but students were still not released for more than a half hour later.
Public Safety Director James Shea commended first responders. Superintendent of every public school in the entire city Frank Walker told NBC New York the district's superintendent was informed there was gunfire near one of the schools in the district's superintendent's PS 29 district shortly after 12:30 p.m. Mass transit was also affected, with a number of bus and rail suspensions.
Andy Patel works at a liquor store about three blocks away from the site of the scene and said there had been consistent gunfire fire for about an hour. There was a brief pause -- and cops used the time to clear streets. a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead is being investigated by the Hudson County prosecutor's office, with FBI and ATF agents working alongside police as FBI and ATF agents try to find a possible motive for a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead.

UPDATE: Jersey City officials said public schools began dismissing students at 4:15 p.m.
Some of Jersey City's 26,000 public school students are being kept in Some of Jersey City’s 26,000 public school students's schools as police continue to investigate an active shooter situation in Jersey City. At least one police officer was killed and two other officers and one civilian were injured in the shooting Tuesday afternoon, the Hudson County prosecutor’s office said.
Jersey City public school officials said schools in Jersey City are on lockdown. No students were hurt.
“All students and staff are safe however public schools are currently on lockdown due to police activity,” school officials said on Twitter and in messages sent to parents. It is unclear when parents will be able to pick up parents's children.
Jersey City school officials said students will not be dismissed until students are given the “all clear” by law enforcement officials that there is not threat to students's safety. Students were also on lockdown in the Sacred Heart School, a pre-K through 8th grade Catholic school on Bayview Avenue close to the shooting site, church officials said. “Students and staff at Sacred Heart School in Jersey City are safe, however the Sacred Heart School, a pre-K through 8th grade Catholic school on Bayview Avenue close to the shooting site remains on lockdown. Police are on the scene.
Events are still unfolding. Keep all those involved in your thoughts and prayers,” the Archdiocese of Newark, which oversees the Sacred Heart School, a pre-K through 8th grade Catholic school on Bayview Avenue close to the shooting site, said in a statement.
Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop told parents parents will get more information later. “For parents: We still have an active scene but all the schools in the area are secure and all children are accounted for. the Archdiocese of Newark, which oversees the school will provide more information later,” Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop said on Twitter.
Kelly Heyboer may be reached at kheyboer@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Kelly Heyboer on Twitter @KellyHeyboer. Find Kelly Heyboer at KellyHeyboerReporter on Facebook.
Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.

After keeping thousands of Jersey City students on lockdown for hours, local officials said local officials will begin dismissing schools at 4:15 p.m. as police continue to investigate a fatal shooting that paralyzed Jersey City.
“Parents: At 4:15 p.m. we are planning on systematically releasing any schools that have been on lock down,” Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop said on Twitter. School officials did not immediately release any additional information on how students would be released or if parents should pick students up.
Some of Jersey City's 26,000 public school students were told to remain in Some of Jersey City’s 26,000 public school students's schools as police continued to investigate the active shooter situation in Jersey City. At least one police officer was killed and two other officers and one civilian were injured in the shooting Tuesday afternoon, the Hudson County prosecutor’s office said.
Students were also on lockdown in the Sacred Heart School, a pre-K through 8th grade Catholic school on Bayview Avenue close to the shooting site, church officials said. “Students and staff at Sacred Heart School in Jersey City are safe, however the Sacred Heart School, a pre-K through 8th grade Catholic school on Bayview Avenue close to the shooting site remains on lockdown.
Police are on the scene. Events are still unfolding. Keep all those involved in your thoughts and prayers,” the Archdiocese of Newark, which oversees the Sacred Heart School, a pre-K through 8th grade Catholic school on Bayview Avenue close to the shooting site, said in a statement.
Kelly Heyboer may be reached at kheyboer@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Kelly Heyboer on Twitter @KellyHeyboer. Find Kelly Heyboer at KellyHeyboerReporter on Facebook.
Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.

NJ Transit light rail service has resumed in parts of Jersey City after an active shooter incident Tuesday afternoon in the area of Martin Luther King Drive and Bidwell Avenue.
State Police said Exit 14 B remains closed on the New Jersey Turnpike Hudson County extension. The rest of the New Jersey Turnpike Hudson County extension is open.
Service resumed on Hudson-Bergen Light rail service on the Bayonne branch between Liberty State Park and 8th street, however trains are skipping the Danforth Avenue stop, NJ Transit officials said in an alert to riders. Shuttle bus service that replaced light rail trains due to sewer construction between Liberty State Park and West Side Avenue also resumed, however buses are not stopping at Martin Luther King Drive. The 87 bus to Gates Avenue in Jersey City continues to run on a detour on Martin Luther King Drive, which is closed between Woodlawn Avenue and Claremont Avenue. Buses service will use Martin Luther King Boulevard between Woodlawn Avenue, Ocean Avenue and Bramhall Avenue, NJ Transit alerts said. No other bus routes are affected so far.
Larry Higgs may be reached at lhiggs@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Larry Higgs on Twitter @commutinglarry. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

The shooting attack that killed four people on Tuesday in Jersey City is being viewed as an antisemitic hate crime.
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a press conference on Wednesday that The shooting attack that killed four people on Tuesday in Jersey City was both a “premeditated violent antisemitic hate crime” and an “act of terror. ”On
Tuesday, two gunmen drove into Jersey City and The shooting attack that killed four people on Tuesday in Jersey City fire at a kosher grocery store, killing Leah Minda Ferencz, who owned a kosher grocery store with Leah Minda Ferencz, who owned the store with her husband's husband, and Moshe Deutsch, 24. There has been a 22% increase in antisemitic hate crimes, according to New York City Police Commissioner Dermot Shea. New York City Police Commissioner Dermot Shea said there is “absolutely a concern” of copycat attacks after The shooting attack that killed four people on Tuesday in Jersey City.
As such, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said there will be immediate steps that will be announced in the coming days, and that more measures will be developed in the long term.the NYPD hate crimes unit monitors the Internet as many hate groups and hate-crime perpetrators post manifestos and hateful content to social media and websites such as 8Chan, as seen in the Poway, Tree of Life and El Paso shootings. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio pointed to the Holocaust, saying that if the German people had stood up against the Nazi Party’s hate in the 1930s, six million Jews and millions of others would have still been alive.
“The words of hate and the small acts of hate turn into a much greater danger that will threaten us all and it has to end here and now,” said New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio. “Don’t hesitate” to send in any possibly relevant information, said New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio to New York City citizens, stressing that the NYPD can’t do all the work.
“We’re all a part of this. ”US President Donald Trump responded on Twitter to The shooting attack that killed four people on Tuesday in Jersey City, saying that “[”US President Donald Trump] just received a briefing on the horrific shootout that took place in Jersey City, New York City. Our thoughts & prayers are w/ four people & four people's families during this very difficult & tragic time.
We will continue to monitor the situation as we assist local & state officials on the ground. The shooting attack that killed four people on Tuesday in Jersey City came one day before ”US President Donald Trump signed an executive order that calls on government departments enforcing Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) definition of antisemitism. Reuters contributed to this report.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

The shooters who wreaked havoc on Jersey City Tuesday, killing a police officer and gunning down three inside a kosher market, were suspects in the killing of a car service driver in Bayonne last weekend, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said at a news conference Wednesday afternoon.
Authorities also discovered a pipe bomb at the scene of the deadly gun battle, and said a person fled a kosher market wounded. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal declined to comment on The shooters who wreaked havoc on Jersey City Tuesday, killing a police officer and gunning down three inside a kosher market's possible motives, saying the investigation was ongoing. At this time, there are still no credible threats against the Jewish community in Jersey City, but the Jewish community in our city remain vigilant.

A rampage that killed a veteran police detective and three people at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was a hate crime, Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop said Wednesday afternoon.
“There’s no question A rampage that killed a veteran police detective and three people at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was a hate crime was an attack on the Jewish community,” Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop said at a news conference from the crime scene. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop said Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop's assessment of A rampage that killed a veteran police detective and three people at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was a hate crime was based on security camera footage.
A clip showed the two shooters pull up in a U-Haul van and walk into a kosher grocery store in Jersey City with rifles while passing others on a busy block. “Why Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop call A rampage that killed a veteran police detective and three people at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was a hate crime a hate crime.
We shouldn’t parse words on whether A rampage that killed a veteran police detective and three people at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was a hate crime is a hate crime at this point. A rampage that killed a veteran police detective and three people at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was a hate crime was a hate crime against Jewish ppl + hate has no place.
A clip is clear that the two shooters drove to the crime scene, A clip is clear that the two shooters,” Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop posted on Twitter. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop's news conference came hours after state and federal authorities held a separate briefing and said the motive remained under investigation. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop, however, has repeatedly called A rampage that killed a veteran police detective and three people at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was a hate crime a targeted attack on the Jewish community.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal identified the two shooters as 47-year-old David Anderson and 50-year-old Francine Graham. the two shooters died in a ferocious gun battle with police at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City Tuesday. 47-year-old David Anderson and 50-year-old Francine Graham were also “prime suspects” in the weekend killing of a car service driver in Bayonne, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal confirmed.
Police found a “viable” pipe bomb inside a van that one of the two shooters drove to a kosher grocery store in Jersey City, according to Special Agent-in-Charge Gregory W. Ehrie, of the FBI’s Newark division. After fatally shooting a veteran police detective at Bay View Cemetery around noon, the two shooters traveled in a U-Haul van to a kosher grocery store in Jersey City, according to authorities.
Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop first said late Tuesday that investigators believed a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was targeted and police across the tri-state area boosted security at Jewish sites. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal, however, said a motive for the attacks remained under investigation. Top officials in New York have described A rampage that killed a veteran police detective and three people at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was a hate crime as a hate crime and assault on members of the Jewish community.
Noah Cohen may be reached at ncohen@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Noah Cohen on Twitter @noahyc. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Leah Minda Ferencz co-owned the Kosher grocery store in Jersey City targeted by two gunman. Miguel Douglas was a store employee, married with an 11-year-old daughter, who had immigrated to the U.S. from Ecuador. Moshe Deutsch was inside the Kosher grocery store in Jersey City targeted by two gunman getting a sandwich when the shooting erupted.
All three who were killed inside the Kosher grocery store in Jersey City targeted by two gunman — along with Jersey City Police Detective Joseph Seals, fatally shot about a mile away — were remembered Wednesday as selfless friends and colleagues who all found ways to make a difference in their communities. Leah Minda Ferencz owned the Kosher grocery store in Jersey City targeted by two gunman with Leah Minda Ferencz's husband, who was not inside when the shooting began. The mother of her three children was described as a “pioneer” by the United Jewish Organizations (UJO) of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn. “Leah Minda Ferencz and Leah Minda Ferencz's husband were of the very first to relocate from Williamsburg, due to the sky-rocketing prices of housing, to settle in Jersey City,” read the statement from the United Jewish Organizations (UJO) of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn. “She and her husband did not do it for She and her husband, but to pave the way for a new community that lives harmoniously with a new community that lives harmoniously with their neighbors's neighbors. Leah Minda Ferencz was a caring and nurturing mother for Leah Minda Ferencz's three children, and at the same time helped Leah Minda Ferencz's husband who ran the first kosher grocery in the area,” continued the statement from UJO. “A life of selflessness, and dedication to others, full of love, was cut short by vicious hate-filled murders,” the statement from UJO concluded. Leah Minda Ferencz's husband, Moishe Ferencz, had left the Kosher grocery store in Jersey City targeted by two gunman shortly before the shooting for an afternoon service at a nearby synagogue, according to Rabbi Moshe Schapiro, co-director of the Chabad of Hoboken and Jersey City synagogue and acting as an informal spokesman for the local Hasidic community.
her husband, who was not inside when the shooting began's mother, Victoria Ferencz, told the New York Times that shots were heard within minutes and a nearby synagogue was placed on lockdown. “His mother, Victoria Ferencz, called His mother, Victoria Ferencz,'s son, her husband, who was not inside when the shooting began says, ‘her husband, who was not inside when the shooting began’m locked here, her husband, who was not inside when the shooting began have no idea where Leah Minda Ferencz is,’” said His mother, Victoria Ferencz,.
Rabbi David Niederman, the United Jewish Organizations (UJO) of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn's executive director, said Rabbi David Niederman, the UJO’s executive director, did not know Miguel Douglas, but offered a tribute when speaking in New York City on Wednesday with Mayor Bill de Blasion. “May Miguel Douglas rest in peace,” Rabbi David Niederman, the UJO’s executive director, said. “Miguel Douglas served everyone who came into the Kosher grocery store in Jersey City targeted by two gunman fairly, and Our heart goes out. Miguel Douglas’s also part of what we now call a list of dead people because of horrific, criminal activity," Rabbi David Niederman, the UJO’s executive director, said. Williams Machazek, pastor of Iglesia Nueva Vida, told NorthJersey.com
Miguel Douglas was married with an 11-year-old daughter and had moved to the U.S. from Ecuador and was working at the market to support Miguel Douglas's family. Miguel Douglas appeared to also go by the name of Douglas Rodriguez. A woman who said A woman who said she was the man’s niece was Miguel Douglas niece wrote online that Miguel Douglas came to the U.S. for a better life with Miguel Douglas's wife and daughter. “Miguel Douglas was a devoted husband, friend, and father. Miguel Douglas was a God-loving, honest and hard-working person was who always available to help others.
Miguel Douglas had been working at the Kosher grocery store in Jersey City targeted by two gunman for about a year before this is devastating and unexpected loss,” A woman who said she was the man’s niece wrote. Deutsch, 24, lived in Brooklyn. Deutsch, 24,'s father, Abe Deutsch, is a board member at the Williamsburg/North Brooklyn UJO.
“The community this is devastating and unexpected loss Miguel Douglas,” the Williamsburg/North Brooklyn UJO said in the Williamsburg/North Brooklyn UJO's statement. “Miguel Douglas embodied the very best of Chai Lifeline, said Rabbi Simcha Scholar, CEO of Chai Lifeline. “Miguel Douglas was a dedicated volunteer who always looked for opportunities to help others. this is devastating and unexpected loss is a devastating loss for The community and The community's thoughts are with all those impacted by the shooting,” Rabbi Simcha Scholar, CEO of Chai Lifeline said.
Rob Jennings may be reached at rjennings@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Rob Jennings on Twitter@RobJenningsNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook. Reporter Brianna Kudisch contributed to this report.
Have a tip? Tell The community.

New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy, Attorney General Gurbir Grewal and other law enforcement leaders at the state and federal level held a press conference Wednesday afternoon to provide an update on the investigation into the deadly Jersey City shooting -- detailing what exactly took place during the barrage of gunfire that ultimately claimed the life of one police officer, three civilians and the two suspects. According to Attorney General Gurbir Grewal, although the investigation into the deadly Jersey City shooting is still in the preliminary stages, authorities have started to compile a picture of what transpired. According to Attorney General Gurbir Grewal, it is believed that at some point Tuesday two individuals -- David Anderson, 47, and and Francine Graham, 50 -- encountered and killed Jersey City police Det. Joseph Seals in the Bayview Cemetery in Jersey City.
At approximately 12:21 p.m., a white U-Haul van driven by David Anderson, 47 parked directly across the street from the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the Bayview Cemetery in Jersey City, Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said. Within seconds of arriving, David Anderson, 47 exited the driver side door of a white U-Haul van driven by Anderson with a rifle in David Anderson, 47's hands. David Anderson, 47 walked toward the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the cemetery and immediately began shooting. Graham, the passenger in a white U-Haul van driven by Anderson, followed David Anderson, 47 into the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the cemetery.
From that point on, until the conclusion of the deadly Jersey City shooting, the two suspects remained inside the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the cemetery, according to Attorney General Gurbir Grewal. Sources say one suspect had anti-police and anti-semitic content on one suspect's social accounts.
Jonathan Dienst reports. Inside the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the cemetery the two suspects encountered three civilians, three of three civilians were killed and The survivor survived a gunshot wound. The survivor was able to escape the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the cemetery at the beginning of the deadly Jersey City shooting. Authorities are not providing The survivor's name at this time.
At approximately 12:38 p.m., the Jersey City Police Department received a 911 call from an individual who discovered Seals' body. Minutes later, at approximately 12:43 p.m., the Jersey City Police Department personnel arrived at the vicinity of the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the cemetery and engaged with the two suspects inside where a “long protracted shootout followed,” Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said. At approximately 3:25 p.m., an armored police vehicle broke through the entry way of the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the cemetery. Shocking new surveillance footage shows the beginning of the shooting in Jersey City on Tuesday. At approximately 3:47 p.m., the law enforcement incident ended when the officers discovered the bodies inside the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the cemetery.
According to Attorney General Gurbir Grewal, as soon as the deadly Jersey City shooting ended, law enforcement began processing the scene for various items for evidence, including digital and documentary evidence, which law enforcement is currently reviewing for indication of the two suspects's possible motives. Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop and Public Safety Director James Shea said that while it was still difficult to comprehend the two suspects's precise motive, an assessment of surveillance footage from the scene showed what Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop and Public Safety Director James Shea said could be nothing other than targeted murder. Authorities are currently in the process of identifying all available video footage from the deadly Jersey City shooting and hope to release all available video footage from the incident to the public as soon as possible.
Authorities expect to provide additional updates Thursday. Attorney General Gurbir Grewal also urged anyone with additional information to call the New Jersey State Police at 609-963-6900.

Authorities on Wednesday identified a man and a woman as the attackers behind a wild shootout with police in Jersey City that left several people dead a day earlier. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal identified the attackers David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, who were both found dead inside a kosher supermarket along with three civilians.
a wild shootout with police in Jersey City that left several people dead a day earlier began at a cemetery where a man and a woman killed Detective Joseph Seals of the Jersey City Police Department. Then a man and a woman drove a stolen U-Haul to the supermarket where a man and a woman killed three civilians and fired on responding police officers for more than an hour.
Authorities believe that a man and a woman were behind the killing of a man whose body was found inside the trunk of a Lincoln Town Car in neighboring Bayonne over the weekend, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said. The man, Michael Rumberger, 34, of Jersey City, had head wounds, according to the Hudson County Prosecutor's Office. a man was a one-time follower of the Black Hebrew Israelite movement and had hate posts on a man's social media page, the New York Post reported.

This week’s deadly kosher market attack and the killing of a detective in New Jersey are being investigated as acts of domestic terrorism “fueled by both anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement beliefs,” the state attorney general said Thursday. “We believe the suspects held views that reflected hatred of the Jewish people, as well as a hatred of law enforcement,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said, citing evidence and witness interviews.
Investigators believe David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, killed a detective near a Jersey City cemetery and then stormed a nearby Jewish market Thursday, shooting and killing three people there and starting an hourslong police standoff that ended with the suspects's deaths, authorities said. It’s still not known why David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 attacked a detective and the JC Kosher Supermarket in particular, the state attorney general said.
But evidence points to the shootings being “acts of hate,” the state attorney general said in a news conference in Jersey City. The FBI is investigating the shootings as “domestic terrorism with a hate-crime bias slant to it,” said Gregory Ehrie, special agent in charge for The FBI in Newark. Investigators think David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 acted by the suspects, Gregory Ehrie, special agent in charge for the FBI in Newark said.
the state attorney general and others stressed that once at a nearby Jewish market, the suspects apparently fired only at people there, and at responding police officers, bypassing multiple opportunities to shoot others on the street. “the suspects were clearly targeting the JC Kosher Supermarket in particular. the suspects were clearly targeting the Jersey City Police Department,” US Attorney Craig Carpenito said, partly citing surveillance video.
David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 also were suspects in the weekend killing of a livery driver near the neighboring New Jersey city of Bayonne, the state attorney general has said. a livery driver died Saturday, local media outlets, including NJ.com, reported.
Authorities haven’t said what, if anything, links the weekend killing of a livery driver near the neighboring New Jersey city of Bayonne to Thursday's shootings, other than investigators believe David N. Anderson, 47, and Graham were behind the shootings. Investigators also checking a note found a stolen U-Haul truck that the suspects parked across from a nearby Jewish market – a note, a law enforcement source told CNN. Posts with similar sentiments also have been found on social media linked to the suspects, a law enforcement source said. “But we will not be defeated, we will not stand down, we will not be intimidated,” Greenblatt said.
Killed Thursday were Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals and three people in a nearby Jewish market: Mindy Ferencz, 31, a nearby Jewish market's co-owner; Moshe Deutsch, 24, a customer; and Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, a store employee. One person who was inside a nearby Jewish market was shot when David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 opened fire, but One person who was inside the market fled a nearby Jewish market as the suspects shot at One person who was inside the market, and survived, officials said. Investigators think all three slain victims in a nearby Jewish market “were shot … within minutes of the suspects entering a nearby Jewish market,” the state attorney general said. Hundreds of ammunition shells have been recovered from the a nearby Jewish market scene, the state attorney general said.
Inside the suspects stolen U-Haul across the street was a pipe bomb and a fifth gun – a .22-caliber Ruger with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shells, the state attorney general said. the killers’ stolen U-Haul across the street also had “ballistic panels” designed to resist damage, the state attorney general said.
“But for the actions of (police), the suspects could have done more,” the state attorney general said. Francine Graham, 50 bought the shotgun and a fifth gun – a .22-caliber Ruger with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shells in Ohio in the spring of 2018, the state attorney general said.
Before David N. Anderson, 47, and Graham made the suspects's way to a nearby Jewish market, the suspects are believed to have killed Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals near a city cemetery, authorities have said. Police have said Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals was trying to stop the suspects – but Police haven’t said why Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals tried, or why the suspects killed Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals. A bystander called 911 to report Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals's body at a city cemetery at 12:38 p.m., authorities said.
By that time, David N. Anderson, 47, and Graham already were attacking a nearby Jewish market. Surveillance video shows David N. Anderson, 47, parking the killers’ stolen U-Haul across the street across the street from a nearby Jewish market, about a mile from a city cemetery, city officials say. the suspects get out, and a man – David N. Anderson, 47,, police say – walks directly toward a nearby Jewish market, apparently ignoring several people on the sidewalk nearby, and starts firing a gun into a nearby Jewish market before entering.
Francine Graham, 50 follows, police say. Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop has cited this video – appearing to show David N. Anderson, 47, ignoring pedestrians and other businesses – as evidence that David N. Anderson, 47, the attack a nearby Jewish market for specific reasons.
Police arrived at a nearby Jewish market around 20 minutes after the attack began, starting a long shootout that left two police officers injured. Around 3:25 p.m., a police armored vehicle broke into a nearby Jewish market entryway, and law enforcement soon found the bodies of three people and two attackers inside a nearby Jewish market, the state attorney general said.
A law enforcement official told the New York Times Wednesday that David N. Anderson, 47, appears to have a connection with the Black Hebrew Israelites movement, but the extent is unclear. the Black Hebrew Israelites movement is best known for the Black Hebrew Israelites movement's confrontational brand of street preaching in urban areas but the Black Hebrew Israelites movement has a complex history in the United States, with sects and branches splintering over theological and leadership disputes. Scholars say what unites most Black Israelites is the belief that African-Americans are the true descendants of biblical Jews.
Some members have expressed anti-Semitic sentiments in the past. David N. Anderson, 47, served in the US Army Reserve from September 1999 to September 2003, the US Army Reserve said, as a fuel and electrical system repairer. Two of three people were laid to rest Wednesday night.
In Jersey City, crowds of men in black hats surrounded Ferencz’s casket in the Jersey City neighborhood of Greenville at the site of a synagogue under construction. Hundreds of women, separated from the men as per Orthodox Jewish tradition, were standing in the bitter cold sobbing.
Ferencz’s owned a nearby Jewish market with Ferencz’s's husband, who was next door at a synagogue under construction at the time of the attack, according to Yossi Steinmetz who was there as well. When shots broke out, Ferencz’s's husband desperately tried to call Ferencz’s and tell Ferencz’s to lock the doors to take cover, Yossi Steinmetz who was there as well said.
Ferencz’s didn’t answer. At Ferencz’s's Brooklyn funeral, mourners spoke in Hebrew through tears as at least a dozen NYPD counterterrorism officers and nearly 100 “Shomrim” members – Hebrew for guardians – stood watch. Ferencz’s and Ferencz’s the suspects had ties to the Jewish community in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said.

the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the story was last updated.
JERSEY CITY, N.J. — Officials confirmed Thursday that hate and anti-Semitisim motivated the shooters in Thursday's deadly attack at a JERSEY CITY, N.J. — kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said at a news conference that investigators believe the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims held views that reflected hatred of Jewish people and of law enforcement.
State officials said State officials have identified a number of social media accounts State officials believe were used by suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham, and that posts on a number of social media accounts they believe were used by suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham support anti-Semitic and anti-law enforcement beliefs. Authorities are working to ensure the authenticity of a number of social media accounts they believe were used by suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham.
“Based on [evidence] investigators have collected so far…including recent witness interviews, investigators believe that the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims held views that reflected hatred of Jewish people, as well as a hatred of law enforcement,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said. Authorities are still trying to determine how the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims selected the targets for the attacks, both a Jersey City kosher market and slain JERSEY CITY, N.J. — Detective Joseph Seals. slain Jersey City Detective Joseph Seals reportedly confronted the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims at a nearby cemetery before the market shootout, as the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims sat in the U-Haul van that has been linked to an Uber driver’s murder in Bayonne last weekend.
Officials Thursday confirmed suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham are both suspects in an Uber driver’s murder in Bayonne last weekend as well, but have not determined any other links between the two incidents. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said that while the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, officials have not definitively established any formal links to the Black Hebrew Israelite movement or any other group, and believe the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims worked alone in the attacks.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal also revealed that five firearms were from the scene; four inside the supermarket and one inside the U-Haul van the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims parked out front. The FBI said Wednesday that a live pipe bomb was also found in the U-Haul van the shooters parked out front.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said an AR-15 semi-automatic rifle was discovered inside a Jersey City kosher market and officials believe suspects David Anderson was firing an AR-15 semi-automatic rifle as suspects David Anderson entered the shop Thursday. Authorities also found a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun in a Jersey City kosher market, which Authorities believe Francine Graham was carrying as the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims moved in.
The two other weapons found inside the shop were a 9mm Ruger semi-automatic firearm and a 9mm Glock 17, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said. The gun recovered from the U-Haul van the shooters parked out front was a 22 caliber Ruger Mark IV with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch the shell casings, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said. Using serial numbers, authorities determined Francine Graham purchased a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun and The gun recovered from the van at two separate gun shops in Ohio, in the spring of 2018, according to New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal.
Several-hundred shell casings were also recovered at the scene which are being processed at this time. Officials believe the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims shot three innocent victims within minutes of entering the shop and that a fourth civilian escaped while the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims shot at a fourth civilian as a fourth civilian ran out of a Jersey City kosher market and across the street. Within minutes of taking over the shop, suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham began firing at responding law enforcement that arrived on foot and by patrol car, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said. Officials said the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims were, at this point, aiming the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims's fire at law enforcement only and not other people on the street. The New York Post reported suspects David Anderson left behind a handwritten hate-filled note in the U-Haul van the shooters parked out front, and while officials confirmed the existence of a handwritten hate-filled note, officials were not ready Thursday to speak to a handwritten hate-filled note's contents.

The New Jersey police officer was shot before the suspects fled to a store.
A New Jersey police officer and three people were killed after an hours-long gun battle prompted by what officials believe was a "target" attack.. The New Jersey police officer was shot at the Bay View Cemetery in Jersey City, allegedly by two suspects, who then fled to a Jewish supermarket at Wilkinson Avenue and Martin Luther King Dr. in Jersey City, police said.
When officers arrived to a store, the suspects allegedly a "target" attack fire with high-powered rifles, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly told reporters at a news conference. The Hudson County Prosecutor's Office confirmed that The New Jersey police officer died after The New Jersey police officer was transported to a nearby hospital. Three civilians inside a store were also killed and one other civilian was injured, officials said.
the suspects then retreated to a store and allegedly continued to fire at responding officers. Two other police officers were shot, one in the shoulder and one in the body, and Two other police officers have both been released from a nearby hospital, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said. Another officer was injured by shrapnel, police said. No other citizens who were in the area at the time were shot, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said.
the suspects were found dead inside a store, police said. Preliminary investigations indicated that the suspects targeted the location the suspects attacked, according to Jersey City's mayor.
A stolen U-Haul vehicle has been taken from the scene and is being examined by a bomb squad because investigators believe A stolen U-Haul vehicle may contain an "incendiary device," Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said. Several SWAT officers on the scene were seen barricading Several SWAT officers on the scene behind cars as several gunshots went off in the neighborhood, live video showed. The heavy gunfire continued for more than an hour.
All law enforcement units "within earshot" responded to the scene, including the FBI; Port Authority; the Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) bureau; and all surrounding municipalities, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said. Nearby schools were placed on lock down until 4:15 p.m., according to the New Jersey School District. All students are accounted for.
The New Jersey police officer was identified as Detective Joseph Seals, who was part of the Jersey City Police Department's cease fire unit, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said. Detective Joseph Seals, who was part of the Jersey City Police Department's cease fire unit was in plain clothes when The New Jersey police officer was shot, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said.
Detective Joseph Seals, who was part of the Jersey City Police Department's cease fire unit was the Jersey City Police Department's's "leading police officer for removing guns from the street," Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said, adding that Detective Joseph Seals, who was part of the Jersey City Police Department's cease fire unit was responsible for removing "dozens and dozens" of firearms. In addition to the drug connection, Detective Joseph Seals, who was part of the Jersey City Police Department's cease fire unit may have been interested in the two suspects who ultimately shot and killed Detective Joseph Seals, who was part of the Jersey City Police Department's cease fire unit because of a weekend homicide, according to law enforcement sources. On Saturday, around 10 p.m., police in nearby Bayonne found a Jersey City man, identified as Michael Rumberger, in the trunk of a Lincoln Town Car.
a weekend homicide had not been immediately solved. Detective Joseph Seals, who was part of the Jersey City Police Department's cease fire unit is survived by a wife and five children, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly told reporters. Detective Joseph Seals, who was part of the Jersey City Police Department's cease fire unit had been with the Jersey City Police Department's since 2006 and was promoted to detective in the last few years.
New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy has been briefed on an hours-long gun battle prompted by what officials believe was a "target" attack, New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy said in a statement. "Our thoughts and prayers are with the men and women of the Jersey City Police Department's, especially with the officers shot during an hours-long gun battle prompted by what officials believe was a "target" attack, and with the residents and schoolchildren currently under lockdown," New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy said. President Donald Trump is also monitoring the situation, according to the White House.

One of the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews - wrote a note that read “One of the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews - do this because One of the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews -'s creator makes One of the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews - do this and One of the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews - hate who One of the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews - hates,” according to a report on NYPost.com.
Investigators found a note that read “I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who he hates inside the van left outside the kosher market by attackers David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, NYPost.com the report, citing law enforcement sources. a note that read “I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who he hates was scrawled by Anderson, the report said.
There is evidence the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews “expressed interest" in certain hate groups such as the Black Hebrew Israelites - but authorities believe the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews acted alone, not as part of any organization, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said at a news conference Thursday. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal declined to address any notes found in the van left outside the kosher market by attackers David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50.
Anderson and Francine Graham, 50 shot and killed Jersey City Det. Joseph Seals at a cemetery before driving to the market, where the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews walked in with guns drawn and killed three people - Moshe Deutsch, 24, a Hasidic man who was visiting from Brooklyn; Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a co-owner the kosher market with Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a co-owner the Kosher grocery with her husband, who was not present at the time's husband, who was not present at the time; and Miguel Douglas Rodriguez, 49, of Jersey City, who worked in the kosher market. Anderson and Francine Graham, 50 were killed following an exchange of gunfire with police that lasted more than three hours.
A wake for a Jersey City police officer will be held Monday with a funeral mass to follow Tuesday in Jersey City. Funerals for Moshe Deutsch, 24, a Hasidic man who was visiting from Brooklyn and Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a co-owner the Kosher grocery with her husband, who was not present at the time were held Wednesday in Brooklyn.
Jeff Goldman may be reached at jeff_goldman@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Jeff Goldman on Twitter @JeffSGoldman. Find NJ.com on Facebook.
Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips. Get the latest updates right in your inbox.

One of the “Black Hebrew Israelite” killers who the attack a Jewish grocery store in Jersey City left behind a handwritten note that said, “One of the “Black Hebrew Israelite” killers who targeted a Jewish grocery store in Jersey City do the attack because One of the “Black Hebrew Israelite” killers who targeted a Jewish grocery store in Jersey City's creator makes One of the “Black Hebrew Israelite” killers who targeted a Jewish grocery store in Jersey City do the attack and One of the “Black Hebrew Israelite” killers who targeted a Jewish grocery store in Jersey City hate who my creator hates,” law enforcement sources told The Post. a handwritten note that said, “I do this because my creator makes me do this
and I hate who he hates was found inside the stolen U-Haul van that David Anderson, 47, and David Anderson, 47,'s girlfriend, Francine Graham, 50, on Tuesday drove to the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket, where David Anderson, 47, and his girlfriend, Francine Graham, 50, gunned down three people. Sources have identified David Anderson, 47, and his girlfriend, Francine Graham, 50, as adherents of the Black Hebrew Israelites, a fringe religious movement not associated with mainstream Judaism that’s been labeled a hate group by experts who track extremists in the US.
David Anderson, 47, had posted anti-Jewish and anti-police messages to social media before the attack, Sources said. David Anderson, 47, and his girlfriend, Francine Graham, 50, van was linked to the killing of an Uber driver in Bayonne, officials have said. When Jersey City Detective Joseph Seals tried to question David Anderson, 47, and his girlfriend, Francine Graham, 50, about the stolen U-Haul van that David Anderson, 47, and his girlfriend, Francine Graham, 50, on Tuesday earlier Tuesday, David Anderson, 47, and his girlfriend, Francine Graham, 50, fatally shot Jersey City Detective Joseph Seals in the head, sources have said.

The state’s attorney general says the ‘evidence points towards acts of hate’ against Jewish community.
A deadly attack on a kosher market in New Jersey is being the investigation as “domestic terrorism” fuelled by “fuelled both by anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement beliefs”, The state’s's top prosecutor said on Thursday. Tuesday’s attack, which culminated in a four-hour standoff with authorities at the JC Kosher Supermarket in Jersey City, left three civilians and one police officer dead.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal, speaking at a news conference, said the attackers, identified as David N Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, had expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelites, a fringe group whose members have been known to rail against white people and Jews. On Wednesday, the FBI searched the headquarters of the Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ, which is the formal name of the Black Hebrew Israelites, a fringe group whose members have been known to rail against white people and Jews, located in the Jersey City neighbourhood of Harlem, a law enforcement official briefed on the investigation told the Associated Press news agency.
Authorities said Authorities were also examining social media posts and other evidence to learn more about the attackers, identified as David N Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50,'s motives. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop had previously said surveillance video made it clear that the attackers, identified as David N Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, targeted the JC Kosher Supermarket in Jersey City, slowly and deliberately driving up to the JC Kosher Supermarket in Jersey City in a stolen rental van and immediately opening fire. The victims killed in the JC Kosher Supermarket in Jersey City were identified as Mindel Ferencz, 31, who with Mindel Ferencz, 31, who with her husband owned the grocery's husband owned the JC Kosher Supermarket in Jersey City; 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a rabbinical student from Brooklyn who was shopping there; and store employee Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49. the attackers, identified as David N Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, are also prime suspects in the slaying of a livery driver found dead in a car trunk in nearby Bayonne over the weekend, according to The state’s attorney general.
Members of Jersey City's ultra-Orthodox Jewish community gathered Wednesday night for funerals for Mindel Ferencz, 31, who with her husband owned the grocery and 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a rabbinical student from Brooklyn who was shopping there. Thousands of people followed Mindel Ferencz, 31, who with her husband owned the grocery's coffin through the streets of Brooklyn, hugging and crying. More than 300 people also attended a vigil on Wednesday at a synagogue about a mile from where the shootings took place.
The bloodshed in Jersey City, which is across the Hudson River from Jersey City, began at a graveyard, where Detective Joseph Seals, a 40-year-old member of a unit devoted to taking illegal weapons off the street, was shot and killed by the attackers, identified as David N Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50,, authorities said. the attackers, identified as David N Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, then drove a stolen rental van to the kosher market.
The drawn-out gun battle with police filled the streets with the sound of high-powered rifle fire, as SWAT officers in full tactical gear swarmed the neighbourhood. Police later used an armoured vehicle to ram the store entrance.
the attackers, identified as David N Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, were killed at the scene. Four weapons were later recovered from the JC Kosher Supermarket in Jersey City and another from the van the attackers, identified as David N Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, drove. If the motives are confirmed, A deadly attack on a kosher market in New Jersey would be the latest in a series of hate crimes against Jewish communities in The state’s in recent times.
In October of 2018, in the deadliest attack on Jews in US history, 11 people were killed in a shooting at a synagogue in Pittsburgh. In April, a gunman opened fire at a synagogue near San Diego, killing a woman and wounding a rabbi and two others.

At least one of the suspects reportedly had published anti-Semitic and anti-police posts online before the attack fire on Tuesday. Fulop said after reviewing surveillance footage that investigators believe the attack was plotted against the Jewish supermarket, located just across the Hudson River from New York City. Six people were killed in total -- four victims, including a police officer, and the suspects.
New Jersey Police veteran detective Joseph Seals, a father of five, was identified as one of four victims, including a police officer. Police said New Jersey Police veteran detective Joseph Seals, a father of five, was shot in the head and upper arm at a Jersey City cemetery before the suspects took off for the Jewish supermarket, located just across the Hudson River from New York City. Officials identified the bystanders killed at the Jewish supermarket, located just across the Hudson River from New York City as Mindy Ferencz, 31; Miguel Douglas, 49; and Moshe Deutsch, 24. Speaking on “Fox & Friends” on Thursday morning, Fulop said had police not acted so quickly, more people likely would have been killed, including inside a neighboring yeshiva.
“When you look at the facts that surrounded what happened here, there were a lot of potential targets on the way, there were a lot of potential targets on the block,” Fulop said. Multiple weapons and a "sophisticated" pipe bomb were recovered from the scene of Tuesday's deadly shooting, officials revealed at a news conference Wednesday.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said the suspects may have also been involved in a separate killing in neighboring Bayonne, N.J. the suspects had been linked to the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, a militant group whose members believe members're descendants of the ancient Israelites and who have been known to rail against white people and Jews. The investigation is ongoing. Fulop was joined by Jersey City Director of Public Safety James Shea on “Fox & Friends” on Thursday morning.
Jersey City Director of Public Safety James Shea warned of fake GoFundMe pages appearing online. Jersey City Director of Public Safety James Shea said Jersey City Director of Public Safety James Shea encourages anyone who wants to give charitably to any of four victims, including a police officer not to rush into donating online, instead anyone who wants to give charitably to any of the victims should contact Jersey City first. Jersey City Director of Public Safety James Shea added that anybody who thinks anybody who thinks they may have been a victim of fraud may have been a victim of fraud should contact the New York State Attorney General or the FBI. Fox News’ Nicole Darrah, Barnini Chakraborty and The Associated Press contributed to this report.

The shooting attack by a man and a woman that left three people at a kosher market dead after the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting killed a Jersey City police officer on Tuesday is being the investigation as a hate crime and an act of domestic terror, New Jersey’s attorney general said Thursday.
Authorities have so far found five firearms in connection to the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting and ballistic panels lined on the U-Haul truck used by the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting, New Jersey’s attorney general said. Four guns were recovered inside a kosher market, while another was found in the van parked out front, New Jersey’s attorney general said. An AR-15-style weapon was found inside the store authorities believed to be fired a man as a man entered a kosher market.
Authorities believe Francine Graham carried a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun into a kosher market, New Jersey’s attorney general said. A 9-millimeter semi-automatic Ruger and a 9-millimeter Glock 17 were also found in a kosher market. Inside the U-Haul truck used by them was a 22-caliber Ruger mark 4 with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch the shell casings.
Two firearms were purchased by Francine Graham at separate gun shops in Ohio in the spring of 2018, New Jersey’s attorney general said. Hundreds of shell casings were recovered at the scene, New Jersey’s attorney general added.
“the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting had a tremendous amount of firepower,” New Jersey’s attorney general said. A fourth civilian escaped a kosher market as the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting were shooting at A fourth civilian as A fourth civilian ran across the street, officials said.
There is also evidence the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting “expressed interest" in certain hate groups such as the Black Hebrew Israelites - but authorities believe the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting acted alone, not as part of any organization. U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito, meanwhile, said surveillance video showed the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting only engaged with the victims in a kosher market and law enforcement -- and no one else. Investigators are now trying to piece together why, U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said.
“The motivation appeared to be clearly...a bias towards both the Jewish community and law enforcement,” U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said. U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito added the two shooting suspects in the a kosher market attack are also suspects in a separate Bayonne homicide.
Authorities on Thursday did not divulge why Seals, the detective, originally engaged with the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop, a grandchild of Holocaust survivors, has called The shooting attack by a man and a woman that left three people at a kosher market dead after they killed a Jersey City police officer on Tuesday a hate crime, even before New Jersey’s attorney general said the investigation was leaning in that direction.
Hudson County Prosecutor Ester Suarez, meanwhile, warned residents that if residents see something, to report it to authorities. “We’ve also begun the process of reaching out to many of our community’s civic, educational and governmental partners in Jersey City, including members of the Jewish community as well as the African American community,” Hudson County Prosecutor Ester Suarez said.
The shooting attack by a man and a woman that left three people at a kosher market dead after they killed a Jersey City police officer on Tuesday unfolded early Tuesday afternoon as Det. Joseph Seals, 39, was investigating last weekend’s murder of a car service driver in Bayonne. the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting shot Seals in the head Tuesday in Bayview Cemetery, officials have said.
The attackers, identified as a man and Francine Graham, then drove in a U-Haul van to the kosher market on Martin Luther King Drive, authorities said. three people were killed inside a kosher grocery store on Martin Luther King Drive as a man and Francine Graham burst into the kosher market on Martin Luther King Drive with guns drawn.
a man was carrying an AR-15-style rifle while Francine Graham had a shotgun, New Jersey’s attorney general said Thursday. The others killed in the kosher market on Martin Luther King Drive were identified as Moshe Deutsch, 24, a Hasidic man who was visiting from Brooklyn; Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a co-owner the kosher market on Martin Luther King Drive with Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a co-owner the Kosher grocery with her husband, who was not present at the time's husband, who was not present at the time; and Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, of Jersey City, who worked in the kosher market on Martin Luther King Drive. a man and Francine Graham were killed following an exchange of gunfire with police that lasted more than three hours.
A wake for Seals will be held Monday with a funeral mass to follow Tuesday in Jersey City. Funerals for Moshe Deutsch, 24, a Hasidic man who was visiting from Brooklyn and Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a co-owner the Kosher grocery with her husband, who was not present at the time were held Wednesday in Brooklyn.

Dozens of children were in attendance without security at an Orthodox Jewish school at the time of Tuesday’s brutal shooting in Jersey City, a rabbi at an Orthodox Jewish school said hours after Jersey City's mayor claimed Dozens of children were the real target. Dozens of children were at the yeshiva attached to the JC Kosher Supermarket, where two shooters armed with a high-powered rifle and shotgun burst in and fired countless rounds, said Rabbi Mark, who declined to give a rabbi at the school's last name citing safety concerns.
After reviewing new surveillance footage, the city’s mayor said Friday it appeared that two shooters armed with a high-powered rifle and shotgun meant to attack the students at an Orthodox Jewish school, but veered to the right and took aim at the market instead. In video posted by the Orthodox Jewish Public Affairs Council, one of two shooters armed with a high-powered rifle and shotgun allegedly shoots at the door of an Orthodox Jewish school before turning one of the shooters's attention to the market.
If two shooters armed with a high-powered rifle and shotgun had pushed further and attacked an Orthodox Jewish school, there would have been little to stop two shooters armed with a high-powered rifle and shotgun, with no security at an Orthodox Jewish school, a rabbi at the school said. On Tuesday’s afternoon, the two shooters, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, pulled up in a U-Haul van across the street and mere steps from the market and got out, armed with an AR-15 rifle and shotgun and began shooting into the market.
Right next door is the Greenville shul, where a synagogue sits on the ground floor, with the yeshiva above a synagogue on the second floor, a rabbi at the school said. Tuesday’s brutal shooting in Jersey City left Moshe Deutsch, 24, Leah Mindel Ferencz, 33, and Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, dead. Also killed was Jersey City Detective Joseph Seals, who was shot by Anderson and Francine Graham, 50 earlier in Bayview Cemetery, about a mile away from the market. two shooters armed with a high-powered rifle and shotgun were killed in the ensuing standoff with law enforcement officers.
a rabbi at the school recalls hearing the gunshots ringing from the market. “the market was like a war zone,” a rabbi at the school said.
Until Tuesday’s, the tight-knit Orthodox Jewish community in Jersey City's Greenville neighborhood had lived peacefully, getting along with the tight-knit Orthodox Jewish community in the city’s Greenville neighborhood's neighbors from all faiths and walks of life. Tuesday’s brutal shooting in Jersey City has changed things for a synagogue and the yeshiva, which is now reevaluating the yeshiva's security protocols.
an Orthodox Jewish school has rented private security, and police have increased police's presence in the area, a rabbi at the school said. In the days after Tuesday’s brutal shooting in Jersey City, some of the school buses were followed by police. Despite a tragedy that has rocked the tight-knit Orthodox Jewish community in the city’s Greenville neighborhood and will likely reverberate for some time to come, the shul and the yeshiva look to move forward.
On Thursday and Friday, school was held in a different building. School started late Thursday and returned to School's regular schedule Friday, a rabbi at the school said. By next week, school should be back to normal, a rabbi at the school said. When the police cordons are removed and school starts once again, students will return and the tight-knit Orthodox Jewish community in the city’s Greenville neighborhood will try to repair what was lost, remembering Tuesday’s brutal shooting in Jersey City and giving thanks for the tragedy that was avoided, said a rabbi at the school.

JERSEY CITY — New neighbors always raise questions.
When Hasidic Jews started moving into the largely black Bergen-Lafayette and Greenville neighborhoods, longtime residents wondered whether it would mean home values would rise and longtime residents would be displaced. But Charles Mainor, a former assemblyman and police detective, said now that Hasidic Jews have been in the largely black Bergen-Lafayette and Greenville neighborhoods for several years, everyone coexists peacefully, albeit, separately. Now the largely black Bergen-Lafayette and Greenville neighborhoods is in the national spotlight after two suspects shot and killed three people Tuesday inside a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive after killing a police officer in Bayview Cemetery.
Black residents are seeing a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive on the evening news but feel little affiliation with a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive. a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive's owners and patrons are strangers.
“Its owners and patrons say hello, you say hello and that is it,” she said.
Chesky Deutsch, the father of two children who attend the yeshiva next door to a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, echoed the statements about friendly relations in an interview with the Jewish Telegraphic Agency. “We get along very well with our neighbors,” Chesky Deutsch, the father of two children who attend the yeshiva next door to JC Kosher Supermarket, said.
Hasidic Jews first started moving to JERSEY CITY's south side as some were being priced out of Brooklyn. Hasidic Jews established markets and congregations, and at times, some knocked on doors, seeking to purchase homes, Masonfair said. But the narrative that the two groups are at odds is overblown, said Rabbi Moshe Schapiro, the co-director of the Chabad of Hoboken and JERSEY CITY.
The owners of a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, one of whom died Tuesday, were among the first to move from Williamsburg to JERSEY CITY, according to the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg and Brooklyn. The owners of JC Kosher Supermarket, one of whom died Tuesday,'s store was the first kosher store in the largely black Bergen-Lafayette and Greenville neighborhoods, the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn said.
Still, some black residents in the south side of JERSEY CITY said tension with some black residents in the south side of Jersey City's Jewish neighbors feels more like segregation. Jews make up most of a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive clientele, Charles Mainor, a former assemblyman and police detective, said.
Douglas Harmon, the owner of a home repair company in JERSEY CITY, said Douglas Harmon, the owner of a home repair company in Jersey City, gets the majority of Douglas Harmon, the owner of a home repair company in Jersey City,'s business from the Orthodox Jewish community and did several jobs at a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive since a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive opened in the last few years. “The owners of JC Kosher Supermarket, one of whom died Tuesday,’re good people. Douglas Harmon, the owner of a home repair company in Jersey City, don’t see no reason why The owners of JC Kosher Supermarket, one of whom died Tuesday, would be targeted,” Douglas Harmon, the owner of a home repair company in Jersey City, said. Journal staff writers Josh Rosario and Patrick Villanova contributed to this report.

the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the story was last updated.
JERSEY CITY — Detective Joseph Seals, the first victim in JERSEY CITY's mass shooting Tuesday, was meeting a confidential informant at Bayview Cemetery, right before Detective Joseph Seals, the first victim in Jersey City’s mass shooting Tuesday encountered a stolen U-Haul van. A senior law enforcement source told PIX11 News Friday investigators have solved the mystery of why Detective Joseph Seals, the first victim in Jersey City’s mass shooting Tuesday, was in Bayview Cemetery Tuesday. investigators’ve learned Detective Joseph Seals, the first victim in Jersey City’s mass shooting Tuesday was The meeting an informant connected to one of Detective Joseph Seals, the first victim in Jersey City’s mass shooting Tuesday's gun or narcotics cases. The meeting was not tied to shooting suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham, who apparently ambushed Detective Joseph Seals, the first victim in Jersey City’s mass shooting Tuesday when Detective Joseph Seals, the first victim in Jersey City’s mass shooting Tuesday approached a stolen U-Haul van. Detective Joseph Seals, the first victim in Jersey City’s mass shooting Tuesday, was killed with a gunshot to the head. suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham, who apparently ambushed the detective when he approached the van, then proceeded to the JERSEY CITY Kosher Market on Martin Luther King Drive, several blocks away, and exited a stolen U-Haul van firing an AR-15 rifle and 12 gauge shotgun. A senior law enforcement source emphasized once again how crucial the actions of two JERSEY CITY cops were in preventing more deaths. the Jersey City Kosher Market on Martin Luther King Drive, several blocks away's co-owner, an employee, and a 24-year old customer were killed inside. David Anderson and Francine Graham died in the sustained gun battle that followed. PIX11 News also learned Friday that the case has essentially evolved into two, separate investigations: with the Attorney General’s office handling the shooting investigation, while the FBI examinespotential ties suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham, who apparently ambushed the detective when he approached the van had to the Black Hebrew Israelite organization, which is considered an extremist hate group. Also Friday, A senior law enforcement source told PIX11 News that investigators believe suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham, who apparently ambushed the detective when he approached the van killed livery cab driver, Michael Rumberger,in Bayonne last Saturday after robbing livery cab driver, Michael Rumberger of $80. Rumberger, who actually lived in JERSEY CITY, was found dead in the trunk of livery cab driver, Michael Rumberger's car.

Around noon on Tuesday, Joseph Seals, a detective in the Jersey City Police Department, approached two homicide suspects, a man and a woman, who were sitting inside a U-Haul van in Bay View cemetery.
According to the Times, two homicide suspects, a man and a woman, who were sitting inside a U-Haul van in Bay View cemetery the shooting and killed Joseph Seals, a detective in the Jersey City Police Department,, then drove directly to a nearby kosher grocery store in the neighborhood of Greenville. Officers from the Jersey City Police Department, sheriffs from at least three counties, the New Jersey State police, the N.Y.P.D., the Port Authority, the A.T.F., and the F.B.I. were soon on the scene.
the shooters ran through the streets in formation, heavily armed, and wearing jeans and hoodies, police uniforms, and olive drab. two homicide suspects, a man and a woman, who were sitting inside a U-Haul van in Bay View cemetery reportedly had long guns as well.
Over the next hour or so, the two sides exchanged hundreds of rounds. When the gunfire stopped, two more officers had been wounded, and five more people, including two homicide suspects, a man and a woman, who were sitting inside a U-Haul van in Bay View cemetery, had been killed.
Inside a U-Haul van, investigators later found what appeared to be a pipe bomb and a “manifesto-style note.” At least one of the shooters had posted anti-Semitic and anti-police comments online. Except, as it turned out, there appeared to be a more insidious motive behind Tuesday's violence.
A few years ago, sixty-two Hasidic families moved into the neighborhood of Greenville, refugees of high Brooklyn rents. A community center near the scene had become a de-facto staging area for victims’ families, and several volunteers, who were trained to offer medical support and grief counselling, had come from Hasidic communities in upstate New York or Brooklyn. Based on the reporting that had emerged at the time, a number of people outside of A community center near the crime scene, none of whom wanted to be quoted for this article, expressed relief that the shooting did not appear to be an act of anti-Semitism.
Recently, old tensions had begun to simmer in the neighborhood of Greenville. Some residents have complained about the insularity and new influence of the Hasidic community over the local real-estate market. the Hasidic community, meanwhile, has chafed at local politicians who told the Hasidic community the Hasidic community's new shul was violating zoning laws. their new shul sits next to the site of the shooting.

The call crackled with urgency. As Det.
Joseph Seals lay dead by Jersey City’s historic Bayview Cemetery, a deadly rampage by the officer’s suspected killers was underway just a mile away. A security camera captured the horror as a white U-haul cargo van pulls up in front of a Catholic elementary school across the street from a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store, on Martin Luther King Drive.
The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat, bursts out of a white U-haul cargo van with an AR-15-style rifle in The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat's right hand. The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat immediately starts the shooting as The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat crosses the street in the pouring rain.
The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat's passenger, Francine Graham gets out carrying a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun and follows The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat. Without pausing, The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat the shots round after round into the JC Kosher Supermarket to the right of a nondescript synagogue and an upstairs yeshiva filled with kids.
Terrified people on the sidewalk scatter. Some dive for cover, some run full-speed down the street.
The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat and His passenger, Francine Graham disappear into a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store. The crack of repeated gunfire echoes down the street. A man bolts from a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store and runs frantically for safety across the street.
There is no known video from inside a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store but, within moments, say police, three others in a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store were likely dead. Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a mother of the three victims, owned a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store with Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a mother of three's husband, Moishe Ferencz.
her husband, Moishe Ferencz had left a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store briefly to go to a nondescript synagogue for afternoon minchah prayer. her husband, Moishe Ferencz later told her husband, Moishe Ferencz's mother her husband, Moishe Ferencz could hear the shots, but had no idea of a deadly rampage by the officer’s suspected killers.
Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 47, a store employee, was found near the back entrance, shot apparently as Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 47, a store employee, sought to escape. Married with an 11-year-old daughter, Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 47, a store employee, had come to the U.S. from Ecuador three years earlier. Moshe Deutsch, a 24-year-old rabbinical student visiting from Williamsburg, was inside getting a sandwich.
In the next few minutes, two police officers running to the scene in Jersey City’s's Greenville section were shot and wounded. And in the more than three hours that followed, the gritty block between Bidwell and Bayville avenues turned into a war zone.
A diverse neighborhood of apartments, a liquor store, a Dominican market, a majestic stone church that had closed years ago as a majestic stone church that had closed years ago as its congregation dwindled's congregation dwindled, and a growing outpost of Hasidic families priced out of Brooklyn, the gritty block between Bidwell and Bayville avenues was now the scene of a deadly firefight. Hundreds of shots were fired, bullets smacking into the Sacred Heart School on the other side of MLK Drive, where children huddled. Police helicopters hovered overhead while SWAT teams took up rooftop positions.
A BearCat tactical vehicle rumbled into position in front of a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store, detectives firing from inside. a deadly firefight finally ended when A BearCat tactical vehicle, slammed hard into a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store.
Only then did officers find the bodies of the three victims along with the two shooters, who apparently had been shot dead by police. In their abandoned U-Haul van was a pipe bomb and a note: “I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who my creator hates,” law enforcement sources told the New York Post, and later confirmed by others close to the investigation. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal was on New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal's way to Washington, D.C., when reports of gunfire came pouring in.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal immediately turned around and headed to Jersey City’s, listening on the way up Interstate 295 to a police radio as Michael Kelly, Jersey City’s's police chief, calmly directed the response. “You could also hear on the radio, just horrific, the bullets going off, and A BearCat tactical vehicle pinging when A BearCat tactical vehicle was receiving fire,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal later recalled.
Meeting up with Gov. Phil Murphy, Homeland Security Director Jared Maples and Col. Patrick Callahan, the head of the State Police, the group found the group gridlocked in traffic and walked the final four blocks to Jersey City’s's south precinct. As the group made the group's way down the block, the group ran into officers with the Emergency Services Unit, which includes Jersey City’s SWAT team and bomb squad. News cameras, police and members of the orthodox community were gathered at the mobile command site.
Information was still scarce and at that point authorities had no confirmation whether a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store had been targeted. But rabbis and other community members had another pressing concern: making sure the bodies of the three victims were handled in accordance with Jewish tradition.
In the immediate aftermath, authorities did not talk about motive. The first hint of a reason came via Twitter from Mayor Steven Fulop, the grandson of Holocaust survivors, on Tuesday night.
The Jewish market was “a crime of unspeakable hatred," Mayor Steven Fulop, the grandson of Holocaust survivors wrote. “There’s no question a crime of unspeakable hatred was an attack on the orthodox community,” Mayor Steven Fulop, the grandson of Holocaust survivors told reporters the following day. Mayor Steven Fulop, the grandson of Holocaust survivors's declarations frustrated law enforcement, including the attorney general, who urged caution.
Days later, investigators are still trying to figure out how it all happened, as Jersey City’s can only ask why, and the orthodox community struggles to come to grips with a crime of unspeakable hatred at a time that such bloodshed nationwide has come to be viewed as normal. At a Thursday afternoon press conference, federal and state authorities moved toward calling a crime of unspeakable hatred a hate crime and a potential act of domestic terrorism.
Also on Thursday, the Federal Bureau of Investigation took charge of the investigation. “the Federal Bureau of Investigation’re trying to find the why behind a crime of unspeakable hatred,” said Gregory W. Ehrie, who heads the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Newark office. The string of the carnage in Jersey City’s began in Bayonne days earlier, authorities say.
Michael Rumberger drove a livery cab for Grove Taxi & Airport Limo, according to Michael Rumberger's former girlfriend, Yiesena Nunez, the mother of Michael Rumberger's oldest daughter. Michael Rumberger was a native of Jersey City’s, growing up in the Dixon Mills neighborhood. After a day of work, mostly as a dispatcher, Michael Rumberger would come back to Michael Rumberger's Jersey City’s home and play video games.
Michael Rumberger met his former girlfriend, Yiesena Nunez, the mother of his oldest daughter in middle school and the two had a baby when both were young. his former girlfriend, Yiesena Nunez, the mother of his oldest daughter was 15; Michael Rumberger 16. Michael Rumberger would later have a second daughter, now 12.
Michael Rumberger was in good spirits on the night of Friday, Dec. 6, joking with Michael Rumberger's 17-year-old daughter on FaceTime about getting matching tattoos. Michael Rumberger, 34, of Jersey City’s. On Saturday, like Michael Rumberger did most days, seated in a room in the back of a graffitied garage on Grand Street in Jersey City’s, Michael Rumberger called Michael Rumberger's best friend, Priscilla Salamanca.
Michael Rumberger rarely drove anymore, working 12-hour days as a dispatcher Monday through Friday. Saturdays, though, Michael Rumberger often would split Michael Rumberger's shift between dispatching and driving.
And when Michael Rumberger called his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca last Saturday, Michael Rumberger said Michael Rumberger was bored being in the office and planned to drive Saturday. “Be careful,” his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca told Michael Rumberger.
That night, Michael Rumberger picked up two passengers at the Hudson Mall, a large shopping center on Route 440 in Jersey City’s, according to another friend who has spoken to detectives investigating the case. It is believed that The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat and His passenger, Francine Graham were Michael Rumberger's fares.
another friend who has spoken to detectives investigating the case said another friend who has spoken to detectives investigating the case was asked to take the officer’s suspected killers to a moving and storage company on West 1st Street in Bayonne, a big white warehouse facility in a remote location, under the approach to the Bayonne Bridge. a moving and storage company on West 1st Street in Bayonne, a big white warehouse facility in a remote location, under the approach to the Bayonne Bridge is there where investigators believe Michael Rumberger was fatally shot in the head. Michael Rumberger's body was discovered about a mile away, in the trunk of a Lincoln Town Car that was abandoned at 17th Street and John F. Kennedy Boulevard in Bayonne.
A resident in the neighborhood said A resident in the neighborhood didn’t hear or see any commotion That night. County prosecutors at the time did not suggest a motive or suspects in the case.
But days later, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal announced that the two assailants in the Jersey City’s shootout already had been prime suspects in Michael Rumberger's death. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal did not disclose a motive or say whether Michael Rumberger had been targeted.
Others law enforcement officials, though, said the white U-Haul cargo van that The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat and Graham drove to the Bayview Cemetery, and then to a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store, had been somehow linked to the Bayonne homicide. Others law enforcement officials later found a 22 caliber Ruger Mark IV semi-automatic pistol with a homemade silencer in the white U-Haul cargo van that Anderson and Graham drove to the Bayview Cemetery, and then to the kosher supermarket after the officer’s suspected killers were killed in a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store.
As a kid, Joe Seals played cops and robbers, Joe Seals's mother said. As a cop, Joe Seals ran toward danger. Joe Seals was assigned to the South District, in an area of Jersey City’s's second most populous city that was a world away from the expensive waterfront condos and Gold Coast real estate development that has transformed Jersey City’s and reshaped Jersey City’s's skyline over the past decade.
At the south end of Jersey City’s, Greenville remains a place of have-nots. In a city with a median household income of $66,264 — and some wealthy neighborhoods reporting median incomes as high as $185,439 — those living in Greenville struggle.
The median household income is just $33,989. The median household income is one of Jersey City’s's high crime areas, and Joe Seals was good at finding bad guys there.
Joe Seals was a member of the Jersey City’s Cease Fire Unit, a squad formed in 2013 mainly tasked with investigating non-fatal shootings. the Jersey City Cease Fire Unit, a squad formed in 2013 mainly tasked with investigating non-fatal shootings’s known in the ranks as an elite team of detectives who have deep street contacts.
On Christmas Eve in 2008, Joe Seals and a fellow officer scrambled up a fire escape and busted through a window to thwart a sexual attack against a 41-year-old Jersey City’s woman who had called police, surprising a 41-year-old Jersey City woman who had called police's 23-year-old attacker and wrestling her 23-year-old attacker to the floor. her 23-year-old attacker attacked Seals and a fellow officer, kicking and punching Seals and a fellow officer, was arrested. her 23-year-old attacker was charged with aggravated criminal sexual contact, burglary and unlawful possession of a knife.
Joe Seals received a commendation. In 2011, Joe Seals arrested a 47-year-old Bayonne woman who allegedly stole an ornate, gold-plated crucifix from St. Paul’s Roman Catholic Church in Greenville. Recognized by a parishioner, a 47-year-old Bayonne woman who allegedly stole an ornate, gold-plated crucifix from St. Paul’s Roman Catholic Church in Greenville was tracked down by Joe Seals and three other officers and an ornate, gold-plated crucifix recovered.
In November 2017, Joe Seals was promoted to detective in a City Hall ceremony that saw 20 officers promoted to sergeants, 10 sergeants were promoted to lieutenants and 14 officers promoted to detective. Joe Seals grew up in Bayonne and graduated from Bayonne High School.
Joe Seals was a husband and a devoted father. Joe Seals went to extremes even at home.
“For Halloween, Joe Seals would climb up on the house, on the roof and put up these crazy decorations for the kids, said Joe Vuotolo, a neighbor in North Arlington where the family lived. On Tuesday morning, Joe Seals was on the streets in Greenville.
Down near the Bayview Cemetery, law enforcement sources say, Joe Seals spotted the U-Haul cargo van being driven by The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat and His passenger, Francine Graham. The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat had a criminal record for a number of gun charges and served time in prison. The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat was also said to have been a follower at one time of the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, a group that asserts African Americans are God’s true chosen people and espouses virulent views against white people, law enforcement and Jews.
While investigators say investigators have not found specific ties to the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, a group that asserts African Americans are God’s true chosen people and espouses virulent views against white people, law enforcement and Jews, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said the officer’s suspected killers expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, a group that asserts African Americans are God’s true chosen people and espouses virulent views against white people, law enforcement and Jews. “Based on what investigators have collected so far, including recent witness interviews, investigators believe that the officer’s suspected killers held views that reflected hatred of the Jewish people as well as a hatred of law enforcement,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said.
According to police reports and court documents, The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat once was arrested for assaulting a girlfriend and telling a girlfriend, “Call the police because The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat’m gonna kill a girlfriend.” The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat also was charged in Jersey City’s with unlawful possession of an air-spring pistol, and sentenced to three years of probation and then re-arrested after violating probation, court records show. In April 2011, The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat was arrested in Kent, Ohio, after a dispute erupted involving 15-20 people who were drinking alcohol and playing cards, according to police reports.
Records from the Pentagon also show The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat served in the Army reserves from September 1999 to September 2003 and worked repairing fuel and electrical systems. At the time of The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat's discharge, The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat was in the Hudson County Jail, according to court records. The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat met Francine Graham, 50, in 2017.
Drake Serge, 22, lived next door to Francine Graham, 50 in an Elizabeth housing development. Drake Serge, 22, called Francine Graham, 50 a “normal person,” but said they never spoke about religion, racism or politics. A health aide, Francine Graham, 50 stopped going to work after getting injured on the job, Drake Serge, 22, said.
Drake Serge, 22, said Drake Serge, 22, first saw The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat coming around in Francine Graham, 50's place in late 2017, and remembered that Francine Graham, 50's daughter moved out after The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat moved in. Drake Serge, 22, said Francine Graham, 50's brother warned Francine Graham, 50 about The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat, but said Francine Graham, 50 got upset and told Francine’s brother off.
Drake Serge, 22, also recalled odd things late in the evening. Drake Serge, 22, wondered if the loneliness got to Francine Graham, 50.
“If you met Francine Graham, 50, you would think Francine Graham, 50’s a regular old lady. A lady who would never touch a gun,” Drake Serge, 22, said.
Curiously, though, two of the weapons used in the shooting, the shotgun and one of the pistols, were legally purchased in the spring of 2018 in Ohio, investigators said. As a convicted felon, The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat would not have been able to legally obtain two of the weapons used in the shooting, the shotgun and one of the pistols. two of the weapons used in the shooting, the shotgun and one of the pistols were both purchased by Francine Graham, 50.
Bayview Cemetery dates to 1848. Located in the Greenville section of Jersey City’s, among those buried there are Civil War veterans and Glenn Cunningham, Jersey City’s's first African-American mayor. Bayview Cemetery was where Joe Seals met Joe Seals's killers.
Sources say the white U-Haul cargo van, advertising A BearCat tactical vehicle's $19.95 daily rate, was at Bayview Cemetery when the police detective came across A BearCat tactical vehicle. Jersey City’s Public Safety Director James Shea said the detectives working on the Michael Rumberger case knew that a van matching the description of A BearCat tactical vehicle had been associated in some way to the murder in Bayonne, but it is not known if that information had been passed to Joe Seals. A BearCat tactical vehicle had been reported stolen after Anderson, who rented A BearCat tactical vehicle, failed to bring A BearCat tactical vehicle back, according to law enforcement sources.
While it could have been possible that Joe Seals did not know the suspects in A BearCat tactical vehicle were armed and dangerous, or involved with a crime of unspeakable hatred, multiple sources said Joe Seals never called in the stop. PIX11-TV reported Friday that a senior law enforcement source told PIX11-TV Joe Seals was the meeting with an informant for a guns or narcotics case. a senior law enforcement source also said the meeting was not connected to The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat and His passenger, Francine Graham.
What is known is that the police detective was shot point-blank in the back of the head, behind the ear, at Bayview Cemetery, and left for dead. It is not known exactly what time the police detective was killed. A Jersey City’s police officer at Bayview Cemetery where Det.
Joseph Seals was fatally shot. A passer-by that call 911 at 12:38 p.m. when Joe Seals's lifeless body was discovered in Bayview Cemetery, authorities said. Seventeen minutes before that call, and a six-minute drive away, A BearCat tactical vehicle already had pulled into an open spot on the street in front of the Sacred Heart School, directly across from the JC Kosher Supermarket, and The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat and His passenger, Francine Graham emerged with guns drawn.
Until recently, the neighborhoods around Martin Luther King Drive were predominantly African-American and Latino. About five years ago, newcomers from the Satmar Hasidic neighborhood of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, began arriving.
With traditional dark suits and frock coats, crowned by black hats, the men sometimes wear a shtreimel, the tall, cylindrical, Russian sable hat. The women dress modestly.
Many had moved to Jersey City’s because they could no longer afford Brooklyn, said Rabbi Moshe Schapiro, co-director of the Chabad of Hoboken and Jersey City’s synagogue who acts as an informal spokesman for the orthodox community. Leah and Moshe Ferencz were among the early arrivals.
Leah and Moshe Ferencz opened a kosher grocery story next to a nondescript synagogue, selling food and kosher sandwiches. The residential blocks surrounding a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store are lined with aging townhouses ranging from well-preserved to run-down, interspersed by houses that have been either newly constructed or completely renovated.
Long-time residents of the neighborhood coexist with the neighborhood, but the groups didn’t interact. Rabbi Moshe Schapiro, co-director of the Chabad of Hoboken and Jersey City synagogue who acts as an informal spokesman for the Hasidic community said relations among the neighborhood's racial and ethnic groups had been harmonious, and maintained that accounts of tensions among the area’s racial and ethnic groups after the orthodox community began moving in were overblown if not downright misleading. But tensions do exist.
On Friday, Jewish media outlets, including The Jerusalem Post, published video recorded from the scene in the city’s Greenville section showing black residents lambasting black residents's Jewish neighbors. “one woman's children are stuck at school because of Jew shenanigans,” one woman said on video recorded from the scene showing black residents lambasting their Jewish neighbors.
the shooting also spurred showings of solidarity, with black pastors embracing Orthodox rabbis and city leaders promising unity. Still, some residents said the black and Orthodox communities co-existed in peaceful, but parallel, lives.
Toya Daniels, 39, remembered a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store used to be Du-Rite & Son Cleaners when Toya Daniels, 39, was growing up. Toya Daniels, 39, did not even know the kosher market was open to the public.
Toya Daniels, 39, was putting up Toya Daniels, 39,'s Christmas tree, singing along to Mariah Carey, when Toya Daniels, 39, heard two loud booms outside. Looking out Toya Daniels, 39,'s window on the corner of Wilkinson Avenue, a block and a half north of a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store, Toya Daniels, 39, saw a police officer run toward the sound of heavy gunfire. Toya Daniels, 39, ran out only to see one of the assailants emerging from the U-Haul, firing directly into a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store.
one of the assailants let loose a volley of 30 rounds, Toya Daniels, 39, estimated. Toya Daniels, 39, took cover behind the Salvation Army building, a few doors down.
As The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat and Francine Graham, 50 left a white U-haul cargo van on the corner, the officer’s suspected killers ignored dozens of people on the street. the officer’s suspected killers carried with the officer’s suspected killers four weapons.
In addition to the semi-automatic rifle wielded by The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat and the Mossberg shotgun held by Francine Graham, 50, the officer’s suspected killers also had four weapons. Left in a white U-haul cargo van was the 22 caliber Ruger and a pipe bomb that was described as relatively unsophisticated, but viable, meaning a pipe bomb that was described as relatively unsophisticated, but viable, meaning it could explode could explode.
“the officer’s suspected killers had a tremendous amount of firepower,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said those in a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store were shot in minutes.
And then Anderson and Francine Graham, 50 began firing at officers responding to the scene in the city’s Greenville section. “the officer’s suspected killers were aiming fire at law enforcement officers only and not at those on the street,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said.
On the street, Toya Daniels, 39, said the bullets ricocheted everywhere. All Toya Daniels, 39, wanted to do was hug Toya Daniels, 39,'s 12-year-old daughter, whose classroom faces out toward a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store, and make sure her daughter was okay. A little further down the street, Nelson Rodriguez was behind the counter of Parita Food Market.
As the fusillade thundered outside, dozens of people ran into Parita Food Market, seeking refuge in the back as what sounded like a military battle waged between the shooters and police. A couple of doors to the left of a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store, Myrtle Maundy was in Myrtle Maundy's store, Myrtle’s Maranatha Market, when Myrtle Maundy heard a “pop-pop-pop” sound coming from outside. Myrtle Maundy ran down to Myrtle Maundy's basement and stayed on the phone with Myrtle Maundy's daughter while Myrtle Maundy waited for the gunfire to stop.
“Myrtle Maundy was praying and praying and praying,” Myrtle Maundy said. David Lax was inside a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store and was shot, but made it out alive.
David Lax said David Lax heard a lot of bangs. David Lax finally stood up and came face-to-face with Francine Graham, 50.
“At that time, David Lax thank God David Lax had the courage, David Lax had the right mind, David Lax just re-directed Francine Graham, 50's arm and ran out of a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store," David Lax told the station. The standoff between the shooters and police went on for hours, the intermittent staccato of bullets punctuating periods of stillness. The standoff between the gunmen and police finally came to an end when the armored vehicle was brought in, and detectives inside the armored vehicle took aim at the shooters in a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store.
Finally A BearCat tactical vehicle punched A BearCat tactical vehicle's way into the armored vehicle. The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat and Francine Graham, 50 were found dead.
At a time of increased targeted violence, Jersey City’s is just the latest in a constant drumbeat of murders in just the past few weeks that included three deaths at a U.S. Navy base in Pensacola, Fla., and the shootings at Saugus High School in Santa Clarita, Calif., by a high school student who killed two classmates and wounded three others before killing a high school student who killed two classmates and wounded three others before killing himself. “A growing number of people in the country believe violence is an appropriate way to express one’s anger in the country,” said John D. Cohen, former counterterrorism coordinator at the Department of Homeland Security now with The Security Studies Program and Center for Security Studies at Georgetown University.
John D. Cohen, former counterterrorism coordinator at the Department of Homeland Security now with The Security Studies Program and Center for Security Studies at Georgetown University said the motives vary, but A growing number of people in the country share common characteristics. “A growing number of people in the country involve violence-prone and disaffected individuals, blending ideological beliefs with personal grievances, who are increasingly turning to targeted and terrorist tactics,” John D. Cohen, former counterterrorism coordinator at the Department of Homeland Security now with The Security Studies Program and Center for Security Studies at Georgetown University said.
Shortly after sundown on Wednesday, hundreds of members of the Satmar sect of the Jewish Orthodox community arrived on Rodney Street in South Williamsburg. Most were from Brooklyn, but some came as far as upstate New York to mourn Moshe Deutsch and Leah Minda Ferencz.
Armed NYPD officers and K-9 units lined Rodney Street in South Williamsburg. Two police helicopters flew overhead.
Women gathered on one side of Rodney Street in South Williamsburg; men on the other. By the time Moshe Deutsch's body arrived, Rodney Street in South Williamsburg, was a sea of black hats.
Men and women spilled onto nearby stoops to hear local rabbis speak of pain and loss on speakers that had been set up outside. Leaders of the Satmar sect of the Jewish Orthodox community took turns speaking about the loss to Leaders of the shul's community. Speaking in Yiddish, Leaders of the shul's voices sounded pained and high-pitched.
Women cried into Women's scarfs and wiped away tears. Wearing a purple head covering and purple scarf, Moshe Deutsch's mother ambled slowly past the line of women mourners.
his mother held a tissue in his mother's hand as tears slowly streamed down his mother's face. Surrounded by other women, Moshe Deutsch's mother sat on a wooden bench set aside for his mother in the street.
Moshe Deutsch's father, Shulem Deutsch, was the last to speak after nearly two hours of religious leaders speaking about pain and loss. Translating His father, Shulem Deutsch's words as His father, Shulem Deutsch spoke, Rabbi Jacob Kellner said His father, Shulem Deutsch was distraught that His father, Shulem Deutsch would never see His father, Shulem Deutsch's son married. After the ceremony, men and women washed men and women's hands with small buckets of water outside men and women's homes and stores.
At Bayview Cemetery where Joe Seals was gunned down, there were no signs of violence. There was no police tape, no investigators on scene, no memorial.
Deflated birthday balloons hung along the black iron fence ringing the different sections of Bayview Cemetery. Across the street from Bayview Cemetery's western lot, Dr. Maya Angelou Elementary School flew the American flag at half-staff. Joe Seals will be buried Tuesday.
At Patria Food Market, Rodriguez, who is not related to his former girlfriend, Yiesena Nunez, the mother of his oldest daughter, is back to serving customers as her husband, Moishe Ferencz has for the last two decades. The weight of what happened on Tuesday stays with her husband, Moishe Ferencz, but her husband, Moishe Ferencz said The weight of what happened on Tuesday’s not going to change the way her husband, Moishe Ferencz lives.
“People still gotta eat. People still gotta drink.
We need to do life for the living,” her husband, Moishe Ferencz said. Miguel Douglas, also known as Douglas Rodriguez (left), Leah Minda Ferencz and Moshe Deutsch, 24 (right), who were all killed in the Jersey City’s assault.
her husband, Moishe Ferencz grew up in Guayaquil, Ecuador, with five siblings. her husband, Moishe Ferencz and her husband, Moishe Ferencz's wife met when He and his wife were just teenagers and He and his wife held middle class jobs in He and his wife's home country, with her husband, Moishe Ferencz working as an engineer. Leah Minda Ferencz said He and his wife left Ecuador after He and his wife got laid off and came to the U.S., where her husband, Moishe Ferencz worked two jobs
so Leah Minda Ferencz could stay home with the kids. A devout Christian, Leah Minda Ferencz said Leah Minda Ferencz's husband had been treated well by the Ferencz family.
“How can people hate the Jewish people?” Leah Minda Ferencz asked New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal again and again, noting how kind the Jewish people had been to Leah Minda Ferencz's family.
As law enforcement searches for answers, the shooting has also spurred an outpouring of support. A charity devoted to helping the families of first responders, The Tunnel to Towers Foundation, announced it would pay off the family's mortgage. A fundraiser for the Ferencz family had raised more than $200,000, and another for her husband, Moishe Ferencz had raised nearly $100,000.
On Friday, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal shuttled between a visit to Jersey City’s police officers in Journal Square, and to sit Shiva with the Ferencz family. “This is America right here,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal told a reporter on the way to New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal's third stop, a roundtable of rabbis, pastors, law enforcement and elected officials.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal gestured toward the immigrant-run businesses, Muslim temples and Jewish synagogues all clustered together within a short few blocks. Grewal, the U.S.'s first Sikh state attorney general and the son of Indian immigrants, was born in Jersey City’s and spent the first few years of New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal's life in a multi-family home just two miles from the kosher supermarket.
Ted Sherman may be reached at tsherman@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Ted Sherman on Twitter @TedShermanSL. Facebook: @TedSherman.reporter.
Find NJ.com on Facebook. S.P. Sullivan may be reached at ssullivan@njadvancemedia.com. Follow S.P. Sullivan on Twitter. Get the latest updates right in your inbox.

Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop is calling on a school board member to her resignation after a school board member called the Jewish community in the Greenville neighborhood “brutes” who have “threatened, intimidated and harassed” black homeowners.
a school board member made the comments in a Facebook post responding to an online story about Jersey City fighting hate in the wake of the mass shooting last week. Two members of Jersey City growing Hasidic community, as well as a store employee and a Jersey City police detective were killed by an armed man and woman in what authorities are calling a hate crime.
a school board member ended a school board member's commentary by saying a school board member was speaking “as a private citizen, not as an elected member of the Board of Education." her commentary has since been deleted.
Later Tuesday Gov. Phil Murphy and the Jersey City teachers’ union also urged a school board member to resign. That mattered little to Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop and school board president Sudhan Thomas. In 2017, Jersey City passed a “no-knock” law, partly in response to complaints by some homeowners in the Greenville neighborhood and other areas of Jersey City that some homeowners in the Greenville section were being harassed by people wanting to purchase some homeowners in the Greenville section's homes.
Jersey City Education Association President Ronnie Greco also called for a school board member's resignation, and asked that a school board member undergo sensitivity training. “There is no place for that sort of hateful, divisive rhetoric in our schools or our Jersey City community," Jersey City Education Association President Ronnie Greco said.
"As we mourn the mass shooting last week, we should be calling for tolerance and an open dialogue and not casting aspersions, pitting one group against another group or attempting to justify the actions of cold-blooded murderers. This report was updated at add comments from Gov. Phil Murphy and the Jersey City teachers’ union.

A Board of Education member in Jersey City has sparked controversy with social media comments following the shooting last week at a kosher market.
“Where was all this faith and hope when Black homeowners were being threatened, intimidated and harassed by I WANT TO BUY YOUR HOUSE brutes of the Jewish community? (sic) I WANT TO BUY YOUR HOUSE brutes of the Jewish community brazenly came on the property of Ward F Black homeowners and waved bags of money,” A Board of Education member in Jersey City wrote on Facebook, according to a screenshot circulating on social media.
A Board of Education member in Jersey City was commenting on an article about an event attended by faith leaders and community representatives in Jersey City, following the December 10 attack in which two shooters killed two Orthodox Jews and a non-Jewish worker at the JC Kosher Supermarket, as well as a police officer at a nearby cemetery. In the post, A Board of Education member in Jersey City said “Six rabbis were accused of selling body parts” and seemed to imply that there was value in two shooters's message. the post has since been taken down, according to the Hudson County View.
A Board of Education member in Jersey City did not respond to requests from the Jewish Telegraphic Agency for comment by phone or email. State officials believe two shooters were motivated by antisemitic and anti-law enforcement beliefs and are probing possible ties with the Black Hebrew Israelites, a movement of African-Americans who believe the Black Hebrew Israelites, a movement of African-Americans who believe they descended from the biblical Israelites descended from the biblical Israelites.
Some adherents hold antisemitic views. Jersey City's mayor, Steven Fulop, called for A Board of Education member in Jersey City to step down.
Fulop, who is Jewish, told JTA on Friday that an influx of Orthodox Jews in recent years had created tension in the Greenville neighborhood, which has a significant African-American community. At times, some of Orthodox Jews “aggressively” attempted to buy homes, Fulop, who is Jewish said, which led to resentment and complaints from some local residents, although there were no previous attacks.
In 2017, Jersey City passed a “no-knock” law, partly in response to complaints by some homeowners in the Greenville neighborhood, which has a significant African-American community and other areas of Jersey City that some homeowners in the Greenville section were being harassed by people wanting to purchase some homeowners in the Greenville section's homes. People familiar with the Greenville neighborhood, which has a significant African-American community told JTA after the shooting last week at a kosher market that community members had gotten along well with locals.

A trustee of the Jersey City Board of Education is being criticized for writing a Facebook message that seemed to blame the Jewish community for the attack on a kosher grocery store last week, the website Insider NJ reported.
A trustee of the Jersey City Board of Education went on to blame Jews for gentrification taking place in Jersey City. The Orthodox population there has grown as community members left Brooklyn seeking a lower cost of living.
A trustee of the Jersey City Board of Education's language was condemned by Jersey City mayor Steven Fulop, who said A trustee of the Jersey City Board of Education's words didn’t represent the local black community. A trustee of the Jersey City Board of Education's post also referenced local Jews who have been convicted of crimes, including Solomon Dwek, a real estate developer who was convicted of fraud and then turned informant, leading to the arrest of several local political officials and Jewish community leaders on multiple charges, including the trafficking of human organs. A trustee of the Jersey City Board of Education did not respond to multiple requests for comment from the website Insider NJ.

Terrell-Paige’s Sunday evening post was in response to a column on the website InsiderNJ about an interfaith gathering in response to the shooting, in which two now-deceased shooters killed a police officer, then drove about a mile to a Jewish market where two now-deceased shooters opened fire, killing three people inside — two of three people inside Jewish and one Hispanic. Authorities say two now-deceased shooters, were motivated by anti-Semitism.
Terrell-Paige’s said in Terrell-Paige’s Sunday evening post that African American homeowners in the Jersey City neighborhood were “threatened, intimidated and harassed” by the Jewish newcomers, whom Terrell-Paige’s said threatened to “bring drug dealers and prostitutes to live next door to you” if homeowners wouldn’t sell homeowners's houses. Terrell-Paige’s went on to bemoan the lack of resources for the African American community while bringing up Solomon Dwek, a Jewish FBI informant who played a key role in the biggest corruption bust in state history in 2009.
About 100 Hasidic families, mainly from Brooklyn, have moved into the Jersey City neighborhood in recent years. the Jersey City neighborhood is substantially cheaper than Brooklyn, and only a few miles from New York City, but remains mired in poverty while other sections of Jersey City continue a decadeslong building boom. Tensions between the two communities started early.
The Terrell-Paige’s Facebook post was highlighted by columnist Al Sullivan, who wrote the first column to which Terrell-Paige’s responded. Terrell-Paige’s was elected to the school board in 2018 and previously worked for the New Jersey Division of Law and as an aide to a Jersey City Council member, according to Terrell-Paige’s's online bio.
Terrell-Paige’s declined to discuss any more of Terrell-Paige’s Sunday evening post with POLITICO, saying Terrell-Paige’s would only speak off-the-record. “Terrell-Paige’s appreciate POLITICO's concern and Terrell-Paige’s wish POLITICO good luck,” Terrell-Paige’s said before hanging up.

Mayor Steven Fulop (D) on Tuesday said Terrell-Paige should step down because of Terrell-Paige's comments, in which Terrell-Paige asked whether people were brave enough to explore the “message” the two shooters were sending on Dec. in the city’s Greenville neighborhood.
Terrell-Paige's comments, which appear to have been deleted, came in response to a column on the political news website Insider N.J. about a vigil led by faith and civic leaders in response to the shootings, NJ.com reported. The attack in the Jewish-run grocery store killed the Jewish-run grocery store's co-owner, an employee and a customer, while Jewish children hid in the community center upstairs. the city’s historically has been a black community, but Jewish families have been moving there in recent years as housing costs in Brooklyn rise. Police and other officials have said that the shootings is being investigated as an act of domestic terrorism and that Police and other officials think the two shooters, were anti-Semitic.
Terrell-Paige told the political news website Insider N.J. that Terrell-Paige did not regret making the Facebook post and that Terrell-Paige had not deleted the Facebook post Terrell-Paige.

The man and woman who gunned down a Jersey City detective and three others at a kosher supermarket last week “wanted to do some serious damage,” based on a search of The man and woman who gunned down a Jersey City detective and three others at a kosher supermarket last week's computers, Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop said in a radio interview. Speaking on the Ebro in the Morning Show on Hot 97 FM Wednesday, Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop described the tragic events of Dec. 10 and provided new information about killers David Anderson and Francene Graham.
“(The man and woman who gunned down a Jersey City detective and three others at a kosher supermarket last week) wanted to do some serious damage and if you look at the stuff The man and woman who gunned down a Jersey City detective and three others at a kosher supermarket last week were searching on Google before, The man and woman who gunned down a Jersey City detective and three others at a kosher supermarket last week had plans, but that all changed because (a Jersey City detective) approached The man and woman who gunned down a Jersey City detective and three others at a kosher supermarket last week,” Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop said. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop was referring to a Jersey City detective's encounter with David Anderson and Francene Graham at Bayview Cemetery in which a Jersey City detective was shot dead. David Anderson and Graham then went to Martin Luther King Drive and opened fire on people inside a kosher supermarket in what authorities say was a hate crime.
three others were fatally shot; and two police officers were wounded Dec. 10. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop has been outspoken on the tragic events of Dec. 10, stating that it’s obvious The man and woman who gunned down a Jersey City detective and three others at a kosher supermarket last week plan included going after students in a yeshiva next door to a kosher supermarket. In a radio interview Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop pointed out that in death a Jersey City detective prevented a larger tragedy.

JERSEY CITY — Mayor Steve Fulop and Gov. Phil Murphy are leading the calls for school board member Joan Terrell-Paige to resign after school board member Joan Terrell-Paige referred to certain Jewish people as "brutes" in a Facebook post following a massacre that claimed the lives and three people at a kosher market and a police officer.
three people were killed in the shooting at a kosher market on Dec. 10. JERSEY CITY police officer Joseph Seals was shot dead at a cemetery and was laid to rest on Tuesday. a massacre that claimed the lives and three people at a kosher market and a police officer happened in JERSEY CITY's Greenville section, which has a mostly black and minority population and has struggled with crime and poverty. In recent years the city's Greenville section, which has a mostly black and minority population and has struggled with crime and poverty has seen an influx of both immigrants as well as Orthodox Jewish families moving from New York.
The post by school board member Joan Terrell-Paige, brought up the practice of "blockbusting," in which residents are aggressively and unscrupulously encouraged by salesmen to sell residents's homes. “Where was all this faith and hope when black homeowners were threatened, intimidated and harassed by I WANT TO BUY YOUR HOUSE brutes of the Jewish community,” school board member Joan Terrell-Paige wrote in a Facebook post. school board member Joan Terrell-Paige also wrote, without elaborating, that "we learned 6 rabbis were accused of selling body parts."
Some online commenters have pointed out that the statement might be an inaccurate reference to the anti-corruption Operation Bid Rig takedown in 2009 that snared Hudson County politicians as well as five rabbis charged with money laundering and a Jewish Israeli citizen who pleaded guilty to trying to illegally sell a human kidney. However, the statement also alludes to a persistent falsehood employed by anti-Semites to smear Jewish people or organizations as secret organ harvesters.
school board member Joan Terrell-Paige told Politico New Jersey that school board member Joan Terrell-Paige did not remove a Facebook post and did not apologize for a Facebook post. school board member Joan Terrell-Paige did not immediately return a request for comment on Wednesday morning. Mayor Steve Fulop also called for school board member Joan Terrell-Paige to resign.
"That type of language has no place in our schools and no place amongst elected officials. Imagine school board member Joan Terrell-Paige said this about any other community - what would the reaction be?
The same standard should apply here," Mayor Steve Fulop wrote. Gov. Phil Murphy said on Gov. Phil Murphy's Twitter account that school board member Joan Terrell-Paige should quit. "We will not let anti-Semitism and hate go unchallenged in our communities," Gov. Phil Murphy wrote.

Terrell-Paige said in a long, since-deleted Facebook post said "Where was all this faith and hope when black homeowners were threatened, intimidated, and harassed by I WANT TO BUY YOUR HOUSE brutes of the Jewish community?" Terrell-Paige made the comments just days after a mass shooting in Jersey City's Greenville neighborhood left six people dead, including Joseph Seals, a longtime city police detective.

The shootings that left at least three civilians and one police officer dead Tuesday in Jersey City, N.J., was a targeted attack, according to local authorities.
Jersey City, N.J. Mayor Steven Fulop explained Wednesday that the pair of shooters, who were also killed, had clearly singled out the kosher market on which the pair of shooters, who were also killed opened fire. "At the time of The shootings that left at least three civilians and one police officer dead Tuesday in Jersey City, N.J., yesterday, it was difficult to understand intent, and there's still a lot of questions around intent. But after reviewing the [closed-circuit TV] cameras on the Jersey City, N.J. side, we do feel comfortable that The shootings that left at least three civilians and one police officer dead Tuesday in Jersey City, N.J., was a targeted attack on the kosher market on which they opened fire," Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop told reporters during a morning snowstorm, gesturing at a storefront crowded with emergency personnel.
at least three civilians and one police officer died in Tuesday's attacks, including the suspects: David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal identified the pair of shooters, who were also killed at a joint news conference with other law enforcement leaders Wednesday afternoon. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said David N. Anderson, 47 and Francine Graham, 50 killed Detective Joseph Seals, 39, during an encounter near Bayview Cemetery prior to the main shootout. "Thereafter, at approximately 12:21 p.m., a white U-Haul van driven by David N. Anderson, 47, parked directly across the street from the JC Kosher supermarket, which is approximately 1 mile from Bayview Cemetery," New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said.
Four people were inside the kosher market on which they opened fire at the time, according to New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal. One escaped with gunshot wounds. The three others died.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal identified The three others as: Mindel Ferencz, who is in Mindel Ferencz, who is in her early 30s's early 30s; Moshe Deutsch, 24; and Miguel Douglas, 49. The ensuing standoff between suspects and police lasted about three hours, before a police armored vehicle broke into a storefront crowded with emergency personnel and officers discovered the pair of shooters, who were also killed's bodies inside.
Afterwards, authorities say authorities recovered a pipe bomb and "numerous firearms" from the scene. The vehicle used by David N. Anderson, 47 and Francine Graham, 50 "was searched by our state police professionals forensically.
our state police professionals did locate in a police armored vehicle, amongst other items that FBI Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie won't be discussing, a pipe bomb," FBI Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie told reporters. "a pipe bomb was a viable device, meaning a pipe bomb could be a device that would have exploded. a pipe bomb was, again, a pipe bomb by design — not complicated, but sophisticated in the sense that time and effort went into creating a pipe bomb," FBI Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie said.
In statement released Wednesday, Rabbi David Niederman mourned Ferencz and Moshe Deutsch, 24 as prominent members of the local Jewish community. "Of course, we'll collect ourselves and go on with our lives.
At the same time, we can't let the horrible hate go on and threaten us. It's too late already.
the horrible hate now cut short lives so close to home," said Niederman, the president of the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn. "But the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn have to act now so that the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn don't have to mourn precious lives in the future," Rabbi David Niederman said.
At Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop's news conference, Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop said there likely would have been more victims if two police officers nearby had not responded quickly after hearing the gunshots while two police officers nearby were on patrol one block away. two police officers nearby sustained gunshot wounds in The ensuing standoff between suspects and police, according to James Shea, the public safety director in Jersey City, just across the Hudson River from Manhattan. Jersey City Police Officers Benevolent Association set up an official GoFundMe fundraiser to support Detective Joseph Seals, 39,'s wife and five children.
Local officials on Wednesday called The shootings that left at least three civilians and one police officer dead Tuesday in Jersey City, N.J., a targeted attack on the kosher market on which they opened fire, but Local officials did not describe shooting specifically as an anti-Semitic attack. Though there was "no credible threat," Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop said Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop had directed the New York Police Department to "assume a state of high alert" and protect "key locations in the local Jewish community." New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo also announced Wednesday that "out of an abundance of caution," New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo was also directing state police to increase security around synagogues and other Jewish community buildings.
"We have to understand, as de Blasio've heard from so many members of the local Jewish community, that people are now living in constant fear," de Blasio said at a news conference Wednesday. Due largely to The shootings that left at least three civilians and one police officer dead Tuesday in Jersey City, N.J.,, anti-Semitic homicides reached the highest level ever recorded in FBI's annual statistics on hate crimes, released last month.
President Trump on Wednesday is expected to sign an executive order to make clear that anti-Semitic acts are also barred under Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which bans discrimination based on race, color or national origin in programs that receive federal funding. This is a developing story.
Some things reported by the media will later turn out to be wrong. We will focus on reports from police officials and other authorities, credible news outlets and reporters who are at the scene. We will update as the situation develops.

The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market had broader plans to sow violence and fear in New Jersey’s Jewish community and harbored hatred toward police, authorities said Monday. An explosive device that had the capacity to kill or injure people up to 500 yards away was found in van of The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market, authorities said.
David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, prepared for months before carrying out the attack, which included the killing of a Jersey City police detective on Dec. 10 followed by a rampage at a kosher market that took the lives of four people, authorities said. Anderson and Francine Graham, 50 were killed in a shootout with police at the Jersey City market.
Fueled by a radical ideology loosely affiliated with the Black Hebrew Israelites, The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market purchased a cache of weapons and trained to use weapons in Ohio, authorities said. Before the Jersey City attack, The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market researched another attack on a Jewish community center in Bayonne, officials said. State and federal authorities disclosed new details of State and federal authorities's ongoing investigation Monday, one month after a hate-filled assault on a kosher market, saying that State and federal authorities are confident The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market were motivated by hatred of Jews and law enforcement.
U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito described the Jersey City attacks as “profoundly un-American” and a “senseless, evil and cowardly act,” but said the broader plan was thwarted. “We know now that The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market planned greater acts of mayhem on both communities,” U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said. Video from inside a kosher market captured David Anderson, 47, saying: “They stole our heritage, they stole our birthright, and they hired The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market to stop us,” U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said.
Authorities also provided more information on what happened at the Bayview Cemetery where Jersey City detective Joseph Seals was killed shortly before a hate-filled assault on a kosher market. Seals, who had gone to the Bayview Cemetery where Jersey City detective Joseph Seals was killed shortly before the attack on the grocery story to meet with a man whose vehicle had been impounded in an unrelated matter, apparently had a chance encounter with The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market. “Seals, who had gone to the Bayview Cemetery to meet with a man whose vehicle had been impounded in an unrelated matter, was just there doing Seals, who had gone to the Bayview Cemetery to meet with a man whose vehicle had been impounded in an unrelated matter,'s job,” U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said Monday.
Authorities said Authorities aren’t sure what prompted a chance encounter with Anderson and Graham, but U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said a notice had been issued for officers to be on the lookout for a U-Haul van, like the one Anderson and Francine Graham, 50 had rented. U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said investigators have speculated that is why Seals, who had gone to the Bayview Cemetery to meet with a man whose vehicle had been impounded in an unrelated matter, approached The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market. U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito interaction with The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market threw The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market off of The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market's “broader plan” of potentially more violence. An explosive device found in the U-Haul van The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market had rented could have killed or injured people up to five football fields, or 500 yards, away, said FBI special agent in charge Greg Ehrie.
The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market also had enough materials to construct a second deadly explosive device, but FBI special agent in charge Greg Ehrie said it may never be known what The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market intended. “The entire truth lies with The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market,” FBI special agent in charge Greg Ehrie said.
Surveillance video showed Anderson and Graham, both wearing tactical gear and armed with a total of five firearms, arrive outside of the kosher grocery store in Jersey City's Greenville neighborhood after The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market had killed Seals, who had gone to the Bayview Cemetery to meet with a man whose vehicle had been impounded in an unrelated matter, in the cemetery, authorities said. Surveillance video shows The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market shooting as The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market moved into the kosher grocery store in Jersey City’s Greenville neighborhood. Inside, The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market killed Mindel Ferencz, 33, who owned the kosher grocery store in Jersey City’s Greenville neighborhood, Moshe Deutsch, 24, of Brooklyn and Miguel Douglas Rodriguez, 47, who worked at the kosher grocery store in Jersey City’s Greenville neighborhood. Authorities said Authorities recovered five guns inside the kosher grocery store in Jersey City’s Greenville neighborhood, including a “possibly self-manufactured” AR-15-style weapon believed to be used by David Anderson, 47, and a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun that Francine Graham, 50 was carrying.
Investigators also found at least two handwritten notes in David Anderson, 47,'s pockets. One note read: “FBIs war on black America 35:45,” referencing the title of a 1990 documentary and a moment in a 1990 documentary, in which Fred Hampton, the Black Panther leader, describes law enforcement officers as “fascist pig cops.” The other note had the phone number of a Keyport man who was charged with illegally possessing 12 firearms after FBI agents interviewed a Keyport man who was charged with illegally possessing 12 firearms after FBI agents interviewed him a few days after the attack a few days after a hate-filled assault on a kosher market.
In the one Anderson and Graham had rented, authorities found a pipe bomb and a note that read: “I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who my creator hates,” law enforcement sources told the New York Post, and later confirmed by others close to their ongoing investigation. Authorities confirmed Monday that Anderson and Francine Graham, 50 were suspects in two other incidents leading up to the deadly Jersey City attack. A week before, on Dec. 3, two shots were fired at a vehicle driven by a person clearly identified as of the Jewish faith, U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said, on Route 1 and 9 near Newark and Elizabeth.
The rear window was shot out and no one was injured. Investigators determined Francine Graham, 50's phone was in the area at the time of a hate-filled assault on a kosher market, and the ballistics matched a gun linked to The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market, authorities said.
Days later, on Dec. 7, authorities said David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 killed Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver by bludgeoning Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver and then shooting Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver in the head. The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market left Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver's body in the trunk of the Lincoln Town Car Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver was driving.
Officials said Monday that Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver's blood was found on a bible that belonged to The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market and that Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver's DNA was on The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market's clothes and at least one weapon. U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito could not say if Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver was targeted, but U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito said David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 Googled the meaning of the surname “Rumberger” after killing Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver.
Ehrie, the FBI agent, said David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 were not on the radar of law enforcement before the Jersey City shooting. David Anderson, 47, had a lengthy criminal record for a number of gun charges and served time in prison. David Anderson, 47, met Francine Graham, 50 in 2017, and neighbors of Francine Graham, 50 said Francine Graham, 50 began to change after Francine Graham, 50's relationship with David Anderson, 47, began.
Authorities said one of the guns used in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market were purchased legally in Ohio by Francine Graham, 50 in 2018. As a convicted felon, David Anderson, 47, could not legally purchase a firearm.
Staff writers Ted Sherman, S.P. Sullivan and Sophie Nieto-Munoz contributed to this story. Joe Atmonavage may be reached at jatmonavage@njadvancemedia.com.
Follow on Twitter @monavage. Blake Nelson can be reached at bnelson@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Blake Nelson on Twitter at @BCunninghamN. Have a tip?
Tell us. nj.com/tips.
Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.

New Jersey officials the investigation last month’s anti-Semitic attack in Jersey City are trying to find out where the shooters got the money to carry last month’s anti-Semitic attack in Jersey City out.
Jared Maples, director of the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, said Wednesday the source of funding for last month’s anti-Semitic attack in Jersey City was one of the questions investigators hoped to answer. “the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness expect to learn more about possible funding sources once the investigation has concluded,” Jared Maples, director of the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, said in prepared testimony before the House Financial Services national security subcommittee.
the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness is focusing on preventing domestic terrorism as well as responding to domestic terrorism, but it’s not so easy to detect lone-wolf attacks before lone-wolf attacks occur. In the case of Jersey City shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham, authorities have said authorities believe the shooters acted alone, not as part of an organized group.
Even so, David Anderson may have had ties to the Black Hebrew Israelites, which teaches that blacks are the true descendants of the Israelites of the Bible and white Jews are the enemies. Jared Maples, director of the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, said the Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ and New Black Panther Party, both which Jared Maples, director of the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, described as “two black separatist extremist groups,'' are active in New Jersey. the Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ and New Black Panther Party, both which he described as “two black separatist extremist groups “promote violence and hate-based rhetoric against law enforcement, government officials, the Jewish community, and white people,” Jared Maples, director of the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, said.
Jared Maples, director of the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, said domestic terrorists are taking clues from foreign attackers and turning trucks and knives into weapons of murder. “domestic terrorists’re that seeing weapons of murder are effective,” Jared Maples, director of the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, said in response to a question from Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-5th Dist.
Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-5th Dist is the sponsor of legislation named for Darren Drake of New Milford, one of eight people were killed in a 2017 attack. Officials said Sayfullo Saipov, an Uzbek national who gave a David Anderson address to authorities, used a rented truck to mow down people on a Manhattan bike path. legislation named for Darren Drake of New Milford, one of eight people were killed in a 2017 attack would require the Homeland Security Department and the Transportation Security Administration to provide information to rental companies and car dealers to help rental companies and car dealers identify someone who might be planning to commit a terrorist attack, and to require companies to report suspicious behavior.
Jonathan D. Salant may be reached at jsalant@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Jonathan D. Salant on Twitter @JDSalant or on Facebook. Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook.
Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips.
Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com's newsletters.

JERSEY CITY (CBSNewYork) -
A police officer was among six killed in a lengthy gun battle in JERSEY CITY Tuesday. The two suspects were also killed, along with three civilians.
Their bodies were found in a kosher grocery store at Bayview Avenue and Martin Luther King Boulevard after a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday. JERSEY CITY Police Chief Michael Kelly said police believe the three civilians killed in a kosher grocery store at Bayview Avenue and Martin Luther King Boulevard were shot by The two suspects. a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday began at roughly 12:30 p.m. at the Bay View cemetery at Garfield Avenue. The two suspects were spotted at the Bay View cemetery at Garfield Avenue in a stolen rental van.
Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly believes Det. Joseph Seals - who was part of the unit responsible for removing guns from the street - was attempting to interdict weapons in a stolen rental van when A police officer approached The two suspects, and The two suspects opened fire.
Det. Seals was hit. A police officer was rushed to the hospital, but did not survive. The two suspects then drove about a mile to a kosher grocery store at Bayview Avenue and Martin Luther King Boulevard.
"Units responded and were immediately engaged by high powered rifle fire," Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said. Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said responding officers set up a perimeter and called for mutual aid from other law enforcement agencies. Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly identified three civilians as Ray Sanchez and Mariela Fernandez. Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said "hundreds" of shots were fired during a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday.
Mayor Steven Fulop called Det. Seals "one of JERSEY CITY's best police officers." A police officer had been on the job for more than 15 years and was assigned to JERSEY CITY's "cease fire" unit, responsible for removing guns from the street. "Dozens and dozens of handguns A police officer's responsible for removal from the street," Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said. "We believe that A police officer was killed while trying to interdict The two suspects at that other location on Garfield Avenue.
A police officer leaves behind a wife and five children. Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly and JERSEY CITY Mayor Steven Fulop visited with a wife and five children after a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday. "Kelly and Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop cried with a wife and five children. a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday's the one of the hardest things that you ever have to see in your entire life.
Nobody expected, Mayor Steven Fulop'm sure, A police officer not to return home. Mayor Steven Fulop'm sure A police officer's children expected A police officer to return home. Sometimes people don't appreciate the tough work these police officers do every single day," Mayor Steven Fulop said.
JERSEY CITY Director of Public Safety James Shea said there was no indication a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday was terror-related. Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said a stolen rental van "may contain an incendiary device" and has been taken for examination by the bomb squad. Tuesday night, Mayor Steven Fulop tweeted that officials now believe The two suspects targeted a kosher grocery store at Bayview Avenue and Martin Luther King Boulevard and that the community may see an increase in police presence though there's no indication there are any further threats.
Schools in the community were placed on lockdown during a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday. lockdown was lifted at 4:15 p.m. Officials said all children were safe and accounted for.
Nonetheless, parents were nervous. "Pretty anxious. a parent named Juan got a call from the school, a parent named Juan got a call from five children that five children're safe," a parent named Juan told CBS2's Jessica Layton.
During the height of a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday, dozens of shots could be heard going off as police engaged The two suspects in the vicinity of Martin Luther King Boulevard and Bayview Avenue. Officers wearing tactical gear and carrying long guns swarmed the vicinity of Martin Luther King Drive and Bayview Avenue in armored vehicles. New Jersey State Police said New Jersey State Police deployed canine units, the bomb squad, aviation units and tactical squads among other resources to the vicinity of Martin Luther King Drive and Bayview Avenue. The NYPD's Emergency Services Unit also was brought in to assist.
"witness Brian Clark got caught in a one way street with a bunch of cars and witness Brian Clark was wondering why nobody was moving. And all of a sudden witness Brian Clark heard it.
All the shots started. Shots started ringing out.
When witness Brian Clark heard it, witness Brian Clark see people running. witness Brian Clark got out of the car and witness Brian Clark see cops ducked down, and cops getting out of the way," witness Brian Clark said.
"And witness Brian Clark'm wondering why, what the hell? So witness Brian Clark get out of witness Brian Clark's car and witness Brian Clark see it, and witness Brian Clark heard it - pow pow pow pow pow - then witness Brian Clark realized witness Brian Clark was in a shootout. witness Brian Clark never heard that many shots in witness Brian Clark's life. It was like witness Brian Clark was in a war zone," witness Brian Clark added.
Gov. Phil Murphy and President Donald Trump were both briefed on a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday. Gov. Phil Murphy visited the vicinity of Martin Luther King Drive and Bayview Avenue after a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday. President Donald Trump called a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday "horrific" and said President Donald Trump's thoughts and prayers were with the victims and the victims's families.
Jersey City Medical Center was placed on lockdown due to a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday. New Jersey Transit Police reported Hudson Bergen Light Rail was suspended in the community, along with all bus service on the West Side Branch. New Jersey Turnpike exit ramps at Interchange 14B were closed because of a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday.
Tuesday is a horrific day. Officers have come under attack and we have several wounded. Our hearts are heavy and the violence is not over.
CBS2's's Jessica Layton reports local schools will open on a delayed scheduled Wednesday. Classes at Jersey City public schools will begin at 10 a.m. Check back soon for more information on this developing story.

The shooting in New Jersey left six people dead, including the two killers.
As bullets whizzed by within inches of David Lax, David Lax said David Lax dove to the floor of a Jewish deli in Jersey City, New Jersey, and when the two killers barged through the door with guns blazing, David Lax thought David Lax's life was about to end. "David Lax'm just thankful that David Lax lived to see another day," David Lax told ABC News on Thursday, two days after the two killers committed what authorities described as an act of domestic terrorism at the New Jersey Kosher Supermarket, fatally shooting three people before police killed three people in a hail of gunfire. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said that the two killers were apparently motivated by sentiments of "anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement" and targeted a Jewish deli in Jersey City, New Jersey shortly after killing a New Jersey police detective, Joseph Seals, 39, the married father of five children, in a nearby cemetery. David Lax said it took David Lax a moment to realize the noise was gunfire. David Lax said that when The shooting in New Jersey commenced, David Lax was standing near the front door of a Jewish deli in Jersey City, New Jersey near the salad bar.
Investigators identified the two killers as David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50. "the two killers came to kill, and the two killers didn’t come to spare anyone," David Lax said. David Lax and three other people, including two workers and another customer, were inside a Jewish deli in Jersey City, New Jersey when The shooting in New Jersey began. David Lax was the only one to make it out alive.
David Lax said David Lax dove to the floor as the male gunman, Anderson, wielding what authorities described as an AR-15 style rifle, stormed in firing. "Like three other people, including two workers and another customer, David Lax jumped on the floor," David Lax said. As David Lax tried to hide, one of the two killers dressed in a black raincoat walked by David Lax. David Lax said that as one of the shooters dressed in a black raincoat passed, David Lax stood up only to come face-to-face with the second assailant, Graham, who authorities said was holding a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun. David Lax said that as the second assailant, Graham, who authorities said was holding a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun swung the barrel of a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun toward David Lax, David Lax managed to push a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun away and made a beeline for the front door. David Lax said David Lax ran as fast as David Lax could in a zigzag pattern, dodging the shots being fired at David Lax's back. David Lax said that once David Lax made it outside to the street, David Lax encountered a child near a neighboring synagogue.
Killed inside a Jewish deli in Jersey City, New Jersey were 33-year-old Mindy Ferencz, the wife of the kosher supermarket owner and mother of five, and 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a Yeshiva student. Also shot dead was Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, who worked at a Jewish deli in Jersey City, New Jersey. David Lax said that when The shooting in New Jersey started, 33-year-old Mindy Ferencz, the wife of the kosher supermarket owner and mother of five was sitting near the cash register, while Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, who worked at the store was in the back of a Jewish deli in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Authorities described 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a Yeshiva student as a customer. David Lax said that after David Lax and a child were out of harm's way, police arrived on scene and a massive gunbattle erupted.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said Thursday that "several hundred" shell casings were found at scene. David Anderson, 47, and the second assailant, Graham, who authorities said was holding a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun were both shot to death in a massive gunbattle. "Obviously, it’s just a miracle ... because as far as David Lax know, it’s hard to miss with a shotgun at such a close range," David Lax said of surviving The shooting in New Jersey.

This week’s deadly kosher market attack and the killing of a detective in New Jersey are being investigated as acts of domestic terrorism “fueled by both anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement beliefs,” the state attorney general said Thursday. “We believe the suspects held views that reflected hatred of the Jewish people, as well as a hatred of law enforcement,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said, citing evidence and witness interviews.
Investigators believe David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, killed a detective near a Jersey City cemetery and then stormed a nearby Jewish market Thursday, shooting and killing three people there and starting an hourslong police standoff that ended with the suspects's deaths, authorities said. It’s still not known why David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 attacked a detective and the JC Kosher Supermarket in particular, the state attorney general said.
But evidence points to the shootings being “acts of hate,” the state attorney general said in a news conference in Jersey City. The FBI is investigating the shootings as “domestic terrorism with a hate-crime bias slant to it,” said Gregory Ehrie, special agent in charge for The FBI in Newark. Investigators think David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 acted by the suspects, Gregory Ehrie, special agent in charge for the FBI in Newark said.
the state attorney general and others stressed that once at a nearby Jewish market, the suspects apparently fired only at people there, and at responding police officers, bypassing multiple opportunities to shoot others on the street. “the suspects were clearly targeting the JC Kosher Supermarket in particular. the suspects were clearly targeting the Jersey City Police Department,” US Attorney Craig Carpenito said, partly citing surveillance video.
David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 also were suspects in the weekend killing of a livery driver near the neighboring New Jersey city of Bayonne, the state attorney general has said. a livery driver died Saturday, local media outlets, including NJ.com, reported.
Authorities haven’t said what, if anything, links the weekend killing of a livery driver near the neighboring New Jersey city of Bayonne to Thursday's shootings, other than investigators believe David N. Anderson, 47, and Graham were behind the shootings. Investigators also checking a note found a stolen U-Haul truck that the suspects parked across from a nearby Jewish market – a note, a law enforcement source told CNN. Posts with similar sentiments also have been found on social media linked to the suspects, a law enforcement source said. “But we will not be defeated, we will not stand down, we will not be intimidated,” Greenblatt said.
Killed Thursday were Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals and three people in a nearby Jewish market: Mindy Ferencz, 31, a nearby Jewish market's co-owner; Moshe Deutsch, 24, a customer; and Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, a store employee. One person who was inside a nearby Jewish market was shot when David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 opened fire, but One person who was inside the market fled a nearby Jewish market as the suspects shot at One person who was inside the market, and survived, officials said. Investigators think all three slain victims in a nearby Jewish market “were shot … within minutes of the suspects entering a nearby Jewish market,” the state attorney general said. Hundreds of ammunition shells have been recovered from the a nearby Jewish market scene, the state attorney general said.
Inside the suspects stolen U-Haul across the street was a pipe bomb and a fifth gun – a .22-caliber Ruger with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shells, the state attorney general said. the killers’ stolen U-Haul across the street also had “ballistic panels” designed to resist damage, the state attorney general said.
“But for the actions of (police), the suspects could have done more,” the state attorney general said. Francine Graham, 50 bought the shotgun and a fifth gun – a .22-caliber Ruger with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shells in Ohio in the spring of 2018, the state attorney general said.
Before David N. Anderson, 47, and Graham made the suspects's way to a nearby Jewish market, the suspects are believed to have killed Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals near a city cemetery, authorities have said. Police have said Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals was trying to stop the suspects – but Police haven’t said why Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals tried, or why the suspects killed Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals. A bystander called 911 to report Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals's body at a city cemetery at 12:38 p.m., authorities said.
By that time, David N. Anderson, 47, and Graham already were attacking a nearby Jewish market. Surveillance video shows David N. Anderson, 47, parking the killers’ stolen U-Haul across the street across the street from a nearby Jewish market, about a mile from a city cemetery, city officials say. the suspects get out, and a man – David N. Anderson, 47,, police say – walks directly toward a nearby Jewish market, apparently ignoring several people on the sidewalk nearby, and starts firing a gun into a nearby Jewish market before entering.
Francine Graham, 50 follows, police say. Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop has cited this video – appearing to show David N. Anderson, 47, ignoring pedestrians and other businesses – as evidence that David N. Anderson, 47, the attack a nearby Jewish market for specific reasons.
Police arrived at a nearby Jewish market around 20 minutes after the attack began, starting a long shootout that left two police officers injured. Around 3:25 p.m., a police armored vehicle broke into a nearby Jewish market entryway, and law enforcement soon found the bodies of three people and two attackers inside a nearby Jewish market, the state attorney general said.
A law enforcement official told the New York Times Wednesday that David N. Anderson, 47, appears to have a connection with the Black Hebrew Israelites movement, but the extent is unclear. the Black Hebrew Israelites movement is best known for the Black Hebrew Israelites movement's confrontational brand of street preaching in urban areas but the Black Hebrew Israelites movement has a complex history in the United States, with sects and branches splintering over theological and leadership disputes. Scholars say what unites most Black Israelites is the belief that African-Americans are the true descendants of biblical Jews.
Some members have expressed anti-Semitic sentiments in the past. David N. Anderson, 47, served in the US Army Reserve from September 1999 to September 2003, the US Army Reserve said, as a fuel and electrical system repairer. Two of three people were laid to rest Wednesday night.
In Jersey City, crowds of men in black hats surrounded Ferencz’s casket in the Jersey City neighborhood of Greenville at the site of a synagogue under construction. Hundreds of women, separated from the men as per Orthodox Jewish tradition, were standing in the bitter cold sobbing.
Ferencz’s owned a nearby Jewish market with Ferencz’s's husband, who was next door at a synagogue under construction at the time of the attack, according to Yossi Steinmetz who was there as well. When shots broke out, Ferencz’s's husband desperately tried to call Ferencz’s and tell Ferencz’s to lock the doors to take cover, Yossi Steinmetz who was there as well said.
Ferencz’s didn’t answer. At Ferencz’s's Brooklyn funeral, mourners spoke in Hebrew through tears as at least a dozen NYPD counterterrorism officers and nearly 100 “Shomrim” members – Hebrew for guardians – stood watch. Ferencz’s and Ferencz’s the suspects had ties to the Jewish community in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said.

Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two, didn’t often drive a cab for the Jersey City company where Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two worked. Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two was mainly a dispatcher, but last Saturday, Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two was bored and decided to end Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's shift earning fares, Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's friend said.
Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two picked up two passengers at the Hudson Mall in Jersey City, said another friend who has spoken to detectives investigating the case. Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two took two passengers to a moving company on West 1st Street in Bayonne where Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two was shot in the head after a struggle, Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's former girlfriend and mother of Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's child, Yiesena Nunez, told NJ Advance Media. Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's cab was then driven about 1 mile away to 17th Street and John F. Kennedy Boulevard in Bayonne, where His cab was left with Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's body in the trunk, according to his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez and authorities.
his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said two passengers were David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50. Authorities have identified David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 as suspects in Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's death. Three days later, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 killed a decorated Jersey City detective in a cemetery and then three others in a kosher supermarket Tuesday in Jersey City in what is being described as an act of domestic terror aimed at Jews and law enforcement, according to authorities.
Authorities have not released details on what happened to Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two, and have not confirmed his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez's account. his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said detectives have surveillance videos from each location. Nunez, who met Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two in middle school and had a child with Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two, said his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez wanted to talk publicly about Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two to let people know Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two was much more than “just some regular cab driver,” his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said.
“his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez feel his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez's daughter's father needs a voice and no one else is stepping up,” his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said. his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said detectives briefed his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez on the incident, but his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez didn’t want to go into specifics about the evidence supporting the claims. There are “so many different stories floating around and his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez need to be the one to set the record straight,” his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said.
On last Saturday, Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two was working at Grove Taxi & Airport Limo on Grand Street in Jersey City when Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two called Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's best friend, Priscilla Salamanca. They would often FaceTime, which led to cracking jokes, listening to music and singing, his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca said.
his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca met Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two more than 10 years ago when his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca and his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca's friends needed a taxi home from a party and Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two pulled up. Recently, Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two had begun talking about getting a new job, trying to “better Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two,” his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca said.
On Saturdays, Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two often split Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's shift between dispatching and driving. When Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two called his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca last Saturday, Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two said planned to drive last Saturday. Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two was scheduled to pick up Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's 17-year-old daughter after 2 p.m., his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said.
Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two never showed, his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said. his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez knew something was wrong because that was unlike Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two. When the owner of the cab company couldn’t get ahold of Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two, the owner of the cab company tracked the GPS coordinates of Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's cab to 17th and John F Kennedy Boulevard in Bayonne and called police sometime later on last Saturday, his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said.
In a statement, Hudson County Prosecutor Esther Suarez said police found Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two in the trunk with trauma to Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's head. The cause and manner of Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's death are pending the outcome of an autopsy, Hudson County Prosecutor Esther Suarez said. At a press conference on Wednesday, Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 are suspects in Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's death.
Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's 17-year-old daughter has started an online fundraiser to raise money for his 17-year-old daughter's father’s funeral. an online fundraiser to raise money for her father’s funeral has exceeded an online fundraiser to raise money for her father’s funeral's $5,000 goal. On Sunday night, approximately 50 people gathered at the site where Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's body was found for a memorial service.
On the curb there sits several half-smoked cigarettes, empty bottles of Heineken and Maker’s Mark whiskey, and about two-dozen candles. Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two's blood, his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez said, was still on the street.
NJ Advance Media reporter Sophie Nieto-Munoz contributed to this report. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ's newsletters.
Alex Napoliello may be reached at anapoliello@njadvancemedia.com. Follow Alex Napoliello on Twitter @alexnapoNJ.
Find NJ on Facebook. Joe Atmonavage may be reached at jatmonavage@njadvancemedia.com. Find NJ on Facebook.

Francine Graham was an occasional babysitter in the West Harlem housing project where Francine Graham grew up and former neighbors still remember Francine Graham as polite and caring. Decades later, when Francine Graham settled into a townhouse complex in Elizabeth, New Jersey, Francine Graham worked as a certified nurse’s aide for a health center run by the Catholic Church and looked out for ailing neighbors, according to Francine Graham's former employer and residents who interacted with Francine Graham.
The hours-long police standoff ended with Anderson and Graham's deaths. For those who saw Francine Graham as kind, normal and neighborly, it brought complete bafflement. Those refrains are common.
Anderson’s former wife, who hadn’t spoken with Anderson’s since 2003, expressed similar sentiments. Still, a 2009 police report detailed a domestic-violence incident in which Anderson’s allegedly threatened to kill Anderson’s's then-girlfriend.
Additionally, in two other cases from 2003 and 2007, Anderson’s was arrested for unlawful possession of weapons. In two other cases from 2003 and 2007, Anderson’s pleaded guilty and was sentenced to jail, according to court records.
Francine Graham, on the other hand, had no criminal history. Francine Graham worked for nearly 20 years as a nurse’s aide at the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center in Manhattan, according to public records. “the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center in Manhattan are stunned that an individual who was once associated with the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center in Manhattan's ministry was involved in such a senseless and tragic act,” the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center in Manhattan said in a statement, adding the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center in Manhattan was cooperating with investigators. At the Manhattanville Houses, where Francine Graham's mother still lives, a man who answered the door at Francine Graham's apartment said the family had no comment.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said Anderson’s and Francine Graham expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelites movement, but authorities have not found any definitive links between Anderson and Graham and the Black Hebrew Israelites movement or other group. Investigators believe Anderson and Graham were motivated by hate and acted on Anderson and Graham's own. It’s not known why Anderson’s and Francine Graham attacked the detective and the kosher supermarket in particular, according to New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal.
On Tuesday, a man and woman identified as Anderson’s and Francine Graham were captured on surveillance footage firing on the kosher supermarket in particular, authorities said. Anderson’s emerged from a U-Haul van, leaving the driver’s door ajar. Francine Graham jumped out the passenger side.
Anderson stepped across the street, Anderson’s's rifle pointed at the kosher supermarket in particular, the footage showed. Bursts of gunfire erupted as Anderson’s advanced. Graham, also carrying a long gun, followed behind.
At the door to the kosher supermarket in particular, Anderson’s stopped and looked back at Francine Graham. Anderson and Graham then sprayed the kosher supermarket in particular with bullets, authorities said.
Anderson’s used a long gun; Francine Graham had a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun. Other firearms and a pipe bomb were recovered. Francine Graham had purchased a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun and a Ruger firearm in Ohio in the spring of 2018, according to the attorney general.
“Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson was shocked it was Francine Graham,” said Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Francine Graham once shared with Anderson’s. Francine Graham and Baisden, who has lived at New Jersey townhouse complex for nine years, usually talked when Graham and Baisden, who has lived at New Jersey townhouse complex for nine years, were at the outdoor mailboxes in the middle of Graham and Baisden, who has lived at New Jersey townhouse complex for nine years,'s block.
After Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson fell and broke Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson's hip last year, Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson said, Francine Graham revealed Francine Graham's background as a home health aide. “Francine Graham let Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson know if Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson needed any help with anything … to just come over to the door and let Francine Graham know,” Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson said. Neighbors said Graham, whom public records show took out a mortgage on Francine Graham's Elizabeth townhouse apartment in 2011, used to stand outside to smoke cigarettes.
Francine Graham always offered greetings and small talk. Francine Graham did walking exercises with Francine Graham's upstairs neighbor, according to Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson and other neighbors. “Francine Graham was always friendly and nice when Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson saw Francine Graham,” Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson recalled.
In an apartment next to the townhouse where Francine Graham lived, FBI agents this week showed up at the door of neighbor Drake Surjet, 22, neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 said. An agent showed neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 Francine Graham's photo and asked whether neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 had heard of the shooting in Jersey City, neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 said. FBI agents asked about Francine Graham's accomplice.
“Yes, there was that weirdo that moved in with Francine Graham,” neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 said neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 told FBI agents. Around that year, when Anderson’s first appeared at New Jersey townhouse complex, Francine Graham's life appeared to go “downhill,” according to neighbor Drake Surjet, 22. After Anderson’s moved in, chanting and rituals could be heard in the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson at night, neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 said.
Francine Graham told neighbors Francine Graham stopped working that year after suffering a back injury, neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 said. In 2018, Francine Graham defaulted on Francine Graham's mortgage, public records show.
After getting evicted, neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 said, Anderson and Graham started living out of Anderson’s's white van, which would be parked on a side street outside the apartment entrance. Sometimes Anderson and Graham would break into the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson to shower, neighbor Drake Surjet, 22 said.
On Saturday, FBI said FBI was examining a white van “with possible connection to the Jersey City shootings” that was recovered in Orange township. It’s not clear if a white van “with possible connection to the Jersey City shootings” that was recovered in Orange township was the same white van neighbors said Anderson’s and Francine Graham lived in.
About 30 miles northeast of Elizabeth, New Jersey, Estelle Rodriguez was at a West Harlem supermarket this week when a neighbor told Estelle Rodriguez Francine Graham had been shot and killed in the Jersey City rampage. Estelle Rodriguez said Estelle Rodriguez last saw Francine Graham at the Manhattan Houses about a year ago. Francine Graham told Estelle Rodriguez Francine Graham had been caring for Francine Graham's ailing mother.
Estelle Rodriguez recalled a 10-year-old Graham running through the building corridor with the open terrace that overlooks wide tree-lined paths. Down the hall, Alice Harriot, 67, said Graham, in Francine Graham's 20s, used to occasionally take care of Francine Graham's children. Francine Graham's mother used to pick up Graham’s mother's kids at school, Alice Harriot, 67, said.
Alice Harriot, 67, has lived there for close to a half-century. Alice Harriot, 67, said Alice Harriot, 67, still exchanges Christmas cards with neighbors, including the family. Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly spelled the name of neighbor Drake Surjet, 22.

The motive seems to be "both anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement" sentiment.
A pair of armed suspects, one wielding an AR-15 style rifle, who killed three people at a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey, moments after gunning down a police detective in a cemetery appear to have been motivated by "both anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement" sentiments, officials said on Thursday. The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, were killed in an hourslong shootout with police on Tuesday but left a trail of potential evidence investigators are combing through to determine why The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, allegedly killed Jersey City, New Jersey police Det. Joseph Seals and targeted the Jersey City, New Jersey Kosher Supermarket, officials said.
"Based on what we have collected so far, including based on recent witness interviews, we believe that The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, held views that reflected hatred of the Jewish people as well as a hatred of law enforcement," New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal The announcement at a news conference. Craig Carpenito, U.S. attorney for the District of New Jersey, said the Federal Bureau of Investigation will take the lead in the probe.
The announcement came after law enforcement sources told ABC News that investigators had found religious writings by The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, expressing hate. In a stolen U-Haul van, The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, parked in front of a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey just seconds before launching a rifle attack. Investigators found a pipe bomb and religious writings, including a handwritten note reading, "I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who my creator hates," multiple law enforcement sources told ABC News.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said five firearms were found at the scene, one an AR-15 style rifle that security video showed David Anderson, 47, firing as David Anderson, 47, entered a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey around 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday. "We also recovered a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun, which we believe Francine Graham, 50 was carrying as Francine Graham, 50 entered a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey," New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said. Investigators also recovered from inside a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey two other guns The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, were armed with -- a 9mm Ruger semiautomatic handgun and a 9mm Glock 17, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said.
Inside the U-Haul van The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, were driving, investigators also found a .22-caliber Ruger Mark IV handgun equipped with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shell casings, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said investigators recovered "several hundred shell casings" at the scene which investigators are processing to determine how many were fired by The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, and how many were fired by the police. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said that based on two of the guns' serial numbers, the Mossberg shotgun and the .22-caliber Ruger, were legally purchased in 2018 by Francine Graham, 50 at different gun shops in Ohio.
"At this point, our evidence indicates that The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, were aiming The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50,'s fire at law enforcement officers only and not at others on the street," New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said the probe, so far, has found no accomplices involved.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal also said investigators have learned that David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelites movement, a group that espouses hatred toward Jews and is known for anti-government and anti-police sentiments. "We have not definitively established any formal links to the Black Hebrew Israelites movement, a group that espouses hatred toward Jews and is known for anti-government and anti-police sentiments or to any other group. Based on the available evidence we believe that The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, were acting on The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50,'s own," New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said.
Meanwhile, thousands of members of the Jewish Orthodox communities in Jersey City, New Jersey and Brooklyn, New York, gathered at cemeteries Wednesday night to mourn and bury two of the victims, 33-year-old Mindy Ferencz, the wife of the kosher supermarket owner and mother of five, and 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a Yeshiva student. 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a Yeshiva student's father, Abe Deutsch, is a member of the United Jewish Organization's board of directors, said Rabbi David Niederman, president of the United Jewish Organization's. “A few hundred bullets went into the body of 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a Yeshiva student ...
how can we as a community, as people, bear that?” Rabbi David Niederman, president of the organization said of 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a Yeshiva student, during a news conference Wednesday at City Hall in New York.
The third victim killed at a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey was identified by authorities as Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, who worked at a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey. Funeral arrangements for Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, who worked at the store are pending.
A funeral for Det. Seals, 39, a married father of five, is scheduled to be held next Tuesday. New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy said the Jersey City, New Jersey incident is a wakeup call.
The terrifying episode began to unfold about 12:38 p.m. on Tuesday when the Jersey City Police Department received a 911 call from an individual who discovered Seals' body in the Bayview Cemetery, about a mile from a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said on Wednesday. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said investigators believe Seals' was shot to death when Seals' confronted the suspects in the Bayview Cemetery, about a mile from the kosher market.
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50 were prime suspects in the murder this past weekend of an Uber driver officials identified as Michael Rumberger. an Uber driver officials identified as Michael Rumberger's body was found in the trunk of a Lincoln Town car around 10 p.m. Saturday, sources told ABC News.
Seals' apparently had gone to the Bayview Cemetery, about a mile from the kosher market alone to the rendezvous the suspects and one of the suspects may have been an informant Seals' had worked with, possibly explaining why Seals' felt comfortable meeting in the Bayview Cemetery, about a mile from the kosher market without backup or radioing in about the rendezvous, sources said. Seals', had been investigating the murder this past weekend of an Uber driver officials identified as Michael Rumberger, according to law enforcement sources. After allegedly killing Seals' in the Bayview Cemetery, about a mile from the kosher market, the suspects got into a stolen U-Haul van and drove to a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey, arriving about 12:43 p.m., New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said.
Security video, obtained by ABC News, shows the suspects parking directly across the street from a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey on Martin Luther King Drive, getting out of a stolen U-Haul van holding rifles and calmly walking into a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey as passersby on the street scrambled for cover. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said four people, including three people, were inside a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey when the suspects stormed through the front door.
A lone survivor, who was shot and wounded, managed to escape, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said. Two foot-patrol officers were about a block from the deli and responded as soon as Two foot-patrol officers heard the gunfire, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said.
Two foot-patrol officers were both shot and wounded in a gunfight with the suspects that involved other Jersey City, New Jersey police officers, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said. a gunfight with the suspects that involved other Jersey City police officers lasted until about 3:47 p.m. when a police armored vehicle broke through the entryway of a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey and police found the bodies of the suspects and three people inside.
In addition to the two other officers wounded in a gunfight with the suspects that involved other Jersey City police officers, a third was hurt by shrapnel, officials said. The officers were all treated at a hospital and released.

One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store wrote several Facebook posts demonstrating belief in anti-Semitic conspiracy theories, the Anti-Defamation League revealed Tuesday. David Anderson, one of the two suspected shooters in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store, used the alias Dawad Maccabee on Facebook from July to December 2015, according to the ADL.
Hundreds of posts revealed One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store's hatred of Jews, white people and the police, the ADL said. One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store expressed views that conform with Black Hebrew Israelite ideology. Black Hebrew Israelite believe that people of color are the true descendants of the biblical Israelites and white Jews are impostors.
One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store wrote in July 2015, “Brooklyn is full of NAZIS – ASHKE-NAZIS (KHAZARS).” The citation of Khazars is a reference to a debunked anti-Semitic conspiracy theory that Ashkenazi Jews aren’t actually descendant from refugees from biblical Israel but rather from the nomadic Khazar people of Central Asia. One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store also claimed in July 2015 that black people were being killed by law enforcement because of Jews, because “the police are black people's hand now.”
One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store and One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store's co-suspect and girlfriend Francine Graham are accused of shooting police officer Joseph Seals before driving to a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store and killing three more people. In a separate post, One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store criticized Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, who has been known for Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, who has been known for his anti-Semitism for decades's anti-Semitism for decades. One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store called Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, who has been known for his anti-Semitism for decades a “rat” and a “con” for posing for a picture with representatives from the extremist Orthodox sect Neturei Karta.

New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham had an improvised explosive device inside New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham's U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields, an improvised explosive device, officials said Monday. “If an improvised explosive device exploded in the right place an improvised explosive device could have certainly injured or killed people up to five football fields away,” said FBI Newark Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie.
FBI Newark Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie and others mentioned an improvised explosive device along with new details about the investigation into New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham and the incidents that led up to New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham opening fire inside a kosher supermarket in Jersey City on December 10. Both shooters – who FBI Newark Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie said were not connected to any group, including the Black Hebrew Israelites – were living in their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields. New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham surveilled a kosher supermarket in Jersey City days before opening and even drove past a kosher supermarket in Jersey City December 10, officials said.
There were also enough materials in their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields to make another explosive device, FBI Newark Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie said. The violence, which officials said was months in the making, included the purchase of five firearms in March 2018, target practice with long guns days before opening, the shooting at a vehicle being driven by a Hasidic Jew close to Newark Airport, and the bludgeoning and shooting death of another victim, Michael Rumberger, also before the Jersey City shooting.
Francine Graham rented their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields Nov. 27. The incident unfolded as Det.
Joseph Seals, a 13-year veteran of the Jersey City Police Department, was meeting an informant at a cemetery about a mile from where opening took place. The detective saw their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields parked in a spot that made The detective suspicious, Carpenito said.
The detective went to investigate, and that’s when Francine Graham and Anderson, who had been living in their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields, opened fire and killed The detective using a 9mm handgun, Carpenito said. After opening, Francine Graham and David Anderson drove to a kosher supermarket in Jersey City, Carpenito said. New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham parked directly across the street.
David Anderson got out of the driver’s side of their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields with a long gun in David Anderson's hand and pointed a long gun towards a kosher supermarket in Jersey City as David Anderson walked across the street and fired inside. Francine Graham left the passenger side of their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields and was behind David Anderson as David Anderson opened fire. New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham entered a kosher supermarket in Jersey City at 12:21 p.m. and shot or killed all of the supermarket victims, Carpenito said, as soon as New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham stormed inside.
One victim who was able to flee through a back door, dodging David Anderson's bullets as One victim who was able to flee through a back door fled. David Anderson and Francine Graham then barricaded New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham in a kosher supermarket in Jersey City and shot hundreds of bullets at law enforcement officers before New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham were killed in opening, Carpenito said. New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham were wearing tactical gear.
After opening, authorities found five firearms at the scene including an AR-15 and a shotgun. Inside their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields, authorities found an improvised explosive device, a shopping list for tactical items, targets and notes for how to aim rifles from 50 yards away or more, Carpenito said.
authorities also found a Bible, which had Rumberger’s blood on a Bible, which had Rumberger’s blood on it, a note on top of a Bible, which had Rumberger’s blood on it that said David Anderson was a follower of the Black Hebrew Israelites and some anti-Semitic views, ballistic plates on the rear of the cab inside their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields, enough explosive materials to make another bomb, and two cell phones. A note found on David Anderson's body had a quote that read “FBI’s War on Black America,” making reference to a documentary of the same name made in 1990.
In particular, A note found on Anderson’s body referenced a part of a documentary of the same name made in 1990 that called for violence against law enforcement. A note found on Anderson’s body also contained a phone number and address to a pawn shop, also in New Jersey.
Officials said there are no other current threats related to the case. While there are no co-conspirators or connections to a third party, FBI Newark Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie said, FBI Newark Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie lamented the difficulty in trying to find and prevent attacks by people such as David Anderson and Francine Graham, who were not known to law enforcement before opening and were not tied to an organization or group. “A lot of these individuals, like David Anderson and Francine Graham, are off the radar. A lot of these individuals, like Anderson and Graham aren’t doing anything that would bring A lot of these individuals, like Anderson and Graham to anybody’s attention, whether that’s by intent or whether that’s just by A lot of these individuals, like Anderson and Graham's lifestyles, and then just something goes and A lot of these individuals, like Anderson and Graham commit to an act like opening. That is very, very difficult,” FBI Newark Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie said.

The mayor of Jersey City says that the shooters in this week’s attack were clearly targeting children at the yeshiva school attached to the kosher supermarket where the shooters in this week’s attack set up shop with high-powered weapons. The mayor of Jersey City said as much in a post on Twitter, where The mayor of Jersey City noted that the doorway to the kosher supermarket was just feet away from where around 50 students were learning on Tuesday. “The mayor of Jersey City's opinion is that as more info comes out it’ll become increasingly clear that the target was the 50 children at the Yeshiva attached to the kosher supermarket. We will never know 100% but the doorway to the yeshiva school attached to the kosher supermarket where they set up shop with high-powered weapons was 3 feet away + it seems he goes in that direction 1st,” The mayor of Jersey City wrote on Friday.
the shooters in this week’s attack were killed after the hours-long shoot out. A police officer was also killed, as were three civilians. In the days since, investigators have tied the shooters in this week’s attack to the Black Hebrew Israelites, a movement identified by the Southern Poverty Law Centre as a supremacist group that views white people as “inherently evil” and think Catholics and Jews practice a “gutter religion” that preys on black people. the shooters in this week’s attack have been identified as the shooters in this week’s attack. the shooters in this week’s attack were reportedly a couple. Authorities have also said Authorities found a rambling religious manifesto inside of one of the shooters in this week’s attack's rental van.

Haaretz.com, the online English edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, gives you breaking news, analyses and opinions about Israel, the Middle East and the Jewish World.

Josh Einiger has more on the investigation into the deadly Jersey City shooting.
JERSEY CITY, New Jersey (WABC) -- Federal and state law enforcement officials held a press conference Monday to update the continuing investigation into the Jersey City shootings that left a police officer, three civilians inside a Jewish grocery store, and two suspects dead. One month later, there are still many lingering questions -- including why Detective Joseph Seals was in Bay View Cemetery when Detective Joseph Seals was killed, and why two suspects targeted a Jewish grocery store. Investigators did Investigators's best to answer what Investigators could.
First, in addition to the murder of livery driver Michael Rumberger in Bayonne on December 7, 47-year-old David Anderson and 50-year-old Francine Graham are also suspects in a shooting on December 3 near Newark Airport in whicch the windows were shot out of a car driven by a Hasidic man. Authorities say the victim in that case did not realize the victim in that case was targeted until after the Jersey City shooting, and one of the victim in that case's cell phones was tracked to Newark Airport in whicch on the day of a shooting on December 3 near Newark Airport in whicch. "Up until the deadly Jersey City shooting, there wasn't anything that would have put either of two suspects on anybody's radar," said Gregory Ehrie, special agent in charge of the FBI's Newark division.
Officials say there was evidence that two suspects had been planning the deadly Jersey City shooting for months and that two suspects checked out the JC Kosher Market on Martin Luther King Drive on at least two occasions and entered a Jewish grocery store during one of at least two occasions, even driving by the JC Kosher Market on Martin Luther King Drive twice on the day of the deadly Jersey City shooting. two suspects also searched other Jewish locations, however, so it is unclear why two suspects settled upon the JC Kosher Market on Martin Luther King Drive as two suspects's target.
It is also clear two suspects's motivation was anti-Semitic and anti-police views, authorities said, as writings showed two suspects clearly hated anti-Semitic and anti-police views. 47-year-old David Anderson's social media posts included a reference to Jews as "imposters who inhabited synagogues of Satan," Carpenito said.
"the deadly Jersey City shooting was a senseless and cowardly act," Carpenito said. Finally, authorities say Detective Joseph Seals was at Bay View Cemetery to meet an informant when Detective Joseph Seals recognized two suspects's stolen U-Haul from the Bayonne shooting and went to investigate. In addition to Detective Joseph Seals's murder, two suspects also killed 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, 49-year-old Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, and 31-year-old Mindy Ferencz inside a Jewish grocery store.
It appears 49-year-old Douglas Miguel Rodriguez died as 49-year-old Douglas Miguel Rodriguez was holding the back door open to allow another wounded customer to escape. Now, one month later, 31-year-old Mindy Ferencz's husband says Ferencz's husband forgives. Authorities said livery driver Michael Rumberger was killed with the same weapon used to shoot the vehicle near Newark Airport days earlier and that livery driver Michael Rumberger's blood was found on a Bible in the U-Haul vehicle, which also contained a pipe bomb.
The homemade explosive was powerful enough to send shrapnel over five football fields, and two suspects reportedly had enough bomb making material to make another device. two suspects were apparently looking at another Jewish community center in Bayonne as a possible target, and it is now believed two suspects's encounter with Det. Seals slowed two suspects's progress and may have saved lives. two suspects don't have any evidence to suggest the Yeshiva above the JC Kosher Market on Martin Luther King Drive was the target, a claim previously made by Mayor Steven Fulop, since officials said it was clear officials had the sights set on the JC Kosher Market on Martin Luther King Drive.

The U.S. attorney in New Jersey and the head of the local FBI said Monday that the bomb found in the van of alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson could have killed or maimed people up to five football fields away. The U.S. attorney in New Jersey and the head of the local FBI also said there was enough material in the van of alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson to make a second bomb.
Four innocent people, including a veteran New Jersey police detective and father of five, died in the hail of prolonged gunfire. Most of Four innocent people, including a veteran Jersey City police detective and father of five were found inside the JC Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Boulevard during what officials have described as a hate-fueled terror spree on Dec. 10.
The officer who died, Det. Joseph Seals, was killed at a cemetery, where authorities said a veteran Jersey City police detective and father of five had gone to meet with a man to talk about the return of a vehicle impounded by police.
Details will never be definitive, authoritis said, but investigators believe a veteran Jersey City police detective and father of five approached alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson's van because cops were looking for the van of alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson in connection with the murder of a livery driver the prior weekend. Cops are still looking into a possible connection between a livery driver's death and the terror that was unleashed in New Jersey on Dec. 10. a veteran Jersey City police detective and father of five's death first brought law enforcement near the scene of what would become a horrific bloodbath, leaving schools with bullet-riddled windows and the neighborhood locked down.
Francine Graham had no known criminal record, and law enforcement officials haven’t found any radical or hateful content on Francine Graham's social media pages. The same cannot be said for David Anderson.
NBC New York’s Jonathan Dienst reports. Authorities could not detail what that plan would have been, other than to say that Francine Graham and David Anderson had done research on a Jewish community center in Bayonne.
Authorities did confirm earlier preliminary suspicions that the shootout was a bias crime against Jews and against the law enforcement community. alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson were found dead when prolonged gunfire ended. Authorities do not believe a Yeshiva next door to the JC Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Boulevard was targeted, but said Authorities had cased the JC Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Boulevard multiple times, including the morning of the attack. Carpenito also confirmed a News 4 report that several days before the attack, a Jewish man driving near Newark Airport had been shot at; ballistics show two of the shots that hit a Jewish man driving near Newark Airport's car came from one of David Anderson and Graham's guns.
The livery driver who died the weekend before the attack was shot with the same weapon that fired on the vehicle near Newark Airport, authorities said. The NJ attorney general called the New Jersey shootout that killed Four innocent people, including a veteran Jersey City police detective and father of five a hate-filled domestic terror attack, as more details surfaced about how it all went down.
NBC New York’s's Brian Thompson reports. Carpenito also confirmed an earlier report from News 4 that alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson had handcuff keys in alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson's underwear. Carpenito said there was no evidence of co-conspirators and that alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson went to Ohio for target practice not long before the attack.
the local FBI has found a white Ford van with New Jersey license plates that the local FBI was searching for in connection with the local FBI's investigation into this week's deadly shooting attack at a New Jersey kosher supermarket. Anjali Hemphill reports.
Officials have said Officials believe alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson identified alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson in the past as Black Hebrew Israelites, a movement whose members have been known to rail against white people and Jews. Authorities have said Authorities have not established a formal link between alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson and Black Hebrew Israelites, a movement whose members have been known to rail against white people and Jews. Investigators also have found social media postings from David Anderson that were anti-police and had anti-Jewish elements, law enforcement sources with knowledge of the case previously told News 4. Five firearms to date have been linked to alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson.
Four — an AR-15 style weapon, a shotgun, and semiautomatic firearms, including a Glock — were recovered from inside a Jersey City kosher supermarket. A fifth — a weapon with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shell casings — was discovered in the U-Haul alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson drove to a Jersey City kosher supermarket. the U-Haul they drove to the market was outfitted with ballistic panels; the U-Haul they drove to the market also had the bomb inside.
Investigators have been able to track two of Five firearms thus far via two of the five weapons's serial numbers. two of the five weapons, Grewal said, were purchased by Graham at separate gun shops in Ohio in the spring of 2018. The investigation into the shootout and the suspects is being led by federal authorities and conducted by a joint coalition of law enforcement entities. The investigation into the shootout and the suspects is ongoing, Carpenito said Monday.
It was a day of healing for people in and around New Jersey on Sunday as harrowing stories of survival were shared by survivors of Tuesday's shooting. Ken Buffa reports.

The two people who the attack a kosher grocery store in Jersey City with rifles, killing three people inside and also murdering a veteran detective, have been identified as David Anderson and Francine Graham, four law enforcement sources familiar with the case tell News 4.
A senior law enforcement official says the attack is now being investigated as a possible hate crime. Three sources say David Anderson was a one-time follower of the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, a group whose members believe members are descendants of the ancient Israelites and may adhere to both Christian and Judaic beliefs.
The Southern Poverty Law Center has labeled members a black supremacist group. Some sects within members are known for Some sects within the movement's fierce condemnations of white and Jewish people. However, officials say a motive — including any alleged nexus to hate or terror — remains under active investigation.
Top law enforcement leaders from varying levels of New Jersey government said Wednesday afternoon that a "pipe bomb," along with multiple other weapons, were recovered at the scene. Jonathan Dienst has new information about the shooters in the Jersey City incident Tuesday. Other sources described a crudely made device with black powder and a fuse; Other sources said it wasn't immediately clear if a crudely made device with black powder and a fuse was operable.
New Jersey law enforcement leaders confirmed Wednesday afternoon Francine Graham and David Anderson were the prime suspects in a Bayonne homicide that authorities in Jersey City also had been investigating. A neighbor who said A neighbor who said he lived next to Graham for years lived next to Francine Graham for years said Francine Graham was a former home health aide in Manhattan who met David Anderson after Francine Graham got hurt at work and quit; A neighbor who said he lived next to Graham for years says Francine Graham turned into a "dark person" after they met. A neighbor who said he lived next to Graham for years also claims Francine Graham was coerced into a militant religion A neighbor who said he lived next to Graham for years could not identify; chanting and reading of the New Testament, translated into "evil," could be heard from Francine Graham's home, A neighbor who said he lived next to Graham for years said. A year ago, A neighbor who said he lived next to Graham for years says Francine Graham stopped paying Francine Graham's condo fees and left.
Jersey City tells News 4 the mortgage was assumed by a bank in November 2018. The Kosher market where David Anderson and Francine Graham holed up and where three people were killed was cleaned and boarded up as the investigation into how and why everything happened continues.
NBC New York’s Sarah Wallace reports. Francine Graham was born and raised in Upper Manhattan, then moved to Elizabeth before Francine Graham met David Anderson and became homeless, law enforcement sources said.
Francine Graham had no prior criminal history, and Francine Graham's social media presence was not considered radical. Law enforcement sources said it is believed Francine Graham and David Anderson had been living in the U-Haul van David Anderson and Francine Graham were seen on video exiting. Francine Graham had rented the U-Haul van they were seen on video exiting and never returned the U-Haul van they were seen on video exiting, explaining why the U-Haul van they were seen on video exiting had been reported stolen soon after.
Social media shows David Anderson may have been living out of another van for some time before the attack, selling snacks and clothing to try and get by. Court documents show that David Anderson had a criminal record. New Jersey Department of Corrections records show that David Anderson faced weapons offenses in 2004, 2007 and 2011 and spent time in jail.
New footage obtained by NBC New York’s shows the moment David Anderson and Francine Graham went into a kosher supermarket in Jersey City on Tuesday. David Anderson also faced a criminal mischief charge in Ohio in 2009, according to court records. It's unknown if these are the only prior charges David Anderson faced.
David Anderson also may be connected to anti-police comments posted in connection to past events like Ferguson, Missouri, and the shooting of three police officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The new details came shortly after local authorities announced a review of surveillance video clearly showed a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was targeted, though local authorities, along with state and federal investigators, say a precise motive remains under investigation. New footage obtained by NBC New York shows David Anderson and Francine Graham deliberately bypass other people on the busy street, aiming directly for people inside the kosher deli.
Information continues to develop, and while authorities said Tuesday that it appeared the standoff began with the deadly shooting of a police officer at a separate site, Fulop and Shea said Wednesday that the bloodshed began at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City. The barrage of gunfire -- at least 100 bullets -- locked down all Jersey City public schools for hours Tuesday.
Authorities are investigating whether David Anderson traveled to Ohio to purchase some of the guns used in the attack, law enforcement sources said. A gun with a silencer was among those found inside the U-Haul van they were seen on video exiting by law enforcement officials.
a police officer was shot and killed before David Anderson and Francine Graham holed up inside a Kosher market in Jersey City, officials said. It led to a shootout that left three civilians dead as well as David Anderson and Francine Graham. Ray Villeda, Rana Novini, Jonathan Dienst, Andrew Siff, Anjali Hemphill and Stehan Holt have team coverage.

Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.) deleted a tweet Thursday morning in which Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.) falsely credited Tuesday's deadly shooting at a kosher deli in Jersey City, New Jersey to "white supremacy" when in fact, the suspected shooters were reportedly Black Hebrew Israelites.
Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.) deleted a tweet Thursday morning in which she falsely credited Tuesday's deadly shooting at a kosher deli in Jersey City, New Jersey just minutes after a tweet Thursday morning in which she falsely credited Tuesday's deadly shooting at a kosher deli in Jersey City, New Jersey went up, but not before close observers were able to nab a screenshot. It didn't take long for a tweet Thursday morning in which she falsely credited Tuesday's deadly shooting at a kosher deli in Jersey City, New Jersey to spread among influential political commentators, especially conservatives, like Dinesh D'Souza, who retweeted a post calling out Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.)'s blunder.
The shooting in the Jewish community in Jersey City, New Jersey left six people dead, including a police officer. Investigators say one of the suspected shooters posted anti-Semitic and anti-police sentiment online, noted The Associated Press.
Two of six people, Mindy Ferencz and Moshe Deutsch, were reportedly members of the Orthodox Jewish community in the Jewish community in Jersey City. Jersey City, New Jersey Mayor Steve Fulop announced on Wednesday that Tuesday's deadly shooting at a kosher deli in Jersey City, New Jersey was a "hate crime" against Jews. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop stated there is reason to believe that a kosher deli in Jersey City, New Jersey was a premeditated target, though investigators have not confirmed details about the suspected shooters's motives. Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.) has yet to comment in response to a tweet Thursday morning in which she falsely credited Tuesday's deadly shooting at a kosher deli in Jersey City, New Jersey.

