This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated. JERSEY CITY, N.J.— Six people were killed, including a police officer, during a shootout in Jersey City Tuesday afternoon, authorities said. Detective Joseph Seals, 39, was shot and killed in the shootout, officials said. Seals had 15 years experience as an officer and was a married father of five. Two officers were injured in the shooting, Kelly said; one of the injured officers was shot in the shoulder, while another sustained an injury to the body. Early reports said a civilian was also injured. The shooting happened in the vicinity of Martin Luther King Drive near Bayview Avenue. SWAT teams and federal agents responded to the scene, and police blocked off the major thoroughfare. Loud volleys of gunfire were heard at regular intervals. Video shows a line of police officers armed with weapons pointed in several directions walking down the sidewalk. Authorities tell PIX11 at least one suspect fired shots from Bay View Cemetery before heading to a nearby supermarket, where a standoff ensued. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) division in Newark confirmed their agents responded to the reports of an active shooter. The FBI was also on the scene, and asked the public to stay away from the area of MLK Drive near the light rail station as well as Bay View Cemetery. Jersey City schools were on lockdown, with about 30,000 students impacted, according to Franklin Walker, Superintendent of Jersey City Public Schools. All students and staff were safe, officials said in a tweet. An official said schools planned to systematically release locked down schools at 4:15 p.m. By 5 p.m., reunions between kids and parents had begun at some schools. Jersey City Medical Center has also been put on lockdown to protect patients, families and employees in response to the active situation. Everyone inside the hospital is safe, authorities said. NYPD Special Operations officers have responded to Jersey City to assist law enforcement. No one is in custody in connection with the shooting, according to a law enforcement official. Amid the incident, several traffic and transit routes were impacted. Exit ramps on the New Jersey Turnpike at interchange 14B were closed. Martin Luther King Drive from Woodlawn to Claremont avenues was closed due to the police activity. North Jersey buses operated on a detour in Jersey City, the agency tweeted. Service to Hoboken used MLK Drive, Fulton, Culver, West Side and Monticello avenues as well as JFK Boulevard and Communipaw Avenue. Hudson Bergen Light Rail Bayonne Branch Service was suspended in both directions between Liberty State Park and 8th Street due to ongoing local police activity. Shuttle bus service between Liberty State Park and West Side Avenue was also suspended. All schools in nearby Bayonne, New Jersey, were “in a shelter-in-place as a precaution due to police activity and investigation in Jersey City,” according to a tweet from the Bayonne Board of Education. The White House tweeted that President Donald Trump has been briefed about the incident. Trump later addressed the deadly shootout it in a tweet. Associated Press contributed to this report.
A police officer and three civilians were killed during a shootout in Jersey City which also left the two suspects dead, law enforcement officials said. According to senior law enforcement officials, the Tuesday afternoon shootout began when a detective saw a U-Haul truck possibly linked to the murder of a livery driver over the weekend in Bayonne. As the officer approached, a suspect got out of the van to shoot the officer before taking off. That officer, later identified as Det. Joseph Seals, died from his injuries. The preliminary investigation suggests the 39-year-old father of five was killed "while trying to interdict the bad guys" at a cemetery on Garfield Avenue, said Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly. Seals had been a police officer for more than 15 years, and was with the Jersey City Police Department since 2006, officials said at a press conference Tuesday evening outside Jersey City Medical Center. He was a detective with the Cease Fire Unit, Kelly said. Kelly said Seals was the department's leading police officer in removing guns from Jersey City streets. After shooting the officer, the suspects — a man and a woman, according to law enforcement sources — fled and drove their U-Haul truck to the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, where the standoff started around 12:30 p.m., a senior law enforcement official said. Law enforcement sources told NBC New York surveillance video shows the duo shoot a Hasidic man on the street and then run into the store, where they began firing at the victims inside. The suspects were armed with long guns and plenty of ammo, and had a bomb-making materials inside the truck, officials said. While some were happy with how the Jersey City schools handled the whole situation during the deadly shootout, other students and parents were upset over the lack of communication from the school system. NBC New York's Erica Byrfield reports. A fusillade of at least 100 bullets were fired during the exchange between the suspects and police. In addition to the officers injured outside the store, three other civilians inside were killed as the suspects saw heavily armed police vehicles approaching. Two of the victims were customers at the store and the third was working as a cashier, according to a representative of the community. Another civilian was injured but is expected to survive, officials said. Citing the preliminary investigation, Kelly said authorities believe the civilians killed inside the store were killed by the "bad guys." The suspects have not yet been identified, but one was a 48-year-old man, law enforcement sources said. Law enforcement officials initially believed the incident was not terror- or hate-related, despite it occurring in a Jewish neighborhood. However, Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop tweeted later in the night that the "the active shooters targeted the location they attacked." He added that there are no further threats, but the community "may see additional police resources" in the coming days and weeks. The Jersey City police chief said that the detective killed was an officer for 15 years and was a father of five. A senior law enforcement official told News 4 the officer was approaching a van linked to a murder in Bayonne when he was shot and killed. NBC New York's Ray Villeda and Jonathan Dienst report. The shootout was still being treated as a criminal act, law enforcement officials said. It was not immediately known why or how the U-Haul truck that Det. Seals approached was linked to the death of livery driver Michael Rumberger. Tight security was evident at Jersey City Medical Center, where police responded en masse as local law enforcement groups sought prayers on behalf of their colleagues. Heavily armed local and state officers in SWAT trucks swarmed the scene, ducking behind doorways and store entrances -- some even crawling along sidewalks, closely pressed to the ground -- as they zeroed in on the store. Seemingly dozens of gunshots continued to ring out throughout the afternoon, based on audio from the scene. The streets in the immediate area were closed off entirely, totally empty of what would normally be heavy pedestrian and vehicular traffic. One police officer has been shot in the head amid an ongoing active shooter situation at a bodega in Jersey City Tuesday, according to the preliminary investigation, a senior law enforcement official tells News 4. According to Kelly, citing the preliminary investigation, it will take weeks for authorities to finish the probe due to the extensive crime scene, which includes at least three different locations. The other two locations that most be combed through for evidence is the grocery store itself and the cemetery, Kelly said. Federal ATF and FBI agents in Newark confirmed they responded to the scene to assist as needed, as was the NYPD's Special Ops team. About a dozen schools in the vicinity were locked down initially. By 2 p.m., the lockdown order extended to every public school in the entire city, the district's superintendent said. The schools, including an elementary school right across the street from the store where the suspects holed up, remained on lockdown until around 4:30 p.m. Some parents were upset the schools sent out robocalls during the lockdown saying it had been lifted before 4:15 p.m., but students were still not released for more than a half hour later. Public Safety Director James Shea commended first responders. Superintendent of Jersey City Schools Frank Walker told NBC New York he was informed there was gunfire near one of the schools in his PS 29 district shortly after 12:30 p.m. Mass transit was also affected, with a number of bus and rail suspensions. Andy Patel works at a liquor store about three blocks away from the site of the shooting site and said there had been consistent gunfire fire for about an hour. There was a brief pause -- and cops used the time to clear streets. The incident is being investigated by the Hudson County prosecutor's office, with FBI and ATF agents working alongside police as they try to find a possible motive for the attack.
UPDATE: Jersey City officials said public schools began dismissing students at 4:15 p.m. Some of Jersey City’s 26,000 public school students are being kept in their schools as police continue to investigate an active shooter situation in the city. At least one police officer was killed and two other officers and one civilian were injured in the shooting Tuesday afternoon, the Hudson County prosecutor’s office said. Jersey City public school officials said schools in the city are on lockdown. No students were hurt. “All students and staff are safe however ALL schools are currently on lockdown due to police activity,” school officials said on Twitter and in messages sent to parents. It is unclear when parents will be able to pick up their children. Jersey City school officials said students will not be dismissed until they are given the “all clear” by law enforcement officials that there is not threat to their safety. Students were also on lockdown in the Sacred Heart School, a pre-K through 8th grade Catholic school on Bayview Avenue close to the shooting site, church officials said. “Students and staff at Sacred Heart School in Jersey City are safe, however the school remains on lockdown. Police are on the scene. Events are still unfolding. Keep all those involved in your thoughts and prayers,” the Archdiocese of Newark, which oversees the school, said in a statement. Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop told parents they will get more information later. “For parents: We still have an active scene but all the schools in the area are secure and all children are accounted for. We will provide more information later,” Fulop said on Twitter. Kelly Heyboer may be reached at kheyboer@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @KellyHeyboer. Find her at KellyHeyboerReporter on Facebook. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.
After keeping thousands of Jersey City students on lockdown for hours, local officials said they will begin dismissing schools at 4:15 p.m. as police continue to investigate a fatal shooting that paralyzed the city. “Parents: At 4:15 we are planning on systematically releasing any schools that have been on lock down,” Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop said on Twitter. School officials did not immediately release any additional information on how students would be released or if parents should pick them up. Some of Jersey City’s 26,000 public school students were told to remain in their schools as police continued to investigate the active shooter situation in the city. At least one police officer was killed and two other officers and one civilian were injured in the shooting Tuesday afternoon, the Hudson County prosecutor’s office said. Students were also on lockdown in the Sacred Heart School, a pre-K through 8th grade Catholic school on Bayview Avenue close to the shooting site, church officials said. “Students and staff at Sacred Heart School in Jersey City are safe, however the school remains on lockdown. Police are on the scene. Events are still unfolding. Keep all those involved in your thoughts and prayers,” the Archdiocese of Newark, which oversees the school, said in a statement. Kelly Heyboer may be reached at kheyboer@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @KellyHeyboer. Find her at KellyHeyboerReporter on Facebook. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.
NJ Transit light rail service has resumed in parts of Jersey City after an active shooter incident Tuesday afternoon in the area of Martin Luther King Drive and Bidwell Avenue. State Police said Exit 14 B remains closed on the New Jersey Turnpike Hudson County extension. The rest of the extension is open. Service resumed on Hudson-Bergen Light rail service on the Bayonne branch between Liberty State Park and 8th street, however trains are skipping the Danforth Avenue stop, NJ Transit officials said in an alert to riders. Shuttle bus service that replaced light rail trains due to sewer construction between Liberty State Park and West Side Avenue also resumed, however buses are not stopping at Martin Luther King Drive. The 87 bus to Gates Avenue in Jersey City continues to run on a detour on Martin Luther King Drive, which is closed between Woodlawn Avenue and Claremont Avenue. Buses service will use Martin Luther King Boulevard between Woodlawn Avenue, Ocean Avenue and Bramhall Avenue, NJ Transit alerts said. No other bus routes are affected so far. Larry Higgs may be reached at lhiggs@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @commutinglarry. Find NJ.com on Facebook.
The shooting attack that killed four people on Tuesday in Jersey City is being viewed as an antisemitic hate crime.New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a press conference on Wednesday that the attack was both a “premeditated violent antisemitic hate crime” and an “act of terror.”On Tuesday, two gunmen drove into the small ultra-Orthodox community and opened fire at a kosher grocery store, killing Leah Minda Ferencz, who owned the store with her husband, and Moshe Deutsch, 24. There has been a 22% increase in antisemitic hate crimes, according to New York City Police Commissioner Dermot Shea.The commissioner said there is “absolutely a concern” of copycat attacks after this event. As such, de Blasio said there will be immediate steps that will be announced in the coming days, and that more measures will be developed in the long term.The NYPD’s hate crimes unit monitors the Internet as many hate groups and hate-crime perpetrators post manifestos and hateful content to social media and websites such as 8Chan, as seen in the Poway, Tree of Life and El Paso shootings.The mayor pointed to the Holocaust, saying that if the German people had stood up against the Nazi Party’s hate in the 1930s, six million Jews and millions of others would have still been alive. “The words of hate and the small acts of hate turn into a much greater danger that will threaten us all and it has to end here and now,” said de Blasio.“Don’t hesitate” to send in any possibly relevant information, said de Blasio to New York citizens, stressing that the NYPD can’t do all the work. “We’re all a part of this.”US President Donald Trump responded on Twitter to the attack, saying that “[I] just received a briefing on the horrific shootout that took place in Jersey City, NJ. Our thoughts & prayers are w/ the victims & their families during this very difficult & tragic time. We will continue to monitor the situation as we assist local & state officials on the ground.”The event came one day before Trump signed an executive order that calls on government departments enforcing Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) definition of antisemitism.Reuters contributed to this report.
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
The shooters who wreaked havoc on Jersey City Tuesday, killing a police officer and gunning down three inside a kosher market, were suspects in the killing of a car service driver in Bayonne last weekend, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said at a news conference Wednesday afternoon. Authorities also discovered a pipe bomb at the scene of the deadly gun battle, and said a person fled the supermarket wounded. Grewal declined to comment on the shooters’ possible motives, saying the investigation was ongoing. At this time, there are still no credible threats against the Jewish community in our city, but we remain vigilant.
A rampage that killed a veteran police detective and three people at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City was a hate crime, Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop said Wednesday afternoon. “There’s no question it was an attack on the Jewish community,” Fulop said at a news conference from the crime scene. Fulop said his assessment of the assault was based on security camera footage. A clip showed the two shooters pull up in a U-Haul van and walk into the store with rifles while passing others on a busy block. “Why I call this a hate crime. We shouldn’t parse words on whether this is a hate crime at this point. This was a hate crime against Jewish ppl + hate has no place. The video is clear that the drivers drove to that location, the video is clear that the shooters,” Fulop posted on Twitter. The mayor’s news conference came hours after state and federal authorities held a separate briefing and said the motive remained under investigation. Fulop, however, has repeatedly called the shooting a targeted attack on the Jewish business. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal identified the attackers as 47-year-old David Anderson and 50-year-old Francine Graham. Both died in a ferocious gun battle with police at the kosher supermarket Tuesday. Anderson and Graham were also “prime suspects” in the weekend killing of a car service driver in Bayonne, Grewal confirmed. Police found a “viable” pipe bomb inside a van that one of the attackers drove to the kosher store, according to Special Agent-in-Charge Gregory W. Ehrie, of the FBI’s Newark division. After fatally shooting Detective Joseph Seals at Bay View Cemetery around noon, the assailants traveled in a stolen U-Haul van to the kosher shop on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, according to authorities. Fulop first said late Tuesday that investigators believed the kosher store was targeted and police across the tri-state area boosted security at Jewish sites. Grewal, however, said a motive for the attacks remained under investigation. Top officials in New York have described the shooting as a hate crime and assault on members of the Jewish faith. Noah Cohen may be reached at ncohen@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @noahyc. Find NJ.com on Facebook.
Leah Minda Ferencz co-owned the Kosher grocery store in Jersey City targeted by two gunman. Miguel Douglas was a store employee, married with an 11-year-old daughter, who had immigrated to the U.S. from Ecuador. Moshe Deutsch was inside the store getting a sandwich when the shooting erupted. All three who were killed inside the store — along with Jersey City Police Detective Joseph Seals, fatally shot about a mile away — were remembered Wednesday as selfless friends and colleagues who all found ways to make a difference in their communities. Ferencz, 33, owned JC Kosher Supermarket with her husband, who was not inside when the shooting began. The mother of 3 was described as a “pioneer” by the United Jewish Organizations (UJO) of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn. “She and her husband were of the very first to relocate from Williamsburg, due to the sky-rocketing prices of housing, to settle in Jersey City,” read the statement from UJO. “They did not do it for themselves, but to pave the way for a new community that lives harmoniously with their neighbors. She was a caring and nurturing mother for her three children, and at the same time helped her husband who ran the first kosher grocery in the area,” continued the statement. “A life of selflessness, and dedication to others, full of love, was cut short by vicious hate-filled murders,” it concluded. Her husband, Moishe Ferencz, had left the store shortly before the attack for an afternoon service at a nearby synagogue, according to Rabbi Moshe Schapiro, co-director of the Chabad of Hoboken and Jersey City synagogue and acting as an informal spokesman for the local Hasidic community. His mother, Victoria Ferencz, told the New York Times that shots were heard within minutes and the synagogue was placed on lockdown. “I called my son, he says, ‘I’m locked here, I have no idea where she is,’” said Victoria Ferencz. Rabbi David Niederman, the UJO’s executive director, said he did not know Douglas, 49, but offered a tribute when speaking in New York City on Wednesday with Mayor Bill de Blasion. “May he rest in peace,” Niederman said. “He served everyone who came into that place fairly, and Our heart goes out. He’s also part of what we now call a list of dead people because of horrific, criminal activity," Niederman said. Williams Machazek, pastor of Iglesia Nueva Vida, told NorthJersey.com Douglas was married with an 11-year-old daughter and had moved to the U.S. from Ecuador and was working at the market to support his family. Douglas appeared to also go by the name of Douglas Rodriguez. A woman who said she was the man’s niece wrote online that he came to America for a better life with his wife and daughter. “He was a devoted husband, friend, and father. He was a God-loving, honest and hard-working person was who always available to help others. He had been working at the store for about a year before this is devastating and unexpected loss,” she wrote. Deutsch, 24, lived in Brooklyn. His father, Abe Deutsch, is a board member at the Williamsburg/North Brooklyn UJO. “The community lost a promising-upcoming charitable person who was spreading love and kindness,” UJO said in its statement. “Moshe embodied the very best of Chai Lifeline, said Rabbi Simcha Scholar, CEO of Chai Lifeline. “He was a dedicated volunteer who always looked for opportunities to help others. This is a devastating loss for our entire community and our thoughts are with all those impacted by this senseless act of violence,” Scholar said. Rob Jennings may be reached at rjennings@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter@RobJenningsNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook. Reporter Brianna Kudisch contributed to this report. Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips.
New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy, Attorney General Gurbir Grewal and other law enforcement leaders at the state and federal level held a press conference Wednesday afternoon to provide an update on the investigation into the deadly Jersey City shooting -- detailing what exactly took place during the barrage of gunfire that ultimately claimed the life of one police officer, three civilians and the two suspects. According to Grewal, although the investigation is still in the preliminary stages, authorities have started to compile a picture of what transpired. According to Grewal, it is believed that at some point Tuesday two individuals -- David Anderson, 47, and and Francine Graham, 50 -- encountered and killed Jersey City police Det. Joseph Seals in the Bayview Cemetery in Jersey City. At approximately 12:21 p.m., a white U-Haul van driven by Anderson parked directly across the street from the JC Kosher Supermarket which is about one mile from the cemetery, Grewal said. Within seconds of arriving, Anderson exited the driver side door of the U-Haul with a rifle in his hands. He walked toward the JC Kosher Supermarket and immediately began shooting. Graham, the passenger in the van, followed Anderson into the store. From that point on, until the conclusion of the event, the two suspects remained inside the store, according to Grewal. Sources say one suspect had anti-police and anti-semitic content on his social accounts. Jonathan Dienst reports. Inside the supermarket the suspects encountered four civilians, three of these civilians were killed and one survived a gunshot wound. The survivor was able to escape the store at the beginning of the incident. Authorities are not providing his name at this time. At approximately 12:38 p.m., the Jersey City Police Department received a 911 call from an individual who discovered Seals' body. Minutes later, at approximately 12:43 p.m., Jersey City Police Department personnel arrived at the vicinity of the JC Kosher Supermarket and engaged with the two suspects inside where a “long protracted shootout followed,” Grewal said. At approximately 3:25 p.m., an armored police vehicle broke through the entry way of the supermarket. Shocking new surveillance footage shows the beginning of the shooting in Jersey City on Tuesday, Dec. 10. At approximately 3:47 p.m., the law enforcement incident ended when the officers discovered the bodies inside the supermarket. According to Grewal, as soon as the shootout ended, law enforcement began processing the scene for various items for evidence, including digital and documentary evidence, which law enforcement is currently reviewing for indication of the suspects’ possible motives. Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop and Public Safety Director James Shea said that while it was still difficult to comprehend the shooters' precise motive, an assessment of surveillance footage from the bullet-riddled scene showed what they said could be nothing other than targeted murder. Authorities are currently in the process of identifying all available video footage from the incident and hope to release it to the public as soon as possible. They expect to provide additional updates Thursday. Grewal also urged anyone with additional information to call the New Jersey State Police at 609-963-6900.
Authorities on Wednesday identified a man and a woman as the attackers behind a wild shootout with police in Jersey City that left several people dead a day earlier. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal identified the attackers David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, who were both found dead inside a kosher supermarket along with three civilians. The violence began at a cemetery where Anderson and Graham killed Detective Joseph Seals of the Jersey City Police Department. Then Anderson and Graham drove a stolen U-Haul to the supermarket where they killed three people and fired on responding police officers for more than an hour. Authorities believe that Anderson and Graham were behind the killing of a man whose body was found inside the trunk of a Lincoln Town Car in neighboring Bayonne over the weekend, Grewal said. The man, Michael Rumberger, 34, of Jersey City, had head wounds, according to the Hudson County Prosecutor's Office. Anderson was a one-time follower of the Black Hebrew Israelite movement and had hate posts on his social media page, the New York Post reported.
This week’s deadly kosher market attack and the killing of a detective in New Jersey are being investigated as acts of domestic terrorism “fueled by both anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement beliefs,” the state attorney general said Thursday. “We believe the suspects held views that reflected hatred of the Jewish people, as well as a hatred of law enforcement,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said, citing evidence and witness interviews. Investigators believe David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, killed a police detective near a Jersey City cemetery and then stormed a nearby Jewish market Tuesday, shooting and killing three people there and starting an hourslong police standoff that ended with their deaths, authorities said. It’s still not known why Anderson and Graham attacked the detective and the JC Kosher Supermarket in particular, Grewal said. But evidence points to these being “acts of hate,” Grewal said in a news conference in Jersey City. The FBI is investigating the shootings as “domestic terrorism with a hate-crime bias slant to it,” said Gregory Ehrie, special agent in charge for the FBI in Newark. Investigators think Anderson and Graham acted by themselves, Ehrie said. Grewal and others stressed that once at the market, the shooters apparently fired only at people there, and at responding police officers, bypassing multiple opportunities to shoot others on the street. “They were clearly targeting that store. They were clearly targeting the Jersey City Police Department,” US Attorney Craig Carpenito said, partly citing surveillance video. Anderson and Graham also were suspects in the weekend killing of a livery driver near the neighboring New Jersey city of Bayonne, Grewal has said. That man died Saturday, local media outlets, including NJ.com, reported. Authorities haven’t said what, if anything, links the weekend killing to Tuesday’s shootings, other than investigators believe Anderson and Graham were behind them all. Investigators also checking a note found a stolen U-Haul truck that the killers parked across from the market – a note that contained both anti-Semitic and anti-police writing, a law enforcement source told CNN. Posts with similar sentiments also have been found on social media linked to the shooters, the source said. “But we will not be defeated, we will not stand down, we will not be intimidated,” Greenblatt said. Killed Tuesday were Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals and three people in the market: Mindy Ferencz, 31, the store’s co-owner; Moshe Deutsch, 24, a customer; and Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, a store employee. One person who was inside the market was shot when Anderson and Graham opened fire, but he fled the store as the attackers shot at him, and survived, officials said. Investigators think all three slain victims in the store “were shot … within minutes of the shooters entering the store,” Grewal said. Hundreds of ammunition shells have been recovered from the market scene, Grewal said. Inside the killers’ stolen U-Haul across the street was a pipe bomb and a fifth gun – a .22-caliber Ruger with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shells, Grewal said. The U-Haul also had “ballistic panels” designed to resist damage, Grewal said. “But for the actions of (police), they (the attackers) could have done more,” Grewal said. Graham bought the shotgun and the Ruger in Ohio in the spring of 2018, the attorney general said. Before Anderson and Graham made their way to the kosher market, they are believed to have killed Seals near a city cemetery, authorities have said. Police have said Seals was trying to stop Anderson and Graham – but they haven’t said why he tried, or why Anderson and Graham killed him. A bystander called 911 to report Seals’ body at the cemetery at 12:38 p.m., authorities said. By that time, Anderson and Graham already were attacking the market. Surveillance video shows Anderson parking a stolen U-Haul across the street from the JC Kosher Supermarket, about a mile from the cemetery, city officials say. The pair get out, and a man – Anderson, police say – walks directly toward the store, apparently ignoring several people on the sidewalk nearby, and starts firing a gun into it before entering. Graham follows, police say. Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop has cited this video – appearing to show Anderson ignoring pedestrians and other businesses – as evidence that he attacked the kosher store for specific reasons. Police arrived at the supermarket around 20 minutes after the attack began, starting a long shootout that left two police officers injured. Around 3:25 p.m., a police armored vehicle broke into the supermarket’s entryway, and law enforcement soon found the bodies of the three victims and two attackers inside the store, Grewal said. A law enforcement official told the New York Times Wednesday that Anderson appears to have a connection with the Black Hebrew Israelites movement, but the extent is unclear. The Black Hebrew Israelite movement is best known for its confrontational brand of street preaching in urban areas but it has a complex history in the United States, with sects and branches splintering over theological and leadership disputes. Scholars say what unites most Black Israelites is the belief that African-Americans are the true descendants of biblical Jews. Some members have expressed anti-Semitic sentiments in the past. Anderson served in the US Army Reserve from September 1999 to September 2003, the Army said, as a fuel and electrical system repairer. Two of the four victims were laid to rest Wednesday night. In Jersey City, crowds of men in black hats surrounded Ferencz’s casket in the Jersey City neighborhood of Greenville at the site of a synagogue under construction. Hundreds of women, separated from the men as per Orthodox Jewish tradition, were standing in the bitter cold sobbing. Ferencz owned the store with her husband, who was next door at the small synagogue at the time of the attack, according to Yossi Steinmetz who was there as well. When shots broke out, her husband desperately tried to call her and tell her to lock the doors to take cover, Steinmetz said. She didn’t answer. At Deutsch’s Brooklyn funeral, mourners spoke in Hebrew through tears as at least a dozen NYPD counterterrorism officers and nearly 100 “Shomrim” members – Hebrew for guardians – stood watch. Deutsch and Ferencz both had ties to the Jewish community in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said.
This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated. JERSEY CITY, N.J. — Officials confirmed Thursday that hate and anti-Semitisim motivated the shooters in Tuesday’s deadly attack at a Jersey City kosher market that killed a cop and three innocent victims. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said at a news conference that investigators believe the suspected shooters held views that reflected hatred of Jewish people and of law enforcement. State officials said they have identified a number of social media accounts they believe were used by suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham, and that posts on those accounts support anti-Semitic and anti-law enforcement beliefs. Authorities are working to ensure the authenticity of the social media accounts. “Based on [evidence] we have collected so far…including recent witness interviews, we believe that the suspects held views that reflected hatred of the Jewish people, as well as a hatred of law enforcement,” Grewal said. Authorities are still trying to determine how the suspects selected the targets for the attacks, both the market and slain Jersey City Detective Joseph Seals. Seals reportedly confronted the suspects at a nearby cemetery before the market shootout, as they sat in the U-Haul van that has been linked to an Uber driver’s murder in Bayonne last weekend. Officials Thursday confirmed Anderson and Graham are both suspects in that case as well, but have not determined any other links between the two incidents. Grewal said that while both suspects expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, officials have not definitively established any formal links to that organization or any other group, and believe the duo worked alone in the attacks. Grewal also revealed that five firearms were from the scene; four inside the supermarket and one inside the U-Haul van the shooters parked out front. The FBI said Wednesday that a live pipe bomb was also found in that van. Grewal said an AR-15 semi-automatic rifle was discovered inside the market and officials believe Anderson was firing this rifle as he entered the shop Tuesday. Authorities also found a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun in the market, which they believe Graham was carrying as they duo moved in. The two other weapons found inside the shop were a 9mm Ruger semi-automatic firearm and a 9mm Glock 17, Grewal said. The gun recovered from the van was a 22 caliber Ruger Mark IV with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch the shell casings, he said. Using serial numbers, authorities determined Graham purchased the Mossberg shotgun and the 22 caliber Ruger Mark IV at two separate gun shops in Ohio, in the spring of 2018, according to Grewal. Several-hundred shell casings were also recovered at the scene which are being processed at this time. Officials believe the suspects shot the three victims within minutes of entering the store and that a fourth civilian escaped while the suspects shot at him as he ran out of the market and across the street. Within minutes of taking over the store, Anderson and Graham began firing at responding law enforcement that arrived on foot and by patrol car, Grewal said. Officials said the shooters were, at this point, aiming their fire at law enforcement only and not other people on the street. The New York Post reported Anderson left behind a handwritten hate-filled note in the van, and while officials confirmed the existence of this note, they were not ready Thursday to speak to its contents.
The New Jersey police officer was shot before the suspects fled to a store. A New Jersey police officer and three people were killed after an hours-long gun battle prompted by what officials believe was a "target" attack.. The slain officer was shot at the Bay View Cemetery in Jersey City, allegedly by two suspects, who then fled to a Jewish supermarket at Wilkinson Avenue and Martin Luther King Dr. in Jersey City, police said. When officers arrived to the second location, the suspects allegedly opened fire with high-powered rifles, Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly told reporters at a news conference. The Hudson County Prosecutor's Office confirmed that the officer died after he was transported to a nearby hospital. Three civilians inside the supermarket were also killed and one other civilian was injured, officials said. The suspects then retreated to the supermarket and allegedly continued to fire at responding officers. Two other police officers were shot, one in the shoulder and one in the body, and they have both been released from the hospital, Kelly said. Another officer was injured by shrapnel, police said. No other citizens who were in the area at the time were shot, Kelly said. Both suspects were found dead inside the store, police said. Preliminary investigations indicated that the shooters targeted the location they attacked, according to the city's mayor. A stolen U-Haul vehicle has been taken from the scene and is being examined by a bomb squad because investigators believe it may contain an "incendiary device," Kelly said. Several SWAT officers on the scene were seen barricading themselves behind cars as several gunshots went off in the neighborhood, live video showed. The heavy gunfire continued for more than an hour. All law enforcement units "within earshot" responded to the scene, including the FBI; Port Authority; the Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) bureau; and all surrounding municipalities, Kelly said. Nearby schools were placed on lock down until 4:15 p.m., according to the New Jersey School District. All students are accounted for. The deceased officer was identified as Detective Joseph Seals, who was part of the Jersey City Police Department's cease fire unit, Kelly said. Seals was in plain clothes when he was shot, Kelly said. Seals was the department's "leading police officer for removing guns from the street," Kelly said, adding that he was responsible for removing "dozens and dozens" of firearms. In addition to the drug connection, Seals may have been interested in the two suspects who ultimately shot and killed him because of a weekend homicide, according to law enforcement sources. On Saturday, around 10 p.m., police in nearby Bayonne found a Jersey City man, identified as Michael Rumberger, in the trunk of a Lincoln Town Car. The crime had not been immediately solved. Seals is survived by a wife and five children, Mayor Fulop told reporters. He had been with the department since 2006 and was promoted to detective in the last few years. New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy has been briefed on the shootout, he said in a statement. "Our thoughts and prayers are with the men and women of the Jersey City Police Department, especially with the officers shot during this standoff, and with the residents and schoolchildren currently under lockdown," Murphy said. President Donald Trump is also monitoring the situation, according to the White House.
One of the two shooters who authorities say gunned down a Jersey City police officer and three civilians - two of whom were Orthodox Jews - wrote a note that read “I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who he hates,” according to a report on NYPost.com. Investigators found the handwritten note inside the van left outside the kosher market by attackers David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, the Post reported, citing law enforcement sources. The note was scrawled by Anderson, the report said. There is evidence the shooters “expressed interest" in certain hate groups such as the Black Hebrew Israelites - but authorities believe they acted alone, not as part of any organization, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said at a news conference Thursday. He declined to address any notes found in the van. Anderson and Graham shot and killed Jersey City Det. Joseph Seals at a cemetery before driving to the market, where the walked in with guns drawn and killed three people - Moshe Deutsch, 24, a Hasidic man who was visiting from Brooklyn; Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a co-owner the Kosher grocery with her husband, who was not present at the time; and Miguel Douglas Rodriguez, 49, of Jersey City, who worked in the store. Anderson and Graham were killed following an exchange of gunfire with police that lasted more than three hours. A wake for Seals will be held Monday with a funeral mass to follow Tuesday in Jersey City. Funerals for Deutsch and Ferencz were held Wednesday in Brooklyn, New York. Jeff Goldman may be reached at jeff_goldman@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @JeffSGoldman. Find NJ.com on Facebook. Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.
One of the “Black Hebrew Israelite” killers who targeted a Jewish grocery store in Jersey City left behind a handwritten note that said, “I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who he hates,” law enforcement sources told The Post. The message was found inside the stolen U-Haul van that David Anderson, 47, and his girlfriend, Francine Graham, 50, on Tuesday drove to the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket, where they gunned down three people. Sources have identified the pair as adherents of the Black Hebrew Israelites, a fringe religious movement not associated with mainstream Judaism that’s been labeled a hate group by experts who track extremists in the US. Anderson had posted anti-Jewish and anti-police messages to social media before the attack, the sources said. The duo’s van was linked to the killing of an Uber driver in Bayonne, officials have said. When Jersey City Detective Joseph Seals tried to question the pair about the vehicle earlier Tuesday, they fatally shot him in the head, sources have said. They then drove to the nearby grocery store, where they were captured on CCTV footage rolling up in their van and firing two long rifles, said Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop.
The state’s attorney general says the ‘evidence points towards acts of hate’ against Jewish community. A deadly attack on a kosher market in New Jersey is being investigated as “domestic terrorism” fuelled by “fuelled both by anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement beliefs”, the state’s top prosecutor said on Thursday. Tuesday’s attack, which culminated in a four-hour standoff with authorities at the JC Kosher Supermarket in Jersey City, left three civilians and one police officer dead. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal, speaking at a news conference, said the attackers, identified as David N Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, had expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelites, a fringe group whose members have been known to rail against white people and Jews. On Wednesday, the FBI searched the headquarters of the Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ, which is the formal name of the Black Hebrew group, located in the New York City neighbourhood of Harlem, a law enforcement official briefed on the investigation told the Associated Press news agency. Authorities said they were also examining social media posts and other evidence to learn more about the attackers’ motives. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop had previously said surveillance video made it clear that the attackers targeted the Jewish market, slowly and deliberately driving up to the grocery in a stolen rental van and immediately opening fire. The victims killed in the store were identified as Mindel Ferencz, 31, who with her husband owned the grocery; 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a rabbinical student from Brooklyn who was shopping there; and store employee Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49. The alleged attackers are also prime suspects in the slaying of a livery driver found dead in a car trunk in nearby Bayonne over the weekend, according to Grewal. Members of New York’s ultra-Orthodox Jewish community gathered Wednesday night for funerals for Ferencz and Deutsch. Thousands of people followed Ferencz’s coffin through the streets of Brooklyn, hugging and crying. More than 300 people also attended a vigil on Wednesday at a synagogue about a mile from where the shootings took place. The bloodshed in the city, which is across the Hudson River from New York City, began at a graveyard, where Detective Joseph Seals, a 40-year-old member of a unit devoted to taking illegal weapons off the street, was shot and killed by the assailants, authorities said. They then drove the van to the kosher market. The drawn-out gun battle with police filled the streets with the sound of high-powered rifle fire, as SWAT officers in full tactical gear swarmed the neighbourhood. Police later used an armoured vehicle to ram the store entrance. The attackers were killed at the scene. Four weapons were later recovered from the store and another from the van they drove. If the motives are confirmed, the attack would be the latest in a series of hate crimes against Jewish communities in the US in recent times. In October of 2018, in the deadliest attack on Jews in US history, 11 people were killed in a shooting at a synagogue in Pittsburgh. In April, a gunman opened fire at a synagogue near San Diego, killing a woman and wounding a rabbi and two others.
At least one of the suspects reportedly had published anti-Semitic and anti-police posts online before opening fire on Tuesday. Fulop said after reviewing surveillance footage that investigators believe the attack was plotted against the Jewish supermarket, located just across the Hudson River from New York City. Six people were killed in total -- four victims, including a police officer, and the two suspects. New Jersey Police veteran detective Joseph Seals, a father of five, was identified as one of the victims. Police said Seals was shot in the head and upper arm at a Jersey City cemetery before the suspects took off for the kosher supermarket. Officials identified the bystanders killed at the market as Mindy Ferencz, 31; Miguel Douglas, 49; and Moshe Deutsch, 24. Speaking on “Fox & Friends” on Thursday morning, Fulop said had police not acted so quickly, more people likely would have been killed, including inside a neighboring yeshiva. “When you look at the facts that surrounded what happened here, there were a lot of potential targets on the way, there were a lot of potential targets on the block,” Fulop said. Multiple weapons and a "sophisticated" pipe bomb were recovered from the scene of Tuesday's deadly shooting, officials revealed at a news conference Wednesday. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said the two suspects, identified as David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, may have also been involved in a separate killing in neighboring Bayonne, N.J. The suspects had been linked to the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, a militant group whose members believe they're descendants of the ancient Israelites and who have been known to rail against white people and Jews. The investigation is ongoing. Fulop was joined by Jersey City Director of Public Safety James Shea on “Fox & Friends” on Thursday morning. Shea warned of fake GoFundMe pages appearing online. Shea said he encourages anyone who wants to give charitably to any of the victims not to rush into donating online, instead they should contact the city first. He added that anybody who thinks they may have been a victim of fraud should contact the New York State Attorney General or the FBI. Fox News’ Nicole Darrah, Barnini Chakraborty and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
The shooting attack by a man and a woman that left three people at a kosher market dead after they killed a Jersey City police officer on Tuesday is being investigated as a hate crime and an act of domestic terror, New Jersey’s attorney general said Thursday. Authorities have so far found five firearms in connection to the two deceased suspects in the Jersey City shooting and ballistic panels lined on the U-Haul truck used by them, the state attorney general said. Four guns were recovered inside the kosher supermarket, while another was found in the van parked out front, Grewald said. An AR-15-style weapon was found inside the store authorities believed to be fired Anderson as he entered the supermarket. Authorities believe Francine Graham carried a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun into the store, Grewarl said. A 9-millimeter semi-automatic Ruger and a 9-millimeter Glock 17 were also found in the store. Inside the U-Hual was a 22-caliber Ruger mark 4 with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch the shell casings. Two firearms were purchased by Graham at separate gun shops in Ohio in the spring of 2018, Grewal said. Hundreds of shell casings were recovered at the scene, he added. “They had a tremendous amount of firepower,” Grewal said. A fourth civilian escaped the grocery store as the suspects were shooting at him as he ran across the street, officials said. There is also evidence the shooters “expressed interest" in certain hate groups such as the Black Hebrew Israelites - but authorities believe they acted alone, not as part of any organization. U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito, meanwhile, said surveillance video showed the suspects only engaged with the victims in the store and law enforcement -- and no one else. Investigators are now trying to piece together why, he said. “The motivation appeared to be clearly...a bias towards both the Jewish community and law enforcement,” Carpenito said. Carpenito added the two shooting suspects in the kosher supermarket attack are also suspects in a separate Bayonne homicide. Authorities on Thursday did not divulge why Seals, the detective, originally engaged with the two suspects. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop, a grandchild of Holocaust survivors, has called the attack a hate crime, even before the state attorney general said the investigation was leaning in that direction. Hudson County Prosecutor Ester Suarez, meanwhile, warned residents that if they see something, to report it to authorities. “We’ve also begun the process of reaching out to many of our community’s civic, educational and governmental partners in Jersey City, including members of the Jewish community as well as the African American community,” Suarez said. The incident unfolded early Tuesday afternoon as Det. Joseph Seals, 39, was investigating last weekend’s murder of a car service driver in Bayonne. The suspects shot Seals in the head Tuesday in Bayview Cemetery, officials have said. The attackers, identified as 47-year-old David Anderson and the 50-year-old Graham, then drove in a U-Haul van to the kosher market on Martin Luther King Drive, authorities said. Three more people were killed inside a kosher grocery store on Martin Luther King Drive as Anderson and Graham burst into the market with guns drawn. Anderson was carrying an AR-15-style rifle while Graham had a shotgun, Grewal said Thursday. The others killed in the store were identified as Moshe Deutsch, 24, a Hasidic man who was visiting from Brooklyn; Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a co-owner the Kosher grocery with her husband, who was not present at the time; and Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, of Jersey City, who worked in the store. Anderson and Graham were killed following an exchange of gunfire with police that lasted more than three hours. A wake for Seals will be held Monday with a funeral mass to follow Tuesday in Jersey City. Funerals for Deutsch and Ferencz were held Wednesday in Brooklyn, New York.
Dozens of children were in attendance without security at an Orthodox Jewish school at the time of Tuesday’s brutal shooting in Jersey City, a rabbi at the school said hours after the city’s mayor claimed the students were the real target. Between 50 and 60 elementary school children were at the yeshiva attached to the JC Kosher Supermarket, where two shooters armed with a high-powered rifle and shotgun burst in and fired countless rounds, said Rabbi Mark, who declined to give his last name citing safety concerns. After reviewing new surveillance footage, Mayor Steven Fulop said Friday it appeared that the shooters meant to attack the students at the school, but veered to the right and took aim at the market instead. In video posted by the Orthodox Jewish Public Affairs Council, one of the shooters allegedly shoots at the door of the synagogue before turning his attention to the market. If the shooters had pushed further and attacked the school, there would have been little to stop them, with no security at the building, the rabbi said. On Tuesday afternoon, the two shooters, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, pulled up in a U-Haul van across the street and mere steps from the supermarket and got out, armed with an AR-15 rifle and shotgun and began shooting into the market. Right next door is the Greenville shul, where a synagogue sits on the ground floor, with the yeshiva above it on the second floor, the rabbi said. The violent shooting left Moshe Deutsch, 24, Leah Mindel Ferencz, 33, and Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, dead. Also killed was Jersey City Detective Joseph Seals, who was shot by Anderson and Graham earlier in Bayview Cemetery, about a mile away from the market. The two shooters were killed in the ensuing standoff with law enforcement officers. The rabbi, who was in an office a few blocks away, recalls hearing the gunshots ringing from the market. “It was like a war zone,” he said. Until Tuesday, the tight-knit Orthodox Jewish community in the city’s Greenville neighborhood had lived peacefully, getting along with their neighbors from all faiths and walks of life. The shooting has changed things for the shul and the yeshiva, which is now reevaluating its security protocols. The school has rented private security, and police have increased their presence in the area, the rabbi said. In the days after the shooting, some of the school buses were followed by police. Despite a tragedy that has rocked the Orthodox Jewish community and will likely reverberate for some time to come, the shul and yeshiva look to move forward. On Thursday and Friday, school was held in a different building. School started late Thursday and returned to its regular schedule Friday, the rabbi said. By next week, school should be back to normal, he said. When the police cordons are removed and school starts once again, students will return and the community will try to repair what was lost, remembering the tragedy that transpired and giving thanks for the tragedy that was avoided, said the rabbi.
JERSEY CITY — New neighbors always raise questions. When Hasidic Jews started moving into the largely black Bergen-Lafayette and Greenville neighborhoods, longtime residents wondered whether it would mean home values would rise and they would be displaced. But Charles Mainor, a former assemblyman and police detective, said now that the newcomers have been in the neighborhood for several years, everyone coexists peacefully, albeit, separately. Now the neighborhood is in the national spotlight after two suspects shot and killed three people Tuesday inside a kosher supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive after killing a police officer in Bayview Cemetery. Black residents are seeing a familiar storefront on the evening news but feel little affiliation with it. Its owners and patrons are strangers. “They say hello, you say hello and that is it,” she said. Chesky Deutsch, the father of two children who attend the yeshiva next door to JC Kosher Supermarket, echoed the statements about friendly relations in an interview with the Jewish Telegraphic Agency. “We get along very well with our neighbors,” he said. Hasidic Jews first started moving to Jersey City’s south side as some were being priced out of Brooklyn. They established markets and congregations, and at times, some knocked on doors, seeking to purchase homes, Masonfair said. But the narrative that the two groups are at odds is overblown, said Rabbi Moshe Schapiro, the co-director of the Chabad of Hoboken and Jersey City. The owners of JC Kosher Supermarket, one of whom died Tuesday, were among the first to move from Williamsburg to Jersey City, according to the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn. Their store was the first kosher store in the neighborhood, the organization said. Still, some black residents in the south side of Jersey City said tension with their Jewish neighbors feels more like segregation. Jews make up most of the targeted store’s clientele, Mainor said. Douglas Harmon, the owner of a home repair company in Jersey City, said he gets the majority of his business from the Orthodox Jewish community and did several jobs at JC Kosher Supermarket since it opened in the last few years. “They’re good people. I don’t see no reason why they would be targeted,” he said. Journal staff writers Josh Rosario and Patrick Villanova contributed to this report. NJ Advance Media also contributed.
This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated. JERSEY CITY — Detective Joseph Seals, the first victim in Jersey City’s mass shooting Tuesday, was meeting a confidential informant at Bayview Cemetery, right before he encountered a stolen U-Haul van. A senior law enforcement source told PIX11 News Friday investigators have solved the mystery of why Seals, 39, was in the cemetery that day. They’ve learned he was meeting an informant connected to one of his gun or narcotics cases. The meeting was not tied to shooting suspects David Anderson and Francine Graham, who apparently ambushed the detective when he approached the van. Detective Seals, a father of five and 15-year veteran of the Jersey City Police Department, was killed with a gunshot to the head. The suspects, who had posted anti-Semitic statements on Facebook, then proceeded to the Jersey City Kosher Market on Martin Luther King Drive, several blocks away, and exited the van firing an AR-15 rifle and 12 gauge shotgun. The source emphasized once again how crucial the actions of two Jersey City cops were in preventing more deaths. The market’s co-owner, an employee, and a 24-year old customer were killed inside. Anderson and Graham died in the sustained gun battle that followed. PIX11 News also learned Friday that the case has essentially evolved into two, separate investigations: with the Attorney General’s office handling the shooting investigation, while the FBI examinespotential ties the dead suspects had to the Black Hebrew Israelite organization, which is considered an extremist hate group. Also Friday, the law enforcement source told PIX11 that investigators believe the suspects killed livery cab driver, Michael Rumberger,in Bayonne last Saturday after robbing him of $80. Rumberger, who actually lived in Jersey City, was found dead in the trunk of his car.
Around noon on Tuesday, Joseph Seals, a detective in the Jersey City Police Department, approached two homicide suspects, a man and a woman, who were sitting inside a U-Haul van in Bay View cemetery. According to the Times, the suspects shot and killed Seals, then drove directly to a nearby kosher grocery store in the neighborhood of Greenville. Officers from the Jersey City Police Department, sheriffs from at least three counties, the New Jersey State police, the N.Y.P.D., the Port Authority, the A.T.F., and the F.B.I. were soon on the scene. They ran through the streets in formation, heavily armed, and wearing jeans and hoodies, police uniforms, and olive drab. The suspects reportedly had long guns as well. Over the next hour or so, the two sides exchanged hundreds of rounds. When the gunfire stopped, two more officers had been wounded, and five more people, including the suspects, had been killed. Inside the U-Haul, investigators later found what appeared to be a pipe bomb and a “manifesto-style note.” At least one of the shooters had posted anti-Semitic and anti-police comments online. Except, as it turned out, there appeared to be a more insidious motive behind Tuesday’s violence. A few years ago, sixty-two Hasidic families moved into Greenville, refugees of high Brooklyn rents. A community center near the crime scene had become a de-facto staging area for victims’ families, and several volunteers, who were trained to offer medical support and grief counselling, had come from Hasidic communities in upstate New York or Brooklyn. Based on the reporting that had emerged at the time, a number of people outside of the center, none of whom wanted to be quoted for this article, expressed relief that the shooting did not appear to be an act of anti-Semitism. Recently, old tensions had begun to simmer in the neighborhood. Some residents have complained about the insularity and new influence of the Hasidic community over the local real-estate market. The Hasidic community, meanwhile, has chafed at local politicians who told them their new shul was violating zoning laws. The shul sits next to the site of the shooting.
The call crackled with urgency. As Det. Joseph Seals lay dead by Jersey City’s historic Bayview Cemetery, a deadly rampage by the officer’s suspected killers was underway just a mile away. A security camera captured the horror as a white U-haul cargo van pulls up in front of a Catholic elementary school across the street from a small orthodox synagogue and kosher grocery store, on Martin Luther King Drive. The driver, identified as David Anderson, clad in a dark trench coat, bursts out of the car with an AR-15-style rifle in his right hand. He immediately starts firing as he crosses the street in the pouring rain. His passenger, Francine Graham gets out carrying a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun and follows him. Without pausing, Anderson fires round after round into the JC Kosher Supermarket to the right of a nondescript synagogue and an upstairs yeshiva filled with kids. Terrified people on the sidewalk scatter. Some dive for cover, some run full-speed down the street. Anderson and Graham disappear into the store. The crack of repeated gunfire echoes down the street. A man bolts from the store and runs frantically for safety across the busy street. There is no known video from inside the supermarket but, within moments, say police, three others in the store were likely dead. Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, a mother of three, owned the grocery with her husband, Moishe Ferencz. He had left the store briefly to go to the synagogue next door for afternoon minchah prayer. He later told his mother he could hear the shots, but had no idea of the deadly assault that had begun next door. Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 47, a store employee, was found near the back entrance, shot apparently as he sought to escape. Married with an 11-year-old daughter, he had come to the U.S. from Ecuador three years earlier. Moshe Deutsch, a 24-year-old rabbinical student visiting from Williamsburg, was inside getting a sandwich. In the next few minutes, two police officers running to the scene in the city’s Greenville section were shot and wounded. And in the more than three hours that followed, the gritty block between Bidwell and Bayville avenues turned into a war zone. A diverse neighborhood of apartments, a liquor store, a Dominican market, a majestic stone church that had closed years ago as its congregation dwindled, and a growing outpost of Hasidic families priced out of Brooklyn, the street was now the scene of a deadly firefight. Hundreds of shots were fired, bullets smacking into the Sacred Heart School on the other side of MLK Drive, where children huddled. Police helicopters hovered overhead while SWAT teams took up rooftop positions. A BearCat tactical vehicle rumbled into position in front of the store, detectives firing from inside. It finally ended when the BearCat vehicle, wielding a battering ram, slammed hard into the grocery. Only then did officers find the bodies of the three victims along with the two shooters, who apparently had been shot dead by police. In their abandoned U-Haul van was a pipe bomb and a note: “I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who he hates,” law enforcement sources told the New York Post, and later confirmed by others close to the investigation. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal was on his way to Washington, D.C., when reports of gunfire came pouring in. He immediately turned around and headed to Jersey City, listening on the way up Interstate 295 to a police radio as Michael Kelly, the city’s police chief, calmly directed the response. “You could also hear on the radio, just horrific, the bullets going off, and the BearCat pinging when it was receiving fire,” Grewal later recalled. Meeting up with Gov. Phil Murphy, Homeland Security Director Jared Maples and Col. Patrick Callahan, the head of the State Police, the group found themselves gridlocked in traffic and walked the final four blocks to the city’s south precinct. As they made their way down the block, they ran into officers with the Emergency Services Unit, which includes the city’s SWAT team and bomb squad. News cameras, police and members of the orthodox community were gathered at the mobile command site. Information was still scarce and at that point authorities had no confirmation whether the store had been targeted. But rabbis and other community members had another pressing concern: making sure the bodies of the dead were handled in accordance with Jewish tradition. In the immediate aftermath, authorities did not talk about motive. The first hint of a reason came via Twitter from Mayor Steven Fulop, the grandson of Holocaust survivors, on Tuesday night. The Jewish market was “targeted," he wrote. “There’s no question it was an attack on the Jewish community,” he told reporters the following day. The mayor’s declarations frustrated law enforcement, including the attorney general, who urged caution. Days later, investigators are still trying to figure out how it all happened, as a wounded city in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty can only ask why, and a community struggles to come to grips with a crime of unspeakable hatred at a time that such bloodshed nationwide has come to be viewed as normal. At a Thursday afternoon press conference, federal and state authorities moved toward calling it a hate crime and a potential act of domestic terrorism. Also on Thursday, the Federal Bureau of Investigation took charge of the investigation. “We’re trying to find the why behind this,” said Gregory W. Ehrie, who heads the FBI’s Newark office. The string of the carnage in Jersey City began in Bayonne days earlier, authorities say. Michael Rumberger drove a livery cab for Grove Taxi & Airport Limo, according to his former girlfriend, Yiesena Nunez, the mother of his oldest daughter. The 34-year-old father of two was a native of Jersey City, growing up in the Dixon Mills neighborhood. After a day of work, mostly as a dispatcher, he would come back to his Jersey City home and play video games. He met Nunez in middle school and the two had a baby when both were young. She was 15; he 16. He would later have a second daughter, now 12. He was in good spirits on the night of Friday, Dec. 6, joking with his 17-year-old daughter on FaceTime about getting matching tattoos. Michael Rumberger, 34, of Jersey City. On Saturday, like he did most days, seated in a room in the back of a graffitied garage on Grand Street in Jersey City, Rumberger called his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca. He rarely drove anymore, working 12-hour days as a dispatcher Monday through Friday. Saturdays, though, he often would split his shift between dispatching and driving. And when he called Salamanca last Saturday, he said he was bored being in the office and planned to drive that day. “Be careful,” she told him. That night, Rumberger picked up two passengers at the Hudson Mall, a large shopping center on Route 440 in Jersey City, according to another friend who has spoken to detectives investigating the case. It is believed that Anderson and Graham were his fares. The friend said he was asked to take them to a moving and storage company on West 1st Street in Bayonne, a big white warehouse facility in a remote location, under the approach to the Bayonne Bridge. It is there where investigators believe Rumberger was fatally shot in the head. His body was discovered about a mile away, in the trunk of a Lincoln Town Car that was abandoned at 17th Street and John F. Kennedy Boulevard in Bayonne. A resident in the neighborhood said he didn’t hear or see any commotion that evening. County prosecutors at the time did not suggest a motive or suspects in the case. But days later, Grewal announced that the two assailants in the Jersey City shootout already had been prime suspects in Rumberger’s death. The attorney general did not disclose a motive or say whether Rumberger had been targeted. Others law enforcement officials, though, said the white U-Haul cargo van that Anderson and Graham drove to the Bayview Cemetery, and then to the kosher supermarket, had been somehow linked to the Bayonne homicide. They later found a 22 caliber Ruger Mark IV semi-automatic pistol with a homemade silencer in the van after the two were killed in the grocery. As a kid, Joe Seals played cops and robbers, his mother said. As a cop, he ran toward danger. Seals was assigned to the South District, in an area of the state’s second most populous city that was a world away from the expensive waterfront condos and Gold Coast real estate development that has transformed Jersey City and reshaped its skyline over the past decade. At the south end of the Hudson County city, Greenville remains a place of have-nots. In a city with a median household income of $66,264 — and some wealthy neighborhoods reporting median incomes as high as $185,439 — those living in Greenville struggle. The median household income is just $33,989. It is one of the city’s high crime areas, and Seals was good at finding bad guys there. He was a member of the Jersey City Cease Fire Unit, a squad formed in 2013 mainly tasked with investigating non-fatal shootings. It’s known in the ranks as an elite team of detectives who have deep street contacts. On Christmas Eve in 2008, Seals and a fellow officer scrambled up a fire escape and busted through a window to thwart a sexual attack against a 41-year-old Jersey City woman who had called police, surprising her 23-year-old attacker and wrestling him to the floor. The suspect, who carried black gloves and a mask, attacked the cops, kicking and punching them, was arrested. He was charged with aggravated criminal sexual contact, burglary and unlawful possession of a knife. Seals received a commendation. In 2011, he arrested a 47-year-old Bayonne woman who allegedly stole an ornate, gold-plated crucifix from St. Paul’s Roman Catholic Church in Greenville. Recognized by a parishioner, the woman was tracked down by Seals and three other officers and the religious artifact recovered. In November 2017, Seals was promoted to detective in a City Hall ceremony that saw 20 officers promoted to sergeants, 10 sergeants were promoted to lieutenants and 14 officers promoted to detective. Seals grew up in Bayonne and graduated from Bayonne High School. He was a husband and a devoted father. The 40-year-old officer went to extremes even at home. “For Halloween, he would climb up on the house, on the roof and put up these crazy decorations for the kids, said Joe Vuotolo, a neighbor in North Arlington where the family lived. On Tuesday morning, Seals was on the streets in Greenville. Down near the Bayview Cemetery, law enforcement sources say, he spotted the U-Haul cargo van being driven by Anderson and Graham. David N. Anderson, 47, had a criminal record for a number of gun charges and served time in prison. He was also said to have been a follower at one time of the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, a group that asserts African Americans are God’s true chosen people and espouses virulent views against white people, law enforcement and Jews. While investigators say they have not found specific ties to the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, Grewal said both expressed interest in the group. “Based on what we have collected so far, including recent witness interviews, we believe that the suspects held views that reflected hatred of the Jewish people as well as a hatred of law enforcement,” the attorney general said. According to police reports and court documents, Anderson once was arrested for assaulting a girlfriend and telling her, “Call the police because I’m gonna kill you.” He also was charged in Jersey City with unlawful possession of an air-spring pistol, and sentenced to three years of probation and then re-arrested after violating probation, court records show. In April 2011, Anderson was arrested in Kent, Ohio, after a dispute erupted involving 15-20 people who were drinking alcohol and playing cards, according to police reports. Records from the Pentagon also show Anderson served in the Army reserves from September 1999 to September 2003 and worked repairing fuel and electrical systems. At the time of his discharge, Anderson was in the Hudson County Jail, according to court records. Anderson met Francine Graham, 50, in 2017. Drake Serge, 22, lived next door to Graham in an Elizabeth housing development. He called her a “normal person,” but said they never spoke about religion, racism or politics. A health aide, she stopped going to work after getting injured on the job, he said. Serge said he first saw Anderson coming around in Graham’s place in late 2017, and remembered that her daughter moved out after Anderson moved in. He said Francine’s brother warned her about Anderson, but said she got upset and told him off. He also recalled odd things late in the evening. He wondered if the loneliness got to her. “If you met her, you would think she’s a regular old lady. A lady who would never touch a gun,” Serge said. Curiously, though, two of the weapons used in the shooting, the shotgun and one of the pistols, were legally purchased in the spring of 2018 in Ohio, investigators said. As a convicted felon, Anderson would not have been able to legally obtain them. They were both purchased by Graham. Bayview Cemetery dates to 1848. Located in the Greenville section of the city, among those buried there are Civil War veterans and Glenn Cunningham, Jersey City’s first African-American mayor. That was where Joe Seals met his killers. Sources say the white U-Haul cargo van, advertising its $19.95 daily rate, was at the cemetery when the police detective came across it. Jersey City Public Safety Director James Shea said the detectives working on the Rumberger case knew that a van matching the description of the U-Haul vehicle had been associated in some way to the murder in Bayonne, but it is not known if that information had been passed to Seals. The van had been reported stolen after Anderson, who rented it, failed to bring it back, according to law enforcement sources. While it could have been possible that Seals did not know the suspects in the van were armed and dangerous, or involved with Saturday night’s homicide, multiple sources said he never called in the stop. PIX11-TV reported Friday that a senior law enforcement source told them Seals was meeting with an informant for a guns or narcotics case. The source also said the meeting was not connected to Anderson and Graham. What is known is that the detective was shot point-blank in the back of the head, behind the ear, at the cemetery, and left for dead. It is not known exactly what time he was killed. A Jersey City police officer at Bayview Cemetery where Det. Joseph Seals was fatally shot. A passer-by called 911 at 12:38 p.m. when Seals’ lifeless body was discovered in the cemetery, authorities said. Seventeen minutes before that call, and a six-minute drive away, the same U-Haul van already had pulled into an open spot on the street in front of the Sacred Heart School, directly across from the JC Kosher Supermarket, and Anderson and Graham emerged with guns drawn. Until recently, the neighborhoods around Martin Luther King Drive were predominantly African-American and Latino. About five years ago, newcomers from the Satmar Hasidic neighborhood of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, began arriving. With traditional dark suits and frock coats, crowned by black hats, the men sometimes wear a shtreimel, the tall, cylindrical, Russian sable hat. The women dress modestly. Many had moved to Jersey City because they could no longer afford Brooklyn, said Rabbi Moshe Schapiro, co-director of the Chabad of Hoboken and Jersey City synagogue who acts as an informal spokesman for the Hasidic community. Leah and Moshe Ferencz were among the early arrivals. They opened a kosher grocery story next to the synagogue, selling food and kosher sandwiches. The residential blocks surrounding the JC Kosher Supermarket are lined with aging townhouses ranging from well-preserved to run-down, interspersed by houses that have been either newly constructed or completely renovated. Long-time residents of the neighborhood coexist with the Jewish enclave, but the groups didn’t interact. Schapiro said relations among the area’s racial and ethnic groups had been harmonious, and maintained that accounts of tensions among the groups after the Hasidim began moving in were overblown if not downright misleading. But tensions do exist. On Friday, Jewish media outlets, including The Jerusalem Post, published video recorded from the scene showing black residents lambasting their Jewish neighbors. “My children are stuck at school because of Jew shenanigans,” one woman said on the video, which was recorded by the organization Americans Against Antisemitism. The shooting also spurred showings of solidarity, with black pastors embracing Orthodox rabbis and city leaders promising unity. Still, some residents said the black and Orthodox communities co-existed in peaceful, but parallel, lives. Toya Daniels, 39, remembered the grocery used to be Du-Rite & Son Cleaners when she was growing up. She did not even know the kosher market was open to the public. Daniels was putting up her Christmas tree, singing along to Mariah Carey, when she heard two loud booms outside. Looking out her window on the corner of Wilkinson Avenue, a block and a half north of the JC Kosher Supermarket, she saw a police officer run toward the sound of heavy gunfire. Daniels, whose daughter attends Sacred Heart School, ran out only to see one of the assailants emerging from the U-Haul, firing directly into the kosher grocery. He let loose a volley of 30 rounds, she estimated. She took cover behind the Salvation Army building, a few doors down. As Anderson and Graham left the van on the corner, they ignored dozens of people on the street. The two carried with them four weapons. In addition to the semi-automatic rifle wielded by Anderson and the Mossberg shotgun held by Graham, they also had 9 mm Ruger and 9 mm Glock 17 pistols. Left in the van was the 22 caliber Ruger and a pipe bomb that was described as relatively unsophisticated, but viable, meaning it could explode. “They had a tremendous amount of firepower,” Grewal said. He said those in the store were shot in minutes. And then Anderson and Graham began firing at officers responding to the scene. “They were aiming fire at law enforcement officers only and not at those on the street,” the attorney general said. On the street, Daniels said the bullets ricocheted everywhere. All she wanted to do was hug her 12-year-old daughter, whose classroom faces out toward the kosher deli, and make sure she was okay. A little further down the block, Nelson Rodriguez was behind the counter of Parita Food Market. As the fusillade thundered outside, dozens of people ran into the convenience store, seeking refuge in the back as what sounded like a military battle waged between the shooters and police. A couple of doors to the left of the Kosher grocery, Myrtle Maundy was in her store, Myrtle’s Maranatha Market, when she heard a “pop-pop-pop” sound coming from outside. She ran down to her basement and stayed on the phone with her daughter while she waited for the gunfire to stop. “I was praying and praying and praying,” she said. David Lax was inside the kosher supermarket and was shot, but made it out alive. He said he heard a lot of bangs. He finally stood up and came face-to-face with Graham. “At that time, I thank God I had the courage, I had the right mind, I just re-directed her arm and ran out of the store," Lax told the station. The standoff between the gunmen and police went on for hours, the intermittent staccato of bullets punctuating periods of stillness. It finally came to an end when the armored vehicle was brought in, and detectives inside it took aim at the shooters in the grocery. Finally the big BearCat punched its way into the building. Anderson and Graham were found dead. At a time of increased targeted violence, Jersey City is just the latest in a constant drumbeat of murders in just the past few weeks that included three deaths at a U.S. Navy base in Pensacola, Fla., and the shootings at Saugus High School in Santa Clarita, Calif., by a high school student who killed two classmates and wounded three others before killing himself. “A growing number of people in the country believe violence is an appropriate way to express one’s anger in this country,” said John D. Cohen, former counterterrorism coordinator at the Department of Homeland Security now with The Security Studies Program and Center for Security Studies at Georgetown University. He said the motives vary, but the individuals share common characteristics. “They involve violence-prone and disaffected individuals, blending ideological beliefs with personal grievances, who are increasingly turning to targeted and terrorist tactics,” he said. Shortly after sundown on Wednesday, hundreds of members of the Satmar sect of the Jewish Orthodox community arrived on Rodney Street in South Williamsburg. Most were from Brooklyn, but some came as far as upstate New York to mourn Moshe Deutsch and Leah Minda Ferencz. Armed NYPD officers and K-9 units lined the street. Two police helicopters flew overhead. Women gathered on one side of the street; men on the other. By the time Deutsch’s body arrived, the entire street, blocked off by officers, was a sea of black hats. Men and women spilled onto nearby stoops to hear local rabbis speak of pain and loss on speakers that had been set up outside. Leaders of the shul took turns speaking about the loss to their community. Speaking in Yiddish, their voices sounded pained and high-pitched. Women cried into their scarfs and wiped away tears. Wearing a purple head covering and purple scarf, Moshe Deutsch’s mother ambled slowly past the line of women mourners. She held a tissue in her hand as tears slowly streamed down her face. Surrounded by other women, Deutsch’s mother sat on a wooden bench set aside for her in the street. His father, Shulem Deutsch, was the last to speak after nearly two hours of religious leaders speaking about pain and loss. Translating his words as the father spoke, Rabbi Jacob Kellner said Deutsch was distraught that he would never see his son married. After the ceremony, men and women washed their hands with small buckets of water outside their homes and stores. At Bayview Cemetery where Seals was gunned down, there were no signs of violence. There was no police tape, no investigators on scene, no memorial. Deflated birthday balloons hung along the black iron fence ringing the different sections of the cemetery. Across the street from the cemetery’s western lot, Dr. Maya Angelou Elementary School flew the American flag at half-staff. Detective Joseph Seals will be buried Tuesday. At Patria Food Market, Rodriguez, who is not related to the kosher market employee who was killed, is back to serving customers as he has for the last two decades. The weight of what happened on Tuesday stays with him, but he said it’s not going to change the way he lives. “People still gotta eat. People still gotta drink. We need to do life for the living,” he said. Miguel Douglas, also known as Douglas Rodriguez (left), Leah Minda Ferencz, 33,(middle) and Moshe Deutsch, 24 (right), who were all killed in the Jersey City assault. Rodriguez grew up in Guayaquil, Ecuador, with five siblings. He and his wife met when they were just teenagers and they both held middle class jobs in their home country, with Rodriguez working as an engineer. Freire said the couple left Ecuador after they both got laid off and came to the U.S., where Rodriguez worked two jobs so Freire could stay home with the children. A devout Christian, Freire said her husband had been treated well by the Ferencz family. “How can people hate the Jewish people?” she asked Grewal again and again, noting how kind they had been to her family. As law enforcement searches for answers, the shooting has also spurred an outpouring of support. A charity devoted to helping the families of first responders, The Tunnel to Towers Foundation, announced it would pay off the Seals family’s mortgage. A fundraiser for the Ferencz family had raised more than $200,000, and another for Rodriguez had raised nearly $100,000. On Friday, the attorney general shuttled between a visit to Jersey City police officers in Journal Square, and to sit Shiva with the Ferencz family. “This is America right here,” Grewal told a reporter on the way to his third stop, a roundtable of rabbis, pastors, law enforcement and elected officials. He gestured toward the immigrant-run businesses, Muslim temples and Jewish synagogues all clustered together within a short few blocks. Grewal, the nation’s first Sikh state attorney general and the son of Indian immigrants, was born in Jersey City and spent the first few years of his life in a multi-family home just two miles from the kosher supermarket. Ted Sherman may be reached at tsherman@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @TedShermanSL. Facebook: @TedSherman.reporter. Find NJ.com on Facebook. S.P. Sullivan may be reached at ssullivan@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.
Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop is calling on a school board member to resign after she called the Jewish community in the Greenville neighborhood “brutes” who have “threatened, intimidated and harassed” black homeowners. Joan Terrell-Paige made the comments in a Facebook post responding to an online story about Jersey City fighting hate in the wake of the mass shooting last week. Two members of the city’s growing Hasidic community, as well as a store employee and a Jersey City police detective were killed by an armed man and woman in what authorities are calling a hate crime. Terrell-Paige, whose term ends Dec. 31, 2020, ended her commentary by saying she was speaking “as a private citizen, not as an elected member of the Board of Education." The Facebook post has since been deleted. Later Tuesday Gov. Phil Murphy and the Jersey City teachers’ union also urged Terrell-Paige to resign. That mattered little to the mayor and school board president Sudhan Thomas. In 2017, Jersey City passed a “no-knock” law, partly in response to complaints by some homeowners in the Greenville section and other areas of the city that they were being harassed by people wanting to purchase their homes. Jersey City Education Association President Ronnie Greco also called for her resignation, and asked that she undergo sensitivity training. “There is no place for that sort of hateful, divisive rhetoric in our schools or our Jersey City community," Greco said. "As we mourn the tragic events of one week ago, we should be calling for tolerance and an open dialogue and not casting aspersions, pitting one group against another group or attempting to justify the actions of cold-blooded murderers. This report was updated at add comments from Gov. Phil Murphy and the Jersey City teachers union.
A Board of Education member in Jersey City has sparked controversy with social media comments following the shooting last week at a kosher market. “Where was all this faith and hope when Black homeowners were being threatened, intimidated and harassed by I WANT TO BUY YOUR HOUSE brutes of the Jewish community? (sic) They brazenly came on the property of Ward F Black homeowners and waved bags of money,” Joan Terrell wrote on Facebook, according to a screenshot circulating on social media. Terrell was commenting on an article about an event attended by faith leaders and community representatives in Jersey City, following the December 10 attack in which two shooters killed two Orthodox Jews and a non-Jewish worker at the JC Kosher Supermarket, as well as a police officer at a nearby cemetery. In the post, Terrell said “Six rabbis were accused of selling body parts” and seemed to imply that there was value in the shooters’ message. The post has since been taken down, according to the Hudson County View. Terrell did not respond to requests from the Jewish Telegraphic Agency for comment by phone or email. State officials believe the suspects were motivated by antisemitic and anti-law enforcement beliefs and are probing possible ties with the Black Hebrew Israelites, a movement of African-Americans who believe they descended from the biblical Israelites. Some adherents hold antisemitic views. The city’s mayor, Steven Fulop, called for Terrell to step down. Fulop, who is Jewish, told JTA on Friday that an influx of Orthodox Jews in recent years had created tension in the Greenville neighborhood, which has a significant African-American community. At times, some of the Jews “aggressively” attempted to buy homes, Fulop said, which led to resentment and complaints from some local residents, although there were no previous attacks. In 2017, Jersey City passed a “no-knock” law, partly in response to complaints by some homeowners in the Greenville section and other areas of the city that they were being harassed by people wanting to purchase their homes. People familiar with the Greenville Jewish community told JTA after the shooting that community members had gotten along well with locals.
A trustee of the Jersey City Board of Education is being criticized for writing a Facebook message that seemed to blame the Jewish community for the attack on a kosher grocery store last week, the website Insider NJ reported. Terrell went on to blame Jews for gentrification taking place in Jersey City. The Orthodox population there has grown as community members left Brooklyn seeking a lower cost of living. Terrell’s language was condemned by Jersey City mayor Steven Fulop, who said Terrell’s words didn’t represent the local black community. Terrell’s post also referenced local Jews who have been convicted of crimes, including Solomon Dwek, a real estate developer who was convicted of fraud and then turned informant, leading to the arrest of several local political officials and Jewish community leaders on multiple charges, including the trafficking of human organs. Terrell did not respond to multiple requests for comment from Insider NJ.
Terrell-Paige’s Sunday evening post was in response to a column on the website InsiderNJ about an interfaith gathering in response to the shooting, in which two now-deceased shooters killed a police officer, then drove about a mile to a Jewish market where they opened fire, killing three people inside — two of them Jewish and one Hispanic. Authorities say the shooters, both African American, were motivated by anti-Semitism. Terrell-Paige said in the post that African American homeowners in the Jersey City neighborhood were “threatened, intimidated and harassed” by the Jewish newcomers, whom she said threatened to “bring drug dealers and prostitutes to live next door to you” if homeowners wouldn’t sell their houses. She went on to bemoan the lack of resources for the African American community while bringing up Solomon Dwek, a Jewish FBI informant who played a key role in the biggest corruption bust in state history in 2009. About 100 Hasidic families, mainly from Brooklyn, have moved into the historically black Jersey City neighborhood in recent years. The neighborhood is substantially cheaper than Brooklyn, and only a few miles from New York City, but remains mired in poverty while other sections of Jersey City continue a decadeslong building boom. Tensions between the two communities started early. The Terrell-Paige Facebook post was highlighted by columnist Al Sullivan, who wrote the first column to which Terrell-Paige responded. Terrell-Paige was elected to the school board in 2018 and previously worked for the New Jersey Division of Law and as an aide to a Jersey City Council member, according to her online bio. She declined to discuss any more of the post with POLITICO, saying she would only speak off-the-record. “I appreciate your concern and I wish you good luck,” she said before hanging up.
Mayor Steven Fulop (D) on Tuesday said Terrell-Paige should step down because of her comments, in which she asked whether people were brave enough to explore the “message” the two shooters were sending on Dec. in the city’s Greenville neighborhood. Terrell-Paige’s comments, which appear to have been deleted, came in response to a column on the political news website Insider N.J. about a vigil led by faith and civic leaders in response to the shootings, NJ.com reported. The attack in the Jewish-run grocery store killed the store’s co-owner, an employee and a customer, while Jewish children hid in the community center upstairs. Jersey City historically has been a black community, but Jewish families have been moving there in recent years as housing costs in Brooklyn rise. Police and other officials have said that the shooting is being investigated as an act of domestic terrorism and that they think the shooters, who were also killed, were anti-Semitic. Terrell-Paige told Politico N.J. that she did not regret making the Facebook post and that she had not deleted it herself.
The man and woman who gunned down a Jersey City detective and three others at a kosher supermarket last week “wanted to do some serious damage,” based on a search of their computers, Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop said in a radio interview. Speaking on the Ebro in the Morning Show on Hot 97 FM Wednesday, Fulop described the tragic events of Dec. 10 and provided new information about killers David Anderson and Francene Graham. “(The shooters) wanted to do some serious damage and if you look at the stuff they were searching on Google before, they had plans, but that all changed because (Detective Joseph Seals) approached them,” the mayor said. He was referring to Seals’ encounter with Anderson and Graham at Bayview Cemetery in which Seals was shot dead. Anderson and Graham then went to Martin Luther King Drive and opened fire on people inside the supermarket in what authorities say was a hate crime. Three people inside, Leah Minda Ferencz, 33, Moshe Deutsch, 24, and Miguel Douglas, 49, were fatally shot; and two police officers were wounded that day. Fulop has been outspoken on the mass shooting, stating that it’s obvious the killers’ plan included going after students in a yeshiva next door to the supermarket. In the 30-minute interview the mayor pointed out that in death Seals prevented a larger tragedy.
JERSEY CITY — Mayor Steve Fulop and Gov. Phil Murphy are leading the calls for school board member Joan Terrell-Paige to resign after she referred to certain Jewish people as "brutes" in a Facebook post following a massacre that claimed the lives and three people at a kosher market and a police officer. Douglas Rodriguez, Leah Minda Ferencz and Moshe Hersh Deutch were killed in the shooting at the JC Kosher Supermarket on Dec. 10. Jersey City police officer Joseph Seals was shot dead at a cemetery and was laid to rest on Tuesday. The shooting happened in the city's Greenville section, which has a mostly black and minority population and has struggled with crime and poverty. In recent years it has seen an influx of both immigrants as well as Orthodox Jewish families moving from New York. The post by Terrell-Paige, who is black, brought up the practice of "blockbusting," in which residents are aggressively and unscrupulously encouraged by salesmen to sell their homes. “Where was all this faith and hope when black homeowners were threatened, intimidated and harassed by I WANT TO BUY YOUR HOUSE brutes of the Jewish community,” Terrell-Paige wrote in a post that is no longer publicly available. Terrell-Paige also wrote, without elaborating, that "we learned 6 rabbis were accused of selling body parts." Some online commenters have pointed out that this might be an inaccurate reference to the anti-corruption Operation Bid Rig takedown in 2009 that snared Hudson County politicians as well as five rabbis charged with money laundering and a Jewish Israeli citizen who pleaded guilty to trying to illegally sell a human kidney. However, the statement also alludes to a persistent falsehood employed by anti-Semites to smear Jewish people or organizations as secret organ harvesters. Terrell-Paige told Politico New Jersey that she did not remove the post and did not apologize for it. She did not immediately return a request for comment on Wednesday morning. Fulop also called for Terrell-Paige to resign. "That type of language has no place in our schools and no place amongst elected officials. Imagine she said this about any other community - what would the reaction be? The same standard should apply here," the mayor wrote. Murphy said on his Twitter account that Terrell-Paige should quit. "We will not let anti-Semitism and hate go unchallenged in our communities," Murphy wrote.
Terrell-Paige said in a long, since-deleted Facebook post said "Where was all this faith and hope when black homeowners were threatened, intimidated, and harassed by I WANT TO BUY YOUR HOUSE brutes of the Jewish community?" Terrell-Paige made the comments just days after a mass shooting in Jersey City's Greenville neighborhood left six people dead, including Joseph Seals, a longtime city police detective.
The shootings that left at least three civilians and one police officer dead Tuesday in Jersey City, N.J., was a targeted attack, according to local authorities. Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop explained Wednesday that the pair of shooters, who were also killed, had clearly singled out the kosher market on which they opened fire. "At the time of the incident yesterday, it was difficult to understand intent, and there's still a lot of questions around that. But after reviewing the [closed-circuit TV] cameras on the Jersey City side, we do feel comfortable that it was a targeted attack on the Jewish kosher deli across the street here," Fulop told reporters during a morning snowstorm, gesturing at a storefront crowded with emergency personnel. Six people died in Tuesday's attacks, including the suspects: David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal identified the shooters at a joint news conference with other law enforcement leaders Wednesday afternoon. He said Anderson and Graham killed Detective Joseph Seals, 39, during an encounter near Bayview Cemetery prior to the main shootout. "Thereafter, at approximately 12:21 p.m., a white U-Haul van driven by Mr. Anderson parked directly across the street from the JC Kosher supermarket, which is approximately 1 mile from the cemetery," Grewal said. Four people were inside the supermarket at the time, according to the attorney general. One escaped with gunshot wounds. The three others died. Grewal identified them as: Mindel Ferencz, who is in her early 30s; Moshe Deutsch, 24; and Miguel Douglas, 49. The ensuing standoff between suspects and police lasted about three hours, before a police armored vehicle broke into the storefront and officers discovered the shooters' bodies inside. Afterwards, authorities say they recovered a pipe bomb and "numerous firearms" from the scene. The vehicle used by Anderson and Graham "was searched by our state police professionals forensically. They did locate in that, amongst other items that I won't be discussing, a pipe bomb — improvised explosive device," FBI Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie told reporters. "It was a viable device, meaning it could be a device that would have exploded. It was, again, a pipe bomb by design — not complicated, but sophisticated in the sense that time and effort went into creating it," Ehrie said. In statement released Wednesday, Rabbi David Niederman mourned Ferencz and Deutsch as prominent members of the local Jewish community. "Of course, we'll collect ourselves and go on with our lives. At the same time, we can't let the horrible hate go on and threaten us. It's too late already. The hate that springs up all over now cut short lives so close to home," said Niederman, the president of the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg and North Brooklyn. "But we have to act now so that we don't have to mourn precious lives in the future," he said. At his news conference, Fulop said there likely would have been more victims if two police officers nearby had not responded quickly after hearing the gunshots while they were on patrol one block away. Both officers sustained gunshot wounds in the exchange of fire, according to James Shea, the public safety director in Jersey City, just across the Hudson River from Manhattan. Jersey City Police Officers Benevolent Association set up an official GoFundMe fundraiser to support Seals' wife and five children. Local officials on Wednesday called it a targeted attack on the kosher deli, but they did not describe shooting specifically as an anti-Semitic attack. Though there was "no credible threat," he said he had directed the New York Police Department to "assume a state of high alert" and protect "key locations in the Jewish community." New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo also announced Wednesday that "out of an abundance of caution," he was also directing state police to increase security around synagogues and other Jewish community buildings. "We have to understand, as I've heard from so many members of Jewish community, that people are now living in constant fear," de Blasio said at a news conference Wednesday. Due largely to the attack, anti-Semitic homicides reached the highest level ever recorded in the FBI's annual statistics on hate crimes, released last month. President Trump on Wednesday is expected to sign an executive order to make clear that anti-Semitic acts are also barred under Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which bans discrimination based on race, color or national origin in programs that receive federal funding. This is a developing story. Some things reported by the media will later turn out to be wrong. We will focus on reports from police officials and other authorities, credible news outlets and reporters who are at the scene. We will update as the situation develops.
The man and woman who killed four people in Jersey City last month in a hate-filled assault on a kosher market had broader plans to sow violence and fear in New Jersey’s Jewish community and harbored hatred toward police, authorities said Monday. An explosive device that had the capacity to kill or injure people up to 500 yards away was found in van of the suspects, authorities said. David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, prepared for months before carrying out the attack, which included the killing of a Jersey City police detective on Dec. 10 followed by a rampage at a kosher grocery store that took the lives of three civilians, authorities said. Anderson and Graham were killed in a shootout with police at the Jersey City market. Fueled by a radical ideology loosely affiliated with the Black Hebrew Israelites, the pair purchased a cache of weapons and trained to use them in Ohio, authorities said. Before the Jersey City attack, they researched another attack on a Jewish community center in Bayonne, officials said. State and federal authorities disclosed new details of their ongoing investigation Monday, one month after the horrific spree of violence, saying that they are confident Anderson and Graham were motivated by hatred of Jews and law enforcement. U.S. Attorney Craig Carpenito described the Jersey City attacks as “profoundly un-American” and a “senseless, evil and cowardly act,” but said the broader plan was thwarted. “We know now that they planned greater acts of mayhem on both communities,” he said. Video from inside the kosher supermarket captured Anderson saying: “They stole our heritage, they stole our birthright, and they hired these guys to stop us,” Carpenito said. Authorities also provided more information on what happened at the Bayview Cemetery where Jersey City detective Joseph Seals was killed shortly before the attack on the grocery story. Seals, who had gone to the Bayview Cemetery to meet with a man whose vehicle had been impounded in an unrelated matter, apparently had a chance encounter with Anderson and Graham. “He was just there doing his job,” Carpenito said Monday. Authorities said they aren’t sure what prompted the interaction, but Carpenito said a notice had been issued for officers to be on the lookout for a U-Haul van, like the one Anderson and Graham had rented. He said investigators have speculated that is why Seals approached the pair. Carpenito said the detective’s interaction with Anderson and Graham threw them off of their “broader plan” of potentially more violence. An explosive device found in the U-Haul van Anderson and Graham had rented could have killed or injured people up to five football fields, or 500 yards, away, said FBI special agent in charge Greg Ehrie. The two also had enough materials to construct a second deadly explosive device, but Ehrie said it may never be known what they intended. “The entire truth lies with the two dead attackers,” Ehrie said. Surveillance video showed Anderson and Graham, both wearing tactical gear and armed with a total of five firearms, arrive outside of the kosher grocery store in Jersey City’s Greenville neighborhood after they had killed Seals in the cemetery, authorities said. The video shows them shooting as they moved into the store. Inside, the two killed Mindel Ferencz, 33, who owned the store, Moshe Deutsch, 24, of Brooklyn and Miguel Douglas Rodriguez, 47, who worked at the store. Authorities said they recovered five guns inside the store, including a “possibly self-manufactured” AR-15-style weapon believed to be used by Anderson and a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun that Graham was carrying. Investigators also found at least two handwritten notes in the Anderson’s pockets. One note read: “FBIs war on black America 35:45,” referencing the title of a 1990 documentary and a moment in the film, in which Fred Hampton, the Black Panther leader, describes law enforcement officers as “fascist pig cops.” The other note had the phone number of a Keyport man who was charged with illegally possessing 12 firearms after FBI agents interviewed him a few days after the attack. In the U-Haul van, authorities found a pipe bomb and a note that read: “I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who he hates,” law enforcement sources told the New York Post, and later confirmed by others close to the investigation. Authorities confirmed Monday that Anderson and Graham were suspects in two other incidents leading up to the deadly Jersey City attack. A week before, on Dec. 3, two shots were fired at a vehicle driven by a person clearly identified as of the Jewish faith, Carpenito said, on Route 1 and 9 near Newark and Elizabeth. The rear window was shot out and no one was injured. Investigators determined Graham’s phone was in the area at the time of the shooting, and the ballistics matched a gun linked to the pair, authorities said. Days later, on Dec. 7, authorities said Anderson and Graham killed Michael Rumberger, a Bayonne taxi driver by bludgeoning him and then shooting him in the head. They left Rumberger’s body in the trunk of the Lincoln Town Car he was driving. Officials said Monday that Rumberger’s blood was found on a bible that belonged to the attackers and that his DNA was on their clothes and at least one weapon. Carpenito said he could not say if Rumberger was targeted, but he said Anderson and Graham Googled the meaning of the surname “Rumberger” after killing the 34-year-old. Ehrie, the FBI agent, said Anderson and Graham were not on the radar of law enforcement before the Jersey City shooting. Anderson, who served in the Army reserves, had a lengthy criminal record for a number of gun charges and served time in prison. He met Graham in 2017, and neighbors of the woman said she began to change after her relationship with Anderson began. Authorities said one of the guns used in the shooting were purchased legally in Ohio by Graham in 2018. As a convicted felon, Anderson could not legally purchase a firearm. Staff writers Ted Sherman, S.P. Sullivan and Sophie Nieto-Munoz contributed to this story. Joe Atmonavage may be reached at jatmonavage@njadvancemedia.com. Follow on Twitter @monavage. Blake Nelson can be reached at bnelson@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter at @BCunninghamN. Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.
New Jersey officials investigating last month’s anti-Semitic attack in Jersey City are trying to find out where the shooters got the money to carry it out. Jared Maples, director of the state Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness, said Wednesday the source of funding for the attack that killed three people at a kosher grocery store was one of the questions investigators hoped to answer. “We expect to learn more about possible funding sources once the investigation has concluded,” Maples said in prepared testimony before the House Financial Services national security subcommittee. The homeland security office is focusing on preventing domestic terrorism as well as responding to them, but it’s not so easy to detect lone-wolf attacks before them occur. In the case of Jersey City shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham, authorities have said they believe they acted alone, not as part of an organized group. Even so, Anderson may have had ties to the Black Hebrew Israelites, which teaches that blacks are the true descendants of the Israelites of the Bible and white Jews are the enemies. Maples said the Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ and New Black Panther Party, both which he described as “two black separatist extremist groups,'' are active in the state. Both groups “promote violence and hate-based rhetoric against law enforcement, government officials, the Jewish community, and white people,” he said. He said domestic terrorists are taking clues from foreign attackers and turning trucks and knives into weapons of murder. “They’re that seeing those are effective,” Maples said in response to a question from Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-5th Dist. Gottheimer is the sponsor of legislation named for Darren Drake of New Milford, one of eight people were killed in a 2017 attack. Officials said Sayfullo Saipov, an Uzbek national who gave a Paterson address to authorities, used a rented truck to mow down people on a Manhattan bike path. The bill would require the Homeland Security Department and the Transportation Security Administration to provide information to rental companies and car dealers to help them identify someone who might be planning to commit a terrorist attack, and to require companies to report suspicious behavior. Jonathan D. Salant may be reached at jsalant@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @JDSalant or on Facebook. Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook. Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.
JERSEY CITY (CBSNewYork) - A police officer was among six killed in a lengthy gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday. The two suspects were also killed, along with three civilians. Their bodies were found in a kosher grocery store at Bayview Avenue and Martin Luther King Boulevard after an intense, hours-long shootout with police. Jersey City Police Chief Michael Kelly said police believe the three civilians killed in the grocery store were shot by the suspects. It began at roughly 12:30 p.m. at the Bay View cemetery at Garfield Avenue. The suspects were spotted at the cemetery in a stolen rental van. Kelly said he believes Det. Joseph Seals - who was part of the unit responsible for removing guns from the street - was attempting to interdict weapons in the van when he approached the suspects, and they opened fire. Det. Seals was hit. He was rushed to the hospital, but did not survive. The suspects then drove about a mile to the grocery store in the middle of a residential neighborhood, where more shots were fired. "Units responded and were immediately engaged by high powered rifle fire," Kelly said. He said responding officers set up a perimeter and called for mutual aid from other law enforcement agencies. He identified the injured officers as Ray Sanchez and Mariela Fernandez. Kelly said "hundreds" of shots were fired during the gun battle. Mayor Steven Fulop called Det. Seals "one of our best police officers." He had been on the job for more than 15 years and was assigned to the city's "cease fire" unit, responsible for removing guns from the street. "Dozens and dozens of handguns he's responsible for removal from the street," Kelly said. "We believe that he was killed while trying to interdict these bad guys at that other location on Garfield Avenue. Seals leaves behind a wife and five children. Kelly and Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop visited with them after the shooting. "We cried with the family. It's the one of the hardest things that you ever have to see in your entire life. Nobody expected, I'm sure, Detective Seals not to return home. I'm sure his children expected him to return home. Sometimes people don't appreciate the tough work these police officers do every single day," Fulop said. Jersey City Director of Public Safety James Shea said there was no indication the incident was terror-related. Kelly said the stolen U-Haul "may contain an incendiary device" and has been taken for examination by the bomb squad. Tuesday night, Mayor Fulop tweeted that officials now believe the suspects targeted the kosher market and that the community may see an increase in police presence though there's no indication there are any further threats. Schools in the area were placed on lockdown during the shootout. The lockdown was lifted at 4:15 p.m. Officials said all children were safe and accounted for. Nonetheless, parents were nervous. "Pretty anxious. I got a call from the school, I got a call from the kids that they're safe," a parent named Juan told CBS2's Jessica Layton. During the height of the gun battle, dozens of shots could be heard going off as police engaged the suspects in the vicinity of Martin Luther King Drive and Bayview Avenue. Officers wearing tactical gear and carrying long guns swarmed the scene in armored vehicles. New Jersey State Police said they deployed canine units, the bomb squad, aviation units and tactical squads among other resources to the scene. The NYPD's Emergency Services Unit also was brought in to assist. "I got caught in a one way street with a bunch of cars and I was wondering why nobody was moving. And all of a sudden I heard it. All the shots started. Shots started ringing out. When I heard it, I see people running. I got out of the car and I see cops ducked down, and cops getting out of the way," witness Brian Clark said. "And I'm wondering why, what the hell? So I get out of my car and I see it, and I heard it - pow pow pow pow pow - then I realized I was in a shootout. I never heard that many shots in my life. It was like I was in a war zone," Clark added. Gov. Phil Murphy and President Donald Trump were both briefed on the incident. Murphy visited the scene after the shootout. Trump called the shooting "horrific" and said his thoughts and prayers were with the victims and their families. Jersey City Medical Center was placed on lockdown due to the shooting. New Jersey Transit Police reported Hudson Bergen Light Rail was suspended in the area, along with all bus service on the West Side Branch. New Jersey Turnpike exit ramps at Interchange 14B were closed because of the incident. Today is a horrific day. Officers have come under attack and we have several wounded. Our hearts are heavy and the violence is not over. CBS2's Jessica Layton reports local schools will open on a delayed scheduled Wednesday. Classes at Jersey City public schools will begin at 10 a.m. Check back soon for more information on this developing story.
The shooting in New Jersey left six people dead, including the two killers. As bullets whizzed by within inches of him, David Lax said he dove to the floor of a Jewish deli in Jersey City, New Jersey, and when two suspected killers dressed in black barged through the door with guns blazing, he thought his life was about to end. "I'm just thankful that I lived to see another day," Lax told ABC News on Thursday, two days after a man and a woman committed what authorities described as an act of domestic terrorism at the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket, fatally shooting three people before police killed them in a hail of gunfire. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said that the suspects were apparently motivated by sentiments of "anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement" and targeted the market shortly after killing a Jersey City police detective, Joseph Seals, 39, the married father of five children, in a nearby cemetery. He said it took him a moment to realize the noise was gunfire. Lax said that when the attack commenced, he was standing near the front door of the store near the salad bar. Investigators identified the shooters as David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50. "They came to kill, and they didn’t come to spare anyone," Lax said. Lax and three other people, including two workers and another customer, were inside the store when the attack began. He was the only one to make it out alive. He said he dove to the floor as the male gunman, Anderson, wielding what authorities described as an AR-15 style rifle, stormed in firing. "Like everyone, I jumped on the floor," Lax said. As he tried to hide, one of the shooters dressed in a black raincoat walked by him. He said that as the gunman passed, he stood up only to come face-to-face with the second assailant, Graham, who authorities said was holding a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun. Lax said that as Graham swung the barrel of the gun toward him, he managed to push the weapon away and made a beeline for the front door. He said he ran as fast as he could in a zigzag pattern, dodging the shots being fired at his back. Lax said that once he made it outside to the street, he encountered a child near a neighboring synagogue. Killed inside the store were 33-year-old Mindy Ferencz, the wife of the kosher supermarket owner and mother of five, and 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a Yeshiva student. Also shot dead was Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, who worked at the store. Lax said that when the shooting started, Ferencz was sitting near the cash register, while Rodriguez was in the back of the store. Authorities described Deutsch as a customer. Lax said that after he and the child were out of harm's way, police arrived on scene and a massive gunbattle erupted. Grewal said Thursday that "several hundred" shell casings were found at the scene. Anderson and Graham were both shot to death in an hourslong gunfight with police. "Obviously, it’s just a miracle ... because as far as I know, it’s hard to miss with a shotgun at such a close range," Lax said of surviving the attack.
This week’s deadly kosher market attack and the killing of a detective in New Jersey are being investigated as acts of domestic terrorism “fueled by both anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement beliefs,” the state attorney general said Thursday. “We believe the suspects held views that reflected hatred of the Jewish people, as well as a hatred of law enforcement,” New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said, citing evidence and witness interviews. Investigators believe David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, killed a police detective near a Jersey City cemetery and then stormed a nearby Jewish market Tuesday, shooting and killing three people there and starting an hourslong police standoff that ended with their deaths, authorities said. It’s still not known why Anderson and Graham attacked the detective and the JC Kosher Supermarket in particular, Grewal said. But evidence points to these being “acts of hate,” Grewal said in a news conference in Jersey City. The FBI is investigating the shootings as “domestic terrorism with a hate-crime bias slant to it,” said Gregory Ehrie, special agent in charge for the FBI in Newark. Investigators think Anderson and Graham acted by themselves, Ehrie said. Grewal and others stressed that once at the market, the shooters apparently fired only at people there, and at responding police officers, bypassing multiple opportunities to shoot others on the street. “They were clearly targeting that store. They were clearly targeting the Jersey City Police Department,” US Attorney Craig Carpenito said, partly citing surveillance video. Anderson and Graham also were suspects in the weekend killing of a livery driver near the neighboring New Jersey city of Bayonne, Grewal has said. That man died Saturday, local media outlets, including NJ.com, reported. Authorities haven’t said what, if anything, links the weekend killing to Tuesday’s shootings, other than investigators believe Anderson and Graham were behind them all. Investigators also checking a note found a stolen U-Haul truck that the killers parked across from the market – a note that contained both anti-Semitic and anti-police writing, a law enforcement source told CNN. Posts with similar sentiments also have been found on social media linked to the shooters, the source said. “But we will not be defeated, we will not stand down, we will not be intimidated,” Greenblatt said. Killed Tuesday were Jersey City police Detective Joseph Seals and three people in the market: Mindy Ferencz, 31, the store’s co-owner; Moshe Deutsch, 24, a customer; and Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, a store employee. One person who was inside the market was shot when Anderson and Graham opened fire, but he fled the store as the attackers shot at him, and survived, officials said. Investigators think all three slain victims in the store “were shot … within minutes of the shooters entering the store,” Grewal said. Hundreds of ammunition shells have been recovered from the market scene, Grewal said. Inside the killers’ stolen U-Haul across the street was a pipe bomb and a fifth gun – a .22-caliber Ruger with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shells, Grewal said. The U-Haul also had “ballistic panels” designed to resist damage, Grewal said. “But for the actions of (police), they (the attackers) could have done more,” Grewal said. Graham bought the shotgun and the Ruger in Ohio in the spring of 2018, the attorney general said. Before Anderson and Graham made their way to the kosher market, they are believed to have killed Seals near a city cemetery, authorities have said. Police have said Seals was trying to stop Anderson and Graham – but they haven’t said why he tried, or why Anderson and Graham killed him. A bystander called 911 to report Seals’ body at the cemetery at 12:38 p.m., authorities said. By that time, Anderson and Graham already were attacking the market. Surveillance video shows Anderson parking a stolen U-Haul across the street from the JC Kosher Supermarket, about a mile from the cemetery, city officials say. The pair get out, and a man – Anderson, police say – walks directly toward the store, apparently ignoring several people on the sidewalk nearby, and starts firing a gun into it before entering. Graham follows, police say. Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop has cited this video – appearing to show Anderson ignoring pedestrians and other businesses – as evidence that he attacked the kosher store for specific reasons. Police arrived at the supermarket around 20 minutes after the attack began, starting a long shootout that left two police officers injured. Around 3:25 p.m., a police armored vehicle broke into the supermarket’s entryway, and law enforcement soon found the bodies of the three victims and two attackers inside the store, Grewal said. A law enforcement official told the New York Times Wednesday that Anderson appears to have a connection with the Black Hebrew Israelites movement, but the extent is unclear. The Black Hebrew Israelite movement is best known for its confrontational brand of street preaching in urban areas but it has a complex history in the United States, with sects and branches splintering over theological and leadership disputes. Scholars say what unites most Black Israelites is the belief that African-Americans are the true descendants of biblical Jews. Some members have expressed anti-Semitic sentiments in the past. Anderson served in the US Army Reserve from September 1999 to September 2003, the Army said, as a fuel and electrical system repairer. Two of the four victims were laid to rest Wednesday night. In Jersey City, crowds of men in black hats surrounded Ferencz’s casket in the Jersey City neighborhood of Greenville at the site of a synagogue under construction. Hundreds of women, separated from the men as per Orthodox Jewish tradition, were standing in the bitter cold sobbing. Ferencz owned the store with her husband, who was next door at the small synagogue at the time of the attack, according to Yossi Steinmetz who was there as well. When shots broke out, her husband desperately tried to call her and tell her to lock the doors to take cover, Steinmetz said. She didn’t answer. At Deutsch’s Brooklyn funeral, mourners spoke in Hebrew through tears as at least a dozen NYPD counterterrorism officers and nearly 100 “Shomrim” members – Hebrew for guardians – stood watch. Deutsch and Ferencz both had ties to the Jewish community in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said.
Michael Rumberger, a 34-year-old father of two, didn’t often drive a cab for the Jersey City company where he worked. He was mainly a dispatcher, but last Saturday, he was bored and decided to end his shift earning fares, his friend said. He picked up two passengers at the Hudson Mall in Jersey City, said another friend who has spoken to detectives investigating the case. Rumberger took the passengers to a moving company on West 1st Street in Bayonne where he was shot in the head after a struggle, his former girlfriend and mother of his child, Yiesena Nunez, told NJ Advance Media. His cab was then driven about 1 mile away to 17th Street and John F. Kennedy Boulevard in Bayonne, where the car was left with his body in the trunk, according to Nunez and authorities. Nunez said the two passengers were David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50. Authorities have identified Anderson and Graham as suspects in Rumberger’s death. Three days later, the pair killed a decorated Jersey City detective in a cemetery and then three others in a kosher supermarket Tuesday in Jersey City in what is being described as an act of domestic terror aimed at Jews and law enforcement, according to authorities. Authorities have not released details on what happened to Rumberger, and have not confirmed Nunez’s account. Nunez said detectives have surveillance videos from each location. Nunez, who met Rumberger in middle school and had a child with him, said she wanted to talk publicly about Rumberger to let people know he was much more than “just some regular cab driver,” she said. “I feel my daughter's father needs a voice and no one else is stepping up,” she said. Nunez said detectives briefed her on the incident, but she didn’t want to go into specifics about the evidence supporting the claims. There are “so many different stories floating around and I need to be the one to set the record straight,” she said. On Saturday, Rumberger was working at Grove Taxi & Airport Limo on Grand Street in Jersey City when he called his best friend, Priscilla Salamanca. They would often FaceTime, which led to cracking jokes, listening to music and singing, Salamanca said. Salamanca met Rumberger more than 10 years ago when she and her friends needed a taxi home from a party and Rumberger pulled up. Recently, Rumberger had begun talking about getting a new job, trying to “better himself,” Salamanca said. On Saturdays, he often split his shift between dispatching and driving. When he called Salamanca last Saturday, he said planned to drive that day. Rumberger was scheduled to pick up his 17-year-old daughter after 2 p.m., Nunez said. Rumberger never showed, she said. She said she knew something was wrong because that was unlike him. When the owner of the cab company couldn’t get ahold of Rumberger, he tracked the GPS coordinates of his cab to 17th and John F Kennedy Boulevard in Bayonne and called police sometime later on Saturday, Nunez said. In a statement, Hudson County Prosecutor Esther Suarez said police found Rumberger in the trunk with trauma to his head. The cause and manner of his death are pending the outcome of an autopsy, Saurez said. At a press conference on Wednesday, Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said Anderson and Graham are suspects in Rumberger’s death. Rumberger’s 17-year-old daughter has started an online fundraiser to raise money for her father’s funeral. The fund has exceeded its $5,000 goal. On Sunday night, approximately 50 people gathered at the site where his body was found for a memorial service. On the curb there sits several half-smoked cigarettes, empty bottles of Heineken and Maker’s Mark whiskey, and about two-dozen candles. Rumberger’s blood, Nunez said, was still on the street. NJ Advance Media reporter Sophie Nieto-Munoz contributed to this report. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters. Alex Napoliello may be reached at anapoliello@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @alexnapoNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook. Joe Atmonavage may be reached at jatmonavage@njadvancemedia.com. Find NJ.com on Facebook.
Francine Graham was an occasional babysitter in the West Harlem housing project where she grew up and former neighbors still remember her as polite and caring. Decades later, when she settled into a townhouse complex in Elizabeth, New Jersey, Graham worked as a certified nurse’s aide for a health center run by the Catholic Church and looked out for ailing neighbors, according to her former employer and residents who interacted with her. The hours-long police standoff ended with their deaths. For those who saw Graham as kind, normal and neighborly, it brought complete bafflement. Those refrains are common. Anderson’s former wife, who hadn’t spoken with him since 2003, expressed similar sentiments. Still, a 2009 police report detailed a domestic-violence incident in which Anderson allegedly threatened to kill his then-girlfriend. Additionally, in two other cases from 2003 and 2007, Anderson was arrested for unlawful possession of weapons. In both cases, he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to jail, according to court records. Graham, on the other hand, had no criminal history. She worked for nearly 20 years as a nurse’s aide at the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center in Manhattan, according to public records. “We are stunned that an individual who was once associated with our ministry was involved in such a senseless and tragic act,” the New York Archdiocese-operated health center said in a statement, adding it was cooperating with investigators. At the Manhattanville Houses, where Graham’s mother still lives, a man who answered the door at her apartment said the family had no comment. New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said Anderson and Graham expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelites movement, but authorities have not found any definitive links between them and that organization or other group. Investigators believe the shooters were motivated by hate and acted on their own. It’s not known why Anderson and Graham attacked the detective and the kosher supermarket in particular, according to Grewal. On Tuesday, a man and woman identified as Anderson and Graham were captured on surveillance footage firing on the kosher market, authorities said. Anderson emerged from a U-Haul van, leaving the driver’s door ajar. Graham jumped out the passenger side. Anderson stepped across the street, his rifle pointed at the market, the footage showed. Bursts of gunfire erupted as he advanced. Graham, also carrying a long gun, followed behind. At the door to the market, Anderson stopped and looked back at Graham. They then sprayed the market with bullets, authorities said. He used an AR-15-style weapon; she had a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun. Other firearms and a pipe bomb were recovered. Graham had purchased the shotgun and a Ruger firearm in Ohio in the spring of 2018, according to the attorney general. “I was shocked it was her,” said Larry Baisden, 56, who lives across the street from the apartment Graham once shared with Anderson. Graham and Baisden, who has lived at New Jersey townhouse complex for nine years, usually talked when they were at the outdoor mailboxes in the middle of their block. After he fell and broke his hip last year, he said, she revealed her background as a home health aide. “She let me know if I needed any help with anything … to just come over to the door and let her know,” he said. Neighbors said Graham, whom public records show took out a mortgage on her Elizabeth townhouse apartment in 2011, used to stand outside to smoke cigarettes. She always offered greetings and small talk. She did walking exercises with her upstairs neighbor, according to Baisden and other neighbors. “She was always friendly and nice when I saw her,” he recalled. In an apartment next to the townhouse where Graham lived, FBI agents this week showed up at the door of neighbor Drake Surjet, 22, he said. An agent showed him Graham’s photo and asked whether he had heard of the shooting in Jersey City, he said. They asked about her accomplice. “Yes, there was that weirdo that moved in with her,” Surjet said he told them. Around 2017, when Anderson first appeared at the complex, Graham’s life appeared to go “downhill,” according to Surjet. After Anderson moved in, chanting and rituals could be heard in the apartment at night, he said. Graham told neighbors she stopped working that year after suffering a back injury, Surjet said. In 2018, Graham defaulted on her mortgage, public records show. After getting evicted, Surjet said, the couple started living out of Anderson’s white van, which would be parked on a side street outside the apartment entrance. Sometimes they would break into the home to shower, he said. On Saturday, the FBI said it was examining a white van “with possible connection to the Jersey City shootings” that was recovered in Orange township. It’s not clear if it was the same white van neighbors said Anderson and Graham lived in. About 30 miles northeast of Elizabeth, Estelle Rodriguez was at a West Harlem supermarket this week when a neighbor told her Graham had been shot and killed in the Jersey City rampage. Rodriguez said she last saw Graham at the Manhattanville Houses about a year ago. Graham told her she had been caring for her ailing mother. Rodriguez recalled a 10-year-old Graham running through the building corridor with the open terrace that overlooks wide tree-lined paths. Down the hall, Alice Harriot, 67, said Graham, in her 20s, used to occasionally take care of her children. Graham’s mother used to pick up her kids at school, Harriot said. She has lived there for close to a half-century. Harriot said she still exchanges Christmas cards with neighbors, including the Grahams. Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly spelled the name of Drake Surjet.
The motive seems to be "both anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement" sentiment. A pair of armed suspects, one wielding an AR-15 style rifle, who killed three people at a Jewish supermarket in Jersey City, New Jersey, moments after gunning down a police detective in a cemetery appear to have been motivated by "both anti-Semitism and anti-law enforcement" sentiments, officials said on Thursday. The suspects, David Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, were killed in an hourslong shootout with police on Tuesday but left a trail of potential evidence investigators are combing through to determine why they allegedly killed Jersey City police Det. Joseph Seals and targeted the Jersey City Kosher Supermarket, officials said. "Based on what we have collected so far, including based on recent witness interviews, we believe that the suspects held views that reflected hatred of the Jewish people as well as a hatred of law enforcement," New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said at a news conference. Craig Carpenito, U.S. attorney for the District of New Jersey, said the Federal Bureau of Investigation will take the lead in the probe. The announcement came after law enforcement sources told ABC News that investigators had found religious writings by the suspects expressing hate. In a stolen U-Haul van, the suspects parked in front of the kosher market just seconds before launching a rifle attack. Investigators found a pipe bomb and religious writings, including a handwritten note reading, "I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who he hates," multiple law enforcement sources told ABC News. Grewal said five firearms were found at the scene, one an AR-15 style rifle that security video showed Anderson firing as he entered the supermarket around 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday. "We also recovered a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun, which we believe Francine Graham was carrying as she entered the supermarket," Grewal said. Investigators also recovered from inside the store two other guns the suspects were armed with -- a 9mm Ruger semiautomatic handgun and a 9mm Glock 17, he said. Inside the U-Haul van the suspects were driving, investigators also found a .22-caliber Ruger Mark IV handgun equipped with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shell casings, Grewal said. He said investigators recovered "several hundred shell casings" at the scene which investigators are processing to determine how many were fired by the suspects and how many were fired by the police. Grewal said that based on two of the guns' serial numbers, the Mossberg shotgun and the .22-caliber Ruger, were legally purchased in 2018 by Graham at different gun shops in Ohio. "At this point, our evidence indicates that the shooters were aiming their fire at law enforcement officers only and not at others on the street," Grewal said. He said the investigation, so far, has found no accomplices involved. He also said investigators have learned that Anderson and Graham expressed interest in the Black Hebrew Israelites movement, a group that espouses hatred toward Jews and is known for anti-government and anti-police sentiments. "We have not definitively established any formal links to that organization or to any other group. Based on the available evidence we believe that the two shooters were acting on their own," Grewal said. Meanwhile, thousands of members of the Jewish Orthodox communities in Jersey City and Brooklyn, New York, gathered at cemeteries Wednesday night to mourn and bury two of the victims, 33-year-old Mindy Ferencz, the wife of the kosher supermarket owner and mother of five, and 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, a Yeshiva student. Deutsch's father, Abe Deutsch, is a member of the United Jewish Organization's board of directors, said Rabbi David Niederman, president of the organization. “A few hundred bullets went into the body of a 24-year-old child ... how can we as a community, as people, bear that?” Niederman said of Moshe Deutsch, during a news conference Wednesday at City Hall in New York City. The third victim killed at the supermarket was identified by authorities as Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, 49, who worked at the store. Funeral arrangements for Rodriguez are pending. A funeral for Det. Seals, 39, a married father of five, is scheduled to be held next Tuesday. New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy said the Jersey City incident is a wakeup call. The terrifying episode began to unfold about 12:38 p.m. on Tuesday when the Jersey City Police Department received a 911 call from an individual who discovered Seals' body in the Bayview Cemetery, about a mile from the kosher market, Grewal said on Wednesday. He said investigators believe Seals was shot to death when he confronted the suspects in Bayview cemetery. He said Anderson and Graham were prime suspects in the murder this past weekend of an Uber driver officials identified as Michael Rumberger. Rumberger's body was found in the trunk of a Lincoln Town car around 10 p.m. Saturday, sources told ABC News. Seals apparently had gone to the cemetery alone to meet the suspects and one of them may have been an informant he had worked with, possibly explaining why he felt comfortable meeting in the cemetery without backup or radioing in about the rendezvous, the sources said. Seals, a plainclothes undercover detective, had been investigating the homicide, according to law enforcement sources. After allegedly killing Seals in the cemetery, the suspects got into the stolen U-Haul van and drove to the kosher market, arriving about 12:43 p.m., Grewal said. Security video, obtained by ABC News, shows the suspects parking directly across the street from the supermarket on Martin Luther King Drive, getting out of the vehicle holding rifles and calmly walking into the supermarket as passersby on the street scrambled for cover. Grewal said four people, including the three slain victims, were inside the store when the suspects stormed through the front door. A lone survivor, who was shot and wounded, managed to escape, Grewal said. Two foot-patrol officers were about a block from the deli and responded as soon as they heard the gunfire, Grewal said. They were both shot and wounded in a gunfight with the suspects that involved other Jersey City police officers, he said. The gunbattle lasted until about 3:47 p.m. when a police armored vehicle broke through the entryway of the supermarket and police found the bodies of the suspects and the three victims inside. In addition to the two other officers wounded in the shootout, a third was hurt by shrapnel, officials said. The officers were all treated at a hospital and released. ABC News' Rachel Katz contributed to this report.
One of the suspects in the attack on a Jersey City, New Jersey kosher grocery store wrote several Facebook posts demonstrating belief in anti-Semitic conspiracy theories, the Anti-Defamation League revealed Tuesday. David Anderson, one of the two suspected shooters in the attack, used the alias Dawad Maccabee on Facebook from July to December 2015, according to the ADL. Hundreds of posts revealed his hatred of Jews, white people and the police, the ADL said. Anderson expressed views that conform with Black Hebrew Israelite ideology. Black Hebrew Israelites believe that people of color are the true descendants of the biblical Israelites and white Jews are impostors. Anderson wrote in July 2015, “Brooklyn is full of NAZIS – ASHKE-NAZIS (KHAZARS).” The citation of Khazars is a reference to a debunked anti-Semitic conspiracy theory that Ashkenazi Jews aren’t actually descendant from refugees from biblical Israel but rather from the nomadic Khazar people of Central Asia. Anderson also claimed in that same post that black people were being killed by law enforcement because of Jews, because “the police are their hand now.” Anderson and his co-suspect and girlfriend Francine Graham are accused of shooting police officer Joseph Seals before driving to the JC Kosher Supermarket and killing three more people. In a separate post, Anderson criticized Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, who has been known for his anti-Semitism for decades. Anderson called Farrakhan a “rat” and a “con” for posing for a picture with representatives from the extremist Orthodox sect Neturei Karta.
New Jersey shooters David Anderson and Francine Graham had an improvised explosive device inside their U-Haul van that had the reach of five football fields, a weapon that could have been part of larger wave of attacks targeting the Jewish community and law enforcement, officials said Monday. “If it exploded in the right place it could have certainly injured or killed people up to five football fields away,” said FBI Newark Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie. Ehrie and others mentioned the homemade bomb along with new details about the investigation into both the shooters and the incidents that led up to the pair opening fire inside a kosher supermarket in Jersey City on December 10. Both shooters – who Ehrie said were not connected to any group, including the Black Hebrew Israelites – were living in that van. They surveilled the supermarket days before the attack and even drove past the location that day, officials said. There were also enough materials in the van to make another explosive device, Ehrie said. The violence, which officials said was months in the making, included the purchase of five firearms in March 2018, target practice with long guns days before the shooting, the shooting at a vehicle being driven by a Hasidic Jew close to Newark Airport, and the bludgeoning and shooting death of another victim, Michael Rumberger, also before the Jersey City shooting. Graham rented the van Nov. 27. The incident unfolded as Det. Joseph Seals, a 13-year veteran of the Jersey City Police Department, was meeting an informant at a cemetery about a mile from where the shooting took place. He saw the U-Haul van parked in a spot that made him suspicious, Carpenito said. The detective went to investigate, and that’s when Graham and Anderson, who had been living in the van, opened fire and killed him using a 9mm handgun, Carpenito said. After the shooting, Graham and Anderson drove to the kosher supermarket, Carpenito said. They parked directly across the street. Anderson got out of the driver’s side of the van with a long gun in his hand and pointed it towards the supermarket as he walked across the street and fired inside. Graham left the passenger side of the truck and was behind Anderson as he opened fire. Both entered the supermarket at 12:21 p.m. and shot or killed all of the supermarket victims, Carpenito said, as soon as they stormed inside. One victim who was able to flee through a back door, dodging Anderson’s bullets as he fled. Anderson and Graham then barricaded themselves in the supermarket and shot hundreds of bullets at law enforcement officers before they were killed in the gunbattle, Carpenito said. Both were wearing tactical gear. After the shooting, authorities found five firearms at the scene including an AR-15 and a shotgun. Inside the van, authorities found the improvised explosive device, a shopping list for tactical items, targets and notes for how to aim rifles from 50 yards away or more, Carpenito said. They also found a Bible, which had Rumberger’s blood on it, a note on top of the Bible that said Anderson was a follower of the Black Hebrew Israelites and some anti-Semitic views, ballistic plates on the rear of the cab inside the vehicle, enough explosive materials to make another bomb, and two cell phones. A note found on Anderson’s body had a quote that read “FBI’s War on Black America,” making reference to a documentary of the same name made in 1990. In particular, it referenced a part of the film that called for violence against law enforcement. It also contained a phone number and address to a pawn shop, also in New Jersey. Officials said there are no other current threats related to the case. While there are no co-conspirators or connections to a third party, Ehrie said, he lamented the difficulty in trying to find and prevent attacks by people such as Anderson and Graham, who were not known to law enforcement before the attack and were not tied to an organization or group. “A lot of these individuals, like Anderson and Graham, are off the radar. They aren’t doing anything that would bring them to anybody’s attention, whether that’s by intent or whether that’s just by their lifestyles, and then just something goes and they commit to an act like this. That is very, very difficult,” Ehrie said.
The mayor of Jersey City says that the shooters in this week’s attack were clearly targeting children at the yeshiva school attached to the kosher supermarket where they set up shop with high-powered weapons. Mayor Steven Fulop said as much in a post on Twitter, where he noted that the doorway to the grocer was just feet away from where around 50 students were learning on Tuesday. “My opinion is that as more info comes out it’ll become increasingly clear that the target was the 50 children at the Yeshiva attached to that store. We will never know 100% but the doorway to the yeshiva was 3 feet away + it seems he goes in that direction 1st,” the mayor wrote on Friday. The two shooters were killed after the hours-long shoot out. A police officer was also killed, as were three civilians. In the days since, investigators have tied the two shooters to the Black Hebrew Israelites, a movement identified by the Southern Poverty Law Centre as a supremacist group that views white people as “inherently evil” and think Catholics and Jews practice a “gutter religion” that preys on black people. The attackers have been identified as 47-year-old David Anderson and 50-year-old Francine Graham, a four-year veteran of the Army reserve. The pair were reportedly a couple. Authorities have also said they found a rambling religious manifesto inside of one of the suspect’s rental van.
Haaretz.com, the online English edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, gives you breaking news, analyses and opinions about Israel, the Middle East and the Jewish World.
Josh Einiger has more on the investigation into the deadly Jersey City shooting. JERSEY CITY, New Jersey (WABC) -- Federal and state law enforcement officials held a press conference Monday to update the continuing investigation into the Jersey City shootings that left a police officer, three civilians inside a Jewish grocery store, and two suspects dead. One month later, there are still many lingering questions -- including why Detective Joseph Seals was in Bay View Cemetery when he was killed, and why the suspects targeted the grocery store. Investigators did their best to answer what they could. First, in addition to the murder of livery driver Michael Rumberger in Bayonne on December 7, 47-year-old David Anderson and 50-year-old Francine Graham are also suspects in a shooting on December 3 near Newark Airport in whicch the windows were shot out of a car driven by a Hasidic man. Authorities say the victim in that case did not realize he was targeted until after the Jersey City shooting, and one of the suspect's cell phones was tracked to that location on the day of that shooting. "Up until the attack, there wasn't anything that would have put either of them on anybody's radar," said Gregory Ehrie, special agent in charge of the FBI's Newark division. Officials say there was evidence that the suspects had been planning the attack for months and that they checked out the JC Kosher Market on Martin Luther King Drive on at least two occasions and entered the store during one of them, even driving by the business twice on the day of the shootings. They also searched other Jewish locations, however, so it is unclear why they settled upon that as their target. It is also clear their motivation was anti-Semitic and anti-police views, authorities said, as writings showed they clearly hated both. Anderson's social media posts included a reference to Jews as "imposters who inhabited synagogues of Satan," Carpenito said. "This was a senseless and cowardly act," Carpenito said. Finally, they say Detective Joseph Seals was at the cemetery to meet an informant when he recognized the suspects' stolen U-Haul from the Bayonne shooting and went to investigate. In addition to Seals' murder, the suspects also killed 24-year-old Moshe Deutsch, 49-year-old Douglas Miguel Rodriguez, and 31-year-old Mindy Ferencz inside the grocery store. It appears Rodriguez died as he was holding the back door open to allow another wounded customer to escape. Now, one month later, Ferencz's husband says he forgives. Authorities said Rumberger was killed with the same weapon used to shoot the vehicle near Newark Airport days earlier and that his blood was found on a Bible in the U-Haul vehicle, which also contained a pipe bomb. The homemade explosive was powerful enough to send shrapnel over five football fields, and the suspects reportedly had enough bomb making material to make another device. They were apparently looking at another Jewish community center in Bayonne as a possible target, and it is now believed their encounter with Det. Seals slowed their progress and may have saved lives. They don't have any evidence to suggest the Yeshiva above the Kosher market was the target, a claim previously made by Mayor Steven Fulop, since officials said it was clear they had the sights set on the market.
The U.S. attorney in New Jersey and the head of the local FBI said Monday that the bomb found in the van of alleged domestic terrorists Francine Graham and David Anderson could have killed or maimed people up to five football fields away. They also said there was enough material in the van to make a second bomb. Four innocent people, including a veteran Jersey City police detective and father of five, died in the hail of prolonged gunfire. Most of the victims were found inside the JC Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Boulevard during what officials have described as a hate-fueled terror spree on Dec. 10. The officer who died, Det. Joseph Seals, was killed at a cemetery, where authorities said he had gone to meet with a man to talk about the return of a vehicle impounded by police. Details will never be definitive, authoritis said, but investigators believe Seals approached the suspects' van because cops were looking for it in connection with the murder of a livery driver the prior weekend. Cops are still looking into a possible connection between the driver's death and the terror that was unleashed in Jersey City on Dec. 10. Seals' death first brought law enforcement near the scene of what would become a horrific bloodbath, leaving schools with bullet-riddled windows and the neighborhood locked down. Francine Graham had no known criminal record, and law enforcement officials haven’t found any radical or hateful content on her social media pages. The same cannot be said for David Anderson, who had a previous gun arrest and was a member of the Black Hebrew Israelites. NBC New York’s Jonathan Dienst reports. Authorities could not detail what that plan would have been, other than to say that Graham and Anderson had done research on a Jewish community center in Bayonne. They did confirm earlier preliminary suspicions that the shootout was a bias crime against Jews and against the law enforcement community. The shooters were found dead when the gunfire ended. Authorities do not believe a Yeshiva next door to the kosher supermarket was targeted, but said they had cased the grocery store multiple times, including the morning of the attack. Carpenito also confirmed a News 4 report that several days before the shooting, a Jewish man driving near Newark Airport had been shot at; ballistics show two of the shots that hit the man's car came from one of Anderson and Graham's guns. The livery driver who died the weekend before the attack was shot with the same weapon that fired on the vehicle near the airport, authorities said. The NJ attorney general called the Jersey City shootout that killed 4 people a hate-filled domestic terror attack, as more details surfaced about how it all went down. NBC New York’s Brian Thompson reports. Carpenito also confirmed an earlier report from News 4 that both supsects had handcuff keys in their underwear. He said there was no evidence of co-conspirators and that the two went to Ohio for target practice not long before the attack. The FBI has found a white Ford van with New Jersey license plates that it was searching for in connection with its investigation into this week's deadly shooting attack at a Jersey City kosher supermarket. Anjali Hemphill reports. Officials have said they believe the two attackers identified themselves in the past as Black Hebrew Israelites, a movement whose members have been known to rail against white people and Jews. Authorities have said they have not established a formal link between the pair and the group. Investigators also have found social media postings from Anderson that were anti-police and had anti-Jewish elements, law enforcement sources with knowledge of the case previously told News 4. Five firearms to date have been linked to the duo. Four — an AR-15 style weapon, a shotgun, and semiautomatic firearms, including a Glock — were recovered from inside the kosher market. A fifth — a weapon with a homemade silencer and a homemade device to catch shell casings — was discovered in the U-Haul they drove to the market. That van was outfitted with ballistic panels; it also had the bomb inside. Investigators have been able to track two of the five weapons thus far via their serial numbers. Both, Grewal said, were purchased by Graham at separate gun shops in Ohio in the spring of 2018. The investigation into the shootout and the suspects is being led by federal authorities and conducted by a joint coalition of law enforcement entities. That investigation is ongoing, Carpenito said Monday. It was a day of healing for people in and around Jersey City on Sunday as harrowing stories of survival were shared by survivors of Tuesday's shooting. Ken Buffa reports.
The two people who stormed a kosher grocery store in Jersey City with rifles, killing three people inside and also murdering a veteran detective, have been identified as David Anderson and Francine Graham, four law enforcement sources familiar with the case tell News 4. A senior law enforcement official says the attack is now being investigated as a possible hate crime. Three sources say Anderson was a one-time follower of the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, a group whose members believe they are descendants of the ancient Israelites and may adhere to both Christian and Judaic beliefs. The Southern Poverty Law Center has labeled the Hebrew Israelites a black supremacist group. Some sects within the movement are known for their fierce condemnations of white and Jewish people. However, officials say a motive — including any alleged nexus to hate or terror — remains under active investigation. Top law enforcement leaders from varying levels of New Jersey government said Wednesday afternoon that a "pipe bomb," along with multiple other weapons, were recovered at the scene. Jonathan Dienst has new information about the shooters in the Jersey City incident Tuesday. Other sources described a crudely made device with black powder and a fuse; they said it wasn't immediately clear if it was operable. New Jersey law enforcement leaders confirmed Wednesday afternoon Graham and Anderson were the prime suspects in a Bayonne homicide that authorities in Jersey City also had been investigating. A neighbor who said he lived next to Graham for years said she was a former home health aide in Manhattan who met Anderson after she got hurt at work and quit; he says Graham turned into a "dark person" after they met. The neighbor also claims Graham was coerced into a militant religion he could not identify; chanting and reading of the New Testament, translated into "evil," could be heard from her home, he said. A year ago, the neighbor says Graham stopped paying her condo fees and left. Jersey City tells News 4 the mortgage was assumed by a bank in November 2018. The Kosher market where the suspects holed up and where three victims were killed was cleaned and boarded up as the investigation into how and why everything happened continues. NBC New York’s Sarah Wallace reports. Graham was born and raised in Upper Manhattan, then moved to Elizabeth before she met Anderson and became homeless, law enforcement sources said. She had no prior criminal history, and her social media presence was not considered radical. Law enforcement sources said it is believed Graham and Anderson had been living in the U-Haul van they were seen on video exiting. Graham had rented it and never returned it, explaining why it had been reported stolen soon after. Social media shows Anderson may have been living out of another van for some time before the shootout, selling snacks and clothing to try and get by. Court documents show that Anderson had a criminal record. New Jersey Department of Corrections records show that Anderson faced weapons offenses in 2004, 2007 and 2011 and spent time in jail. New footage obtained by NBC New York shows the moment shooters went into a kosher supermarket in Jersey City on Tuesday. He also faced a criminal mischief charge in Ohio in 2009, according to court records. It's unknown if these are the only prior charges Anderson faced. He also may be connected to anti-police comments posted in connection to past events like Ferguson, Missouri, and the shooting of three police officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The new details came shortly after local authorities announced a review of surveillance video clearly showed the market was targeted, though they, along with state and federal investigators, say a precise motive remains under investigation. The footage shows the shooters deliberately bypass other people on the busy street, aiming directly for people inside the kosher deli. Information continues to develop, and while authorities said Tuesday that it appeared the standoff began with the deadly shooting of a police officer at a separate site, Fulop and Shea said Wednesday that the bloodshed began at the market. The barrage of gunfire -- at least 100 bullets -- locked down all Jersey City public schools for hours Tuesday. Authorities are investigating whether Anderson traveled to Ohio to purchase some of the guns used in the shootout, law enforcement sources said. A gun with a silencer was among those found inside the U-Haul van by law enforcement officials. A police officer was shot and killed before two suspects holed up inside a Kosher market in Jersey City, officials said. It led to a shootout that left three civilians dead as well as the suspects. Ray Villeda, Rana Novini, Jonathan Dienst, Andrew Siff, Anjali Hemphill and Stehan Holt have team coverage.
Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.) deleted a tweet Thursday morning in which she falsely credited Tuesday's deadly shooting at a kosher deli in Jersey City, New Jersey to "white supremacy" when in fact, the suspected shooters were reportedly Black Hebrew Israelites. Tlaib deleted the post just minutes after it went up, but not before close observers were able to nab a screenshot. It didn't take long for the tweet to spread among influential political commentators, especially conservatives, like Dinesh D'Souza, who retweeted a post calling out the congresswoman's blunder. The shooting in the Jewish community in Jersey City left six people dead, including a police officer. Investigators say one of the suspects posted anti-Semitic and anti-police sentiment online, noted The Associated Press. Two of the civilian victims, Mindy Ferencz and Moshe Deutsch, were reportedly members of the Orthodox Jewish community in the neighborhood. Jersey City Mayor Steve Fulop announced on Wednesday that the massacre was a "hate crime" against Jews. Fulop stated there is reason to believe that the deli was a premeditated target, though investigators have not confirmed details about the suspects' motives. Tlaib has yet to comment in response to the called-out deleted tweet.
