Update: Brad Stone's body found in field near Brad Stone's's home and military acquaintances recount odd reputation and issues with ex-wife. A manhunt is underway for Brad Stone's killing six family members, including Brad Stone's's ex-wife, and wounding a teen in three towns across Montgomery County, Pennsylvania.
Bradley William Stone, 35 of Pennsburg, is considered armed and dangerous. Montgomery County, Pennsylvania District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said police are actively searching for Brad Stone's and residents of one town are being asked to lock residents of one town indoors.
Brad Stone's stands 5-feet-10-inches tall and weighs 195 lbs. Brad Stone's is believed to be clean-shaven, but earlier officials said Brad Stone's could have a red beard and close-cropped hair. Brad Stone's is known to use a cane or walker to assist in moving, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
Brad Stone's may also be wearing military fatigues — either green or brown. Brad Stone's served more than eight years in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve and was deployed to Iraq, according to a U.S. Marine Corps spokesman. During Brad Stone's's time, Brad Stone's earned several medals and Brad Stone's's specialty was Artillery Meteorological Man — effectively a meteorologist that monitors weather conditions to ensure military fire accuracy. Family friends and neighbors who know Brad Stone's said Brad Stone's suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder and was discharged from the military because of post-traumatic stress disorder.
SWAT officers used military-grade vehicles and equipment to search Brad Stone's's home in Pennsburg and the surrounding area. But so far have no definitive idea of where Brad Stone's may be. "We actually recovered Brad Stone's's vehicle and Brad Stone's's personal cell phone so we do not have information about how Brad Stone's might be traveling," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman asked for the public to keep an eye out for Brad Stone's and call 911 right away if the public spot Brad Stone's.
A man, wearing fatigues and fitting Brad Stone's's description, attempted to carjack a driver at knifepoint in the Doylestown, Bucks County area shortly before 8 p.m., county dispatchers tell NBC10. a driver then fired shots at A man, wearing fatigues and fitting Stone's description, as A man, wearing fatigues and fitting Stone's description, fled into the woods, officials said.
Police spent four hours searching the area -- locking down the Central Bucks YMCA and Stonington Farms Apartments. Philadelphia Police sent one of Philadelphia Police's tatical helicopters, equipped with an infrared camera, to the area to help, officials said. Police investigated four scenes in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania as part of the shooting spree involving Brad Stone's.
Officials said shootings took place at three of the locations -- Harleysville, Lansdale and Souderton. The fourth location, in Pennsburg, is where SWAT officers the search for Brad Stone's, near Brad Stone's's home. SWAT officers found Brad Stone's's body not far from Brad Stone's's home on Tuesday. Having turned up nothing, the search was suspended around midnight, but officials asked residents to remain vigilent.
Among Brad Stone's's seven victims is Brad Stone's's former wife, Nicole Hill Stone. ex-wife was shot inside ex-wife's apartment in Harleysville, just feet from their kids, around 4:55 a.m., police sources, prosecutors and neighbors tell NBC10.
“I heard their kids say, ‘Mommy no. their kids need their kids's mom. their kids want their kids's mom.’
And I heard Brad Stone's say ‘Let’s go. We have to go now.
We’re leaving,’” ex-wife's next-door neighbor, at the Pheasant Run Apartments along 150 Main Street, said. Moments after being jolted awake by the gunshots and hearing the yelling, ex-wife saw their kids, and a man running to a car parked outside. “ex-wife opened the window and ex-wife asked a man ‘Is everything OK?’
a man just looked at ex-wife and said ‘ex-wife’s hurt pretty bad. We have to leave.
ex-wife’s hurt.’ And a man just got in a car parked outside and just left," ex-wife said.
When police arrived, police found ex-wife dead inside her apartment in the Harleysville section of Lower Salford Township, police sources tell NBC10. Two bullet holes dotted her apartment in the Harleysville section of Lower Salford Township's outer wall.
their kids were located safe at the home of Brad Stone's's neighbor in Pennsburg, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. ex-wife was last on ex-wife's ex-husband's hit list, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Brad Stone's shot ex-wife's mother, Jo Anne Koder, and ex-wife's 75-year-old grandmother, Patricia Hill, inside Stone shot the woman's mother, Jo Anne Koder, and her 75-year-old grandmother, Patricia Hill,'s home along W. Fifth and Pierce Streets in Lansdale around 4:25 a.m., Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Montgomery County, Pennsylvania's 911 call center received a hang up call shortly before the shooting spree involving suspected gunman Bradley Stone, ex-wife said.
Police spent three hours searching the area following the shooting spree involving suspected gunman Bradley Stone, but turned up nothing. A check shortly before 8 a.m. at the Souderton home of Brad Stone's's sister, Trish Flick, turned up another gruesome scene. Brad Stone's barged into Hill Stone's sister, Trish Flick,'s Penn Avenue home around 3:30 a.m. and the shooting spree involving suspected gunman Bradley Stone Hill Stone's sister, Trish Flick,, Hill Stone's sister, Trish Flick,'s husband Aaron, their 14-year-old daughter Nina and 17-year-old son Anthony, according to prosecutors.
SWAT officers surrounded the Souderton home of Hill Stone's sister, Trish Flick, after arriving and spent hours trying to make contact with a person SWAT officers could see moving inside. Around 11 a.m., officers fired a diversionary device into the Souderton home of Hill Stone's sister, Trish Flick, and, following the resulting boom, entered.
officers found all, but 17-year-old son Anthony dead. 17-year-old son Anthony was rushed to a waiting medical helicopter and flown to Thomas Jefferson Hospital's trauma center in Philadelphia, officials said. Still, Brad Stone's was nowhere to be found.
The situation prompted homes to be evacuated and a shelter in place order to be activated in Pennsburg's school district. a shelter in place order was lifted around noon as SWAT officers left the Penn Avenue scene.
the Souderton home of Hill Stone's sister, Trish Flick, remains under investigation as an active crime scene, Towamencin Township Police Chief Paul Dickinson said. Those officers, driving a mine-resistant vehicle, then made SWAT officers's way to a fourth home, a duplex owned by Brad Stone's, along Main and W. 4th streets in Pennsburg. a fourth home, a duplex owned by Stone, along Main and W. 4th streets in Pennsburg is about 20 miles from Souderton and is where additional SWAT officers had been stationed for hours.
After getting no response for hours, SWAT officers moved inside and found nothing. SWAT officers then expanded SWAT officers's search to areas nearby.
Sources said officials have asked other county law enforcement agencies to send two-men patrol cars to assist in their search. Officials in neighboring Bucks County and the FBI confirmed Officials in neighboring Bucks County and the FBI are also supporting their search.
Because of their search, the Upper Perkiomen School District, which serves Brad Stone's's town, announced the Upper Perkiomen School District, which serves Stone's town's schools will be closed on Tuesday. Officials have not released a motive for the shooting spree involving suspected gunman Bradley Stone, but several of ex-wife's neighbors and friends said ex-wife feared for ex-wife's life as the two went through a bitter custody dispute. Contact Vince Lattanzio at 610.668.5532, vince.lattanzio@nbcuni.com or follow @VinceLattanzio on Twitter.

A SWAT team has descended upon a home in Montgomery County where police say a suspect in three shootings that left five dead has been barricaded.
A flash, followed by a loud bang just before 11:45 Monday morning preceded SWAT personnel rushing toward a home in Souderton, Pennsylvania, where a man reportedly sought in three shootings that left five dead was thought to be holed up. It was not immediately clear if the man, who WPVI said was a military veteran, was in the Montgomery County home.
a suspect in three shootings that left five dead was brought out of a home in Montgomery County where police say a suspect in three shootings that left five dead has been barricaded on a stretcher, WPVI said. It wasn't clear who a suspect in three shootings that left five dead was.
A medical helicopter could be seen nearby and witnesses said and A medical helicopter soon took off. K9s were taken to a home in Montgomery County where police say a suspect in three shootings that left five dead has been barricaded and police soon were moving in and out. Police in three Montgomery County communities responded early Monday to killings.

An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg methodically killed An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's ex-wife and five members of his ex-wife's family in a shooting rampage that started around 3:30 a.m. Monday in Souderton, then spread as An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg went to Lansdale and finally Lower Salford an hour and 45 minutes later, authorities said. The alleged shooter, Bradley W. Stone, 35, of Pennsburg, was still on the loose and considered armed and dangerous, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said at a 6 p.m. news conference.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg might be wearing military fatigues and using a cane or walker. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said five members of her family were Nicole Hill, An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's ex-wife; Patricia Flick, his ex-wife's sister; Patricia Flick, Hill’s sister's husband, Aaron; Patricia Flick, Hill’s sister 14-year-old daughter, and his ex-wife mother and grandmother. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said Patricia Flick, Hill’s sister 17-year-old son was injured in the Souderton shooting, and that An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg took An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's two daughters from An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's ex-wife’s apartment in the 100 block of Main Street in Lower Salford, dropping his two daughters off around 5 a.m. at a former neighbor’s home in Pennsburg.
An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg has undergone treatment for post-traumatic shock syndrome, according to court records. court records also show An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg suffered combat-related injuries during a 2008 combat tour in Iraq.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman gave no motive for a shooting rampage that started around 3:30 a.m. Monday in Souderton, then spread as he went to Lansdale and finally Lower Salford an hour and 45 minutes later. But a Lower Salford neighbor of his ex-wife's said The couple had a tumultuous relationship.
a shooting rampage that started around 3:30 a.m. Monday in Souderton, then spread as he went to Lansdale and finally Lower Salford an hour and 45 minutes later began around 3:30 a.m. when An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg allegedly went to the Flick home in the 100 block of Penn Avenue in Souderton, where police found the bodies of five members of her family. Although the Souderton shooting is believed to be the first shooting, the Souderton shooting was the last one police discovered Monday. Police first became aware of a shooting rampage that started around 3:30 a.m. Monday in Souderton, then spread as he went to Lansdale and finally Lower Salford an hour and 45 minutes later when Police received a 911 hang-up call at 4:25 a.m. from Lansdale. Police found his ex-wife mother and grandmother dead in a home in the 100 block of West Fifth Street, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
According to Montgomery County records, a home in the 100 block of West Fifth Street is listed in the name of Patricia Flick, Hill’s sister. Around 4:45 a.m., a neighbor called about gunshots from the Pheasant Run apartments in Lower Salford.
his ex-wife was found dead at his ex-wife's home. An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg was thought to be in a Pennsburg home surrounded by SWAT officers about 1:30 p.m.
Three or four loud bangs rang out at a home in the 100 block of West Fifth Street. In Lower Salford, his ex-wife's neighbor Brewster said a neighbor woke up to the sound of smashed glass and a commotion.
“Then a neighbor heard a ‘pow,’ and a neighbor thought, ‘Was that a gun?'” a neighbor said. Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, heard gunshots from the Pheasant Run apartments in Lower Salford, likening gunshots from the Pheasant Run apartments in Lower Salford to a car or truck hitting a house. Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, said Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, heard what sounded like four gunshots and could hear children screaming for children's mother.
Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, said Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, could hear An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg telling children that children had to leave. Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, said Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, looked out the front window and could see An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg with the children, who were in children's pajamas. Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, said An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg looked at Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, and said, “his ex-wife’s hurt,” referring to An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's ex-wife. An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg and children got in a car and sped off.
a neighbor said a sliding-glass door to a home in the 100 block of West Fifth Street was smashed. Two bullet holes were in a wall of a home in the 100 block of West Fifth Street, and a child’s bicycle with training wheels was out back. a neighbor said his ex-wife moved into a home in the 100 block of West Fifth Street several years ago after his ex-wife's marriage broke up.
According to court dockets, An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg filed for divorce from his ex-wife in March 2009. The Philadelphia Inquirer reported that divorce from Hill was finalized in 2012. In court documents, An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg described An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg as “permanently disabled according to the Veteran’s Administration.”
The couple sparred in court in early 2013 over child support levels and preschool arrangements. A February 2013 order placed An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's monthly net income at $3,166 and set An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's child support at $896 per month. The couple recently battled over custody of The couple's two young children and support payments.
An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg on Dec. 5 filed an emergency petition for custody. his ex-wife filed a counterclaim on Dec. 9, according to court docket entries.
a neighbor said his ex-wife had a fiance, but a fiance was not with his ex-wife at the time of the Souderton shooting. In Pennsburg, residents were urged to stay indoors with residents's doors locked. Many businesses along Route 663 and Main Street, the borough’s main thoroughfares, closed early.
William Schafte of Harleysville, who described Schafte as a friend of An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg, went to Pennsburg when Schafte heard about the Souderton shooting. Schafte said Schafte was on Schafte's way to the Pennsburg police department to speak to officers Monday afternoon about where An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg might be if An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg was not in Pennsburg. Schafte described An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg as a “highly decorated veteran” and said that An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg was disabled due to an injury suffered during An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's service.
An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg was briefly president of the American Legion William E. Hare Post 206 in Lansdale about a decade ago, said the American Legion William E. Hare Post 206 in Lansdale current commander, John Gillmer. An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg stood out because An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg was in An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's 20s and got involved in the American Legion William E. Hare Post 206 in Lansdale soon after completing An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's tour of duty, attending events and rising to the post of president, the post’s current commander, John Gillmer said. Most vets join later in life, when Most vets's kids are grown, and Most vets have more free time, the post’s current commander, John Gillmer said.
Late Monday night, the search for An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg spread to Doylestown Township in Bucks County. Doylestown Township in Bucks County police said a resident fired shots at a man matching An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's description. In a statement posted online, Doylestown Township in Bucks County police said an attempted robbery occurred around 7 p.m. near Burpee and Shady Retreat roads.
The victim was walking The victim's dog when The victim was confronted by a man matching Stone’s description, police said. The victim described a man matching Stone’s description as a white male about 5-foot-10 wearing camouflage clothes. Police said a man matching Stone’s description demanded The victim's car keys, but The victim refused. The victim was armed and fired multiple rounds at a man matching Stone’s description.
An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg has three drunken-driving convictions, most recently a February 2013 arrest for driving with a blood-alcohol level more than twice the legal limit. An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg was denied entry to the Accelerated Rehabilitative Disposition program and pleaded guilty to the charges. An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg was sentenced in November 2013 to 90 days to 23 months on house arrest and three years’ probation.
An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg is described as 5 feet 10 inches tall and 195 pounds, with closely cropped hair. While An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg had a reddish beard and mustache in the past, the district attorney’s Facebook page describes An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg as currently clean-shaven. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said police recovered An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg's car and cellphone and do not know how An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg may be traveling. Reporters Scott Kraus and Jacqueline Palochko and Calkins Media contributed to this story.

Police in Pennsylvania mounted an intense search Monday in the Philadelphia suburbs for a man suspected of the slayings a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's ex-wife and five former in-laws, the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said at a Monday night press conference. Bradley William Stone of Pennsburg killed a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's ex-wife and his ex-wife's mother, grandmother and sister, as well as his ex-wife's husband and 14-year-old daughter, said the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania,.
But a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws didn’t harm a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's two daughters, who were living with a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's ex-wife. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws took his two daughters, who were living with his ex-wife to a neighbor’s residence in Pennsburg, the last place a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws was seen, the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said. the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, didn’t provide a motive for the slayings. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws was described as armed and dangerous. Late Monday night, police agencies descended on Doylestown, Pennsylvania, to investigate a possible sighting of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws, according to a source with knowledge of the investigation. Doylestown, Pennsylvania, is about 25 miles from Pennsburg.
A “shelter in place” had been ordered in the surrounding area where a possible sighting of Stone occurred, according to a source with knowledge of the investigation, and K-9 units have been asked to respond to the surrounding area where the sighting occurred as well. the slayings broke the calm in several small towns in Montgomery County, the second wealthiest county in Pennsylvania and the 51st wealthiest in the United States, according to the county government web page.
a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws served as a reservist in the U.S. Marines until 2011, mainly as a meteorologist, according to the U.S. Marines. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws spent a few months in Iraq in 2008. William Schafte of Harleysville, who described William Schafte of Harleysville, who described himself as a friend, as a friend, said a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws was a “good guy” who helped people who needed money or a hand, according to the Morning Call newspaper of Allentown, Pennsylvania. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws served as president of the American Legion William E. Hare Post 206 in Lansdale about a decade ago, said the current post commander John Gillmer, the Morning Call newspaper of Allentown, Pennsylvania reported.
the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said the investigation started at 4:25 a.m. with a 911 hangup call directing police to the town of Lansdale, 28 miles northwest of Philadelphia. When police arrived, police found two slain women: a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's former mother-in-law and former grandmother-in-law, the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said. At 4:55 a.m. a neighbor of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's ex-wife called 911, the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said. Police went to an apartment in Lower Salford and found a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws dead.
Another neighbor, Michele Brewster said Another neighbor, Michele Brewster heard a loud crash and shattering glass. Another neighbor, Michele Brewster said Another neighbor, Michele Brewster asked an officer if gunshots had been fired.
an officer said yes. At 5:30 a.m.
a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws delivered a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's two daughters to a neighbor in Pennsburg, the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said. About 8 a.m., police went to the home of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's sister, Patricia Flick, in Souderton.
Officers found Nicole Stone’s sister, Patricia Flick, in Souderton, Nicole Stone’s sister, Patricia Flick, in Souderton's husband and the couple’s 14-year-old daughter dead, the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said. Nicole Stone’s sister, Patricia Flick, in Souderton's 17-year-old son was wounded and was being treated at a Philadelphia hospital, the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said.
Though last discovered, it appears the killings in Souderton took place first, the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said. the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania,'s office said a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws may be wearing military fatigues, in either sand or green color.
According to Montgomery County court documents found online, the Stones divorced in 2009. In family court papers, a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's ex-wife said a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws claimed in a 2011 hearing that a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws was “permanently disabled,” according to the Veterans Administration, but that a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws had not applied for Social Security disability benefits. The Marine Corps told CNN The Marine Corps has no record of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws being injured. CNN affiliate WPVI said police originally thought a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws was holed up inside the house in Lansdale, so officers surrounded the house in Lansdale.

A possible sighting of Bradley William Stone, the man suspected of killing six people during a multi-location shooting spree in Montgomery County, has been reported in Doylestown, according to authorities. Doylestown Police said an attempted armed robbery was reported around 7 p.m. in the area of Burpee Road and Shady Retreat Road. A man told officers A man was confronted by a suspect, who had a knife, whose description was similar to the one provided for Bradley William Stone, the man suspected of killing six people during a multi-location shooting spree in Montgomery County. Police from multiple jurisdictions are assisting in the search, according to Doylestown.

LANSDALE, Pa. (CBS) --
Police are the search for Bradley Stone for a suspect Police say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning. "Due to the fact that law enforcement still seeks the whereabouts of a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning, Upper Perkiomen schools will be closed on Tuesday, December 16th. The District attorney has asked that people in our area remain vigilant.
Decisions regarding re-opening of school will be made on a daily basis, based upon consultation with law enforcement and investigative personnel. After consulting with local police and other area schools districts, the Pennridge School District will open as scheduled on Tuesday, December 16th but operate on a modified lock down. a modified lock down means students will remain indoors and only known individuals will be permitted to enter schools. Souderton schools will open as normal Tuesday, December 16th, but with no outdoor classes or recess as the search for a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning continues.
Among the victims killed in the shooting spree in Montgomery County is a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning's ex-wife, investigators said. Law enforcement authorities in Montgomery County are searching for 35-year-old Bradley William Stone, of Pennsburg.
Investigators say all of six people have a familial relationship to a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning. a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning is described as 5'10", 195 pounds, with a red/auburn beard and mustache with closely cropped hair. a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning is known to use a cane or walker to assist a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning.
a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning may be wearing military fatigues, in either sand or green color. According to a Marine spokesperson, a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning was a former Marine who served in Iraq in 2008 and was honorably discharged from the Reserves in 2011.
The search for a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning continued late Monday night in Doylestown, Bucks County after police say police took a report of an attempted carjacking involving someone who's description is similar to that of a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning. According to police, someone who's description is similar to that of Stone was walking someone who's description is similar to that of Stone's dog around 7 p.m. Monday when someone who's description is similar to that of Stone was confronted by a suspect carrying a knife and demanded someone who's description is similar to that of Stone's car keys. Police say someone who's description is similar to that of Stone had a gun and shot several times as someone who's description is similar to that of Stone ran into the woods.
The Central Bucks YMCA was on lockdown as a precaution and residents at Stonington Farm were told to shelter in place. As the search for Bradley Stone continued in Doylestown, Bucks County, SWAT team members stood in a defensive position outside a home in Pennsburg, Montgomery County. the search for Bradley Stone began late morning. Around 11:30 p.m. Monday, Doylestown, Bucks County officials said a modified lock down was lifted and residents to continue to be vigilant.
a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning should be considered armed and dangerous. Anyone with information about a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning's whereabouts is asked to call 911 immediately. "We actually recovered a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning's vehicle and a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning's personal cell phone, so we do not have information about how a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning might be traveling," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Investigators say the first shooting happened in Souderton at about 3:30 a.m.
During a news conference Monday evening, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning fatally shot a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning's former sister-in-law, his former sister-in-law's husband and the couple's 14-year-old daughter. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said the couple's's 17-year-old son survived being shot and was taken to a hospital in Philadelphia.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning then went to a home in Lansdale and fatally shot a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning's former mother-in-law and former grandmother-in-law. According to Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman, a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning then went to the Lower Salford home of a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning's ex-wife, 33-year-old Nicole Stone, and fatally shot his ex-wife, 33-year-old Nicole Stone. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning then took the couple's's two daughters, but a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning dropped the couple's two daughters off at a neighbor's home in Pennsburg shortly after.
Listen to the full press conference... A woman, who witnessed parts of the incident in Lower Salford, spoke to CBS's Steve Patterson about what A woman, who witnessed parts of the incident in Lower Salford saw. A woman, who witnessed parts of the incident in Lower Salford says at that point, A woman, who witnessed parts of the incident in Lower Salford opened A woman, who witnessed parts of the incident in Lower Salford's window and asked a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning if everything was okay.
The deadly shootings remain under investigation. CBS's Todd Quinones contributed to this report.

A Pennsylvania district attorney says there may never be closure in the case of a man suspected of killing a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's ex-wife and five former in-laws. “There’s no excuse; there’s no valid explanation.
There’s no justification for snuffing out his ex-wife and five former in-laws and then injuring another child. the case of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws is just a horrific tragedy,” A Pennsylvania district attorney told reporters Tuesday.
The body of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws, was found with what looked to be self-inflicted wounds. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws had been on the run since Monday’s slayings shook small communities north of Philadelphia.
Although a final report from the coroner is pending, a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws appears to have died from self-inflicted cutting wounds, in the center of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's body, according to A Pennsylvania district attorney. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's body was found in a wooded area about 1/2 mile from a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's home in Pennsburg.
It was not immediately clear how long The body of the suspect, Bradley William Stone had been there. “When you look at the three different locations, the number of people killed, clearly we are looking at a premeditated killing – a planned killing, an intentional, deliberate killing,” said A Pennsylvania district attorney.
Monday’s slayings broke the calm in several small towns in Montgomery County, the second wealthiest county in Pennsylvania and the 51st wealthiest in the United States, according to the county government web page. Early Monday’s morning, a hangup call to 911 first tipped off police to Monday’s slayings, directing police to Lansdale, 28 miles northwest of Philadelphia.
When police arrived, police found two slain women: a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's former mother-in-law and former grandmother-in-law, A Pennsylvania district attorney said. A short time later, a neighbor of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's ex-wife called 911, A Pennsylvania district attorney explained.
Police went to an apartment in Lower Salford and found his ex-wife dead. In addition to his ex-wife, his ex-wife's mother, grandmother and sister were found dead, as well as sister's husband and 14-year-old daughter, A Pennsylvania district attorney said.
sister's 17-year-old son was being treated at a Philadelphia hospital. A Pennsylvania district attorney said that the teen, who sustained cutting injuries to The sister’s 17-year-old son's hands and head, was in serious condition.
But a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws didn’t harm a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's two daughters, who were living with a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's ex-wife. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws took his two daughters, who were living with his ex-wife to a neighbor’s residence in Pennsburg, the last place a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws was seen, A Pennsylvania district attorney said. A Pennsylvania district attorney didn’t provide a motive for Monday’s slayings.
a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws was described as armed and dangerous. “We learned that just last week a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws had made an effort in court to try to secure custody – emergency custody of his two daughters, who were living with his ex-wife – and that was denied,” A Pennsylvania district attorney said.
According to Montgomery County court documents found online, the Stones divorced in 2009. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws served as a reservist in the U.S. Marines until 2011, mainly as a meteorologist, according to the U.S. Marines. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws spent a few months in Iraq in 2008.
William Schafte of Harleysville, who described William Schafte of Harleysville, who described himself as a friend, as a friend, said a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws was a “good guy” who helped people who needed money or a hand, according to the Morning Call newspaper of Allentown, Pennsylvania. a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws served as president of the American Legion William E. Hare Post 206 in Lansdale, 28 miles northwest of Philadelphia about a decade ago, said the current post commander John Gillmer, the Morning Call newspaper of Allentown, Pennsylvania reported.
The Upper Perkiomen School District called off classes Tuesday. Following the announcement of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws's death, The Upper Perkiomen School District said schools would reopen at regular times Wednesday.

A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's ex-wife and five of his ex-wife's relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia took A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's own life, authorities said Tuesday, ending a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia. A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia was found in a wooded area in New Hanover Township, about a half mile from A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's home in Pennsburg, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said at an afternoon news conference.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said that A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia was believed to have died "from self-inflicted cutting wounds in the center part of A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's body." Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman did not know how long A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia had been dead when A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia was discovered shortly after 1:30 p.m. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said a motive was not immediately clear, but said a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia came after a recent custody dispute between A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia and A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's ex-wife Nicole over Stone and his ex-wife Nicole's two children. More On This... a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia began around 3:30 a.m. on Monday, when A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia shot and killed Patricia Flick, the sister of A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's ex-wife, Nicole Stone, at Patricia Flick, the sister of his ex-wife, Nicole Stone,'s home in Souderton, also killing Patricia Flick, the sister of his ex-wife, Nicole Stone,'s husband, Aaron Flick, and Patricia Flick, the sister of his ex-wife, Nicole Stone,'s 14-year-old daughter, Nina Flick.
Patricia Flick, the sister of his ex-wife, Nicole Stone,'s 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, suffered "significant" cutting injuries to Her 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick,'s head and hands after apparently defending Her 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, from A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said, adding that Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman believed reports that Her 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, had had three of Her 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick,'s fingers cut off were accurate. Her 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, was being treated at a Philadelphia hospital and was in serious condition.
his ex-wife's mother, Joanne Hill, and grandmother Patricia Hill were killed next at Nicole Stone's mother, Joanne Hill, and grandmother Patricia Hill's home in nearby Lansdale. Investigators were alerted by a hang-up call to emergency dispatchers, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
Then, around 5 a.m., A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia went to his ex-wife's apartment, located in the Harleysville section of Lower Salford Township, investigators said. A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia broke in through a glass door, shot and killed his ex-wife, and fled with Stone and his ex-wife Nicole's two children, his ex-wife's neighbors said.
Authorities said A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia then delivered their two children to a neighbor in Pennsburg. A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's current wife and infant child were safe and secure as well, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman added.
All three towns are within a few minutes of each other. Pennsburg is located 48 miles northwest of Philadelphia.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said one firearm, the model of which Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman did not specify, had been recovered at the scene of his ex-wife's home, and a Beretta was missing, though Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said it was possible a Beretta could still be with A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's body, which hadn't been moved as of 4 p.m. so as to preserve the scene of Nicole Stone's home for the coroner. The hunt for A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia had spread to two Pennsylvania counties as authorities urged residents to be "vigilant and cautious," warning that A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia was armed and dangerous. Some schools were closed Tuesday, hospitals and other public places increased security and residents remained on heightened alert, even as officials lifted a shelter-in-place order for parts of Bucks County, where a knife-wielding, fatigue-clad man resembling A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia attempted a carjacking in Doylestown on Monday night.
But there was no immediate confirmation that a knife-wielding, fatigue-clad man resembling Stone was A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia. Authorities had recovered A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's cellphone, but Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said no meaningful information had been recovered from Stone's cellphone.
Friends of the family were shocked to hear of a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia. "(his ex-wife) would tell anybody who would listen that a knife-wielding, fatigue-clad man resembling Stone was going to kill his ex-wife, and that his ex-wife was really afraid for his ex-wife's life," said Evan Weron, a neighbor of A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's ex-wife, Nicole Stone. "Everything started being blocked off, the SWAT was then later called in, then we had the tanks pull up," said Don Smith, describing the scene near Don Smith's Souderton home.
Brad and his ex-wife, married in 2004 and filed for divorce in March 2009, according to court records. Stone and his ex-wife Nicole recently sparred over custody of Stone and his ex-wife Nicole's two children, with Brad filing an emergency petition Dec. 5 and his ex-wife responding with a counterclaim Dec. 9, according to court records. The outcome of Stone and his ex-wife Nicole's dispute was not clear.
his ex-wife's neighbors at the Pheasant Run Apartments in Harleysville said Nicole Stone's neighbors at the Pheasant Run Apartments in Harleysville were awakened Monday morning by the sounds of breaking glass and gunshots. Evan Weron, a neighbor of Stone's ex-wife, Nicole Stone said his ex-wife would talk frequently about their dispute. "his ex-wife came into the house a few times, a few separate occasions, crying about how their dispute was very upsetting to his ex-wife," Evan Weron, a neighbor of Stone's ex-wife, Nicole Stone said. A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia served in Iraq and held the rank of sergeant at the time of A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia's discharge in 2008, U.S. Marine Corps records show. Fox News' Justin Fishel, Rick Leventhal and The Associated Press contributed to this report.

An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's estranged family members dead remained at large late Monday as the manhunt continued north of Philadelphia.
six of his estranged family members included An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's ex-wife, his ex-wife's mother, his ex-wife's grandmother, his ex-wife's sister, his ex-wife's brother-in-law and a niece. A nephew was wounded.
Former Marine Sgt. Bradley William Stone, 35, also may have abducted An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's two daughters from An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's ex-wife’s home, a witness said, but dropped his two daughters off with a neighbor before An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead vanished.
By late Monday night, the manhunt had spilled from Montgomery County into Bucks County, leading residents in Doylestown to shelter indoors. Stone, of Pennsburg, was being sought on suspicion of shootings in the towns of Lansdale, Lower Salford Township and Souderton. the towns of Lansdale, Lower Salford Township and Souderton are 35 to 50 miles north of Philadelphia.
Montgomery County law enforcement officials described a series of attacks that began at 3:30 a.m. and continued until 5 a.m., until An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead dropped off An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's daughters and disappeared, abandoning An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's vehicle and An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's cellphone. A possible sighting of An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead took place Monday night:
Doylestown said an attempted armed robbery took place about 7 p.m. local time involving a man whose description was similar to that of An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead. a man whose description was similar to that of Stone demanded car keys from a person walking a dog, Doylestown said on Facebook. a person walking a dog had a gun and fired at a man whose description was similar to that of Stone, Doylestown said.
On Monday morning, An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's ex-wife, Nicole Stone, 33, was found dead in his ex-wife's home in Lower Salford Township. Nicole and An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead had divorced in 2009. Nicole and Bradley Stone had been involved in a protracted custody battle over Nicole and Bradley Stone's two daughters, according to a friend of An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead.
“his ex-wife was trying to hold his two daughters from An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead, and An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead just snapped,” theorized Matthew Schafte, 42. “But to snap by killing his ex-wife's family members is not the Brad that Matthew Schafte, 42 know.…
An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead was a nice guy.” Matthew Schafte, 42 said Matthew Schafte, 42 has known An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead for 20 years.
An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead was seen around 5 a.m., when An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead “delivered” An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's two daughters to a neighbor in Pennsburg, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman told reporters at a brief news conference. his two daughters were safe, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
But much of his two daughters's extended family is now dead. The first attack apparently began at 3:30 a.m. in Souderton, where his ex-wife's sister, Patricia Flick, Nicole Stone’s sister, Patricia Flick, Flick’s husband,'s husband, and their 14-year-old daughter were found dead, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
Nicole Stone’s sister, Patricia Flick, Flick’s husband,'s 17-year-old son was injured in The first attack and was apparently not found until shortly before 8 a.m., when authorities visited the home and took Flick’s 17-year-old son to a hospital, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Flick’s 17-year-old son's name was not released and the extent of Flick’s 17-year-old son's injuries was not known.
his ex-wife's mother and grandmother were found dead at a home in Lansdale after a hang-up 911 call was placed to police at 4:25 a.m., Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Officials did not give Nicole Stone’s mother and grandmother's names.
his ex-wife was found dead in Lower Salford Township after a 911 call from a neighbor at 4:55 a.m., Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. “Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman heard a ‘pow,’ and Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman thought, ‘Was that a gun?’” Brewster, his ex-wife's neighbor, told a 911 call from a neighbor at 4:55 a.m.. Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, told the newspaper Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, heard what sounded like four gunshots and could hear children screaming for children's mother.
Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, said Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, could hear Another neighbor, Ashley Deane,'s neighbor’s ex-husband telling children that children had to leave. Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, said Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, looked out the front window and saw her neighbor’s ex-husband with the children, ages 5 and 7, who were in children's pajamas. her neighbor’s ex-husband looked at Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, and said, “his ex-wife’s hurt,” referring to her neighbor’s ex-husband's ex-wife, Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, told a 911 call from a neighbor at 4:55 a.m., adding that her neighbor’s ex-husband and children then got in a car and sped off.
the manhunt forced local schools to shelter in place as authorities spent the day hunting for An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead. Local media reported that SWAT teams swarmed An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's home in Pennsburg, but An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead remained at large.
An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's friend Schafte described An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead as being focused on the Marines and on An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's children, including a son with a new partner. the Marines confirmed An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's service, telling the Los Angeles Times that An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead enlisted as a reservist in 2002 and left duty in 2008, but remained on individual ready reserve in case of a call-up until 2011.
An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead served in Iraq from April 17, 2008, to July 2, 2008, the only deployment on An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's record, according to a spokeswoman for the Marines. An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead earned an Iraq Campaign Medal -- indicating service in Iraq -- in addition to a Global War on Terrorism Service Medal and other commendations.
An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's job included monitoring weather conditions for artillery. An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's record did not mention any injuries suffered in Stone’s service, a the Marines spokeswoman said. Montgomery County law enforcement officials said An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead often used a cane or a walker and, as a fugitive, may be wearing military fatigues.
Officials say An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead may have shaved off An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead's reddish facial hair. By Monday night, as the search moved into Bucks County, locals and officials were jittery, reporting possible sightings or noises. the Los Angeles Times staff writers Kurtis Lee and Lauren Raab contributed to this report.

Mass killer Bradley Stone was The discovery dead of self-inflicted “cutting wounds” to Mass killer Bradley Stone's midsection in the woods near Mass killer Bradley Stone's Pennsburg home, authorities the statement. Mass killer Bradley Stone's body was found at 1:38 p.m. Tuesday about a half-mile from Mass killer Bradley Stone's apartment off Schoolhouse Road in Upper Hanover Township. A cutting instrument, believed to be a knife, was found nearby, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
The discovery put an end to a massive manhunt for Stone, who was wanted in connection witih the deaths of Mass killer Bradley Stone's ex-wife Nicole Hill and five of his ex-wife Nicole Hill's relatives and the stabbing of his ex-wife Nicole Hill's nephew. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said Mass killer Bradley Stone shot and/or stabbed Mass killer Bradley Stone's victims and that the lone survivor, his ex-wife Nicole Hill's nephew Anthony Flick, 17, of Souderton had tried to fend off Mass killer Bradley Stone. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said the attack was premeditated, but it is unclear how long Mass killer Bradley Stone planned the killings.
“When you look at the three different locations, the number of people who were killed, clearly we were looking at a premeditated killing, a planned killing, an intentional deliberate killing,” Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Police had been seeking Mass killer Bradley Stone since identifying Mass killer Bradley Stone as the suspect in Monday’s predawn killing spree that left his ex-wife Nicole Hill, his ex-wife Nicole Hill's mother, sister, grandmother, brother-in-law and niece dead. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said there is no concrete motive, but said Mass killer Bradley Stone had been battling his ex-wife Nicole Hill over custody issues involving their two daughters, who are 7 and 5.
Investigators were called to 123 W. Fifth Street in Lansdale at 4:25 a.m. after a 911 hang-up call from his Pennsburg home. When officers arrived, officers saw that the back door was kicked in and officers found the bloodied bodies of his ex-wife Nicole Hill and his ex-wife Nicole Hill's 57-year-old daughter, Joanne T. Gilbert.
Patricia Hill, 75, and her 57-year-old daughter, Joanne T. Gilbert had a significant amount of blood pooled around Patricia Hill, 75, and her 57-year-old daughter, Joanne T. Gilbert's heads. Found at the scene were three .40-caliber shell cases.
her 57-year-old daughter, Joanne T. Gilbert's throat had been slashed and his ex-wife Nicole Hill had defensive wounds on his ex-wife Nicole Hill's arm and an apparent gunshot wound to his ex-wife Nicole Hill's right eye. About a half-hour after a 911 hang-up call from the home, Ashley Deane, who lives at 150 Main St., Lower Salford, called police saying Ashley Deane, who lives at 150 Main St., Lower Salford, heard broken glass and four gunshots. Ashley Deane, who lives at 150 Main St., Lower Salford, confronted Stone, who was taking Mass killer Bradley Stone's two girls to a car and saying Nicole Hill, Mass killer Bradley Stone's ex-wife, was hurt.
Investigators arriving at his Pennsburg home found the door smashed in and Nicole Hill, his ex-wife, dead in a second-floor bedroom. Police believe Nicole Hill, his ex-wife, was shot twice in the face and head and there were two bullet strikes on the wall; .40-caliber casings were found near His body.
By 5:10 a.m., Mass killer Bradley Stone had driven back to Mass killer Bradley Stone's home in Pennsburg where Mass killer Bradley Stone asked neighbor Larry Hange to deliver Mass killer Bradley Stone's children to Mass killer Bradley Stone's wife before driving away. The intense manhunt followed.
Concerned about other relatives, police went to 146 Penn Ave. in Souderton, the home of Nicole Hill, his ex-wife,'s sister Patricia Flick. There police found a rear door broken open and the bodies of Hill’s sister Patricia Flick, Hill’s sister Patricia Flick's husband Aaron Flick, and their 14-year-old daughter, Nina Flick. their 14-year-old daughter, Nina Flick was attacked in their 14-year-old daughter, Nina Flick's bed and had massive cutting injuries on their 14-year-old daughter, Nina Flick's face and skull. Hill’s sister Patricia Flick had slicing wounds on Hill’s sister Patricia Flick's legs and what appeared to be gunshot wounds to Hill’s sister Patricia Flick's face.
her husband Aaron Flick is in serious but stable condition at a Philadelphia hospital. County SWAT teams had entered a garage and two houses, Mass killer Bradley Stone's and a neighbor’s, on Monday’s but did not find Mass killer Bradley Stone.
County SWAT teams regrouped Tuesday morning, with assistance from the U.S. Marshals and state police and began a methodical search of the Pennsburg area. “Tuesday morning, County SWAT teams met back up in Pennsburg and County SWAT teams started a grid search going block by block,” he said. Police found one firearm in Nicole Hill, his ex-wife,'s home, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
Doylestown Township police, who had investigated an attempted carjacking Monday’s involving a man resembling Mass killer Bradley Stone, issued a statement shortly before 3 p.m. saying Mass killer Bradley Stone's remains had been identified and Doylestown Township police, who had investigated an attempted carjacking Monday night involving a man resembling Stone, no longer believe Mass killer Bradley Stone was involved in the incident in Doylestown Township police, who had investigated an attempted carjacking Monday night involving a man resembling Stone,'s jurisdiction. Police say Mass killer Bradley Stone used a .40-caliber handgun to shoot some victims and also used a knife in the killings.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman had no information of any legal prohibition against Mass killer Bradley Stone owning or purchasing firearms. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said Mass killer Bradley Stone was not, to Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman's knowledge, diagnosed with PTSD, but under treatment by the court in connection with being convicted of DUI. Mass killer Bradley Stone had indicated in court proceedings that Mass killer Bradley Stone had post-traumatic stress disorder, but Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said there was nothing to indicate that Mass killer Bradley Stone was ever diagnosed with PTSD. Mass killer Bradley Stone's two children with his ex-wife Nicole Hill are in protective custody.
The Souderton-Telford Rotary has started a fund to help Mass killer Bradley Stone's children. The Souderton-Telford Rotary said the killings really stunned the communities where the killings occurred.
The last time anyone saw Mass killer Bradley Stone was Monday morning when Mass killer Bradley Stone dropped Mass killer Bradley Stone's daughters off at a neighbor’s house in Pennsburg. Mike Fiorito, 52, owns Western Auto, an auto repair and supply shop on Pottsville Pike.
Mass killer Bradley Stone was found behind Mike Fiorito, 52,'s property. Mike Fiorito, 52, said Mike Fiorito, 52, wasn’t scared while Mass killer Bradley Stone was still on the loose, noting that Mike Fiorito, 52, always keeps a gun nearby. Still, Mike Fiorito, 52, checked outbuildings and empty trailers behind Mike Fiorito, 52,'s shop Tuesday morning, to make sure Mass killer Bradley Stone wasn’t hiding there.
Mike Fiorito, 52, said Mike Fiorito, 52, wasn’t surprised to learn that Mass killer Bradley Stone committed suicide. Jeffrey Behm lives on Fourth Street, about three blocks away from Mass killer Bradley Stone's apartment.
Jeffrey Behm said Pennsburg is usually quiet, and the killings had everyone in Pennsburg on edge. On Tuesday, police officers searched Mass killer Bradley Stone's apartment building. Mass killer Bradley Stone's death ends a massive manhunt that involved a half-dozen regional police SWAT teams, Pennsylvania State Police and FBI and ATF agents.
Mass killer Bradley Stone was believed to have access to guns and knives. Authorities said Authorities had recovered Mass killer Bradley Stone's car and cell phone and did not know how Mass killer Bradley Stone was traveling.
Mass killer Bradley Stone and Mass killer Bradley Stone's ex-wife had reportedly been clashing over custody of Stone and his ex-wife's daughters and other matters for some time. his ex-wife Nicole Hill's neighbor said a neighbor’s feared Mass killer Bradley Stone and had predicted Mass killer Bradley Stone would try to kill his ex-wife Nicole Hill. According to court records, Mass killer Bradley Stone remarried in August of 2013 and recently fathered a child.
Mass killer Bradley Stone joined the U.S. Marine Corps reserve in October 2002 and was on active duty until September 2008. Mass killer Bradley Stone remained on ready reserve until May 2011 and was honorably discharged with the rank of sergeant. Mass killer Bradley Stone served in Iraq from April to July in 2008. Records do not indicate Mass killer Bradley Stone was wounded, but in custody court hearings Mass killer Bradley Stone claimed to be on permanent disability from Mass killer Bradley Stone's military service, during which Mass killer Bradley Stone earned an Iraq Campaign Medal, a Global War on Terrorism Service Medal and other commendations.
Mass killer Bradley Stone sometimes relied on a cane or walker to get around. At Pennsburg Vets for Vets program, a transitional housing program for troubled veterans, Mass killer Bradley Stone was the main topic of conversation Tuesday morning. Mass killer Bradley Stone had received help from Vets for Vets and lived at the converted post office, which can house up to four veterans, before getting Mass killer Bradley Stone's own apartment across the street. Kyle Fairchild, 28, an Ohio native who came to Pennsburg’s Vets for Vets program, a transitional housing program for troubled veterans, after falling in hard financial times after an eight-year stint in the Navy, said Kyle Fairchild, 28, an Ohio native who came to the program after falling in hard financial times after an eight-year stint in the Navy would often see Mass killer Bradley Stone outside his Pennsburg home.
Anthony Flick’s friends have started a Go Fund Me online fundraising account to raise money for Anthony Flick’s's care. a Go Fund Me online fundraising account to raise money for his care had raised more than $4,300 as of Tuesday morning.
The campaign creator is Melissa Mecca, 26, a Lansdale resident who started a Go Fund Me crowdfunding account to help cover Anthony Flick’s's expenses. Melissa Mecca, 26, a Lansdale resident who started a Go Fund Me crowdfunding account to help cover his expenses said Melissa Mecca, 26, a Lansdale resident who started a Go Fund Me crowdfunding account to help cover his expenses started a Go Fund Me online fundraising account to raise money for his care on behalf of a group of Anthony Flick’s's friends, who met at a Montgomery Township restaurant Monday’s night to brainstorm ways to help Anthony Flick’s. Melissa Mecca, 26, a Lansdale resident who started a Go Fund Me crowdfunding account to help cover his expenses knows Anthony Flick’s because Stone and his ex-wife are heavy metal fans and attended concerts with Melissa Mecca, 26, a Lansdale resident who started a Go Fund Me crowdfunding account to help cover his expenses brother. Melissa Mecca, 26, a Lansdale resident who started a Go Fund Me crowdfunding account to help cover his expenses said family members told Melissa Mecca, 26, a Lansdale resident who started a Go Fund Me crowdfunding account to help cover his expenses's Anthony Flick’s was stabbed multiple times defending Anthony Flick’s's family. Anthony Flick’s was taken to a Philadelphia hospital, Melissa Mecca, 26, a Lansdale resident who started a Go Fund Me crowdfunding account to help cover his expenses said.
Anthony Flick’s was a ninth-grade student at Souderton Area High School. Anthony Flick’s is in 11th grade and also attended the North Montco Technical Career Center. Additional counselors and school psychologists will be on hand at Souderton Area High School today and throughout the week to assist students and staff as students and staff mourn Anthony Flick’s's death and support Anthony Flick’s in Anthony Flick’s's recovery, the statement said.

PENNSBURG, Pa. --
The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left five people dead has been found dead after a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead, according to the Doylestown Township Police Department. The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead was found dead in the woods near PENNSBURG, Pa.
Tuesday afternoon. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman says police found The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's body at around 1:30 p.m. Tuesday about a half-mile from The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's PENNSBURG, Pa. home.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman says The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead died of apparent self-inflicted cutting wounds to the center of The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's body. Officials are still waiting on a coroner to determine cause of death.
Tuesday's shooting rampage started before dawn at the home of The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's former sister-in-law in Souderton and ended about 90 minutes later at ex-wife Nicole Stone's apartment in nearby Harleysville, prosecutors said. The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's former wife, 33-year-old Nicole Stone, was found dead after a neighbor saw The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead fleeing just before 5 a.m. Tuesday with their two young daughters.
their two young daughters were later found safe with The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's neighbors. Police then made the grim discovery of five people killed in two other houses.
ex-wife Nicole Stone's's sister, Patricia Flick, Stone's former sister-in-law's sister's husband, Aaron Flick, and the couple's 14-year-old daughter, Nina Flick, were killed in the first wave of violence, which was not discovered until nearly 8 a.m. the couple's's 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, was pulled from the home of Stone's former sister-in-law in Souderton with a head wound and was taken in an armored vehicle and then by helicopter to a Pennsylvania hospital for treatment. ex-wife Nicole Stone's's mother, Joanne Hill, and grandmother Patricia Hill were killed next at Nicole Stone's mother, Joanne Hill, and grandmother Patricia Hill's home in nearby Lansdale.
Their 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, suffered "quite significant cutting injuries" to Their 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick,'s hands and head, and was in very serious but stable condition, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Some of Their 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick,'s wounds appeared to be defensive, indicating that Their 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, attempted to fight off Their 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick,'s attacker, according to Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman. "Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman can't emphasize enough how serious Their 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick,'s condition is, but at this point, we are hoping Their 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, will be fine," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said earlier Tuesday. Stone's former sister-in-law suffered gunshot wounds to Stone's former sister-in-law's arm and head, Aaron Flick suffered gunshot wounds to the head and cutting injuries, and Nina Flick suffered cutting injuries, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
Patricia Hill was shot to death, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Joanne Hill was also shot and also suffered a cut to Joanne Hill's neck.
"Clearly, we are looking at premeditated killings - planned killings, intentional, deliberate killings," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead had been locked in a child custody dispute with The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's ex-wife, and Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead targeted people close to The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead. Last week, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said, The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead made an effort in court to secure emergency custody of The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's children, which was denied. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman couldn't speculate as to whether a child custody dispute with his ex-wife was the motive for a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead.
"There's no excuse for snuffing out these six innocent lives and injuring another child," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said, adding that the normally peaceful community has been "shattered" by a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead. SWAT teams and local, state and federal law enforcement agencies including the FBI, ATF and U.S. Marshals all joined in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead. Schools closed and hospitals and other public places tightened security during a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead.
Neighbors said ex-wife Nicole Stone's lived in such fear of ex-wife Nicole Stone's's ex-husband that ex-wife Nicole Stone's would sometimes ask ex-wife Nicole Stone's's apartment complex's maintenance staff to go in and check ex-wife Nicole Stone's's place first because ex-wife Nicole Stone's was afraid The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead might be lying in wait. "ex-wife Nicole Stone's would tell anybody who would listen that The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead was going to kill ex-wife Nicole Stone's and that ex-wife Nicole Stone's was really afraid for ex-wife Nicole Stone's's life," said Evan Weron, another neighbor in nearby Harleysville.
The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead was in the Marines from 2002 to 2008. The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's specialty was listed as "artillery meteorological man." The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead told a 2011 child support hearing that Veterans Affairs deemed The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead permanently disabled and that The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead was collecting benefits from Veterans Affairs, according to court documents.
Veterans Affairs had no comment Tuesday. A longtime friend, Matthew Schafte, said A longtime friend, Matthew Schafte, was not aware of any injuries The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead may have suffered as a Marine. The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead had faced several driving-under-the-influence charges, one of which was handled in veterans' court and led to a three- to 23-month sentence.
The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead remarried last year, according to The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's Facebook page and court records, and has an infant son. Neither The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead's wife nor an infant son was injured.
ex-wife Nicole Stone's became engaged over the summer, neighbors said. a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead set off the second major manhunt to transfix Pennsylvania in the past few months. Eric Frein spent 48 days at large in the Poconos after the September ambush slaying of a state trooper.

A year ago, Bradley Stone had agreed to give up Bradley Stone's guns. Last week, Bradley Stone had persuaded a Veterans Affairs psychologist Bradley Stone was neither suicidal nor homicidal.
On Wednesday, Bradley Stone had officials perplexed about how Bradley Stone died. A day after Bradley Stone's lifeless body turned up in a patch of Pennsburg woods - the final scene after a rampage that left Bradley Stone's ex-wife and five others dead - the mystery surrounding Bradley Stone's life and death deepened. Details also emerged that raised questions about whether Bradley Stone's murderous spree with guns and knives could have been detected or derailed.
County records show that when Bradley Stone was sentenced last year for drunken driving, Bradley Stone that clause not to own any "look-alike firearm, lethal weapon, explosives, and/or ammunition." But it was unclear Wednesday whether anyone sought to enforce that clause or even ask whether Bradley Stone - had weapons. According to a transcript from the November 2013 sentencing hearing, Judge William Furber Jr. told Bradley Stone Bradley Stone would have to comply with the court's terms "making particular reference to that clause."
Judge William Furber Jr. did not specifically ask Bradley Stone about weapons. Judge William Furber Jr. did not respond to messages left Wednesday at Judge William Furber Jr.'s chambers and home.
Stephanie Landes, coordinator of the county's Veterans Treatment Court, where Bradley Stone was processed, hung up when contacted Wednesday by The Inquirer and later sent an e-mail referring to information on The Inquirer's website. Records show that Bradley Stone in recent years had legally purchased two firearms - a .40-caliber handgun and 9mm Beretta.
According to an affidavit filed by prosecutors, Bradley Stone wielded two firearms - a .40-caliber handgun and 9mm Beretta - as well as at least one knife - in the Monday morning attacks that killed Bradley Stone's ex-wife, Nicole Stone, as well as his ex-wife's mother, grandmother, sister, brother-in-law, and niece. One of Bradley Stone's guns was recovered at his ex-wife's apartment in Harleysville; shell casings from the other were found at the Lansdale home where Bradley Stone killed his ex-wife's mother and grandmother.
Bradley Stone's boiling rage also slipped past a VA psychiatrist, the agency said. Bradley Stone had spent three months in Iraq in 2008, a tour that some acquaintances blamed in part for Bradley Stone's downfall.
Bradley Stone told Furber, the the county's judge, that post-traumatic stress disorder had left Bradley Stone fully disabled and unable to work. On Dec. 8, Bradley Stone met with a psychiatrist at the Coatesville VA Medical Center, one of at least five VA facilities where Bradley Stone had been treated, according to Veterans Affairs. a psychiatrist found Bradley Stone to be "without any suicidal or homicidal ideation," Veterans Affairs said in a statement. Veterans Affairs also said Veterans Affairs was now conducting a review of Bradley Stone's treatment.
In a news conference Wednesday, the county's District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said county investigators had no evidence that Bradley Stone had been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. But Veterans Affairs said Bradley Stone had been considered "100 percent service-connected disabled" for post-traumatic stress disorder since 2010.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman also said that Bradley Stone apparently died in the woods near Bradley Stone's Pennsburg home from self-inflicted "cutting wounds" to Bradley Stone's body. Now, investigators are not so sure.
After conducting a preliminary autopsy, the county's Coroner Walter I. Hofman said Wednesday that Montgomery County Coroner Walter I. Hofman could not yet say how Bradley Stone his death - or exactly when. The only injury that medical examiners discovered, Montgomery County Coroner Walter I. Hofman said, was a "limited injury" to Bradley Stone's left leg - and one that didn't cause Bradley Stone's death. Montgomery County Coroner Walter I. Hofman said that a "limited injury" to Stone's left leg was not a gunshot wound, but that Montgomery County Coroner Walter I. Hofman would not elaborate the type of injury. Montgomery County Coroner Walter I. Hofman also said Bradley Stone had been dead for at least 12 hours before police found Bradley Stone's clothed body Wednesday afternoon.
Montgomery County Coroner Walter I. Hofman said Montgomery County Coroner Walter I. Hofman had ruled out hypothermia as a cause of death. Pending is a toxicology report, which could take a week.
That scene was a gruesome tableau. According to Steele, the items found near Bradley Stone's corpse included two medicine bottles, one containing a white powder; an energy drink with powder on the lip; and a large-handled machete and doubled-bladed black ax, both coated in blood. Signs of the terror and the terror's aftermath were still evident Wednesday in the three towns where Bradley Stone went on Bradley Stone's rampage.
Not far from Bradley Stone's apartment in Harleysville, Judy Rodriguez wrapped an arm around Judy Rodriguez's friend and neighbor Ashley Deane. It was the first time Rodriguez had seen her friend and neighbor Ashley Deane since learning that her friend and neighbor Ashley Deane was the neighbor who called police early Monday after hearing Bradley Stone break into Nicole Stone's apartment in Harleysville, shoot Bradley Stone's wife, and take their daughters. "her friend and neighbor Ashley Deane're lucky to be alive," Judy Rodriguez told her friend and neighbor Ashley Deane.
Candles and mementos had cropped up near the murder scenes. Funeral arrangements were not yet clear for their daughters. Fund-raisers have been churning for Bradley Stone's daughters - 5-year-old Kayla and 8-year-old Shannon - as well as Stone's daughters - 5-year-old Kayla and 8-year-old Shannon's cousin Anthony Flick, the 17-year-old Souderton boy wounded when Bradley Stone killed Flick's's mother, Patricia; father, Aaron; and younger sister, Nina.
An online campaign organized by Flick's friends had raised more than $18,000 at gofundme.com/fundsforflick. Word FM, a faith-based radio station, was collecting money as well, through WordFM.com, as was the Souderton-Telford Rotary Club. Checks can be mailed to the Univest Foundation, 14 N. Main St., Box 559, Souderton, Pa. 18964.
A relative said Flick, hospitalized in Philadelphia, was awake and "starting to remember bits and pieces" of the deadly attack. Jim Leary, Souderton's police chief, said Jim Leary, Souderton's police chief, couldn't imagine the devastation Flick's would soon face.

Next week, Nicole Stone's family was to gather in Lansdale for an annual Christmas Eve feast of peeled shrimp and clam linguine.
Seated around the table would have been four generations - Nicole Stone's, Nicole Stone's's two young daughters, Nicole Stone's's mother, grandmother, and sister. Now her two young daughters are alive. Over a few hours Monday, Nicole Stone's's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, killed the rest. But it's not that some kind of trouble was unexpected.
Though Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s full motives remain unclear, Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s victims shared more than a familial bond. All appeared to be on one side of a nasty and protracted custody battle between Nicole Stone's and Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,, one that worsened when Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, learned Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s ex-wife had recently sought treatment for drug abuse. a nasty and protracted custody battle between Nicole and Bradley Stone, one that worsened when he learned his ex-wife had recently sought treatment for drug abuse was a constant topic of conversation, McGaughey said. Nicole Stone's family worried for Nicole Stone's and Nicole Stone's's daughters.
As recently as Saturday, McGaughey said, McGaughey's sister Joanne T. Gilbert had called McGaughey to talk about a nasty and protracted custody battle between Nicole and Bradley Stone, one that worsened when he learned his ex-wife had recently sought treatment for drug abuse. And McGaughey said McGaughey knew McGaughey's sister and mother talked often with Nicole Stone's about a nasty and protracted custody battle between Nicole and Bradley Stone, one that worsened when he learned his ex-wife had recently sought treatment for drug abuse.
"her sister and mother were always communicating to make sure Nicole Stone's was OK and to make sure Nicole Stone's's children were OK," McGaughey said Tuesday from McGaughey's Wilkes-Barre home. her sister Joanne T. Gilbert was one of six people authorities say Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, killed Monday morning, before later taking Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s own life in woods near Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s home in Pennsburg. Besides Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s ex-wife, the others were Nicole Stone's's grandmother Patricia Hill, 75; Nicole Stone's's sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton; and her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton's husband, Aaron, and 14-year-old daughter, Nina.
Despite Nicole Stone's's family and personal troubles, Nicole Stone's had held steady jobs at Montgomery Mall. Nicole Stone's loved singing and dancing to 1980s music, and was always upbeat while working at the Gertrude Hawk chocolate store, manager Lannette Wismer said. "Nicole Stone's was just a ray of sunshine," manager Lannette Wismer said. Nicole Stone's's coworkers loved Nicole Stone's so much that Her coworkers pitched in to surprise Nicole Stone's with Christmas presents for Nicole Stone's's daughters last year, after Nicole Stone's mentioned Nicole Stone's could not afford any, manager Lannette Wismer said.
In recent months, Nicole Stone's had sought treatment for drug abuse, friends and family members said. When Nicole Stone's's ex-husband learned of that, Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, redoubled Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s efforts to win custody of their daughters, 5-year-old Kayla and 8-year-old Shannon, who spent much of their time living with their mother at Nicole Stone's's apartment in Harleysville, Lower Salford. Earlier this month, Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, filed an emergency motion in Montgomery County Court seeking custody of her two young daughters, records show.
A judge had not yet issued a final ruling on an emergency motion. Evan Weron, a Harleysville, Lower Salford resident who got to know Nicole Stone's because their children played outside together, said Nicole Stone's had complained in recent months about a nasty and protracted custody battle between Nicole and Bradley Stone, one that worsened when he learned his ex-wife had recently sought treatment for drug abuse and said Nicole Stone's feared for Nicole Stone's's safety.
"It got to be so much towards the end," Evan Weron, a Harleysville resident who got to know Nicole Stone because their children played outside together, said. Evan Weron, a Harleysville resident who got to know Nicole Stone because their children played outside together, said Evan Weron, a Harleysville resident who got to know Nicole Stone because their children played outside together, had been there in the past when Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, came to pick up or drop off Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s daughters. At first, Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, had been friendly, but more recently Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, would simply storm out of the house,
Evan Weron, a Harleysville resident who got to know Nicole Stone because their children played outside together, said. Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, was usually accompanied by Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s new wife, Jennifer Ovdiyenko, a 37-year-old artist Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, married last year.
The couple have a baby, officials said. Nicole Stone's was also engaged to be married, according to Nicole Stone's's aunt. But while Nicole Stone's sorted out Nicole Stone's's issues with drug addiction, Nicole Stone's's mother had hoped that Nicole Stone's could take custody of Nicole Stone's's two young girls, McGaughey said.
her sister Joanne T. Gilbert recently overcame breast cancer, according to her sister Joanne T. Gilbert's sister, and had purchased Christmas gifts for her sister Joanne T. Gilbert's grandchildren. her sister Joanne T. Gilbert also had her grandchildren over to decorate a tree in her sister Joanne T. Gilbert's Lansdale home, the one where police found her sister Joanne T. Gilbert and her sister Joanne T. Gilbert's mother Monday morning.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman on Tuesday said Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, had dropped off Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,'s girls at a neighbor's home after shooting her two young daughters's mother. her two young daughters are in protective custody, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
Across the area, people were taking steps Tuesday to remember his victims. At Souderton Area High School, students drew Batman symbols on students's arms in memory of her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton.
Flick, a freshman at Souderton Area High School, was a carefree teen who "didn't really care what people thought about her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton," said David Kautter, a friend of her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton's brother's. Students also organized fund-raising efforts to help her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton's 17-year-old brother, Anthony, the only victim to survive the attack by Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone,.
Flick's 17-year-old brother, Anthony, the only victim to survive the attack by Bradley Stone was hospitalized Tuesday in serious but stable condition. Flick's 17-year-old brother, Anthony, the only victim to survive the attack by Bradley Stone worked at the Souderton Mennonite Homes, cleaning and serving meals to the residents, Kautter said.
Kautter described Kautter's friend as a music fan with a good sense of humor. "Flick's 17-year-old brother, Anthony, the only victim to survive the attack by Bradley Stone literally went through hell," Kautter said of the attack by Bradley Stone.
Friends are collecting money for her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton at gofundme.com/fundsforflick to cover her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton's medical bills and support her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton after the loss of her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton's family. The Souderton Telford Rotary will also create a fund for the surviving children, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Funeral arrangements for his victims were not available Tuesday.

Bradley Stone went to war with a Marine regiment known as the Cannon Cockers, an artillery unit that rained explosive shells on the enemy in Iraq.
Bradley Stone did not stay long - less than three months in 2008. But Bradley Stone claimed Bradley Stone had been fully disabled by post-traumatic stress disorder and was taking medication as part of Bradley Stone's mental-health treatment.
In a patch of woods not far from Bradley Stone's Pennsburg home Tuesday afternoon, police found Bradley Stone dead of self-inflicted cutting wounds - a gruesome end to a manhunt that began after Bradley Stone the killings Bradley Stone's ex-wife and five of his ex-wife's relatives in Montgomery County on Monday. On Tuesday, service veteran friends of Bradley Stone's struggled to make sense of the killings. None condoned the killings.
At the same time, service veteran friends of Stone's said, Bradley Stone had suffered. Howard was at Vets for Vets, a nonprofit center close to Bradley Stone's house in Pennsburg.
Howard said the two often talked about their combat experiences. Bradley Stone, friends said, was a Marine through and through, a family man who happily lent a hand to shovel snow, and a former sergeant who struggled with stress disorder and physical injuries from carrying heavy backpacks in Iraq. "You can't condemn someone until you understand what they went through," Howard said.
Jake Leone, who bought and renovated the former post office that houses Vets for Vets, a nonprofit center close to Stone's house in Pennsburg, said Bradley Stone willingly lent Bradley Stone's construction tools for the work. Stone, 35, enlisted in the Marines as a reservist in 2002, left the Marines in 2008, and remained on ready-reserve status until a final separation in 2011, according to the Marines.
Bradley Stone's records give no sign that Bradley Stone was wounded or otherwise injured during Bradley Stone's service, the Marines said. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman did not believe Bradley Stone had been found to have post-traumatic stress disorder. the killings had "no valid explanation," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
In the Marines, Bradley Stone had been assigned to the Third Battalion, 14th Regiment, known informally as the 3/14, a Philadelphia-based reserve artillery battalion. Bradley Stone was an artillery meteorological man, meaning Bradley Stone helped direct fire by observing and computing weather data.
When Bradley Stone went to war, however, it was not with the 3/14, but with the 11th Regiment, an artillery unit based at Camp Pendleton, Calif. Officials at both regiments said Officials at both regiments could provide no information about Bradley Stone.
Bradley Stone served in Iraq from April 17 to July 2, 2008. Members of Bradley Stone's artillery unit were assigned to different parts of Anbar province, according to Sgt. Bobbie Curtis, a Marine spokesman who also served in Iraq.
Most Marines typically spent six months to a year in Iraq. Parts of his artillery unit experienced combat, he said. He said he had no information on unit casualties during Bradley Stone's time in Iraq.
After Bradley Stone returned, Bradley Stone sought work for a time as a contractor, but it is unclear how busy Bradley Stone was or how long Bradley Stone looked for such work, according to one Montgomery County business owner who worked with Bradley Stone but asked not to be identified. And Bradley Stone's personal life started to unravel.
In 2009, Bradley Stone and Bradley Stone's wife, Nicole, began divorce proceedings. divorce was finalized in 2012, but a custody battle over Stone and his wife, Nicole,'s two daughters was ongoing.
Records also show Bradley Stone owned at least two handguns - a Heckler & Koch .40-caliber and a Beretta 9mm. In November 2013, Bradley Stone stood before a Montgomery County Court judge after being arrested on charges of drunken driving for the third time in about a decade.
At 12:30 a.m. on April 28, 2013, Bradley Stone was driving a silver Ford Fusion on Gravel Pike in Lower Frederick Township when Bradley Stone missed a curve, thumped over a curb, and drove onto a lawn, according to an affidavit. When troopers arrived, Jennifer Ovdiyenko, Bradley Stone's soon-to-be spouse and a silver Ford Fusion's owner, told troopers Jennifer Ovdiyenko, Stone's soon-to-be spouse and the car's owner, had been driving. Jennifer Ovdiyenko, Stone's soon-to-be spouse and the car's owner, later admitted covering up for Bradley Stone because Bradley Stone had previous drunken driving arrests.
Along with taking medications and having PTSD, Bradley Stone described Bradley Stone as broke and unable to work. Instead of coming down hard on the divorced father of their two daughters, a Montgomery County Court judge allowed Bradley Stone to enter a veteran treatment program that ensured Bradley Stone would not go to jail or pay a large fine. a Montgomery County Court judge emphasized Bradley Stone's military service and stressed that a Montgomery County Court judge and others were there to help Bradley Stone.
Under the terms of a veteran treatment program that ensured he would not go to jail or pay a large fine, Bradley Stone would have to make regular court appearances and follow a treatment plan. "a Montgomery County Court judge'm proud to admit you," a Montgomery County Court judge told Bradley Stone, according to an affidavit.
a Montgomery County Court judge sentenced Bradley Stone to 23 months of "intermediate punishment" - sparing Bradley Stone prison - with the first 90 days to be served under house arrest. Bradley Stone also received three years of probation and a $1,500 fine. Bradley Stone told a Montgomery County Court judge Bradley Stone had been treated at a VA facility for combat-related injuries since 2008. Inquirer staff writers Chris Palmer and Michaelle Bond contributed to this article.

After brutally killing Bradley Stone's ex-wife and five of his ex-wife's family members, including "chopping" into five of her family members, Bradley Stone poisoned Bradley Stone with a cocktail of drugs, Montgomery County authorities said Tuesday.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman in a statement also revealed Bradley Stone lied about possessing firearms, including the .40-caliber handgun used during the pre-dawn rampage Dec. 15 across three communities in Montgomery County. A dispute over the two daughters of Bradley Stone and Bradley Stone's ex-wife Nicole Stone precipitated the pre-dawn rampage Dec. 15 across three communities in the county.
The lone survivor, the 17-year-old nephew of Bradley Stone's ex-wife, was released Monday from an area hospital, officials said. Releasing the details Tuesday of the Bradley Stone investigation were Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman, Souderton police Chief James Leary, Lansdale police Chief Robert McDyre and Lower Salford Township police Chief Thomas A. Medwid. , was found in the second floor front bedroom.
An autopsy conducted by Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood found that his ex-wife suffered gunshot wounds to his ex-wife's right forearm and to his ex-wife's face and a gaping "chop" wound to his ex-wife's head. The coroner determined the cause of death to be gunshot wounds to the arm and head.
, was found in the second floor front bedroom. An autopsy by Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood found Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood suffered gunshot wounds to Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood's right hand and Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood's head and "chopping" wounds to Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood's arm and Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood's head, all of which caused Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood's death. , was found in the second floor middle bedroom. An autopsy by Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood found his ex-wife suffered 12 "chop" wounds to his ex-wife's head, which proved fatal, and one "chop" wound to the back of his ex-wife's neck.
was found in the third floor front bedroom with "chopping" wounds to his head and hands. Scene
No 2, 100 block of West Fifth Street, Lansdale, occurred about 4:25 a.m. , was found in the second floor middle bedroom. An autopsy conducted by Forensic Pathologist Gregory McDonald found his ex-wife suffered a cutting wound to his ex-wife's left forearm and, the fatal wound, a gunshot wound near his ex-wife's right eye. , was found in the second floor middle bedroom. An autopsy by Forensic Pathologist Gregory McDonald found his ex-wife suffered a gunshot wound to the face and his ex-wife's throat had been slashed; both wounds contributed to his ex-wife's death.
his ex-wife was found in the second floor bedroom. An autopsy by Forensic Pathologist Gregory McDonald found his ex-wife suffered a gunshot wound to his ex-wife's hand and two gunshot wounds to his ex-wife's head. The coroner determined the cause of death was multiple gunshot wounds.
Authorities say the body of Bradley Stone was found near Bradley Stone's home in Pennsburg, Montgomery County, a day after Bradley Stone allegedly killed five of her family members Dec. 15, 2014, in three municipalities across the southeastern Pennsylvania county. Trisha Flick was his ex-wife's sister.
Gilbert was their mother and Hill, their grandmother. The .40-calibrer H&K handgun determined to have been used at all three crime scenes was found at his ex-wife's house; Stone and his ex-wife Nicole Stone's children were found safe nearby. Each of the six deaths was ruled a homicide.
The body of Bradley Stone was found about 1:30 p.m. Dec. 16 in a wooded area of Upper Hanover Township, also in Montgomery County, outside of Pennsburg where Bradley Stone lived. Authorities found two knives, both of which appeared to be coated in blood, in addition to a large-handled machete and double-bladed black axe.
Police also found two medicine bottles by Bradley Stone's body; one contained a crushed-up powder, and powder was found around the lip of an energy drink container. An autopsy by former Warren County Medical Examiner Isidore Mihalakis found a seven-centimeter stab wound to Bradley Stone's upper thigh and three superficial cuts to the leg and hip area, authorities said.
Bradley Stone also had 10 scratches on Bradley Stone's face and neck. The cause of death, following toxicology tests, was determined to be combined drug intoxication of trazodone, an antidepressant; mCPP, a metabolite of trazodone, an antidepressant; risperidone, used to treat schizophrenia. her death was ruled a suicide. Tuesday's announcement details Bradley Stone's criminal past, including three drunken driving incidents, in 2001, 2004 and 2013.
None prohibited Bradley Stone from owning a firearm, nor was there an active protection-from-abuse order against Bradley Stone after his ex-wife's request for a permanent PFA was denied Sept. 23, 2010, authorities said. After Bradley Stone's April 2013 arrest for drunken driving, however, Stone was admitted to Veterans' Treatment Court and sentenced in November 2013 to 23 months of supervision including an initial 90 days of house arrest.
"Upon admission into Veterans' Treatment Court, Bradley Stone was instructed by Bradley Stone's probation officer that Bradley Stone was not permitted to own, possess or use firearms. The contract stated: 'Bradley Stone will not own, use, and/or possess any type of firearm, lookalike firearm, lethal weapon, explosives and/or ammunition.
Hunting is prohibited.' Bradley Stone signed The contract and agreed to all the conditions," Tuesday's announcement states. Probation and parole officials conducted 17 home visits as part of Bradley Stone's Veterans' Treatment Court punishment, including seven unscheduled visits or contacts, and inspected Bradley Stone's home and outbuildings for firearms and other contraband, authorities said.

The former Marine believed to have killed The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's ex-wife and five of his ex-wife's family members and seriously stabbed another was found dead in the woods near The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's Montgomery County home Tuesday, after apparently killing The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another with a knife, authorities say.
The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another appears to have killed The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another with “self-inflicted cutting wounds to the center of The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's body," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. A knife was found nearby, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
Police investigated four scenes in Montgomery County as part of the shooting spree involving The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another. Officials said shootings took place at three of the locations -- Harleysville, Lansdale and Souderton.
The fourth location, in Pennsburg, is where SWAT officers searched for The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another, near The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's home. SWAT officers found The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's body not far from The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's home on Tuesday.
The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's body was found at 1:38 p.m. near West 4th Street and Schoolhouse Road North Hanover Township, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. That is about a half mile from The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's home, where SWAT teams had been methodically searching for The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another for the past two days.
Police also found a video recorded by The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another on a cellphone on or near The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's body, law enforcement sources said. The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another had not been seen since just before 5 a.m. Monday as The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another rushed The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's screaming children out of his screaming children's mother's apartment in Harleysville. Moments before, neighbors and police said The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another gunned down his ex-wife.
his ex-wife was the last of five of her family members The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another shot or stabbed that morning, prosecutors said.
his screaming children were left in The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's neighborhood in Pennsburg, and The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another fled, officials said. his screaming children, along with The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's current wife and child, are now in protective custody, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
Newly released search warrants offered more detail into how the victims were fatally wounded. his ex-wife was shot in the face and head, according to Newly released search warrants. his ex-wife's mother Jo Anne Koder was shot and cut in the neck, and his ex-wife's grandmother Patricia Hill was shot in the arm and head.
his ex-wife's sister Trish Flick was shot in the face and cut, brother-in-law Aaron Flick was shot in the head and hands; and 14-year-old niece Nina died of cutting wounds. Autopsies were being conducted to determine official causes of death, the DA said.
The lone survivor is his ex-wife's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the shooting spree involving suspected gunman Bradley Stone. Stone Hill's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the attack suffered a "gaping skull fracture" and lacerations to Stone Hill's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the attack's arms and fingers, according to court documents. Despite being left injured in Stone Hill's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the attack's Souderton home for some time as police worked to determine whether it were safe to enter, Stone Hill's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the attack survived.
Stone Hill's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the attack remains in serious but stable condition and is surrounded by family at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia, the DA said. Friends tell NBC10 Stone Hill's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the attack is expected to recover.
A GoFundMe account, Funds for Stone Hill's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the attack, was set up to help assist with Stone Hill's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the attack's medical bills and has raised more than $8,500 in nearly a day. The Souderton-Telford Rotary also announced plans to set up a fund for his ex-wife's children.
The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another served eight years in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve and was briefly deployed to Iraq in 2008. Fellow Marines who served with The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another described The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another as odd and said that The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another had a tumultuous relationship with The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's ex-wife. his ex-wife's neighbors and friends told NBC10 his ex-wife warned The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another would kill his ex-wife and Hill Stone's neighbors and friends pointed to the couple's bitter custody dispute as motive for the shooting spree involving suspected gunman Bradley Stone.
Prosecutors, however, have not released an official motive. "We can speculate why.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman could look at some of the court filings and say The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another wasn't getting The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's way and The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another was dissatisfied with that, but there's no excuse. There's no valid explanation. There's no excuse for snuffing out the victims and then injuring another child," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
The two day manhunt for The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another sent eight SWAT teams rolling through at least four Montgomery County towns in assault gear and military-grade vehicles. eight SWAT teams lobbed gas canisters and flash bangs into homes and searched neighborhoods and the woods.
Federal agencies and police in other counties assisted in the search, schools were closed and neighbors spoke of the fear neighbors were feeling. A supposed sighting of a man who fit The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's description involved in an attempted carjacking in Doylestown Monday night prompted lockdowns and shelter-in-place orders.
In the end A supposed sighting of a man who fit Stone's description involved in an attempted carjacking in Doylestown Monday night "did not appear to be valid," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman thanked the public for the public's assistance and patience. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman could not say how long The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's body was in the woods near his Montgomery County home Tuesday and when The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another might have died. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman deferred to the coroner who picked up The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another's body Tuesday evening and will determine a manner of death.

"As I stand here right now, we do not know where he is," she said, adding that officers had recovered his mobile phone and his car.

"[Ex-wife Nicole Stone] would tell anybody who would listen that he was going to kill Ex-wife Nicole Stone and that Ex-wife Nicole Stone was really afraid for Ex-wife Nicole Stone's life," Evan Weron, a neighbour in Harleysville, told the Associated Press news agency.

— -- A possible sighting of the suspect in a shooting rampage against the suspect's ex-wife and his ex-wife's family outside Philadelphia -- killing six people, including the suspect's 14-year-old niece -- expanded the search for the suspect, authorities said. Officials identified the suspect as the suspect. the suspect had one deployment to Iraq, leaving with the rank of sergeant, according to a Marine spokesperson.
the suspect allegedly a shooting rampage against his ex-wife and her family outside Philadelphia -- killing six people, including his 14-year-old niece down six members of the suspect's ex-wife's family at three separate locations - killing the suspect's ex-wife, the suspect's former mother-in-law, former grandmother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law and niece. the suspect's former nephew, 17, was wounded and taken to a hospital in Philadelphia for treatment. the suspect took the suspect's two children to a neighbor's home before a shooting rampage against his ex-wife and her family outside Philadelphia -- killing six people, including his 14-year-old niece began, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri told reporters, and his two children are safe. Police move near a home where the suspect is believed to have barricaded the suspect inside after shootings at multiple homes, Dec. 15, 2014, in Souderton, Pa. A man matching the description of the suspect was spotted, in Doylestown, Bucks County, this evening after a resident was confronted by the man with a knife, according to a statement from Doylestown, Bucks County. a resident was walking a resident's dog when the suspect, demanded a resident's car keys. a resident resisted and fell to the ground, but had a gun and fired multiple rounds at the suspect, according to a statement from Doylestown Township. The man matching the suspect's description was last seen running into the woods.
Police scanner traffic indicated that a large number of police and K-9 units were the search the area this evening. A police officer stands near the scene of a shooting, Dec. 15, 2014, in Souderton, Pa. Souderton, Pa. announced that schools in the area would be closed on Tuesday as the search continued. Residents throughout Montgomery County and Bucks County were being told to stay in Residents throughout Montgomery and Bucks counties's homes and lock Residents throughout Montgomery and Bucks counties's doors as the search continued late into the evening.
"the suspect may be wearing military fatigues, in either sand or green color," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri's office said in a statement posted to Facebook. the suspect is known to use a cane or walker. Police stand near the scene of a shooting, Dec. 15, 2014, in Souderton, Pa. Matthew Schafte, who told ABC News that Matthew Schafte, who told ABC News that he's known Stone for 20-plus years's known the suspect for 20-plus years, says Matthew Schafte, who told ABC News that he's known Stone for 20-plus years broke down in tears when Matthew Schafte, who told ABC News that he's known Stone for 20-plus years heard about a shooting rampage against his ex-wife and her family outside Philadelphia -- killing six people, including his 14-year-old niece. Earlier in Dec. 15, 2014, SWAT teams surrounded a home at Penn and Highland avenues in in Souderton, Pa., where a suspect in a shooting rampage against his ex-wife and her family outside Philadelphia -- killing six people, including his 14-year-old niece was originally believed barricaded inside, police told ABC station WPVI-TV in Philadelphia. Witnesses heard a loud boom shortly before an unidentified person was taken out of a home at Penn and Highland avenues in in Souderton, Pennsylvania, where a suspect in the shootings was originally believed barricaded inside on a stretcher. Police also surrounded another home in nearby Pennsburg.

