Update: Brad Stone's body found in field near his home and military acquaintances recount odd reputation and issues with ex-wife. A manhunt is underway for a former Marine reservist who prosecutors say went on a shooting spree early Monday killing six family members, including his ex-wife, and wounding a teen in three towns across Montgomery County, Pennsylvania.
Bradley William Stone, 35 of Pennsburg, is considered armed and dangerous. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said police are actively searching for him and residents of one town are being asked to lock themselves indoors.
Stone stands 5-feet-10-inches tall and weighs 195 lbs. He is believed to be clean-shaven, but earlier officials said he could have a red beard and close-cropped hair. He is known to use a cane or walker to assist in moving, Vetri Ferman said.
He may also be wearing military fatigues — either green or brown. The man served more than eight years in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve and was deployed to Iraq, according to a Marine Corps spokesman. During his time, he earned several medals and his specialty was Artillery Meteorological Man — effectively a meteorologist that monitors weather conditions to ensure military fire accuracy. Family friends and neighbors who know Stone said he suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder and was discharged from the military because of it.
SWAT officers used military-grade vehicles and equipment to search Stone's home in the town of Pennsburg and the surrounding area. But so far have no definitive idea of where he may be. "We actually recovered his vehicle and his personal cell phone so we do not have information about how he might be traveling," Vetri Ferman said. She asked for the public to keep an eye out for Stone and call 911 right away if they spot him.
A man, wearing fatigues and fitting Stone's description, attempted to carjack a driver at knifepoint in the Doylestown, Bucks County area shortly before 8 p.m., county dispatchers tell NBC10. The carjacking victim then fired shots at the man as he fled into the woods, officials said.
Police spent four hours searching the area -- locking down the Central Bucks YMCA and Stonington Farms Apartments. Philadelphia Police sent one of their tatical helicopters, equipped with an infrared camera, to the area to help, officials said. Police investigated four scenes in Montgomery County as part of the shooting spree involving suspected gunman Bradley Stone.
Officials said shootings took place at three of the locations -- Harleysville, Lansdale and Souderton. The fourth location, in Pennsburg, is where SWAT officers searched for Stone, near his home. They found his body not far from his home on Tuesday. Having turned up nothing, the search was suspended around midnight, but officials asked residents to remain vigilent.
Among Stone's seven victims is his former wife, Nicole Hill Stone. She was shot inside her apartment in the Harleysville section of Lower Salford Township, just feet from their kids, around 4:55 a.m., police sources, prosecutors and neighbors tell NBC10.
“I heard the kids say, ‘Mommy no. We need my mom. I want my mom.’
And I heard [the suspect] say ‘Let’s go. We have to go now.
We’re leaving,’” the woman’s next-door neighbor, at the Pheasant Run Apartments along 150 Main Street, said. Moments after being jolted awake by the gunshots and hearing the yelling, the woman saw the children, believed to be 8-and 5-years-old, and a man running to a car parked outside. “I opened the window and I asked him ‘Is everything OK?’
He just looked at me and said ‘She’s hurt pretty bad. We have to leave.
She’s hurt.’ And he just got in the car and just left," she said.
When police arrived, they found the mother dead inside the second-floor apartment, police sources tell NBC10. Two bullet holes dotted the apartment's outer wall.
The children were located safe at the home of Stone's neighbor in Pennsburg, Vetri Ferman said. Hill Stone was last on her ex-husband's hit list, the prosecutor said. Stone shot the woman's mother, Jo Anne Koder, and her 75-year-old grandmother, Patricia Hill, inside their home along W. Fifth and Pierce Streets in Lansdale around 4:25 a.m., Vetri Ferman said. The county's 911 call center received a hang up call shortly before the shooting, she said.
Police spent three hours searching the area following the shooting, but turned up nothing. A check shortly before 8 a.m. at the Souderton home of Hill Stone's sister, Trish Flick, turned up another gruesome scene. Stone barged into Flick's Penn Avenue home around 3:30 a.m. and shot her, her husband Aaron, their 14-year-old daughter Nina and 17-year-old son Anthony, according to prosecutors.
SWAT officers surrounded the home after arriving and spent hours trying to make contact with a person they could see moving inside. Around 11 a.m., officers fired a diversionary device into the home and, following the resulting boom, entered.
They found all, but Anthony Flick dead. He was rushed to a waiting medical helicopter and flown to Thomas Jefferson Hospital's trauma center in Philadelphia, officials said. Still, Stone was nowhere to be found.
The situation prompted homes to be evacuated and a shelter in place order to be activated in the town's school district. That was lifted around noon as SWAT officers left the Penn Avenue scene.
That house remains under investigation as an active crime scene, Towamencin Township Police Chief Paul Dickinson said. Those officers, driving a mine-resistant vehicle, then made their way to a fourth home, a duplex owned by Stone, along Main and W. 4th streets in Pennsburg. That home is about 20 miles from Souderton and is where additional SWAT officers had been stationed for hours.
After getting no response for hours, SWAT officers moved inside and found nothing. They then expanded their search to areas nearby.
Sources said officials have asked other county law enforcement agencies to send two-men patrol cars to assist in the search. Officials in neighboring Bucks County and the FBI confirmed they are also supporting the effort.
Because of the manhunt, the Upper Perkiomen School District, which serves Stone's town, announced its schools will be closed on Tuesday. Officials have not released a motive for the shooting, but several of Nicole Hill's neighbors and friends said the woman feared for her life as the two went through a bitter custody dispute. Contact Vince Lattanzio at 610.668.5532, vince.lattanzio@nbcuni.com or follow @VinceLattanzio on Twitter.

A SWAT team has descended upon a home in Montgomery County where police say a suspect in three shootings that left five dead has been barricaded.
A flash, followed by a loud bang just before 11:45 Monday morning preceded SWAT personnel rushing toward a home in Souderton, Pennsylvania, where a man reportedly sought in five killings was thought to be holed up. It was not immediately clear if the man, who WPVI said was a military veteran, was in the Montgomery County home.
A person was brought out of the home on a stretcher, WPVI said. It wasn't clear who the person was.
A medical helicopter could be seen nearby and witnesses said and it soon took off. K9s were taken to the home and police soon were moving in and out. Police in three Montgomery County communities responded early Monday to killings.

An Iraq war veteran from Pennsburg methodically killed his ex-wife and five members of her family in a shooting rampage that started around 3:30 a.m. Monday in Souderton, then spread as he went to Lansdale and finally Lower Salford an hour and 45 minutes later, authorities said. The alleged shooter, Bradley W. Stone, 35, of Pennsburg, was still on the loose and considered armed and dangerous, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said at a 6 p.m. news conference.
She said Stone might be wearing military fatigues and using a cane or walker. Vetri Ferman said the victims were Nicole Hill, Stone’s ex-wife; Patricia Flick, Hill’s sister; Flick’s husband, Aaron; the Flicks’ 14-year-old daughter, and Hill’s mother and grandmother. Vetri Ferman said the Flicks’ 17-year-old son was injured in the Souderton shooting, and that Stone took his two daughters from his ex-wife’s apartment in the 100 block of Main Street in Lower Salford Township, dropping them off around 5 a.m. at a former neighbor’s home in Pennsburg.
Stone, who served in the Marine Corps Reserve from 2002 to 2011 and was honorably discharged, has undergone treatment for post-traumatic shock syndrome, according to court records. They also show he suffered combat-related injuries during a 2008 combat tour in Iraq.
Vetri Ferman gave no motive for the shootings. But a Lower Salford neighbor of Hill’s said the two had a tumultuous relationship.
The shootings began around 3:30 a.m. when Stone allegedly went to the Flick home in the 100 block of Penn Avenue in Souderton, where police found the bodies of the mother, father and teen daughter. Although that is believed to be the first shooting, it was the last one police discovered Monday. Police first became aware of the shootings when they received a 911 hang-up call at 4:25 a.m. from Lansdale. Police found Hill’s mother and grandmother dead in a home in the 100 block of West Fifth Street, Vetri Ferman said.
According to Montgomery County records, the home is listed in the name of Patricia Hill. Around 4:45 a.m., a neighbor called about gunshots from the Pheasant Run apartments in Lower Salford.
Hill, 33, was found dead at her home. Stone was thought to be in a Pennsburg home surrounded by SWAT officers about 1:30 p.m.
Three or four loud bangs rang out at a white brick house on Fourth Street, near the intersection of Main Street and Route 663. In Lower Salford, Hill’s neighbor Brewster said she woke up to the sound of smashed glass and a commotion.
“Then I heard a ‘pow,’ and I thought, ‘Was that a gun?'” she said. Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, heard the same noises, likening them to a car or truck hitting a house.
She said she heard what sounded like four gunshots and could hear children screaming for their mother. Deane said she could hear Stone telling the children that they had to leave. She said she looked out the front window and could see him with the children, who were in their pajamas. Deane said Stone looked at her and said, “She’s hurt,” referring to his ex-wife.
Stone and the children got in a car and sped off. Brewster said a sliding-glass door to the home was smashed. Two bullet holes were in a wall of the apartment, and a child’s bicycle with training wheels was out back.
Brewster said Hill moved into the apartment several years ago after her marriage broke up. According to court dockets, Stone filed for divorce from Hill in March 2009. The Philadelphia Inquirer reported that the divorce was finalized in 2012.
In court documents, Stone described himself as “permanently disabled according to the Veteran’s Administration.” The couple sparred in court in early 2013 over child support levels and preschool arrangements. A February 2013 order placed Stone’s monthly net income at $3,166 and set his child support at $896 per month.
The couple recently battled over custody of their two young children and support payments. Stone on Dec. 5 filed an emergency petition for custody.
Hill filed a counterclaim on Dec. 9, according to court docket entries. Brewster said Hill had a fiance, but he was not with her at the time of the shooting. In Pennsburg, residents were urged to stay indoors with their doors locked.
Many businesses along Route 663 and Main Street, the borough’s main thoroughfares, closed early. William Schafte of Harleysville, who described himself as a friend of Stone’s, went to Pennsburg when he heard about the standoff. He said he was on his way to the Pennsburg police department to speak to officers Monday afternoon about where Stone might be if he was not in Pennsburg.
Schafte described Stone as a “highly decorated veteran” and said that Stone was disabled due to an injury suffered during his service. Stone was briefly president of the American Legion William E. Hare Post 206 in Lansdale about a decade ago, said the post’s current commander, John Gillmer. Stone stood out because he was in his 20s and got involved in the chapter soon after completing his tour of duty, attending events and rising to the post of president, Gillmer said.
Most vets join later in life, when their kids are grown, and they have more free time, Gillmer said. Late Monday night, the search for Stone spread to Doylestown Township in Bucks County. Doylestown Township police said a resident fired shots at a man matching Stone’s description.
In a statement posted online, Doylestown Township police said an attempted robbery occurred around 7 p.m. near Burpee and Shady Retreat roads. The victim was walking his dog when he was confronted by a suspect carrying a knife, police said. The victim described the suspect as a white male about 5-foot-10 wearing camouflage clothes. Police said the suspect demanded the victim’s car keys, but the victim refused.
The victim was armed and fired multiple rounds at the suspect, who was seen running from the area. Stone has three drunken-driving convictions, most recently a February 2013 arrest for driving with a blood-alcohol level more than twice the legal limit. He was denied entry to the Accelerated Rehabilitative Disposition program and pleaded guilty to the charges.
He was sentenced in November 2013 to 90 days to 23 months on house arrest and three years’ probation. Stone is described as 5 feet 10 inches tall and 195 pounds, with closely cropped hair. While he had a reddish beard and mustache in the past, the district attorney’s Facebook page describes him as currently clean-shaven. Vetri Ferman said police recovered his car and cellphone and do not know how he may be traveling.

Police in Pennsylvania mounted an intense search Monday in the Philadelphia suburbs for a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws, the district attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, said at a Monday night press conference. Bradley William Stone of Pennsburg killed his ex-wife and her mother, grandmother and sister, as well as the sister’s husband and 14-year-old daughter, said District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman.
But Stone didn’t harm his two daughters, who were living with his ex-wife. He took them to a neighbor’s residence in Pennsburg, the last place he was seen, Ferman said. She didn’t provide a motive for the slayings. Stone was described as armed and dangerous. Late Monday night, police agencies descended on Doylestown, Pennsylvania, to investigate a possible sighting of Stone, according to a source with knowledge of the investigation. Doylestown is about 25 miles from Pennsburg.
A “shelter in place” had been ordered in the surrounding area where the sighting occurred, according to the source, and K-9 units have been asked to respond to the area as well. The killings broke the calm in several small towns in Montgomery County, the second wealthiest county in Pennsylvania and the 51st wealthiest in the United States, according to the county government web page.
Stone served as a reservist in the U.S. Marines until 2011, mainly as a meteorologist, according to the Marines. He spent a few months in Iraq in 2008. William Schafte of Harleysville, who described himself as a friend, said Stone was a “good guy” who helped people who needed money or a hand, according to the Morning Call newspaper of Allentown, Pennsylvania. Stone served as president of the American Legion William E. Hare Post 206 in Lansdale about a decade ago, said the current post commander John Gillmer, the Morning Call reported.
Ferman said the investigation started at 4:25 a.m. with a 911 hangup call directing police to the town of Lansdale, 28 miles northwest of Philadelphia. When police arrived, they found two slain women: Stone’s former mother-in-law and former grandmother-in-law, Ferman said. At 4:55 a.m. a neighbor of Stone’s ex-wife called 911, Ferman said. Police went to an apartment in Lower Salford and found Nicole Stone, 33, dead.
Another neighbor, Michele Brewster said she heard a loud crash and shattering glass. Brewster said she asked an officer if gunshots had been fired.
He said yes. At 5:30 a.m. Stone delivered his two daughters to a neighbor in Pennsburg, Ferman said.
About 8 a.m., police went to the home of Nicole Stone’s sister, Patricia Flick, in Souderton. Officers found Flick, her husband and the couple’s 14-year-old daughter dead, Ferman said.
The sister’s 17-year-old son was wounded and was being treated at a Philadelphia hospital, Ferman said. Though last discovered, it appears the killings in Souderton took place first, the district attorney said.
Ferman’s office said Stone may be wearing military fatigues, in either sand or green color. According to Montgomery County court documents found online, the Stones divorced in 2009.
In family court papers, Stone’s ex-wife said he claimed in a 2011 hearing that he was “permanently disabled,” according to the Veterans Administration, but that he had not applied for Social Security disability benefits. The Marine Corps told CNN it has no record of Stone being injured. CNN affiliate WPVI said police originally thought Stone was holed up inside the house in Lansdale, so officers surrounded the residence. Heavily armed SWAT teams tossed flash-bang devices into the house and stormed the residence, but police said Stone was not inside.

A possible sighting of Bradley William Stone, the man suspected of killing six people during a multi-location shooting spree in Montgomery County, has been reported in Doylestown, according to authorities. Doylestown Township Police said an attempted armed robbery was reported around 7 p.m. in the area of Burpee Road and Shady Retreat Road. A man told officers he was confronted by a suspect, who had a knife, whose description was similar to the one provided for Stone. Police from multiple jurisdictions are assisting in the search, according to Doylestown Township.

LANSDALE, Pa. (CBS) -- Police are searching for a suspect they say is responsible for the shooting deaths of six people and the serious wounding of another at three locations in Montgomery County Monday morning.
"Due to the fact that law enforcement still seeks the whereabouts of an armed and dangerous local resident, Upper Perkiomen schools will be closed on Tuesday, December 16th. The District attorney has asked that people in our area remain vigilant. Decisions regarding re-opening of school will be made on a daily basis, based upon consultation with law enforcement and investigative personnel.
After consulting with local police and other area schools districts, the Pennridge School District will open as scheduled on Tuesday, Dec. 16 but operate on a modified lock down. That means students will remain indoors and only known individuals will be permitted to enter schools. Souderton schools will open as normal today, but with no outdoor classes or recess as the search for Bradley Stone continues. Among the victims killed in the shooting spree in Montgomery County is the suspect's ex-wife, investigators said.
Law enforcement authorities in Montgomery County are searching for 35-year-old Bradley William Stone, of Pennsburg. Investigators say all of the victims have a familial relationship to Stone.
Stone is described as 5'10", 195 pounds, with a red/auburn beard and mustache with closely cropped hair. He is known to use a cane or walker to assist him. Stone may be wearing military fatigues, in either sand or green color.
According to a Marine spokesperson, Stone was a former Marine who served in Iraq in 2008 and was honorably discharged from the Reserves in 2011. The search for Stone continued late Monday night in Doylestown, Bucks County after police say they took a report of an attempted carjacking involving someone who's description is similar to that of Stone.
According to police, the alleged victim was walking his dog around 7 p.m. Monday when he was confronted by a suspect carrying a knife and demanded his car keys. Police say the alleged victim had a gun and shot several times as the man ran into the woods. The Central Bucks YMCA was on lockdown as a precaution and residents at Stonington Farm were told to shelter in place.
As the search continued in Doylestown, SWAT team members stood in a defensive position outside a home in Pennsburg, Montgomery County. That search began late morning. Around 11:30 p.m. Monday, Doylestown officials said the shelter in place was lifted and residents to continue to be vigilant. Stone should be considered armed and dangerous.
Anyone with information about Stone's whereabouts is asked to call 911 immediately. "We actually recovered his vehicle and his personal cell phone, so we do not have information about how he might be traveling," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. Investigators say the first shooting happened in Souderton at about 3:30 a.m. During a news conference Monday evening, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said Stone fatally shot his former sister-in-law, her husband and the couple's 14-year-old daughter.
Ferman said the couple's 17-year-old son survived being shot and was taken to a hospital in Philadelphia. Ferman said Stone then went to a home in Lansdale and fatally shot his former mother-in-law and former grandmother-in-law.
According to Ferman, Stone then went to the Lower Salford home of his ex-wife, 33-year-old Nicole Stone, and fatally shot her. Ferman said Stone then took the couple's two daughters, but he dropped them off at a neighbor's home in Pennsburg shortly after. Listen to the full press conference...
A woman, who witnessed parts of the incident in Lower Salford, spoke to CBS3's Steve Patterson about what she saw. The woman says at that point, she opened her window and asked the suspect if everything was okay. The deadly shootings remain under investigation.
CBS 3's Todd Quinones contributed to this report. For the latest on this story, watch CBS 3 at 4:30 a.m., listen to KYW Newsradio and get updates anytime right here on CBSPhilly.

A Pennsylvania district attorney says there may never be closure in the case of a man suspected of killing his ex-wife and five former in-laws. “There’s no excuse; there’s no valid explanation.
There’s no justification for snuffing out these six innocent lives and then injuring another child. This is just a horrific tragedy,” Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman told reporters Tuesday.
The body of the suspect, Bradley William Stone, was found with what looked to be self-inflicted wounds. The former Marine reservist had been on the run since Monday’s slayings shook small communities north of Philadelphia.
Although a final report from the coroner is pending, Stone appears to have died from self-inflicted cutting wounds, in the center of his body, according to Ferman. His body was found in a wooded area about 1/2 mile from his home in Pennsburg.
It was not immediately clear how long the remains had been there. “When you look at the three different locations, the number of people killed, clearly we are looking at a premeditated killing – a planned killing, an intentional, deliberate killing,” said Ferman.
The killings broke the calm in several small towns in Montgomery County, the second wealthiest county in Pennsylvania and the 51st wealthiest in the United States, according to the county government web page. Early Monday morning, a hangup call to 911 first tipped off police to the bloodshed, directing them to Lansdale, 28 miles northwest of Philadelphia.
When police arrived, they found two slain women: Stone’s former mother-in-law and former grandmother-in-law, Ferman said. A short time later, a neighbor of Stone’s ex-wife called 911, the prosecutor explained.
Police went to an apartment in Lower Salford and found 33-year-old Nicole Stone dead. In addition to Nicole Stone, her mother, grandmother and sister were found dead, as well as the sister’s husband and 14-year-old daughter, Ferman said.
The sister’s 17-year-old son was being treated at a Philadelphia hospital. Ferman said that the teen, who sustained cutting injuries to his hands and head, was in serious condition.
But Stone didn’t harm his two daughters, who were living with his ex-wife. He took them to a neighbor’s residence in Pennsburg, the last place he was seen, Ferman said. She didn’t provide a motive for the slayings.
Stone was described as armed and dangerous. “We learned that just last week he had made an effort in court to try to secure custody – emergency custody of the children – and that was denied,” she said.
According to Montgomery County court documents found online, the Stones divorced in 2009. Stone served as a reservist in the U.S. Marines until 2011, mainly as a meteorologist, according to the Marines. He spent a few months in Iraq in 2008.
William Schafte of Harleysville, who described himself as a friend, said Stone was a “good guy” who helped people who needed money or a hand, according to the Morning Call newspaper of Allentown, Pennsylvania. Stone served as president of the American Legion William E. Hare Post 206 in Lansdale about a decade ago, said the current post commander John Gillmer, the Morning Call reported.
The Upper Perkiomen School District called off classes Tuesday. Following the announcement of Stone’s death, it said schools would reopen at regular times Wednesday.

A Marine Iraq War veteran who police say killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in a multi-town shooting spree outside Philadelphia took his own life, authorities said Tuesday, ending a more than daylong, two-county manhunt. Bradley William Stone, 35, was found in a wooded area in New Hanover Township, about a half mile from his home in Pennsburg, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said at an afternoon news conference.
She said that Stone was believed to have died "from self-inflicted cutting wounds in the center part of his body." She did not know how long he had been dead when he was discovered shortly after 1:30 p.m. Ferman said a motive was not immediately clear, but said the killings came after a recent custody dispute between Stone and his ex-wife Nicole over their two children.
More On This... The rampage began around 3:30 a.m. on Monday, when Stone shot and killed Patricia Flick, the sister of his ex-wife, Nicole Stone, at her home in Souderton, also killing Flick's husband, Aaron Flick, and her 14-year-old daughter, Nina Flick.
Her 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, suffered "significant" cutting injuries to his head and hands after apparently defending himself from Stone, Ferman said, adding that she believed reports that Anthony had had three of his fingers cut off were accurate. He was being treated at a Philadelphia hospital and was in serious condition.
Nicole Stone's mother, Joanne Hill, and grandmother Patricia Hill were killed next at their home in nearby Lansdale. Investigators were alerted by a hang-up call to emergency dispatchers, Ferman said.
Then, around 5 a.m., Stone went to Nicole Stone's apartment, located in the Harleysville section of Lower Salford Township, investigators said. Stone broke in through a glass door, shot and killed Nicole Stone, and fled with their two children, the woman's neighbors said.
Authorities said Stone then delivered the two children, who were unharmed, to a neighbor in Pennsburg. Stone's current wife and infant child were safe and secure as well, she added.
All three towns are within a few minutes of each other. Pennsburg is located 48 miles northwest of Philadelphia. She said one firearm, the model of which she did not specify, had been recovered at the scene of Nicole Stone's home, and a Beretta was missing, though she said it was possible it could still be with his body, which hadn't been moved as of 4 p.m. so as to preserve the scene for the coroner.
The hunt for Stone had spread to two Pennsylvania counties as authorities urged residents to be "vigilant and cautious," warning that Stone was armed and dangerous. Some schools were closed Tuesday, hospitals and other public places increased security and residents remained on heightened alert, even as officials lifted a shelter-in-place order for parts of Bucks County, where a knife-wielding, fatigue-clad man resembling Stone attempted a carjacking in Doylestown on Monday night.
But there was no immediate confirmation that the suspect was Stone. Authorities had recovered Stone's cellphone, but Ferman said no meaningful information had been recovered from it. Friends of the family were shocked to hear of the rampage.
"(Nicole Stone) would tell anybody who would listen that he was going to kill her, and that she was really afraid for her life," said Evan Weron, a neighbor of Stone's ex-wife, Nicole Stone. "Everything started being blocked off, the SWAT was then later called in, then we had the tanks pull up," said Don Smith, describing the scene near his Souderton home. Brad and Nicole Stone, 33, married in 2004 and filed for divorce in March 2009, according to court records.
The former couple recently sparred over custody of their two children, with Brad Stone filing an emergency petition Dec. 5 and Nicole Stone responding with a counterclaim Dec. 9, according to court records. The outcome of their dispute was not clear. Nicole Stone's neighbors at the Pheasant Run Apartments in Harleysville said they were awakened Monday morning by the sounds of breaking glass and gunshots. Weron said Nicole Stone would talk frequently about the custody dispute. "(Nicole) came into the house a few times, a few separate occasions, crying about how it was very upsetting to her," Weron said.

An Iraq war veteran suspected in a shooting rampage that left six of his estranged family members dead remained at large late Monday as the manhunt continued north of Philadelphia.
The victims included his ex-wife, her mother, her grandmother, her sister, her brother-in-law and a niece. A nephew was wounded.
Former Marine Sgt. Bradley William Stone, 35, also may have abducted his two daughters from his ex-wife’s home, a witness said, but dropped them off with a neighbor before he vanished.
By late Monday night, the manhunt had spilled from Montgomery County into Bucks County, leading residents in Doylestown to shelter indoors. Stone, of Pennsburg, was being sought on suspicion of shootings in the towns of Lansdale, Lower Salford Township and Souderton. The communities are 35 to 50 miles north of Philadelphia.
Montgomery County law enforcement officials described a series of attacks that began at 3:30 a.m. and continued until 5 a.m., until Stone dropped off his daughters and disappeared, abandoning his vehicle and his cellphone. A possible sighting of Stone took place Monday night:
The township of Doylestown said an attempted armed robbery took place about 7 p.m. local time involving a man whose description was similar to that of Stone. A white man dressed in camouflage clothing and carrying a knife demanded car keys from a person walking a dog, the township said on Facebook. The victim had a gun and fired at the man, who ran away, the township said.
On Monday morning, Stone’s ex-wife, Nicole Stone, 33, was found dead in her home in Lower Salford Township. Nicole and Bradley Stone had divorced in 2009. The Stones had been involved in a protracted custody battle over their two daughters, according to a friend of Bradley Stone.
“She was trying to hold the kids from him, and he just snapped,” theorized Matthew Schafte, 42. “But to snap by killing her family members is not the Brad that I know.…
He was a nice guy.” Schafte, of Harleysville, said he has known Stone for 20 years.
Stone was seen around 5 a.m., when he “delivered” his two daughters to a neighbor in Pennsburg, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman told reporters at a brief news conference. The girls were safe, Ferman said.
But much of their extended family is now dead. The first attack apparently began at 3:30 a.m. in Souderton, where Nicole Stone’s sister, Patricia Flick, Flick’s husband, and their 14-year-old daughter were found dead, Ferman said.
Flick’s 17-year-old son was injured in the attack and was apparently not found until shortly before 8 a.m., when authorities visited the home and took him to a hospital, Ferman said. His name was not released and the extent of his injuries was not known.
Nicole Stone’s mother and grandmother were found dead at a home in Lansdale after a hang-up 911 call was placed to police at 4:25 a.m., Ferman said. Officials did not give their names.
Nicole Stone was found dead in Lower Salford Township after a 911 call from a neighbor at 4:55 a.m., Ferman said. “I heard a ‘pow,’ and I thought, ‘Was that a gun?’” Brewster, Nicole Stone’s neighbor, told the Morning Call.
Another neighbor, Ashley Deane, told the newspaper she heard what sounded like four gunshots and could hear children screaming for their mother. Deane said she could hear her neighbor’s ex-husband telling the children that they had to leave. She said she looked out the front window and saw him with the children, ages 5 and 7, who were in their pajamas.
The ex-husband looked at Deane and said, “She’s hurt,” referring to his ex-wife, Deane told the Morning Call, adding that the ex-husband and the children then got in a car and sped off. The manhunt forced local schools to shelter in place as authorities spent the day hunting for the balding, red-haired Bradley Stone, whom officials consider armed and dangerous.
Local media reported that SWAT teams swarmed his home in Pennsburg, but he remained at large. Stone’s friend Schafte described him as being focused on the Marines and on his children, including a son with a new partner.
The Marine Corps confirmed Stone’s service, telling the Los Angeles Times that he enlisted as a reservist in 2002 and left duty in 2008, but remained on individual ready reserve in case of a call-up until 2011. Stone served in Iraq from April 17, 2008, to July 2, 2008, the only deployment on his record, according to a spokeswoman for the Marines.
He earned an Iraq Campaign Medal -- indicating service in Iraq -- in addition to a Global War on Terrorism Service Medal and other commendations. His job included monitoring weather conditions for artillery. His record did not mention any injuries suffered in the service, a Marines spokeswoman said.
Montgomery County law enforcement officials said Stone often used a cane or a walker and, as a fugitive, may be wearing military fatigues. Officials say he may have shaved off his reddish facial hair. By Monday night, as the search moved into Bucks County, locals and officials were jittery, reporting possible sightings or noises.

Mass killer Bradley Stone was found dead of self-inflicted “cutting wounds” to his midsection in the woods near his Pennsburg home, authorities said. His body was found at 1:38 p.m. Tuesday about a half-mile from his apartment off Schoolhouse Road in Upper Hanover Township. A cutting instrument, believed to be a knife, was found nearby, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said.
The discovery put an end to a massive manhunt for Stone, who was wanted in connection witih the deaths of his ex-wife Nicole Hill and five of her relatives and the stabbing of her nephew. Ferman said Stone shot and/or stabbed his victims and that the lone survivor, Hill’s nephew Anthony Flick, 17, of Souderton had tried to fend off Stone. She said the attack was premeditated, but it is unclear how long Stone planned the killings.
“When you look at the three different locations, the number of people who were killed, clearly we were looking at a premeditated killing, a planned killing, an intentional deliberate killing,” she said. Police had been seeking Stone since identifying him as the suspect in Monday’s predawn killing spree that left Hill, her mother, sister, grandmother, brother-in-law and niece dead. Ferman said there is no concrete motive, but said the troubled 35-year-old Iraq war veteran had been battling Hill over custody issues involving their two daughters, who are 7 and 5.
Investigators were called to 123 W. Fifth Street in Lansdale at 4:25 a.m. after a 911 hang-up call from the home. When officers arrived, they saw that the back door was kicked in and they found the bloodied bodies of Patricia Hill, 75, and her 57-year-old daughter, Joanne T. Gilbert.
Both had a significant amount of blood pooled around their heads. Found at the scene were three .40-caliber shell cases.
Gilbert’s throat had been slashed and Hill had defensive wounds on her arm and an apparent gunshot wound to her right eye. About a half-hour after the first 911 call, Ashley Deane, who lives at 150 Main St., Lower Salford, called police saying she heard broken glass and four gunshots. Deane confronted Stone, who was taking his two girls to a car and saying Nicole Hill, his ex-wife, was hurt.
Investigators arriving at the house found the door smashed in and Nicole Hill dead in a second-floor bedroom. Police believe Hill was shot twice in the face and head and there were two bullet strikes on the wall; .40-caliber casings were found near the body.
By 5:10 a.m., Bradley Stone had driven back to his home in Pennsburg where he asked neighbor Larry Hange to deliver his children to his wife before driving away. The intense manhunt followed.
Concerned about other relatives, police went to 146 Penn Ave. in Souderton, the home of Hill’s sister Patricia Flick. There they found a rear door broken open and the bodies of Flick, her husband Aaron Flick, and their 14-year-old daughter, Nina Flick. Nina Flick was attacked in her bed and had massive cutting injuries on her face and skull. Patricia Flick had slicing wounds on her legs and what appeared to be gunshot wounds to her face.
He is in serious but stable condition at a Philadelphia hospital. County SWAT teams had entered a garage and two houses, Stone’s and a neighbor’s, on Monday night but did not find him.
They regrouped Tuesday morning, with assistance from the U.S. Marshals and state police and began a methodical search of the Pennsburg area. “This morning, all the SWAT teams from the county met back up in Pennsburg and we started a grid search going block by block,” he said. Police found one firearm in Nicole Hill’s home, Ferman said.
Doylestown Township police, who had investigated an attempted carjacking Monday night involving a man resembling Stone, issued a statement shortly before 3 p.m. saying Stone’s remains had been identified and they no longer believe he was involved in the incident in their jurisdiction. Police say Stone used a .40-caliber handgun to shoot some victims and also used a knife in the attacks.
Ferman said she had no information of any legal prohibition against Stone owning or purchasing firearms. Ferman said Stone was not, to her knowledge, diagnosed with PTSD, but under treatment by the court in connection with being convicted of DUI. Stone had indicated in court proceedings that he had post-traumatic stress disorder, but Ferman said there was nothing to indicate that he was ever diagnosed with PTSD. Stone’s two children with Hill are in protective custody.
The Souderton-Telford Rotary has started a fund to help Stone’s children. She said the killings really stunned the communities where they occurred.
The last time anyone saw Stone was Monday morning when he dropped his daughters off at a neighbor’s house in Pennsburg. Mike Fiorito, 52, owns Western Auto, an auto repair and supply shop on Pottsville Pike.
Stone was found behind his property. Fiorito said he wasn’t scared while Stone was still on the loose, noting that he always keeps a gun nearby. Still, he checked outbuildings and empty trailers behind his shop this morning, to make sure Stone wasn’t hiding there.
Fiorito said he wasn’t surprised to learn that Stone committed suicide. Jeffrey Behm lives on Fourth Street, about three blocks away from Stone’s apartment.
He said Pennsburg is usually quiet, and the killings had everyone in town on edge. On Tuesday, police officers searched his apartment building. Stone’s death ends a massive manhunt that involved a half-dozen regional police SWAT teams, Pennsylvania State Police and FBI and ATF agents.
Stone was believed to have access to guns and knives. Authorities said they had recovered his car and cell phone and did not know how he was traveling.
Stone and his ex-wife had reportedly been clashing over custody of their daughters and other matters for some time. Hill’s neighbor said she feared Stone and had predicted he would try to kill her. According to court records, Stone remarried in August of 2013 and recently fathered a child.
Stone joined the U.S. Marine Corps reserve in October 2002 and was on active duty until September 2008. He remained on ready reserve until May 2011 and was honorably discharged with the rank of sergeant. He served in Iraq from April to July in 2008. Records do not indicate he was wounded, but in custody court hearings he claimed to be on permanent disability from his military service, during which he earned an Iraq Campaign Medal, a Global War on Terrorism Service Medal and other commendations.
Stone sometimes relied on a cane or walker to get around. At Pennsburg’s Vets for Vets program, a transitional housing program for troubled veterans, Stone was the main topic of conversation Tuesday morning. He had received help from Vets for Vets and lived at the converted post office, which can house up to four veterans, before getting his own apartment across the street. Kyle Fairchild, 28, an Ohio native who came to the program after falling in hard financial times after an eight-year stint in the Navy, said he would often see Stone outside the home.
Anthony Flick’s friends have started a Go Fund Me online fundraising account to raise money for his care. It had raised more than $4,300 as of Tuesday morning.
The campaign creator is Melissa Mecca, 26, a Lansdale resident who started a Go Fund Me crowdfunding account to help cover his expenses. Mecca said she started the account on behalf of a group of victim Anthony’s friends, who met at a Montgomery Township restaurant Monday night to brainstorm ways to help him. Mecca herself knows Anthony because both are heavy metal fans and attended concerts with Mecca’s brother. Mecca said family members told her Flick was stabbed multiple times defending his family. He was taken to a Philadelphia hospital, she said.
Nina was a ninth-grade student at Souderton Area High School. Anthony is in 11th grade and also attended the North Montco Technical Career Center. Additional counselors and school psychologists will be on hand at the high school today and throughout the week to assist students and staff as they mourn Nina’s death and support Anthony in his recovery, the statement said.

PENNSBURG, Pa. --
The suspect in a Pennsylvania killing spree that left six dead has been found dead after a manhunt that spanned two days, according to the Doylestown Township Police Department. Accused gunman Bradley William Stone, a 35-year-old ex-Marine, was found dead in the woods near Pennsburg Tuesday afternoon.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman says police found Stone's body at around 1:30 p.m. Tuesday about a half-mile from his Pennsburg home. She says he died of apparent self-inflicted cutting wounds to the center of his body.
Officials are still waiting on a coroner to determine cause of death. Monday's shooting rampage started before dawn at the home of Stone's former sister-in-law in Souderton and ended about 90 minutes later at ex-wife Nicole Stone's apartment in nearby Harleysville, prosecutors said.
His former wife, 33-year-old Nicole Stone, was found dead after a neighbor saw Stone fleeing just before 5 a.m. Monday with their two young daughters. The girls were later found safe with Stone's neighbors.
Police then made the grim discovery of five people killed in two other houses. Nicole Stone's sister, Patricia Flick, her sister's husband, Aaron Flick, and the couple's 14-year-old daughter, Nina Flick, were killed in the first wave of violence, which was not discovered until nearly 8 a.m.
Their 17-year-old son, Anthony Flick, was pulled from the house with a head wound and was taken in an armored vehicle and then by helicopter to a Philadelphia hospital for treatment. Nicole Stone's mother, Joanne Hill, and grandmother Patricia Hill were killed next at their home in nearby Lansdale.
Anthony Flick suffered "quite significant cutting injuries" to his hands and head, and was in very serious but stable condition, Ferman said. Some of the boy's wounds appeared to be defensive, indicating that he attempted to fight off his attacker, according to Ferman. "I can't emphasize enough how serious his condition is, but at this point, we are hoping he will be fine," Ferman said earlier Tuesday. Patricia Flick suffered gunshot wounds to her arm and head, Aaron Flick suffered gunshot wounds to the head and cutting injuries, and Nina Flick suffered cutting injuries, Ferman said.
Patricia Hill was shot to death, Ferman said. Joanne Hill was also shot and also suffered a cut to her neck.
"Clearly, we are looking at premeditated killings - planned killings, intentional, deliberate killings," Ferman said. Stone had been locked in a child custody dispute with his ex-wife, and Ferman said he targeted people close to him. Last week, Ferman said, Stone made an effort in court to secure emergency custody of his children, which was denied. Ferman said she couldn't speculate as to whether the dispute was the motive for the killings.
"There's no excuse for snuffing out these six innocent lives and injuring another child," Ferman said, adding that the normally peaceful community has been "shattered" by the events. SWAT teams and local, state and federal law enforcement agencies including the FBI, ATF and U.S. Marshals all joined in the search. Schools closed and hospitals and other public places tightened security during the manhunt.
Neighbors said Nicole Stone lived in such fear of her ex-husband that she would sometimes ask her apartment complex's maintenance staff to go in and check her place first because she was afraid he might be lying in wait. "She would tell anybody who would listen that he was going to kill her and that she was really afraid for her life," said Evan Weron, another neighbor in Harleysville.
Stone was in the Marines from 2002 to 2008. His specialty was listed as "artillery meteorological man." Stone told a 2011 child support hearing that Veterans Affairs deemed him permanently disabled and that he was collecting benefits from the agency, according to court documents.
The VA had no comment Tuesday. A longtime friend, Matthew Schafte, said he was not aware of any injuries Stone may have suffered as a Marine. Stone had faced several driving-under-the-influence charges, one of which was handled in veterans' court and led to a three- to 23-month sentence.
He remarried last year, according to his Facebook page and court records, and has an infant son. Neither his wife nor the son was injured.
Nicole Stone became engaged over the summer, neighbors said. The killings set off the second major manhunt to transfix Pennsylvania in the past few months. Eric Frein spent 48 days at large in the Poconos after the September ambush slaying of a state trooper.

A year ago, Bradley Stone had agreed to give up his guns. Last week, he had persuaded a Veterans Affairs psychologist he was neither suicidal nor homicidal.
On Wednesday, the onetime Marine had officials perplexed about how he died. A day after Stone's lifeless body turned up in a patch of Pennsburg woods - the final scene after a rampage that left his ex-wife and five others dead - the mystery surrounding his life and death deepened. Details also emerged that raised questions about whether Stone's murderous spree with guns and knives could have been detected or derailed.
County records show that when Stone, 35, was sentenced last year for drunken driving, he agreed not to own any "look-alike firearm, lethal weapon, explosives, and/or ammunition." But it was unclear Wednesday whether anyone sought to enforce that clause or even ask whether the ex-Marine - who admittedly had mental health problems and three DUI arrests and was in a bitter, protracted custody dispute - had weapons. According to a transcript from the November 2013 sentencing hearing, Judge William Furber Jr. told Stone he would have to comply with the court's terms "making particular reference to the contract."
The judge, also a Marine, did not specifically ask Stone about weapons. Furber did not respond to messages left Wednesday at his chambers and home.
Stephanie Landes, coordinator of the county's Veterans Treatment Court, where Stone was processed, hung up when contacted Wednesday by The Inquirer and later sent an e-mail referring to information on its website. Records show that Stone in recent years had legally purchased two firearms - a .40-caliber handgun and 9mm Beretta.
According to an affidavit filed by prosecutors, he wielded both - as well as at least one knife - in the Monday morning attacks that killed his ex-wife, Nicole Stone, as well as her mother, grandmother, sister, brother-in-law, and niece. One of Bradley Stone's guns was recovered at Nicole Stone's apartment in Harleysville; shell casings from the other were found at the Lansdale home where he killed her mother and grandmother.
Stone's boiling rage also slipped past a VA psychiatrist, the agency said. Stone had spent three months in Iraq in 2008, a tour that some acquaintances blamed in part for his downfall.
He told Furber, the Montgomery County judge, that post-traumatic stress disorder had left him fully disabled and unable to work. On Dec. 8, Stone met with a psychiatrist at the Coatesville VA Medical Center, one of at least five VA facilities where Stone had been treated, according to the Department of Veterans Affairs. The doctor there found him to be "without any suicidal or homicidal ideation," it said in a statement. The agency also said it was now conducting a review of Stone's treatment.
In a news conference Tuesday, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said county investigators had no evidence that Stone had been diagnosed with the stress disorder. But the VA said Stone had been considered "100 percent service-connected disabled" for the stress disorder since 2010.
Ferman also said that Stone apparently died in the woods near his Pennsburg home from self-inflicted "cutting wounds" to his body. Now, investigators are not so sure.
After conducting a preliminary autopsy, Montgomery County Coroner Walter I. Hofman said Wednesday that he could not yet say how Stone died - or exactly when. The only injury that medical examiners discovered, Hofman said, was a "limited injury" to Stone's left leg - and one that didn't cause his death. The coroner said that the leg injury was not a gunshot wound, but that he would not elaborate the type of injury. He also said Stone had been dead for at least 12 hours before police found his clothed body Tuesday afternoon.
Hofman said he had ruled out hypothermia as a cause of death. Pending is a toxicology report, which could take a week.
That scene was a gruesome tableau. According to Steele, the items found near Stone's corpse included two medicine bottles, one containing a white powder; an energy drink with powder on the lip; and a large-handled machete and doubled-bladed black ax, both coated in blood. Signs of the terror and its aftermath were still evident Wednesday in the three towns where Stone went on his rampage.
Not far from Nicole Stone's apartment in Harleysville, Judy Rodriguez wrapped an arm around her friend and neighbor Ashley Deane. It was the first time Rodriguez had seen her since learning that Deane was the neighbor who called police early Monday after hearing Stone break into the apartment, shoot his wife, and take their daughters. "You're lucky to be alive," Judy Rodriguez told her.
Candles and mementos had cropped up near the murder scenes. Funeral arrangements were not yet clear for the victims. Fund-raisers have been churning for Stone's daughters - 5-year-old Kayla and 8-year-old Shannon - as well as their cousin Anthony Flick, the 17-year-old Souderton boy wounded when Stone killed his mother, Patricia; father, Aaron; and younger sister, Nina.
An online campaign organized by Flick's friends had raised more than $18,000 at gofundme.com/fundsforflick. Word FM, a faith-based radio station, was collecting money as well, through WordFM.com, as was the Souderton-Telford Rotary Club. Checks can be mailed to the Univest Foundation, 14 N. Main St., Box 559, Souderton, Pa. 18964.
A relative said Flick, hospitalized in Philadelphia, was awake and "starting to remember bits and pieces" of the deadly attack. Jim Leary, Souderton's police chief, said he couldn't imagine the devastation Flick would soon face.

Next week, Nicole Stone's family was to gather in Lansdale for an annual Christmas Eve feast of peeled shrimp and clam linguine.
Seated around the table would have been four generations - Stone, her two young daughters, her mother, grandmother, and sister. Now only the little girls are alive. Over a few hours Monday, Stone's ex-husband, Bradley W. Stone, killed the rest. But it's not that some kind of trouble was unexpected.
Though Bradley Stone's full motives remain unclear, his victims shared more than a familial bond. All appeared to be on one side of a nasty and protracted custody battle between Nicole and Bradley Stone, one that worsened when he learned his ex-wife had recently sought treatment for drug abuse. The custody dispute was a constant topic of conversation, McGaughey said. The family worried for Nicole and her daughters.
As recently as Saturday, McGaughey said, her sister Joanne T. Gilbert had called her to talk about the dispute. And McGaughey said she knew her sister and mother talked often with Nicole about it.
"They were always communicating to make sure she was OK and to make sure her children were OK," McGaughey said Tuesday from her Wilkes-Barre home. Gilbert, 57, was one of six people authorities say Bradley Stone killed Monday morning, before later taking his own life in woods near his home in Pennsburg. Besides his ex-wife, the others were Nicole Stone's grandmother Patricia Hill, 75; her sister, Patricia Flick of Souderton; and Flick's husband, Aaron, and 14-year-old daughter, Nina.
Despite her family and personal troubles, Nicole Stone had held steady jobs at Montgomery Mall. She loved singing and dancing to 1980s music, and was always upbeat while working at the Gertrude Hawk chocolate store, manager Lannette Wismer said. "She was just a ray of sunshine," Wismer said. Her coworkers loved her so much that they pitched in to surprise her with Christmas presents for her daughters last year, after she mentioned she could not afford any, Wismer said.
In recent months, Nicole Stone had sought treatment for drug abuse, friends and family members said. When her ex-husband learned of that, he redoubled his efforts to win custody of their daughters, 5-year-old Kayla and 8-year-old Shannon, who spent much of their time living with their mother at her apartment in Harleysville, Lower Salford. Earlier this month, Bradley Stone filed an emergency motion in Montgomery County Court seeking custody of the children, records show.
A judge had not yet issued a final ruling on the request. Evan Weron, a Harleysville resident who got to know Nicole Stone because their children played outside together, said she had complained in recent months about the custody battle and said she feared for her safety.
"It got to be so much towards the end," Weron said. Weron said he had been there in the past when Bradley Stone came to pick up or drop off his daughters. At first, the ex-Marine had been friendly, but more recently he would simply storm out of the house, Weron said.
Bradley Stone was usually accompanied by his new wife, Jennifer Ovdiyenko, a 37-year-old artist he married last year. The couple have a baby, officials said.
Nicole Stone was also engaged to be married, according to her aunt. But while Nicole sorted out her issues with drug addiction, her mother had hoped that she could take custody of her two young girls, McGaughey said. Joanne Gilbert recently overcame breast cancer, according to her sister, and had purchased Christmas gifts for her grandchildren.
She also had them over to decorate a tree in her Lansdale home, the one where police found her and her mother Monday morning. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman on Tuesday said Bradley Stone had dropped off his girls at a neighbor's home after shooting their mother.
Both are in protective custody, Ferman said. Across the area, people were taking steps Tuesday to remember the victims.
At Souderton Area High School, students drew Batman symbols on their arms in memory of Nina Flick, who loved Batman. Flick, a freshman at the high school, was a carefree teen who "didn't really care what people thought about her," said David Kautter, a friend of her brother's.
Students also organized fund-raising efforts to help Flick's 17-year-old brother, Anthony, the only victim to survive the attack by Bradley Stone. He was hospitalized Tuesday in serious but stable condition.
The high school junior worked at the Souderton Mennonite Homes, cleaning and serving meals to the residents, Kautter said. He described his friend as a music fan with a good sense of humor.
"He literally went through hell," Kautter said of the attack. Friends are collecting money for Flick at gofundme.com/fundsforflick to cover his medical bills and support himself after the loss of his family.
The Souderton Telford Rotary will also create a fund for the surviving children, Ferman said. Funeral arrangements for the victims were not available Tuesday. But mourners had planned to gather at Emmanuel Lutheran Church in Souderton on Tuesday night for a candlelight vigil.

He went to war with a Marine regiment known as the Cannon Cockers, an artillery unit that rained explosive shells on the enemy in Iraq.
He did not stay long - less than three months in 2008. But Bradley Stone claimed he had been fully disabled by post-traumatic stress disorder and was taking medication as part of his mental-health treatment.
In a patch of woods not far from his Pennsburg home Tuesday afternoon, police found Stone dead of self-inflicted cutting wounds - a gruesome end to a manhunt that began after he killed his ex-wife and five of her relatives in Montgomery County on Monday. On Tuesday, service veteran friends of Stone's struggled to make sense of the killings. None condoned them.
At the same time, they said, Stone had suffered. Howard was at Vets for Vets, a nonprofit center close to Stone's house in Pennsburg.
He said the two often talked about their combat experiences. Stone, friends said, was a Marine through and through, a family man who happily lent a hand to shovel snow, and a former sergeant who struggled with stress disorder and physical injuries from carrying heavy backpacks in Iraq. "You can't condemn someone until you understand what they went through," he said.
Jake Leone, who bought and renovated the former post office that houses Vets for Vets, said Stone willingly lent his construction tools for the work. Stone, 35, enlisted in the Marines as a reservist in 2002, left the service in 2008, and remained on ready-reserve status until a final separation in 2011, according to the Marines.
His records give no sign that he was wounded or otherwise injured during his service, the Marines said. Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said she did not believe Stone had been found to have PTSD. The slayings had "no valid explanation," she said.
In the Marines, Stone had been assigned to the Third Battalion, 14th Regiment, known informally as the 3/14, a Philadelphia-based reserve artillery battalion. He was an artillery meteorological man, meaning he helped direct fire by observing and computing weather data.
When Stone went to war, however, it was not with the 3/14, but with the 11th Regiment, an artillery unit based at Camp Pendleton, Calif. Officials at both regiments said they could provide no information about Stone.
Stone served in Iraq from April 17 to July 2, 2008. Members of his artillery unit were assigned to different parts of Anbar province, according to Sgt. Bobbie Curtis, a Marine spokesman who also served in Iraq.
Most Marines typically spent six months to a year in Iraq. Parts of the unit experienced combat, he said. He said he had no information on unit casualties during Stone's time in Iraq.
After he returned, Stone sought work for a time as a contractor, but it is unclear how busy he was or how long he looked for such work, according to one Montgomery County business owner who worked with Stone but asked not to be identified. And Stone's personal life started to unravel.
In 2009, Stone and his wife, Nicole, began divorce proceedings. The divorce was finalized in 2012, but a custody battle over their two daughters was ongoing.
Records also show Stone owned at least two handguns - a Heckler & Koch .40-caliber and a Beretta 9mm. In November 2013, Stone stood before a Montgomery County Court judge after being arrested on charges of drunken driving for the third time in about a decade.
At 12:30 a.m. on April 28, 2013, Stone was driving a silver Ford Fusion on Gravel Pike in Lower Frederick Township when he missed a curve, thumped over a curb, and drove onto a lawn, according to an affidavit. When troopers arrived, Jennifer Ovdiyenko, Stone's soon-to-be spouse and the car's owner, told them she had been driving. She later admitted covering up for Stone because he had previous drunken driving arrests.
Along with taking medications and having PTSD, Stone described himself as broke and unable to work. Instead of coming down hard on the divorced father of two young girls, Judge William Furber Jr. allowed Stone to enter a veteran treatment program that ensured he would not go to jail or pay a large fine. Furber emphasized Stone's military service and stressed that he and others were there to help the veteran.
Under the terms of Veterans Treatment Court, Stone would have to make regular court appearances and follow a treatment plan. "I'm proud to admit you," Furber told Stone, according to the transcript.
He sentenced Stone to 23 months of "intermediate punishment" - sparing him prison - with the first 90 days to be served under house arrest. Stone also received three years of probation and a $1,500 fine. Stone told the judge he had been treated at a VA facility for combat-related injuries since 2008. Inquirer staff writers Chris Palmer and Michaelle Bond contributed to this article.

After brutally killing his ex-wife and five of her family members, including "chopping" into all four members of one family, Bradley Stone poisoned himself with a cocktail of drugs, Montgomery County authorities said Tuesday.
Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman in a statement also revealed the former U.S. Marine lied about possessing firearms, including the .40-caliber handgun used during the pre-dawn rampage Dec. 15 across three communities in the county. A dispute over the two daughters of Stone and his ex-wife Nicole Stone precipitated the rampage.
The lone survivor, the 17-year-old nephew of Stone's ex-wife, was released Monday from an area hospital, officials said. Releasing the details Tuesday of the Stone investigation were Ferman, Souderton police Chief James Leary, Lansdale police Chief Robert McDyre and Lower Salford Township police Chief Thomas A. Medwid. , was found in the second floor front bedroom.
An autopsy conducted by Forensic Pathologist Ian Hood found that she suffered gunshot wounds to her right forearm and to her face and a gaping "chop" wound to her head. The coroner determined the cause of death to be gunshot wounds to the arm and head.
, was found in the second floor front bedroom. An autopsy by Hood found he suffered gunshot wounds to his right hand and his head and "chopping" wounds to his arm and his head, all of which caused his death. , was found in the second floor middle bedroom. An autopsy by Hood found she suffered 12 "chop" wounds to her head, which proved fatal, and one "chop" wound to the back of her neck.
was found in the third floor front bedroom with "chopping" wounds to his head and hands. Scene
No 2, 100 block of West Fifth Street, Lansdale, occurred about 4:25 a.m. , was found in the second floor middle bedroom. An autopsy conducted by Forensic Pathologist Gregory McDonald found she suffered a cutting wound to her left forearm and, the fatal wound, a gunshot wound near her right eye. , was found in the second floor middle bedroom. An autopsy by McDonald found she suffered a gunshot wound to the face and her throat had been slashed; both wounds contributed to her death.
Victim Nicole Stone, 33, was found in the second floor bedroom. An autopsy by McDonald found she suffered a gunshot wound to her hand and two gunshot wounds to her head. The coroner determined the cause of death was multiple gunshot wounds.
Authorities say the body of Bradley Stone was found near his home in Pennsburg, Montgomery County, a day after he allegedly killed six people Dec. 15, 2014, in three municipalities across the southeastern Pennsylvania county. Trisha Flick was Nicole Stone's sister.
Gilbert was their mother and Hill, their grandmother. The .40-calibrer H&K handgun determined to have been used at all three crime scenes was found at Nicole Stone's house; the couple's children were found safe nearby. Each of the six deaths was ruled a homicide.
The body of Bradley Stone, 35, was found about 1:30 p.m. Dec. 16 in a wooded area of Upper Hanover Township, also in Montgomery County, outside of Pennsburg where he lived. Authorities found two knives, both of which appeared to be coated in blood, in addition to a large-handled machete and double-bladed black axe.
Police also found two medicine bottles by his body; one contained a crushed-up powder, and powder was found around the lip of an energy drink container. An autopsy by former Warren County Medical Examiner Isidore Mihalakis found a seven-centimeter stab wound to his upper thigh and three superficial cuts to the leg and hip area, authorities said.
He also had 10 scratches on his face and neck. The cause of death, following toxicology tests, was determined to be combined drug intoxication of trazodone, an antidepressant; mCPP, a metabolite of trazodone; risperidone, used to treat schizophrenia. The death was ruled a suicide. Tuesday's announcement details Bradley Stone's criminal past, including three drunken driving incidents, in 2001, 2004 and 2013.
None prohibited him from owning a firearm, nor was there an active protection-from-abuse order against him after Nicole Stone's request for a permanent PFA was denied Sept. 23, 2010, authorities said. After his April 2013 arrest for drunken driving, however, Stone was admitted to Veterans' Treatment Court and sentenced in November 2013 to 23 months of supervision including an initial 90 days of house arrest.
"Upon admission into Veterans' Treatment Court, Stone was instructed by his probation officer that he was not permitted to own, possess or use firearms. The contract stated: 'I will not own, use, and/or possess any type of firearm, lookalike firearm, lethal weapon, explosives and/or ammunition.
Hunting is prohibited.' Stone signed the contract and agreed to all the conditions," Tuesday's announcement states. Probation and parole officials conducted 17 home visits as part of his Veterans' Treatment Court punishment, including seven unscheduled visits or contacts, and inspected Stone's home and outbuildings for firearms and other contraband, authorities said.

The former Marine believed to have killed his ex-wife and five of her family members and seriously stabbed another was found dead in the woods near his Montgomery County home Tuesday, after apparently killing himself with a knife, authorities say.
Bradley Stone appears to have killed himself with “self-inflicted cutting wounds to the center of his body," Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman said. A knife was found nearby, she said.
Police investigated four scenes in Montgomery County as part of the shooting spree involving suspected gunman Bradley Stone. Officials said shootings took place at three of the locations -- Harleysville, Lansdale and Souderton.
The fourth location, in Pennsburg, is where SWAT officers searched for Stone, near his home. They found his body not far from his home on Tuesday.
Stone's body was found at 1:38 p.m. near West 4th Street and Schoolhouse Road North Hanover Township, Vetri Ferman said. That is about a half mile from his home, where SWAT teams had been methodically searching for him for the past two days.
Police also found a video recorded by Stone on a cellphone on or near his body, law enforcement sources said. Stone, 35, had not been seen since just before 5 a.m. Monday as he rushed his screaming children out of their mother's apartment in Harleysville. Moments before, neighbors and police said he gunned down the woman, Nicole Hill Stone.
She was the last of seven family members he shot or stabbed that morning, prosecutors said. The children were left in his neighborhood in Pennsburg, and he fled, officials said.
The girls, along with Stone's current wife and child, are now in protective custody, Vetri Ferman said. Newly released search warrants offered more detail into how the victims were fatally wounded.
Stone Hill was shot in the face and head, according to the documents. Her mother Jo Anne Koder was shot and cut in the neck, and her grandmother Patricia Hill was shot in the arm and head. Stone Hill's sister Trish Flick was shot in the face and cut, brother-in-law Aaron Flick was shot in the head and hands; and 14-year-old niece Nina died of cutting wounds.
Autopsies were being conducted to determine official causes of death, the DA said. The lone survivor is Stone Hill's 17-year-old nephew, Anthony Flick, who officials believe tried to fight off the attack.
He suffered a "gaping skull fracture" and lacerations to his arms and fingers, according to court documents. Despite being left injured in his Souderton home for some time as police worked to determine whether it were safe to enter, the teen survived. He remains in serious but stable condition and is surrounded by family at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia, the DA said.
Friends tell NBC10 he is expected to recover. A GoFundMe account, Funds for Flick, was set up to help assist with Anthony's medical bills and has raised more than $8,500 in nearly a day.
The Souderton-Telford Rotary also announced plans to set up a fund for Stone's children. Stone served eight years in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve and was briefly deployed to Iraq in 2008.
Fellow Marines who served with him described the man as odd and said that he had a tumultuous relationship with his ex-wife. Hill Stone's neighbors and friends told NBC10 the woman warned Stone would kill her and they pointed to the couple's bitter custody dispute as motive for the killings. Prosecutors, however, have not released an official motive.
"We can speculate why. I could look at some of the court filings and say he wasn't getting his way and he was dissatisfied with that, but there's no excuse.
There's no valid explanation. There's no excuse for snuffing out these six innocent lives and then injuring another child," Vetri Ferman said. The two day manhunt for Stone sent eight SWAT teams rolling through at least four Montgomery County towns in assault gear and military-grade vehicles.
They lobbed gas canisters and flash bangs into homes and searched neighborhoods and the woods. Federal agencies and police in other counties assisted in the search, schools were closed and neighbors spoke of the fear they were feeling.
A supposed sighting of a man who fit Stone's description involved in an attempted carjacking in Doylestown Monday night prompted lockdowns and shelter-in-place orders. In the end that report "did not appear to be valid," Vetri Ferman said.
The district attorney thanked the public for their assistance and patience. Vetri Ferman could not say how long Stone's body was in the woods and when he might have died. She deferred to the coroner who picked up the man's body Tuesday evening and will determine a manner of death. Contact Vince Lattanzio at 610.668.5532, vince.lattanzio@nbcuni.com or follow @VinceLattanzio on Twitter.

"As I stand here right now, we do not know where he is," she said, adding that officers had recovered his mobile phone and his car.

"[Ex-wife Nicole Stone] would tell anybody who would listen that he was going to kill her and that she was really afraid for her life," Evan Weron, a neighbour in Harleysville, told the Associated Press news agency.

— -- A possible sighting of the suspect in a shooting rampage against his ex-wife and her family outside Philadelphia -- killing six people, including his 14-year-old niece -- expanded the search for the former Marine, authorities said. Officials identified the suspect as Bradley William Stone, 35, a former Marine reservist who served from 2002 to 2011. He had one deployment to Iraq, leaving with the rank of sergeant, according to a Marine spokesperson.
Stone allegedly gunned down six members of his ex-wife's family at three separate locations - killing his ex-wife, his former mother-in-law, former grandmother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law and niece. His former nephew, 17, was wounded and taken to a hospital in Philadelphia for treatment. Stone took his two children to a neighbor's home before the shootings began, Montgomery County District Attorney Risa Vetri told reporters, and they are safe. Police move near a home where a suspect is believed to have barricaded himself inside after shootings at multiple homes, Dec. 15, 2014, in Souderton, Pa. A man matching the description of Stone was spotted, in Doylestown, Bucks County, this evening after a resident was confronted by the man with a knife, according to a statement from Doylestown Township. The victim was walking his dog when a man, described as a white male approximately 5'10" wearing camouflage clothing, demanded his car keys. The victim resisted and fell to the ground, but had a gun and fired multiple rounds at the suspect, according to the statement. The man matching Stone's description was last seen running into the woods.
Police scanner traffic indicated that a large number of police and K-9 units were searching the area this evening. A police officer stands near the scene of a shooting, Dec. 15, 2014, in Souderton, Pa. The town announced that schools in the area would be closed on Tuesday as the search continued. Residents throughout Montgomery and Bucks counties were being told to stay in their homes and lock their doors as the search continued late into the evening.
"Stone may be wearing military fatigues, in either sand or green color," the district attorney's office said in a statement posted to Facebook. Stone is known to use a cane or walker. Police stand near the scene of a shooting, Dec. 15, 2014, in Souderton, Pa. Matthew Schafte, who told ABC News that he's known Stone for 20-plus years, says he broke down in tears when he heard about the shootings. Earlier in the day, SWAT teams surrounded a home at Penn and Highland avenues in in Souderton, Pennsylvania, where a suspect in the shootings was originally believed barricaded inside, police told ABC station WPVI-TV in Philadelphia. Witnesses heard a loud boom shortly before an unidentified person was taken out of the house on a stretcher. Police also surrounded another home in nearby Pennsburg.

