The head of the African Union has said the takeover of Zimbabwe by the country's military "seems like a coup".
The army chiefs who seized the capital, including the presidential palace and the state broadcaster early on Wednesday, claimed they had not carried out a coup. President Robert Mugabe is believed to be under house arrest despite an army claim that he was "safe".
The Zimbabwean army said it took Mr Mugabe and his wife Grace into custody but there are unconfirmed and disputed reports that the first lady has fled the country and may be in Namibia. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres appealed for calm, non-violence and restraint after gunfire and explosions were heard near Mr Mugabe's compound. Armoured vehicles blocked roads to the main government offices, parliament and the courts in central Harare, and the military said the action was aimed at targeting "criminals".
African Union leader Alpha Conde, who is also Guinea's president, said the AU condemned the actions of military chiefs in the southern African country, adding that they were "clearly soldiers trying to take power by force". "The African Union expresses its serious concern regarding the situation unfolding in Zimbabwe," he said, before demanding "constitutional order... be restored immediately" as he called "on all stakeholders to show responsibility and restraint". South African President Jacob Zuma said he had spoken to Mr Mugabe over the phone, adding that the 93-year-old "is fine but confined in his home".
Mr Zuma has also sent an envoy to speak to Zimbabwean army chiefs. Blasts could be heard in the capital as the military took control of a paramilitary police armoury and government offices. The political crisis was sparked by Mr Mugabe's sacking of vice president - and likely successor - Emmerson Mnangagwa last week.
The 75-year-old former intelligence chief, whose ousting appeared to clear the way for Mrs Mugabe to succeed her husband, was accused of plotting against the government. Following his dismissal, Mr Mnangagwa fled to South Africa and called on members of ruling party ZANU-PF to desert the President.
Sky Foreign Affairs Editor Sam Kiley said there was an expectation that Robert Mugabe would give a televised address to the nation. "The Zimbabweans are talking about a possible deal, possibly by Friday... there is a sense that Robert Mugabe might be prepared to either hand over or endorse the movement of the military at this stage, possibly by the end of the week. Prime Minister Theresa May has urged for "restraint on all sides" and "an avoidance of violence". Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson called for "proper, free and fair elections" to prevent Zimbabwe transitioning "from one unelected tyrant to another".

VICE President Phelekezela Mphoko, by operation of law, became Acting President following the resignation of former President Robert Gabriel Mugabe, but the ruling Zanu-PF has a right to nominate its next substantive leader within 90 days from the day of resignation, legal experts have said.
In an interview, Advocate Thabani Mpofu said VP Mphoko was now the Acting President, but Zanu-PF, being the ruling party, must now nominate a substantive successor to Cde Mugabe. “From here the process is governed by paragraph 14 of the Sixth Schedule.
VP Mphoko is as of now the Acting President. Zanu-PF must now nominate a replacement and advise the Speaker accordingly. “The replacement assumes office upon being sworn in by the Chief Justice or the most senior judge available,” said Adv Mpofu.
University of Zimbabwe law lecturer Professor Lovemore Madhuku said Zanu-PF could nominate its replacement and advise the Speaker minutes after the resignation. “Zanu-PF, being the party of the former President, has the right to nominate a successor within 90 days.
They can do it any time, even now or within minutes if they are ready. “VP Mphoko can only act as President for minutes if Zanu-PF is ready with its nominee,” said Prof Madhuku. Prof Madhuku said the nominated successor would be substantive President up to the end of his or her predecessor’s term, which expires in August 2018.
He said VP Mphoko should work with the former President’s Cabinet, but the new substantive leader can appoint new ministers. “In terms of the law, VP Mphoko, in his capacity as Acting President, will continue working with the Cabinet ministers left behind by the former President until the appointment of a substantive leader. The new substantive leader will appoint a new Cabinet,” said Prof Madhuku.
Another expert, Mr Tendai Toto, said it was in the interest of Zimbabweans to agree on a Government of National Unity. “It will be up to the political players to allow talks to form a Government of National Unity and agree not to hold elections for a period of up to five years until electoral reforms are done. It is in the interests of the people of Zimbabwe to ensure that a transitional Government is put in place and life goes on,” said Mr Toto.

Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe has removed Emmerson Mnangagwa from the vice-presidency for displaying "traits of disloyalty", according to the Information Ministry, abruptly removing a favourite to succeed the 93-year-old leader. Mr Mnangagwa's removal provides a boost for Mr Mugabe's wife, Grace, who has been a vocal critic of the vice president and is also seen as a potential successor to her husband.
"The vice president has consistently and persistently exhibited traits of disloyalty, disrespect, deceitfulness and unreliability," Information Minister Simon Khaya Moyo said. Mr Mnangagwa's top aide Christopher Gwatidzo said he had not seen the statement by Khaya Moyo and declined to say whether the vice president had been at his office yesterday.
Grace Mugabe, 52 — nicknamed Gucci Grace for her love of shopping — called Mr Mnangagwa a "coup plotter" and a "coward" in a weekend speech that inflamed an already bad-tempered rift within the ruling Zanu-PF party. It followed a speech by Mr Mugabe at a rally on Saturday where he publicly rebuked his deputy for the first time.
The reaction of the military to Mr Mnangagwa's dismissal could dictate how coming events will unfold. Some army generals backed Mr Mnangagwa to succeed Mr Mugabe and have publicly said they will not allow someone who did not fight in the 1970s independence war to rule — Ms Mugabe did not fight in that war. Ms Mugabe made international headlines in August when a South African model said the Zimbabwean first lady had whipped her with an electric cable in a Johannesburg hotel suite, which the President's wife has denied.
Nonetheless, the fight over the future control of the ruling Zanu-PF party has overshadowed an economic crisis — marked by chronic shortages of cash and spiralling prices of goods — that has raised fears of a return to hyperinflation. Mr Mnangagwa was seen as Mr Mugabe's protege and had been at his side through five decades of prison, guerrilla war, and then post-liberation government, and questions are being raised about what caused the fallout between the two men. By firing Mr Mnangagwa, Mr Mugabe has removed one of his last remaining liberation war comrades who have stood by him since independence from Britain in 1980.
Mr Mugabe will likely face a weakened and fractured opposition when he contests next year's elections. His main rival Morgan Tsvangirai has been in and out of a South African hospital after announcing he had colon cancer in 2016.

Editor’s Note: Are you in Zimbabwe?
We want to hear how the current situation is affecting you. Contact CNN via WhatsApp at +1 347 322 0415. Please do not put yourself in any danger.
Zimbabwe’s military leaders have seized control of the impoverished southern African nation, placing longtime leader Robert Mugabe under house arrest and deploying armored vehicles to the streets of the capital, Harare. Mugabe, 93, the world’s oldest living leader, was unable to leave his home, according to Jacob Zuma, the President of neighboring South Africa. Troops were reportedly stationed at Zimbabwe’s Parliament and the presidential palace. In a dramatic televised statement early Wednesday, an army spokesman denied a military takeover was underway.
But the situation bore all the hallmarks of a coup: The military was in control of state TV in Harare, a significant army presence was at the city’s international airport, and Mugabe has not been seen in public.
President’s location: The spokesman said Mugabe and his family were “safe.”
South Africa’s Zuma later said Mugabe had been confined to his home but was feeling fine. Zuma spoke with Mugabe by phone.
Situation on streets: The capital was quiet, but there were lines outside banks. CNN saw army checkpoints at key locations and armored vehicles on the streets.
A simmering succession battle in the ruling Zanu-PF party came to a head two weeks ago when Mugabe sacked his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mugabe’s decision fueled speculation he was preparing to anoint his wife, Grace, as his successor. Grace Mugabe, 52, is widely disliked within the party’s old guard, while Mnangagwa enjoys wide support in the military.
The first signs that a military intervention was underway came Tuesday afternoon as armored vehicles were seen near the capital. The situation escalated with Wednesday morning’s announcement, when Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo addressed the country on state TV, vehemently denying the operation was a coup.
“To both our people and the world beyond our borders, we wish to make it abundantly clear that this is not a military takeover of government,” he said. Moyo said the security of Mugabe and his family was “guaranteed” and said the President was safe but gave no information of his whereabouts.
There were reports Wednesday that officials were being arrested. Soldiers secured the Robert Mugabe International Airport and checked vehicles and IDs. Armored personnel carriers were seen at several locations in downtown Harare, including at the high court and government buildings.
The situation in Harare is oddly “quite calm,” a resident told CNN on WhatsApp. He said the appearance of armored military vehicles on the streets was the first he could recall.
There was calm, though. “The soldiers outside the President’s office are actually talking to folks passing by,” the student said. Another Harare resident, who watched a cricket match Wednesday evening outside the old presidential house, also wrote on WhatsApp that the city was placid.
“(The) Army has been polite and getting on with the people,” he said. People were dropping off food and drink for the soldiers, he said. There was no sign of the Zimbabwe police force, and the only security forces on the streets were the military.
Traffic was lighter than usual. A resident, who wished not to be named for security reasons, told CNN the city as “very quiet,” though shops were open and buses and taxis appeared to be running normally.
“Many people have just stayed home,” she said. She added there was a sense of “excitement in the air” and that social media was humming over what might be happening. But there were signs of nervousness: Photos showed long lines at ATMs and at banks.
“I am hoping that the situation is going to be controlled so peace and stability comes back to Zimbabwe,” the South African leader said. South African Defense and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo arrived in Zimbabwe for discussions with authorities, according to the South African Department of International Relations and Cooperation.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has appealed for “calm, nonviolence and restraint,” deputy spokesman Farhan Haq said in a statement to CNN. In Zimbabwe, political figures once loyal to Mugabe were beginning to turn away from him.
“We salute the patriotic and gallant forces of Zimbabwe for once again coming to the decisive rescue of the nation,” the statement said. Mutsvangwa is an ally of the deposed vice president, but his veterans group has historically been loyal to Mugabe, who led a violent campaign against British colonial rule and was elected Prime Minister after Zimbabwe gained independence in 1980 and then President seven years later.
However, the veterans group has been fiercely critical of Grace Mugabe, who has no connection to Zimbabwe’s independence campaign. Her extravagant shopping trips and political maneuvering have made her a polarizing figure. On Wednesday, the head of the Zanu-PF Youth League, a group that is a key ally of Grace Mugabe, apologized in a video broadcast on national broadcaster ZBC to the armed forces for the statement that he made this week criticizing the head of the armed forces. Mugabe has ruled Zimbabwe with an iron fist.
On winning power after British rule, he moved swiftly to extinguish political opposition. He ordered a violent crackdown that led to a string of massacres in opposition strongholds.
The country’s Fifth Brigade is believed to have killed up to 20,000 people, mostly supporters of Mugabe’s main political rival. But his hardline policies pushed the country into poverty.
Its flourishing economy began to disintegrate after a program of land seizures from white farmers, and agricultural output plummeted and inflation soared. Accused of rigging elections and quashing any sign of political opposition, Mugabe remains the only leader many Zimbabweans have ever known.
He once infamously claimed that “only God” could remove him from office. He faced criticism for throwing a lavish birthday party last year in a region hit by food shortages and drought.

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

The U.S. Embassy in Zimbabwe urged American citizens to "shelter in place" early Wednesday as troops were seen in the streets of the capital amid rising political turmoil surrounding the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe.
Shortly after the embassy statements, Zimbabwe's army sought to reassure the country that "this is not a military takeover" and that while Mugabe was safe and sound, the military was targeting "criminals around him" who have sent the nation spinning into economic despair. The army took control of the state Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation late Tuesday and an army spokesman made the statement on air early Wednesday. "As soon as we have accomplished our mission, we expect that the situation will return to normalcy," the army spokesman said, calling on churches to pray for the country.
It was not clear where Mugabe and his wife were early Wednesday. "Their security is guaranteed," the army statement said. The president reportedly attended a weekly Cabinet meeting Tuesday.
Overnight, The Associated Press saw armed soldiers assaulting passers-by in Harare, as well as soldiers loading ammunition near a group of four military vehicles. The explosions could be heard near the University of Zimbabwe campus. The developments came several hours after the AP saw three armored personnel carriers in a convoy heading toward an army barracks just outside the capital.
Mugabe last week fired Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa and accused him of plotting to take power, including through witchcraft. Mnangagwa, who enjoyed the military's backing and once was seen as a potential president, fled the country and said he had been threatened. Over 100 senior officials allegedly supporting him have been listed for disciplinary measures by a faction associated with Mugabe's wife, Grace. The first lady appeared to be positioned to replace Mnangagwa as one of the country's two vice presidents at a special conference of the ruling party in December, leading many in Zimbabwe to suspect that she could succeed her husband.
Grace Mugabe is unpopular with some Zimbabweans because of lavish spending as many struggle, and four people accused of booing her at a recent rally were arrested. "We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, the military will not hesitate to step in," the army commander said. The state-run broadcaster did not report on his statement.
Frustration has been growing in once-prosperous Zimbabwe as the economy collapses under Mugabe. The country was shaken last year by the biggest anti-government protests in a decade, and a once-loyal war veterans association turned on the president, calling him "dictatorial" and blaming him for the economic crisis. "Mnangagwa was held out by many as the best hope within ZANU-PF for piloting an economic recovery," analyst Piers Pigou with the International Crisis Group wrote Tuesday. Mugabe in the past has warned military commanders from interfering in succession politics.
"Politics shall always lead the gun, and not the gun politics. Otherwise it will be a coup," he told supporters in July. The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Ruling party’s youth league ‘ready to die’ for Mugabe after army threatens to step in if purge of war veterans goes on. The youth wing of Zimbabwe‘s ruling party has said it is “ready to die” for President Robert Mugabe, following a threat by the military to intervene if a purge of former war fighters continues.
Kudzai Chipanga, leader of the ZANU-PF party’s Youth League, said on Tuesday that they would not allow the army to choose the country’s leaders amid rising tensions in the wake of Mugabe’s firing of his vice president. “We will not fold our hands to allow a creature of the constitution to subvert the very constitution which establishes it,” Chipanga told a press conference in the capital, Harare.
“Defending the revolution and our leader and president is an ideal we live for and if need be it is a principle we are prepared to die for,” he added. Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, an ally of the army chief and a veteran of the country’s struggle for independence, was sacked last week by 93-year-old Mugabe for showing “traits of disloyalty”. Mnangagwa was seen as a likely successor to the ailing president, and his ousting now appears to pave the way for First Lady Grace Mugabe – who is backed by ZANU-PF’s Youth League – to succeed her husband.
“We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, the military will not hesitate to step in,” Chipanga warned in his statement on Monday. As the political crisis deepens, witnesses on Tuesday reported seeing several tanks heading towards Harare, according to news agencies’ reports.
Both President Mugabe and First Lady Grace Mugabe are yet to publicly comment on the threats from the military, which has backed Zimbabwe’s leader throughout his 37 years in office. The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) on Tuesday called on people to defend the civilian rule in the country following the army’s threat.
Later on Tuesday, ZANU-PF issued a statement accusing Chipanga of “treasonable conduct”. The ruling party said the army commander’s remarks were “clearly calculated to disturb national peace and stability” and were “meant to incite insurrection and violent challenge to the constitutional order”. Lance Guma, a political analyst and broadcaster based in Britain, said the threat from the military is the biggest challenge Mugabe has faced during his nearly four decades in power.
“The army is flexing its muscles,” he told Al Jazeera. “They are telling the civilian government that the army is the real power in the country,” added Guma.
ZANU-PF has ruled the country since it gained independence from Britain in 1980, and analysts claimed that that is not about to change. “The dominance of ZANU-PF on the political landscape in Zimbabwe is not in question,” George Shire, a political analyst, told Al Jazeera.
“What you see is really a leadership contest taking place – Zimbabwean style,” added Shire. Zimbabwe’s armed forces have always maintained that they will only back candidates to succeed Mugabe who fought in the country’s independence war. Grace Mugabe, 52, is a not a war veteran. ZANU-PF is expected to hold a conference in December.

Military vehicles took to the streets of the Zimbabwean capital and prolonged gunfire was heard near the presidential residence early Wednesday as questions mounted over Robert Mugabe's grip on power, even as the army denied a coup in a state broadcast.
Tensions between the 93-year-old leader and the military that has helped prop up his reign have intensified in recent days, with Mugabe's ZANU-PF party on Tuesday accusing army chief General Constantino Chiwenga of "treasonable conduct". The military's actions have been seen as a major challenge to Mugabe, but Major General Sibusiso Moyo went on state television in the early hours of Wednesday to deny the army was targeting the increasingly frail leader. "It is not a military takeover of government," Moyo said, reading a statement.
"We wish to assure the nation that his excellency the president... and his family are safe and sound and their security is guaranteed. "We are only targeting criminals around him who are committing crimes...
As soon as we have accomplished our mission we expect that the situation will return to normalcy," he added. Chiwenga had earlier demanded that Mugabe, who has ruled the country since independence from Britain in 1980, stop purges of senior party figures, including vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was dismissed last week. ZANU-PF said Chiwenga's stance was "clearly calculated to disturb national peace... and suggests treasonable conduct on his part as this was meant to incite insurrection".
Before being ousted, Mnangagwa had clashed repeatedly with Mugabe's wife Grace, 52, who is seen as vying with Mnangagwa to be the next president. - 'Uncertainty' -
As the situation deteriorated overnight, the US embassy in Harare warned its citizens in the country to "shelter in place" due to "ongoing political uncertainty". Prolonged gunfire erupted near Mugabe's private residence in the suburb of Borrowdale early Wednesday, a witness told AFP.
No further details were available. The armoured vehicles spotted outside Harare also alarmed residents as Chiwenga had warned of possible military intervention.
The army's spokesman was not available to comment. "We very rarely see tanks on the roads," Derek Matyszak, an analyst at the Pretoria-based Institute for Security Studies, told AFP.
"Chiwenga threw down the gauntlet to Mugabe... it would make sense for Chiwenga to organise some military manoeuvres to up the ante. "It's clear we are entering new territory here."
- Mugabe under pressure - Mugabe is the world's oldest head of state, but his poor health has fuelled a bitter succession battle as potential replacements jockey for position. Some of the army top brass are seen as strongly opposed to Grace Mugabe's apparent emergence as the likely next president.
In speeches this year, Mugabe has often slurred his words, mumbled and paused for long periods. His lengthy rule has been marked by brutal repression of dissent, mass emigration, vote-rigging and economic collapse since land reforms in 2000. The main opposition MDC party called for civilian rule to be protected.
"No one wants to see a coup... If the army takes over that will be undesirable. It will bring democracy to a halt," shadow defence minister Gift Chimanikire, told AFP.
Speculation has been rife in Harare that Mugabe could seek to remove Chiwenga, who is seen as an ally of ousted Mnangagwa. The crisis marks an "ominous moment in the ongoing race to succeed" Mugabe, said political analyst Alex Magaisa in an online article. "(Mugabe) has previously warned the military to stay away from ZANU-PF's succession race. "His authority over the military has never been tested in this way."
Mnangagwa, 75, was widely viewed as Mugabe's most loyal lieutenant, having worked alongside him for decades. He fled the country and is thought to be in South Africa. Earlier this year the country was gripped by a bizarre spat between Grace and Mnangagwa that included an alleged ice-cream poisoning incident that laid bare the pair's rivalry. Grace Mugabe -- 41 years younger than her husband -- has become increasingly active in public life in what many say is a process to help her eventually take the top job.

A number of Zimbabwean cabinet ministers have been arrested after the military made a show of force in the capital Harare‚ according to sources.
Loud explosions and the sound of gunfire crackling in the elite neighborhood of Borrowdale throughout the night heightened fears that a military crackdown was under way. Several sources told TimesLIVE that the military had arrested the leading figures of the so-called G40 faction in the ruling Zanu-PF‚ led by First Lady Grace Mugabe. Sources said those arrested included higher education minister Jonathan Moyo‚ local government minister Saviour Kasukuwere and finance minister Ignatius Chombo.

10:45 – ZDF started with a statement Monday 13 November 2017 in which Commander General Constantine Chiwenga asserted that the military would not hesitate to step in if the country’s revolution was threatened. General Chiwenga said drastic action would be taken immediately to stop counter revolutionaries from sliding Zimbabwe back into colonisation.
WATCH VIDEO BELOW 11:16 –
It is business as usual in Harare and other cities across the country with Zimbabweans going about their daily routines. ZDF announced early morning today that it has taken action to address the political, social and economic situation in the country that it said risked turning violent.
11:21 – The announcement by ZDF that it has taken action to address the situation in Zimbabwe is trending on social media and dominated conversations across the globe. 11:23 – Meanwhile the situation across the country remains calm as Zimbabweans took in the news. 12:24 – Meanwhile the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association press conference is under way in Harare. 13:17 –
Cde Matemadanda says the country’s national Constitution had been thrown into the dustbin hence the effort to restore Constitutionalism. 13: 28 – He says unlike the Lancaster House Constitution, the 2013 Constitution was written by all political parties.
Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association applauds the role taken by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces to normalise the situation in Zanu-PF and the country. ZNLWA says Zanu-PF should return to constitutionalism and reverse all the expulsions and suspensions that were spearheaded by the G40 cabal . ZNLWA demands that President Mugabe explain why he chose to associate himself with Jonathan Moyo and failed to recognize the response by Cde Mnangagwa. ZNLWA says President Mugabe should be recalled as the first secretary and President of Zimbabwe. 13:35 – “It is true that the freedom fighters are stakeholders not from dictatorial tendencies.
We ask the ZBC to be patriotic this time and not to report from factional corners. We know they were taking orders from somewhere,” says Cde Matemadanda. 14:38 – Meanwhile the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association has thrown its weight behind actions taken by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces to restore normalcy in the social, political and economic life in the country. This was said by the ZNLWVA Secretary General Cde Victor Matemadanda while addressing a press conference this afternoon.
Action taken by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces today does not represent a military takeover of the Government but is meant to address the political, social and economic situation that could have ended in violent conflict. Addressing the nation on ZBCTv early this morning, ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede urged people to go about their normal business but limit unneccessary movement.
“To both our people and the world beyond our borders, we wish to make it abundantly clear that this is not a military takeover of Government. What the Zimbabwe Defence Forces is doing is to pacify a degenerating political, social and economic situation in our country which if not addressed may result in violent conflict,” Maj-Gen Moyo said.
He also said President Mugabe and his family were safe and their security was guaranteed. “We wish to assure the nation that His Excellency, The President, of the Republic of Zimbabwe, and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, Cde R.G. Mugabe and his family are safe and sound and their security is guaranteed.
“We are only targeting criminals around him who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country in order to bring them to justice. As soon as we have accomplished our mission we expect that the situation will return to normalcy,” Maj-Gen Moyo added.
The ZDF spokesperson called for calm among Zimbabweans. “To the generality of the people of Zimbabwe, we urge you to remain calm and limit unnecessary movement. However, we encourage those who are employed and those with essential business in the city to continue their normal activities as usual.
“Our wish is that you enjoy your rights and freedoms and that we return our country to a dispensation that allows for investment, development and prosperity that we all fought for and for which many of our citizens paid the supreme sacrifice,” he added. Maj-Gen Moyo assured other arms of the State that their actions were meant to protect their independence.
“To the civil servants, as you are aware, there is a plan by the same individuals to influence the current purging which is place in the political sphere to the civil service. We are against that act of injustice and we intend to protect every one of you against that. “To the judiciary, the measures underway are intended to ensure that, as an independent arm of the State, you are able to exercise your independent authority without fear of being obstructed as has been the case with this group of individuals.
“To our Members of Parliament, your legislative role is of paramount importance for peace and stability in this country and it is our desire that a dispensation is created that allows you to serve your respective political constituencies according to democratic tenets,” he added. He urged political parties to discourage their members from engaging in violence.
“To the youth, we call upon you to realise that the future of this country is yours. Do not be enticed with dirty coins of silver, be disciplined and remain committed to the ethos and values of this great nation.
“To all churches and religious organisations in Zimbabwe, we call upon you and your congregations to pray for our country and preach the gospel of love, peace, unity and development,” Maj-Gen Moyo said. He also urged war veterans to ensure peace and stability in the country and said leave days for all ZDF members had been cancelled. “To members of the Defence Forces, all leave is cancelled and you are all to return to your barracks with immediate effect.
To our respected traditional leaders, you are the custodians of our culture, customs, traditions and heritage and we request you to provide leadership and direction to your communities for the sake of unity and development in our country. “To the other security services, we urge you to cooperate for the good of our country. Let it be clear that we intend to address the human security threats in our country.
Therefore, any provocation will be met with an appropriate response,” he added, calling on the media to report fairly. Zanu-PF Youth League Secretary Cde Kudzanai Chipanga last night apologized to Commander, ZDF General Constantino Guveya Chiwenga and the Zimbabwe Defence Forces hierarchy for his remarks on Tuesday at the ZANU-PF Headquarters in which he denigrated the ZDF, saying he was not the author of the statement he read. The four-page statement, Cde Chipanga said, was handed to him on Tuesday morning by one Rodney Dangarembizi.
13:36 – Meanwhile DrJoice Mujuru and the People’s Rainbow Coalition held a press briefing at 12:30 Thursday afternoon frollowing the stepping in yesterday of the ZDF to address the political, social and economic situation that could have ended in violent conflict. Dr Mujuru is the nominated presidential candidate for the PRC for the 2018 elections.
– PRC believes in equal opportunities for all those who call Zimbabwe homes, and not a selected few. – Dr Mujuru urged Zimbabweans to observe the rule of law during the process. – PRC believes that the prevailing developments require participation by all critical stakeholders beyond political actors.
17:00 – President Mugabe today met Commander of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces General Constantino Guveya Chiwenga at State House together with Father Fidelis Mukonori and SA envoys who included Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongoe. Also in attendance were Zimbabwe Defence Minister Dr Sydney Sekeramayi and State Security Minister Cde Kembo Mohadi.
Speaking earlier this week Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo said: “We are only targeting criminals around him (President Mugabe) who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country in order to bring them to justice. As soon as we have accomplished our mission we expect that the situation will return to normalcy,” Maj-Gen Moyo added.
However the situation has already been normal with people going about their business through out the country. 06:11 – Early morning today General Chiwenga issued a statement updating the nation that the Zimbabwe Defence Forces had made progress, accounting for some of the criminals in order to bring them to justice though others were still at large.
12:10 – Meanwhile it is business as usual in the country with President Mugabe expected to cap Zimbabwe Open University graduating students in Harare this afternoon in his capacity as the University’s Chancellor. 17:00 – ZANU-PF provincial structures in all the country’s 10 provinces call for the resignation of their First Secretary, President Robert Mugabe.

HARARE (Reuters) - The head of the youth wing of Zimbabwe’s ruling party on Wednesday publicly apologized on state television to the military, which has seized power saying it aims to isolate “criminals” in President Robert Mugabe’s entourage. Kudzai Chipanga, whose powerful ZANU-PF youth wing has been a strong supporter of Mugabe and his wife Grace, said he had voluntarily given his statement apologizing for denigrating defense forces chief General Constantino Chiwenga.
It was an abrupt about-face for Chipanga, who on Tuesday accused the army chief of subverting the constitution. “Defending the revolution and our leader and president is an ideal we live for and if need be it is a principle we are prepared to die for,” Chipanga had said at the party’s headquarters in Harare.

On a day Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe appeared in public for the first time since his nation plunged into political crisis, his ruling party is reportedly calling for him to step down.
Mugabe emerged from house arrest to attend a university graduation ceremony in the capital, Harare, in a staged public appearance that belied the reality that he is no longer in control of the country he has ruled for 37 years. The veteran leader arrived at Zimbabwe Open University in a blue-and-yellow gown, accompanied by his security detail, in his first public appearance since being detained in Wednesday’s army takeover.
There was no sign of Mugabe’s wife, whom the leader was trying to promote as the next president, triggering the political upheaval. The developments were the latest in an increasingly bizarre set of events that has eschewed the traditional playbook for military takeovers.
Mugabe’s appearance was apparently designed to convey a business-as-usual atmosphere – the generals pulling the strings in Harare are desperate not to give the impression they are orchestrating an unconstitutional coup. But behind the scenes, efforts to push Mugabe aside appeared to be foundering.
Mugabe was reported to be resisting a plan to oust him, and the generals were said to be frustrated by his refusal to go quietly. Mugabe resisting deal: The President has pushed back on a deal to replace him with an interim leader, a source told CNN.
Military sets deadline: Frustrated with Mugabe’s resistance, the commander of the defense forces said the President had until Friday to change his stance, “or we do it the hard way,” a source said. Tillerson weighs in: US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson described the situation as an “opportunity” and called for democratic elections.
An anti-Mugabe march: Zimbabwe’s military says it supports a peaceful and orderly march against Mugabe, scheduled to take place in Harare’s Zimbabwe Grounds in Highfield on Saturday. As Mugabe arrived at the graduation ceremony Friday morning, Zimbabwe’s political limbo was entering its third day and clandestine efforts to prise Mugabe from power appeared to have reached an impasse.
According to a government source with direct knowledge of the talks, Mugabe had pushed back on a deal to replace him with an interim leader, arguing there would be a constitutional crisis if he left before his term expired. Mugabe was photographed Thursday in talks with army chief, Gen. Constantino Chiwenga, and other officials at the official State House. The source told CNN that the photos were “merely a formality” and a deal that had already been done.
Part of the deal was that an acting president would be named, as required by the constitution when there is no vice president, the source said. But a day later, it was clear Mugabe was digging his heels in.
Frustrated with the lack of progress, the commander of the defense forces, Chiwenga set a deadline of Friday for Mugabe to agree to a deal, “or we do it the hard way,” the source said. Meanwhile, at Zimbabwe Open University, on the outskirts of the capital, Mugabe conferred degrees on students as if nothing was untoward.
But if he thought that attending the event would make it look as if he was still in charge, the tactic backfired. The 93-year-old said little and drifted in and out of sleep on stage. The political firestorm was ignited by Mugabe’s dismissal of his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa.
Mnangagwa has strong connections and the support of the military, and under the deal apparently on the table with Mugabe, he would run for the leadership of Mugabe’s ZANU-PF at a congress in December, allowing him then to contest next year’s presidential elections. CNN has learned that Mnangagwa had been instrumental for some time in plans to seize control from Mugabe, who had been maneuvering to anoint his wife Grace as his successor.
“This takeover was planned a long time ago by Emmerson Mnangagwa and secret discussions did take place with opposition about a succession plan including forcing out Mugabe,” a senior opposition leader with direct knowledge of the talks told CNN. Mnangagwa’s whereabouts were unknown, but he was widely reported to be guiding events. The influential Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association, which has thrown its support behind Mnangagwa, is planning a huge show of strength in Harare Saturday.
“We will settle the scores tomorrow,” Chris Mutsvangwa, head of the association, told reporters on Friday. “There is no going back about Mugabe, he must leave,” he said. Foreign powers have called on the military to show restraint in the upheaval, but have largely supported its actions so far.
Tillerson hosted a ministerial meeting on African trade, security and governance on Friday, where he described the situation in Zimbabwe as an opportunity for the country. “Zimbabwe has an opportunity to set itself on a new path, one that must include democratic elections and respect for human rights,” he said at the event in Washington, calling for a quick return to civilian rule. Not too long ago, Mugabe’s presidential guard would have died defending their leader.
But this week, CNN saw several armored personnel carriers (APCs) stationed outside their headquarters in Harare – a clear sign that the military is hemming them in. Tanks were still positioned in downtown Harare and no police were to be seen, though the city was “calm” with shops and businesses open, residents reported.
The military has denied that the events of the week amount to a coup, but residents were still unclear as to what type of rule they would be living under. Zimbabweans are cautious, but hopeful that, after almost four decades of often brutal rule, Mugabe – who has governed for longer than many of his countrymen have been alive – could be coming to an end. Another Zimbabwean CNN spoke to said that Mugabe should leave office, and end the economic ruination of the African country once known as Africa’s breadbasket.

HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe was not in a motorcade that was seen leaving his residence in Harare on Saturday, a security source told Reuters. Earlier, crowds booed and jeered as the motorcade left the ‘Blue Roof’ residence.

Zimbabweans watched in disbelief Sunday as President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign, instead delivered a meandering speech on state television that made clear the 93-year-old leader has no plans to leave power.
Are you on Telegram? Subscribe to our channel for the latest updates on Russia’s war in Ukraine. ArrowRight
In less than a week, Mugabe has survived both a military takeover and the largest public protests in the country’s history, reaffirming his uncanny ability to navigate the political tides. Mugabe said the criticisms leveled against his government “were inescapable.” But he suggested that he could make the necessary reforms to satisfy his critics, a doubtful contention given the overwhelming opposition to his rule.
That opposition was underscored Sunday, hours before his speech, when his own party dismissed him as leader. The party, ZANU-PF, also told Mugabe that he must resign by noon Monday or face impeachment proceedings.
Those actions, unimaginable only a week ago, added to the groundswell of public support for the ejection of the world’s oldest head of state. “He is senile and obviously his faculties were beginning to deteriorate,” said Christopher Mutsvangwa, a member of the ZANU-PF central committee, which voted to oust Mugabe from the party.
Mugabe was placed under house arrest by the military Tuesday, though the generals insisted they weren’t conducting a coup. Huge protests followed, and it seemed by Sunday evening that events would finally bring about Mugabe’s resignation. The state broadcaster announced that he would address the nation.
Zimbabweans gathered by their televisions. Some news outlets reported that he was about to resign.
People discussed how they would celebrate the beginning of a new era. But Mugabe did not resign. He spoke obliquely about the country’s economic challenges and disaffection with some of his party’s “rules and procedures.”
He said those matters would be “settled and discussed” at next month’s party congress. Now, Mugabe’s critics are trying to sort out another way to unseat him. While the party’s vote against him is a sign of its opposition, it does not have any immediate effect on Mugabe’s position as president.
The party leaders have control only over their ranks and cannot influence the composition of Zimbabwe’s government. Impeachment proceedings in parliament appear the most likely way forward, but they could take weeks, according to Zimbabwean legal experts, and would leave the country with a power vacuum in the interim. The scene in Zimbabwe as Mugabe resigns as president after 37 years + 66 Robert Mugabe?s exit, which was announced by the speaker of parliament, marked the end of a tumultuous reign that lasted from Zimbabwe?s independence through economic collapse.
Former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa will be sworn in as the new president Friday. The chief whip of the ruling party, Lovemore Matuke, said impeachment proceedings would start Tuesday.
After 37 years in power, Mugabe is now technically a leader without a party, his closest allies having been detained by the military. It is possible that the military will now move to oust Mugabe by force, but so far its commanders have gone out of their way to accommodate him, still referring to him as their commander in chief. In a picture taken Sunday and released by the state-owned newspaper, a general saluted Mugabe while the president stood behind his desk, one of many signs that Zimbabwe was hardly undergoing a textbook coup. The military commanders have appeared intent on giving the public impression that they are not conducting a coup — probably to preserve the veneer of legitimacy that would sustain their relationship with the international community.
In its bylaws, the regional bloc of southern African nations includes strong language against coups. Even though Mugabe’s rule for years was above the law, many members of Zimbabwe’s opposition have shown enormous respect for the country’s constitution.
“If the military had run roughshod, it would have lost the support of the people,” Mahere said. During Sunday’s meeting, the central committee of ZANU-PF, the ruling party, voted to replace Mugabe with former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa and expelled Mugabe’s once-powerful wife, Grace, from its ranks. The committee was composed of Mugabe’s rivals, some of whom had been forced from ZANU-PF months or years ago.
Until Sunday, Zimbabweans had united behind the military’s actions, an unpredictable turn of events in a country where security forces have for years cracked down on political dissent. “Zimbabwe’s army is the voice of the people,” one popular sign read.
By the time a protest march on Saturday was over, signs for Robert Mugabe Road had been trampled. On Sunday morning, when members of ZANU-PF arrived at the party headquarters in downtown Harare, they saw that a billboard bearing Mugabe’s face had been vandalized, a hole sliced through the center.

Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe is a "source of instability", has shown disrespect for the rule of law, and is to blame for an unprecedented economic tailspin over the past 15 years, his ruling party says in a draft impeachment motion. ZANU-PF official Paul Mangwana said the party would move a motion for impeachment on Tuesday and set up a committee, and on Wednesday it would report back and "vote him out". The main charges against Mr Mugabe was "allowing his wife to usurp government powers" and that "he is too old and cannot even walk without help", Mr Mangwana told reporters. He said the decision to pursue impeachment was "unanimous" and the process should take the Parliament two days.
The ZANU-PF party was discussed the 93-year-old leader's impeachment on Monday, after a noon (9:00pm AEDT) deadline expired for him to resign after nearly four decades in power. Impeachment would represent an ignominious end to the career of the "Grand Old Man" of African politics, who was once lauded across the continent as an anti-colonial hero. But as pressure continued to grow on Mr Mugabe, the defiant leader called a Cabinet meeting for Tuesday morning, with his chief secretary advising all ministers "should attend". In a press conference aired on state television, Zimbabwe's military said Mr Mugabe had begun working toward "a definitive solution and roadmap for the country", even as he faced impeachment. Zimbabweans were stunned by his defiance during a national address on Sunday and opposition activists and the influential liberation war veterans association announced more demonstrations to pressure him to go. The military said it held further meetings with Mr Mugabe after his national address on Sunday night that defied calls to resign. On paper, impeachment is relatively long-winded, involving a joint sitting of the Senate and National Assembly, then a nine-member committee of senators, then another joint sitting to confirm his dismissal with a two-thirds majority.
However, constitutional experts said ZANU-PF had the numbers to get it done quickly. "They can fast-track it. It can be done in a matter of a day," John Makamure, executive director of the Southern African Parliamentary Support Trust, an NGO that works with the Parliament in Harare, said.
Mr Mugabe's demise, now almost inevitable, is likely to send shockwaves across Africa, where a number of entrenched strongmen from Uganda's Yoweri Museveni to Democratic Republic of Congo's Joseph Kabila are facing mounting pressure to step aside. ZANU-PF's action follows a weekend of high drama in Harare, culminating in reports that Mr Mugabe had agreed on Sunday to stand down — only for him to dash the hopes of millions in a bizarre and rambling national address. Flanked by the generals who sent in tanks and troops last week to seize the state broadcaster, Mr Mugabe spoke of the need for national unity and farming reform, but made no mention of his fate.
"I am baffled. It's not just me, it's the whole nation," shocked Opposition Leader Morgan Tsvangirai said.
Two senior government sources told Reuters Mr Mugabe had agreed to step aside and CNN said his resignation letter had been drawn up, with terms that included immunity for him and his wife. Moments after Mr Mugabe's address, war veterans' leader Chris Mutsvangwa, who has spearheaded an 18-month campaign to unseat the only leader most Zimbabweans have known, called for protests suggesting a potential popular uprising. "Your time is up," Mr Mutsvangwa said at a press conference.
The spokesman for the Zimbabwe National Students Union, Zivai Mhetu, said he wanted all universities shut down until Mr Mugabe steps aside. In London, a spokesman for British Prime Minister Theresa May said Mr Mugabe had clearly lost the support of his people. Since last week, Mr Mugabe has been confined to his lavish "Blue Roof" residence in Harare, apart from two trips to State House to meet the generals and one to a university graduation ceremony at which he appeared to fall asleep. On Saturday, hundreds of thousands took to the streets of Harare to celebrate Mr Mugabe's expected downfall and hail a new era for their country, whose economy has imploded under the weight of economic mismanagement, including 500 billion per cent hyperinflation in 2008. The huge crowds have given a quasi-democratic veneer to the army's intervention, backing its assertion that it was merely effecting a constitutional transfer of power, rather than an old-style coup, which would risk a diplomatic backlash.

HARARE (Reuters) - Robert Mugabe resigned as Zimbabwe’s president on Tuesday, a week after the army and his former political allies moved to end four decades of rule by a man once feted as an independence hero who became feared as a despot. His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out, will be sworn in as president on Wednesday or Thursday, Patrick Chinamasa, legal secretary of the ruling ZANU-PF party, told Reuters.
The 93-year-old Mugabe had clung on for a week after an army takeover, with ZANU-PF urging him to go. He finally resigned moments after parliament began an impeachment process seen as the only legal way to force him out.
Wild celebrations broke out at a joint sitting of parliament when Speaker Jacob Mudenda read out Mugabe’s brief resignation letter. Mugabe, confined to his Harare residence, did not appear.
People danced in the streets of Harare and car horns blared at the news that the era of Mugabe -- who had led Zimbabwe since independence in 1980 -- was finally over. Some brandished posters of Mnangagwa and army chief General Constantino Chiwenga. Workers turned the Christmas lights on early in Africa Unity Square and people climbed aboard armored vehicles to pose for photographs with soldiers.
Despite the public outpouring of joy, Mugabe’s downfall was as much the result of in-fighting among the political elite as a popular uprising, although thousands of people rallied against him in the days after the army intervened last week. The army seized power after Mugabe sacked Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s favorite to succeed him, in a bid to smooth a path to the presidency for his wife Grace, 52, known to her critics as “Gucci Grace” for her reputed fondness for luxury shopping. Since the crisis began, Mugabe has been mainly confined to his “Blue Roof” mansion in the capital where Grace is also believed to be.
ZANU-PF chief whip Lovemore Matuke told Reuters that Mnangagwa would be sworn in within 48 hours and serve the remainder of Mugabe’s term until the next election, which must be held by September 2018. “I am very happy with what has happened,” said Maria Sabawu, a supporter of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), outside the hotel where the impeachment process was happening.
“I have suffered a lot at the hands of Mugabe’s government,” she said, showing her hand with a missing finger that she said was lost in violence during a presidential run-off election between Mugabe and opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai in 2008. Mugabe had led Zimbabwe since a guerrilla struggle ended white-minority rule in the country formerly known as Rhodesia. He took the once-rich nation to economic ruin, presiding over the forced takeover of white-owned farms at the end of the century, which devastated agricultural foreign exchange earnings and led to hyperinflation.
But brandishing his anti-colonial credentials and styling himself the Grand Old Man of African politics, Mugabe retained the admiration of many people across the continent. Amnesty International said that under Mugabe tens of thousands of people were tortured, forcibly disappeared or killed in a culture of impunity that allowed “grotesque crimes to thrive”.
“The people of Zimbabwe deserve better. The next generation of leaders must commit itself to upholding the constitution, living up to Zimbabwe’s international human rights obligations and treating its people with dignity and justice,” the rights group said in a statement. Mnangagwa, 75, who fled Zimbabwe after his sacking in fear for his safety, was a chief lieutenant to Mugabe for decades and himself stands accused of participating in repression.
He was internal security chief in the mid-1980s when Mugabe deployed a North Korean-trained brigade against rebels during which 20,000 civilians were killed, according to rights groups. Reuters reported in September that Mnangagwa was plotting to succeed Mugabe, with army backing, at the helm of a broad coalition to seek Zimbabwe’s re-engagement with the world after decades of isolation from global lenders and donors. Nicknamed “Ngwena”, or crocodile in the Shona language, an animal famed in Zimbabwean lore for its stealth and ruthlessness, Mnangagwa issued a statement from hiding on Tuesday calling on Zimbabweans to unite to rebuild the country. Opposition politician and former education minister David Coltart said that call gave hope of lifting a shattered economy from its knees, provided Mnangagwa made good on his promise to reach out to other factions.
“When we all wake up with hangovers tomorrow, we will be reminded of the dreadful state our nation is in - no money in the banks and businesses collapsing,” Coltart told Reuters. Zimbabwe’s Platform for Concerned Citizens, a civil society group, called for a national dialogue and a “transitional authority” to decide the country’s future. Theresa May, prime minister of former colonial power Britain, said Mugabe’s resignation “provides Zimbabwe with an opportunity to forge a new path free of the oppression that characterized his rule”.
She said Britain, as “Zimbabwe’s oldest friend”, would do all it could to support the country. The U.S. embassy in Harare said Zimbabwe was living “a historic moment”. “Whatever short-term arrangements the government may establish, the path forward must lead to free, fair and inclusive elections,” it said in a statement.

Moreover, the Zanu PF purges that were announced at the conclusion of the party’s central committee yesterday have further factionalised an already divided party— which does not bode well for a party in government that is expected to solve the challenges facing the ordinary people.
We in the MDC are deeply alarmed that the action spearheaded by the military, which they said was part of normalising the situation in the country, is in conflict with the party’s position, which is causing further anarchy in a party that must prioritise the people and their challenges. As a consequence, the call by the MDC and its alliance partners for an all-inclusive process to take the country to legitimacy is the only way forward. We reiterate our call for an internationally-supervised process for the forthcoming elections, starting with the current voter registration exercise and ultimately the elections itself. Lastly, if the military was motivated by the patriotic duty to return the country to normalcy, then there must be a call for an all-stakeholders’ meeting to craft a way forward without any further delay. Or else this confusion will undermine an otherwise good opportunity that would have steered the country towards a fresh start. It would be inimical to progress and the future of the country if all this action was about power retention at all costs.

My desire is to join all Zimbabweans in a NEW ERA where corruption‚ incompetency‚ dereliction of duty and laziness‚ social and cultural decadency is not tolerated.
In that new Zimbabwe it is important for everyone to join hands so that we rebuild this nation to its full glory‚ this is not a job for Zanu PF alone but for all people of Zimbabwe. In my conversation with the president I told him that there are two options‚ that is (a) to cooperate in the current negotiations with comrades from the defence forces for a peaceful resolution of this crisis‚ which would result in the preservation of his legacy. (b) that if he continues to dig in‚ in defiance of the will of the people‚ he might suffer humiliation because definitely the will of the people will prevail against one person. He requested me to come to State House‚ and l replied that l was out of the country‚ and that he had already removed my status as the vice president of the country‚ as such I had no status‚ however‚ l can only come at the invitation of my colleagues in the party and of the defence forces‚ when they feel that my security is guaranteed.
I am aware that parliament intends to impeach the president. Parliament is the ultimate expression of the will of the people outside an election and in my view is expressing national sentiment by implementing the Impeachment Proceedings therefore talks between myself and the President cannot supercede the expression and fundamental rights of fellow Zimbabweans.

Harare, Zimbabwe | It was an unexpectedly low-key conclusion to an era that many ordinary Zimbabweans were beginning to fear might never end.
Residents of this beleaguered capital took to the streets to celebrate as the news leaked out that autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known, had resigned under pressure, bringing to an end both a weeklong standoff over his presidency and his 37 years running the country. The increasingly frail, 93-year-old Mr. Mugabe, the world’s oldest head of government, was felled when the establishment he built up rose against him, rebelling when he tried to engineer the elevation of his polarizing wife, Grace Mugabe, as his successor. There was open rejoicing Tuesday on the streets of the capital for the downfall of the man once lionized for liberating his country from British colonial rule in the 1970s and 1980s.
Through violent suppression of dissent and a keen political sense, Mr. Mugabe would dominate his new country over the next three decades, presiding over a decline in civil liberties and a near-collapse of the once-flourishing economy while holding tight to the political reins. “The dictator is gone — thank God that Zimbabwe is now independent!” said Maureen Kademaunga, 28, a human rights activist.
On Tuesday, shortly after lawmakers began impeachment proceedings against Mr. Mugabe, parliament Speaker Jacob Mudenda read a letter from the president in which he said he was stepping down effectively immediately for “the welfare of the people of Zimbabwe and the need for a peaceful transfer of power,” sparking cheers from lawmakers. “My decision to resign is voluntary on my part and arises from my concern for the welfare of the people of Zimbabwe and my desire for a smooth, non-violent transfer of power,” Mr. Mugabe wrote.
The move was a sharp reversal from Sunday, when Mr. Mugabe vowed not to resign during a televised address, even after he and his wife were expelled from the ruling ZANU-PF party and he was being held in detention by the military. For almost four decades, Mr. Mugabe has clamped down on dissent and crushed rivals. But he went one step too far earlier this month by firing Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, another hero of the independence struggle with deep ties to the military and veterans’ groups, hoping to clear the way for his 52-year-old wife to succeed him as president when the country holds elections next year.
Zimbabwe’s military commander, Gen. Constantino Chiwenga, warned people not to target old adversaries following Mr. Mugabe’s resignation. “Acts of vengeful retribution or trying to settle scores will be dealt with severely,” he said.
The Trump administration and other international leaders welcomed the end of Mr. Mugabe’s rule, while cautioning that the new government should respect human rights and move quickly to organize new elections. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Tuesday the people of Zimbabwe are seeking a “new era” and an end to international isolation brought on by Mr. Mugabe’s authoritarian rule.
She added that Washington is urging “unwavering respect for the rule of law and for established democratic practices,” according to The Associated Press. Human rights groups are urging Zimbabwe to respect the rule of law as the country shifts into an era without Mr. Mugabe, the AP reported. Widely disliked by many for her lavish shopping sprees — which earned her the mocking nicknames “Gucci Grace” and “First Shopper” — Mrs. Mugabe entered Zimbabwean politics just two years ago and quickly made it known that she wanted to succeed her husband.
But following Mr. Mnangagwa’s dismissal, the military rebelled and detained the Mugabes Nov. 15, placing them under house arrest. Despite fears of an extra-constitutional coup, the military’s actions were heralded by Zimbabweans who are tired of the crackdowns, the protests and, most of all, the lack of opportunities resulting from the dire poverty that marks this country. Under Mr. Mugabe, Zimbabwe went from being one of Africa’s most prosperous nations to one of the world’s worst economies, wracked with crippling inflation, hunger and unemployment.
While some said they would mourn the man known as the “Bob” or “Father of the Country,” they said it was time to move forward, rebuilding the country both politically and economically. But with Mr. Mnangagwa, known as the executor of some of Mr. Mugabe’s most heinous acts, likely to assume the post of president, some say Zimbabweans may still have to wait for major changes to come.
“Going forward, we want democratic elections that reflect the will of the people,” Mr. Chamisa added. Regardless, many expressed relief over the resignation because it put an end to the tension and uncertainty over the standoff between the army and Mr. Mugabe that has been going on for almost a week.
• This article was based in part on wire service reports.

Editor’s Note: Are you in Zimbabwe?
We want to hear how the current situation is affecting you. Contact CNN via WhatsApp at +1 347 322 0415. Please do not put yourself in any danger.
Zimbabwe’s military leaders have seized control of the impoverished southern African nation, placing longtime leader Robert Mugabe under house arrest and deploying armored vehicles to the streets of the capital, Harare. Mugabe, 93, the world’s oldest living leader, was unable to leave his home, according to Jacob Zuma, the President of neighboring South Africa. Troops were reportedly stationed at Zimbabwe’s Parliament and the presidential palace. In a dramatic televised statement early Wednesday, an army spokesman denied a military takeover was underway.
But the situation bore all the hallmarks of a coup: The military was in control of state TV in Harare, a significant army presence was at the city’s international airport, and Mugabe has not been seen in public.
President’s location: The spokesman said Mugabe and his family were “safe.”
South Africa’s Zuma later said Mugabe had been confined to his home but was feeling fine. Zuma spoke with Mugabe by phone.
Situation on streets: The capital was quiet, but there were lines outside banks. CNN saw army checkpoints at key locations and armored vehicles on the streets.
A simmering succession battle in the ruling Zanu-PF party came to a head two weeks ago when Mugabe sacked his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mugabe’s decision fueled speculation he was preparing to anoint his wife, Grace, as his successor. Grace Mugabe, 52, is widely disliked within the party’s old guard, while Mnangagwa enjoys wide support in the military.
The first signs that a military intervention was underway came Tuesday afternoon as armored vehicles were seen near the capital. The situation escalated with Wednesday morning’s announcement, when Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo addressed the country on state TV, vehemently denying the operation was a coup.
“To both our people and the world beyond our borders, we wish to make it abundantly clear that this is not a military takeover of government,” he said. Moyo said the security of Mugabe and his family was “guaranteed” and said the President was safe but gave no information of his whereabouts.
There were reports Wednesday that officials were being arrested. Soldiers secured the Robert Mugabe International Airport and checked vehicles and IDs. Armored personnel carriers were seen at several locations in downtown Harare, including at the high court and government buildings.
The situation in Harare is oddly “quite calm,” a resident told CNN on WhatsApp. He said the appearance of armored military vehicles on the streets was the first he could recall.
There was calm, though. “The soldiers outside the President’s office are actually talking to folks passing by,” the student said. Another Harare resident, who watched a cricket match Wednesday evening outside the old presidential house, also wrote on WhatsApp that the city was placid.
“(The) Army has been polite and getting on with the people,” he said. People were dropping off food and drink for the soldiers, he said. There was no sign of the Zimbabwe police force, and the only security forces on the streets were the military.
Traffic was lighter than usual. A resident, who wished not to be named for security reasons, told CNN the city as “very quiet,” though shops were open and buses and taxis appeared to be running normally.
“Many people have just stayed home,” she said. She added there was a sense of “excitement in the air” and that social media was humming over what might be happening. But there were signs of nervousness: Photos showed long lines at ATMs and at banks.
“I am hoping that the situation is going to be controlled so peace and stability comes back to Zimbabwe,” the South African leader said. South African Defense and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo arrived in Zimbabwe for discussions with authorities, according to the South African Department of International Relations and Cooperation.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has appealed for “calm, nonviolence and restraint,” deputy spokesman Farhan Haq said in a statement to CNN. In Zimbabwe, political figures once loyal to Mugabe were beginning to turn away from him.
“We salute the patriotic and gallant forces of Zimbabwe for once again coming to the decisive rescue of the nation,” the statement said. Mutsvangwa is an ally of the deposed vice president, but his veterans group has historically been loyal to Mugabe, who led a violent campaign against British colonial rule and was elected Prime Minister after Zimbabwe gained independence in 1980 and then President seven years later.
However, the veterans group has been fiercely critical of Grace Mugabe, who has no connection to Zimbabwe’s independence campaign. Her extravagant shopping trips and political maneuvering have made her a polarizing figure. On Wednesday, the head of the Zanu-PF Youth League, a group that is a key ally of Grace Mugabe, apologized in a video broadcast on national broadcaster ZBC to the armed forces for the statement that he made this week criticizing the head of the armed forces. Mugabe has ruled Zimbabwe with an iron fist.
On winning power after British rule, he moved swiftly to extinguish political opposition. He ordered a violent crackdown that led to a string of massacres in opposition strongholds.
The country’s Fifth Brigade is believed to have killed up to 20,000 people, mostly supporters of Mugabe’s main political rival. But his hardline policies pushed the country into poverty.
Its flourishing economy began to disintegrate after a program of land seizures from white farmers, and agricultural output plummeted and inflation soared. Accused of rigging elections and quashing any sign of political opposition, Mugabe remains the only leader many Zimbabweans have ever known.
He once infamously claimed that “only God” could remove him from office. He faced criticism for throwing a lavish birthday party last year in a region hit by food shortages and drought.

R obert Mugabe has reportedly gone on hunger strike to protest his conditions under house arrest while Zimbabwean officials plot his removal from office. Reports say the 93-year-old has not accepted food since Saturday as he continues to be held under house arrest by the military. It is believed the committee will seek to reinstate vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa and remove Mugabe’s wife Grace, from the leadership, according to reports.
Mugabe previously rejected a proposal to step down and allow Mr Mnangagwa, who he sacked as vice president earlier this month, to take over on an interim basis. Most Zimbabweans believe Mr Mnangagwa was dismissed to clear the way for Mr Mugabe’s despised wife Grace to become his successor. Known as ‘Gucci Grace’ for her lavish spending while the country struggled through decades of economic disaster, she is a key reason why public opinion turned against Africa’s longest serving head of state.
Mugabe is said to be insisting he remain the “legitimate” head of state, and that if he were to step down in the future his family must have immunity from persecution. It remains unclear whether army chief General Constantino Chiwenga, who was photographed with the President at his home on Thursday, will agree to his conditions.
The announcement came as thousands took to the streets of Zimbabwe's capital Harare to demand the end of Mugabe's leadership after four decades in power. Euphoric crowds marched in celebration of the end of the Mugabe era, with people of all races calling for the official process to be sped up. A protest was held at the Zimbabwe Embassy in London on Saturday in solidarity with the nation's people.

HARARE – Zimbabwe’s axed vice president Emmerson Mnagagwa is expected back in that country soon to resume talks with President Robert Mugabe, the head of the country’s military Constantino Chiwenga said on Monday night.
During a short media briefing, Chiwenga said he was encouraged by the contact between Mnagagwa, whom the army wants to succeed Mugabe, and the president. Chiwenga said he has had further consultations with Mugabe to agree on a roadmap forward, after the president failed to resign as expected during a national address on Sunday. The army chief also called on all Zimbabweans, including the students who have refused to write their exams in protest against Mugabe’s rule, to demonstrate peacefully. Zimbabwe’s war veterans have gone to the courts in a bid to oust Mugabe. On Tuesday, the country’s parliament is set to begin impeachment proceedings after Mugabe failed his party’s call to resign by noon on Monday. Like this: Like Loading...

Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, will be sworn in as interim President on Friday, a day after Mugabe and his wife were granted immunity, allowing the couple to remain in the country.
Mugabe resigned on Tuesday, in a historic moment that brought his 37 years of oppressive rule to an end. Mnangagwa, returned to the country on Wednesday to take the reins, promising to lead the nation into a “new and unfolding democracy.”
He spoke in front of throngs of supporters, but made no mention of Mugabe’s future. Col. Overson Mugwisi, a spokesman for the Zimbabwean Defense Forces, said an agreement had been reached with Mugabe that included immunity and a guarantee of safety for him and his wife, Grace Mugabe.
The former leader has been accused of waging a campaign of fear to remain in power for nearly four decades, and human rights activists have long called for him to be brought to justice. He was accused of ordering a string of massacres in the early- to mid-1980s in opposition strongholds to consolidate his power. Up to 20,000 people were killed, academics say.
He has also been accused of corruption to finance his lavish lifestyle, as his government drove the once-prosperous nation into economic ruin and poverty. Mugabe had spent a week negotiating his departure with the military since the country’s army seized control in the capital, Harare, and placed the leader under house arrest. In a long, drawn-out process, frustrated military officials gave in to the demands for immunity and allowed the President to keep several of his properties, sources told CNN on Monday, before Mugabe stepped down.
In Mnangagwa’s remarks on Wednesday, he made clear that he played a role in the military’s operation to remove Mugabe from power. He said he had been in “constant contact” with military chiefs throughout the operation. He is scheduled to address Zimbabweans after his swearing in.
The military was instrumental to Mugabe’s demise, staging the apparent coup, then leading talks with Mugabe to allow him a dignified resignation. The main opposition MDC-T party has raised concerns over what role the military might play ahead of next year’s election, with Mnangagwa at the helm of the security forces.
The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai, called on Mnangagwa to officially define the military’s role. “The generality of Zimbabwe, who have experienced brutalization, intimidation and violence, would be very skeptical if the role of the military is not properly defined,” he told CNN’s Christiane Amanpour on Thursday.
Tsvangirai also called for next year’s elections to be free and fair. He has contested the presidency three times against Mugabe and in 2013 alleged widespread fraud after his defeat. It is widely alleged that Mugabe kept his iron grip on power by rigging the vote.
Mnangagwa’s return has raised a sense of nervousness in Zimbabwe – he is alleged to have been behind some of Mugabe’s most ruthless policies and to many he represents the oppressive status quo. Known as “The Crocodile” for his political cunning and longevity, Mnangagwa has been accused of orchestrating massacres in the 1980s, an allegation he denies.
In his interview with CNN, Tsvangirai looked forward to next year’s elections and took the opportunity to reference Mnangagwa’s dark past. He warned that the incoming President would struggle to abandon Mugabe’s legacy. “Knowing Emmerson Mnangagwa, his character, he will have to work very hard to change his character so that he can define the future of the country and define his future as a democrat, as a reformer.
That I doubt. But at the same time, he knows that he can cannot continue on the same path Mugabe has traveled and still expect the population to respect him,” he said.
It was sad that Mugabe stayed in office as long as he did, US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Harry K. Thomas Jr. told CNN’s David McKenzie. Thomas said Mugabe was leader for “far too long” and had stopped engaging in democratic principles.
“We were pleased to see the outpouring in the streets; people are talking now, all over, you can hear their opinion – whether it is golf caddies or women in markets, they are happy. They were, as people told me, suppressed, not stupid,” Thomas said.
The United States’ response to Mnangagwa will depend how he behaves in office, Thomas said. Mnangagwa is under US sanctions.
“This is a new day, this is an opportunity for him and his Cabinet to live up to the wonderful 2013 Zimbabwean constitution. And that is what we will tell them.
It is your constitution, it is democratic, it is something you endorsed when you were minister of justice and later as vice president. This is for your people. So live up to it and the United States will find a way to partner,” Thomas said.

HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP) — Zimbabwe’s military was in control of the capital and the state broadcaster on Wednesday and was holding President Robert Mugabe and his wife under house arrest in what appeared to be a coup against the 93-year-old Mugabe, the world’s oldest head of state.
The military was at pains, however, to emphasize it had not staged a military takeover, but was instead starting a process to restore Zimbabwe’s democracy. Still, the military appeared to have brought an end to Mugabe’s long, 37-year reign in what the army’s supporters praised as a “bloodless correction.” South Africa and other neighboring countries were sending in leaders to negotiate with Mugabe and the generals to encourage the transition.
Citizens in Zimbabwe’s tidy capital, Harare, contributed to the feeling of a smooth transition by carrying on with their daily lives, walking past the army’s armored personnel carriers to go to work and to shops. Many who have never known any leader but Mugabe waited in long lines at banks to draw limited amounts of cash, a result of this once-prosperous country’s plummeting economy. Felix Tsanganyiso, who sells mobile airtime vouchers in Harare, said he was following the developments on WhatsApp.
The series of whiplash events followed Mugabe’s firing last week of his deputy, which appeared to position the first lady, Grace Mugabe, to replace Emmerson Mnangagwa as one of the country’s two vice presidents at a party conference next month. But the 52-year-old first lady is unpopular among many Zimbabweans for her lavish spending on mansions, cars and jewels. Last month she went to court to sue a diamond dealer for not supplying her with a 100-carat diamond that she said she had paid for. Grace Mugabe has been known as the leader of the G40, a group of Cabinet ministers and officials in their 40s and 50s who are too young to have fought in Zimbabwe’s war to end white-minority rule in Rhodesia.
When Mnangagwa was fired, the generals and war veterans felt they were being sidelined and took action to stop that, analysts say. Mnangagwa’s whereabouts were not clear Wednesday.
He fled the country last week, citing threats to himself and his family. Critics of the government urged Mugabe to go quietly. “The old man should be allowed to rest,” former Zimbabwe finance minister and activist Tendai Biti told South African broadcaster eNCA.
On Monday, the army commander made an unprecedented statement criticizing Mugabe for pushing aside veterans of the liberation war. The following day, the ruling party condemned the army leader for “treasonable conduct” and that evening the army sent armored personnel carriers into Harare and seized control of the state broadcaster and other strategic points, including Mugabe’s residence. In a televised address to the nation early Wednesday, Maj. Gen. Sibusiso Moyo said the army had “guaranteed” the safety of Mugabe and his wife, but added the military would target “criminals” around Mugabe, in an apparent reference to the first lady’s G40 group.
In Washington, the U.S. State Department said the Trump administration was “concerned by recent actions undertaken by Zimbabwe’s military forces” and called on the country’s leaders to exercise restraint. The United States “does not take sides in matters of internal Zimbabwean politics and does not condone military intervention in political processes,” it said in a statement. Who will rule Zimbabwe should become clearer in the coming days.
“There is a soft transition underway,” said Zimbabwean analyst Alex Rusero. Mnangagwa may well be installed as a transitional leader to return Zimbabwe to constitutional rule, Rusero said. Zimbabwe may enter a period of negotiation to get Mugabe to step down voluntarily, said Piers Pigou, southern Africa consultant for the International Crisis Group, who also suggested that Mnangagwa may be an interim leader. Meldrum reported from Johannesburg.

'Anyone seeking to undermine this transition should be dealt with decisively,' says EFF leader Julius Malema.
Zimbabwe’s military appeared to be in control of the country on Wednesday as generals denied staging a coup, but used state television to vow to target “criminals” close to President Robert Mugabe. Mugabe’s decades-long grip on power was dramatically weakened as military vehicles blocked roads outside the parliament in Harare and senior soldiers delivered a late-night television address to the nation.
“We wish to assure the nation that his excellency, the president, and his family are safe and sound and their security is guaranteed,” Major-General Sibusiso Moyo read out a statement. Mugabe, 93, has ruled Zimbabwe since independence from Britain in 1980.
Politicians in South Africa have shared their thoughts on the situation in Zimbabwe, with most agreeing that it was time for Mugabe to step down. As if he had known what would transpire in the country, EFF leader Julius Malema on Thursday last week reiterated his call for Mugabe to step down, saying his overstay was “destroying his legacy”. Though Malema said he liked Mugabe for “his contribution towards the African revolution”, he said it was time for the president to bow out. According to Malema, though the Zimbabwean president had achieved much in his reign, he might have failed in creating leaders who would carry on his legacy, and that was perhaps the reason he was holding on to power for long.
“A good leader should have produced second and third layer leadership to continue the good fight against imperialism,” he said. He again took to social media on Wednesday to commend the Zimbabwean army, but said there should be no loss of life.
“Someone had to do something, the army should make sure that there is no loss of life, however, anyone seeking to undermine this transition should be dealt with decisively. “Finally free and stable Zimbabwe is coming in our life time,” he added. EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu also commended the Zimbabwean Defence Force for “rescuing” Zimbabwe to allow “civilian rule towards stability”.
“History tells us that not all removals of nepotistic, corrupt, and self-obsessed governments amount to illegitimate coup de tat. The ZDF has to rescue Zimbabwe and allow civilian rule towards stability.
No retreat!” he said.
Black First Land First leader Andile Mngxitama said though an “internal regeneration was overdue”, he hoped it was not orchestrated by the West. “The Zimbabwe revolution had stagnated and been suffocated by imperialism. Zimbabwe transition could unleash the national productive forces for reconstruction. Only if it’s not mortgaged to the West,” he said.
DA leader Mmusi Maimane only called for Mugabe to step down, as he had turned “dictator” against his people. “The instability in Zimbabwe is an outcome of not adhering of electoral results of 2008, forming a GNU.
Mugabe must go, he has turned dictator against his people. We must always ensure democratic outcomes are upheld so we enter a Post Liberation Movement era,” he said.
Founding member of the Congress of the People (Cope) Mbhazima Shilowa said a coup would be good for Zanu-PF, but not Zimbabwe and the opposition. “This is the same army that propped Bob and attacked the opposition and helped Zanu steal the elections before,” he said.
Patriotic Alliance leader Gayton McKenzie commended the army for not humiliating Grace Mugabe after she allegedly humiliated them publicly by calling them “every derogatory name under the sun”. “The Army-Generals truly love and revere Mugabe, they are not humiliating him by public displays of his fall. His family is also safe,” he said.
Addressing media on the outcomes of the special NEC meeting on Tuesday afternoon, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said the situation in Zimbabwe was not for the ANC to deal with. “The government in Zimbabwe must deal with that, not the ANC in South Africa.
ZanuPF must deal with that issue because Zimbabwe is not our colony, it is not our province, it is our neighbour. If things go wrong there of course we’ll be concerned because it will revert back on us. But we have no authority over them, that’s the point we’re making,” he said.
President Jacob Zuma on Wednesday released a statement, calling for “calm” and “restraint” in the country. “President Zuma has expressed hope that developments in Zimbabwe would not lead to unconstitutional changes of Government as that would be contrary to both SADC and African Union positions. “The President has urged the Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe and the Zimbabwe Defence Force to resolve the political impasse amicably and has urged the Zimbabwean Defence Force to ensure that the maintenance of peace and security in the country is not compromised. “SADC will continue to closely monitor the situation and remains ready to assist where necessary to resolve the political impasse in keeping with established SADC Protocols and processes,” he said.
For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Additional reporting by AFP.

Paris:
The head of the African Union said on Thursday that the body "will never accept the military coup d'etat" in Zimbabwe. "We demand respect for the Constitution, a return to the constitutional order and we will never accept the military coup d'etat," Alpha Conde said in an interview with French journalists in Paris. "We know there are internal problems. They need to be resolved politically by the ZANU-PF party and not with an intervention by the army," added Conde, who is also Guinea's president.
Zimbabwe's military was in control of the country on Wednesday as President Robert Mugabe said he was under house arrest and his generals denied staging a coup. Mugabe's decades-long grip on power appeared to be slipping as armoured military vehicles blockaded parliament, soldiers took up positions at strategic points across Harare and senior soldiers commandeered state television to broadcast a late-night address. Zimbabwe was left stunned at the military intervention against Mugabe, 93, who has ruled the country since independence from British rule in 1980. Despite Mugabe's refusal to resign, attention has shifted to the prominent figures who could play a role in any transitional government.

ALGIERS, Nov. 16 (Xinhua) -- Algeria on Thursday called for respect for Zimbabwe's constitutional order after the army seized power from the government earlier on Wednesday. "Algeria is following with concern the recent developments in Zimbabwe," Algerian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Abdelaziz Benali Cherif said in a statement.
According to media report from Zimbabwe, President Robert Mugabe on Wednesday has been placed under house arrest by army. The African Union urged the concerned parties in Zimbabwe to address the current political deadlock in accordance with the country's constitution, while reiterating its commitment to work with the SADC to ensure a peaceful settlement of the crisis.

The recent development in Zimbabwe is “a matter of concern” for the European Union, European Commission spokeswoman, Catherine Ray, said on Wednesday in Brussels.
“We call on all the relevant players to move from confrontation to dialogue with the aim to a peaceful crisis resolution,’’ Ms. Ray said. She also stressed that “fundamental rights” of citizens and the country’s “constitutional order and democratic governance” needed to be upheld.
Also reacting, Germany called for all sides to show restraint in Zimbabwe after the military seized power, saying it is targeting “criminals” around President Robert Mugabe. “We see developments there with concern … The situation there is confusing and unclear,” a Foreign Ministry spokesman told a regular government news conference in Berlin.
South African President Jacob Zuma urged Zimbabwe’s military not to make “unconstitutional changes of government,” hours after the army took control of the capital, Harare. The unfolding political situation in Zimbabwe was of great concern,” Mr. Zuma said.
The United States late Tuesday encouraged its citizens in Zimbabwe to take shelter and said it was closing its embassy to the public amid unconfirmed reports that a coup against President Robert Mugabe was underway. “As a result of the ongoing political uncertainty through the night, the ambassador has instructed all employees to remain home tomorrow,” the embassy said on its website. “US government personnel have been instructed to shelter in their residences tonight,” it continued, adding that its citizens were advised to “shelter in place” until further notice.
There were reports late Tuesday that the military was attempting to depose the president after a day in which tanks were seen heading towards Harare and there was a noticeable increase of troops on the capital’s streets. Tensions have been raised in Zimbabwe since last week when Mr. Mugabe fired his vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. On Monday, top general Constantino Chiwenga had warned Mr. Mugabe that the army would intervene if the president continued to expel former liberation fighters who supported Mr. Mnangagwa. Like this: Like Loading...

Malcolm Turnbull has characterised Zimbabwe as a brutal dictatorship, amid political tensions over an apparent coup in the African nation.
Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert Mugabe is under house arrest in the capital Harare after the army declared it was "targeting criminals" within the president's administration. Mr Mugabe has presided over an oppressive regime and a replacement was yet to be seen, the prime minister said. "He's been dictator who has committed horrific crimes over a long period of time," Mr Turnbull told Neil Mitchell on 3AW radio on Friday.
The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has upgraded its travel advice warning Australians to reconsider their need to travel to Harare. "There is a heightened security presence in Harare, including armoured vehicles and increased military activity," the advice says.

BEIJING (Reuters) - A trip to Beijing last week by Zimbabwe’s military chief was a “normal military exchange”, China’s Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday, after the military in the southern African nation seized power. Zimbabwe’s military took control targeting “criminals” around President Robert Mugabe but gave assurances on national television that the 93-year-old leader and his family were “safe and sound”.
General Constantino Chiwenga met Chinese Defence Minister Chang Wanquan in Beijing on Friday, where Chang expressed a willingness to promote relations with Zimbabwe, China’s Defence Ministry said in a short statement last week. The ministry showed a picture of the two men, both wearing military uniform, shaking hands, and another one of officers from both countries sitting opposite each other holding a meeting at the People’s Liberation Army headquarters in Beijing.
Asked whether Chiwenga had briefed China on plans to seize power, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said the Defence Ministry had already released information about his trip and that he didn’t have an understanding about the specifics of his reception in China. “I can only tell you that his visit to China this time was a normal military exchange mutually agreed upon by China and Zimbabwe,” Geng said, referring other questions to the Defence Ministry, which has yet to respond to a request for comment.
“As a country that is friendly with Zimbabwe, we are paying close attention to developments of the situation in Zimbabwe,” Geng added. In contrast to his elevated status on the continent, Mugabe is reviled in the West as a despot whose disastrous handling of the economy and willingness to resort to violence to maintain power destroyed one of Africa’s most promising states.
China and Zimbabwe have a close diplomatic and economic relationship and Beijing has stood with Mugabe’s government in the face of Western economic sanctions. In August, Zimbabwe’s government said a Chinese company planned to invest up to $2 billion to revive operations at Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company (ZISCO), which ceased production in 2008 at the height of Zimbabwe’s economic meltdown. That same year, China vetoed a proposed Western-backed U.N. resolution which would have imposed an arms embargo on Zimbabwe and financial and travel restrictions on Mugabe and 13 other officials, saying it would “complicate”, rather than ease, conflict.

UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called on all sides in Zimbabwe to show "restraint" after the country's military took control and President Robert Mugabe said he was under house arrest. Guterres is monitoring the situation and "appeals for calm, non-violence and restraint," said UN spokesman Farhan Haq.
Guterres "stresses the importance of resolving political differences through peaceful means and dialogue, and in line with the country's constitution," he added. The UN chief noted that the Southern African Development Community (SADC) was making efforts to end the crisis. Mugabe, 93, has ruled Zimbabwe since its independence from Britain in 1980.
Meanwhile, the head of the African Union on Wednesday said the crisis in Zimbabwe "seems like a coup" and called on the military to halt their actions and restore constitutional order. Alpha Conde, who is also Guinea's president, said the AU condemned the actions of top brass in the southern African nation as "clearly soldiers trying to take power by force".
"The African Union expresses its serious concern regarding the situation unfolding in Zimbabwe," a statement sent to AFP said, expressing support for the country's "legal institutions". The African body further demanded "constitutional order to be restored immediately and calls on all stakeholders to show responsibility and restraint," it added.
The Zimbabwean military took control of the country on Wednesday after a struggle to succeed 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe erupted in public, culminating in the sacking of the vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mugabe is under house arrest, according to a conversation reported by President Jacob Zuma of South Africa.

Military spokesperson says army seeks to ‘pacify a degenerating, social, and economic situation’ in the country.
Zimbabwe‘s military has seized state TV and blocked off access to government offices in the capital Harare. In a televised address early on Wednesday morning, military spokesperson, Major General SB Moyo, said the army was seeking to “pacify a degenerating, social, and economic situation” in the country.
Moyo denied that the army was carrying out a coup against President Robert Mugabe‘s government and said the leader and his family were “safe and sound and their safety is guaranteed”. “We are only targeting criminals around him who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country, in order to bring them to justice,” he said, as tanks surrounded parliamentary and presidential buildings.
The army spokesperson said that once the military’s objectives have been achieved, the situation in the country would return to normal, before urging Zimbabweans to continue with their lives as usual. Moyo also called on political parties to “discourage” their members from turning to violence.
Overnight, the Zimbabwean newspaper The Herald, which leans towards Mugabe, ran with the headline: “Zanu-PF unfazed by Chiwenga”, referring to the army general leading the takeover. On November 14 Zanu-PF accused the army chief of “treasonable conduct” after he challenged Mugabe over the sacking of the vice president.
Al Jazeera’s Haru Mutasa, reporting from Harare, said that while Mugabe has long ruled the southern African state, there was a precedent for his removal from within the party’s history. “This maybe history repeating itself, back in the Liberation war (1964-1979), Zanu PF was led by a Mr (Ndabaningi) Sithole,” she said, referring to the founder of Zimbabwe’s ruling party.
Enock Muchinjo, a journalist in Harare, said the situation in the city was “very tense” with troops on patrol in civilian areas. “The streets are empty and people haven’t reported to work in fear of what is happening,” he said. Muchinjo said by around 8:30am local time (6:30 GMT) people had started “trickling in” to the streets, almost an hour and a half after business normally starts. For many the first priority was to head to the banks, reflecting fears many Zimbabweans have over the impact this burgeoning crisis may have on the economy.
Martin Muradzikwa, a mobile phone shop owner in Harare, told Al Jazeera he feared clashes between soldiers and Mugabe loyalists would break out. “I’m worried there may be running battles in town today between soldiers and President Mugabe’s supporters,” he said. “My wares won’t be safe but I just had to open shop, I cannot afford not to.
Al Jazeera also spoke to critics of Mugabe, who said they had reservations about the military’s intervention in politics. “I’ve never trusted the military,” said one supporter of the opposition Movement for Democracy and Change (MDC). “They’ve stood by the (Mugabe) regime for many years. I’m on their side on this one though, I know they have their own interests in wanting change (but) at least we share a common enemy,” said the MDC supporter, who did not wish to be named.
Nii Akuetteh, an African policy analyst based in Washington, told Al Jazeera that the military would be keen not to portray their actions as a coup in order to avoid attracting opposition. “However, looking at their actions there is no way to call it another thing. If it is not a coup, the military should be back in their barracks,” he said, adding: “The military is supposed to be defending the country from external enemies.
“We don’t have any news at all suggesting that Zimbabwe has been attacked by external enemies. If there is a criminal operation, it is supposed to be (handled) by the police. At 93-years-old, Mugabe is Africa’s oldest leader and has ruled Zimbabwe since 1980.

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa has told a cheering crowd in Harare that the country was entering a new stage of democracy.
He is due to be sworn in as Zimbabwe’s president this Friday, replacing Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday. Mr Mnangagwa, who fled for his safety after Mr Mugabe sacked him two weeks ago, arrived back in Zimbabwe today. "The people have spoken.
The voice of the people is the voice of God," Mr Mnangagwa told thousands of supporters who had gathered outside the ruling ZANU-PF party's offices. "Today we are witnessing the beginning of a new and unfolding democracy," he said.
Mr Mugabe resigned as president a week after the army and his former political allies moved to end four decades of rule by a man once feted as an independence hero who became feared as a despot. The 93-year-old Mr Mugabe had clung on for a week after an army takeover, with ZANU-PF urging him to go.
He finally resigned moments after parliament began an impeachment process seen as the only legal way to force him out. People danced in the streets of Harare and car horns blared at the news that the era of Mugabe, who had led Zimbabwe since independence in 1980, was finally over. Some brandished posters of Mnangagwa and army chief General Constantino Chiwenga.
Meanwhile, the African Union has welcomed Mr Mugabe's decision to step down, saying the people had expressed their will for a "peaceful transfer of power". AU commission chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat said he "welcomes the decision by President Robert Mugabe to step down from his position as Head of State following a lifetime of service to the Zimbabwean nation. Despite the Zimbabwe army's intervention, the AU did not characterise Mr Mugabe's ousting as a coup, but rather a legitimate expression of the will of Zimbabweans. "The African Union recognises that the Zimbabwean people have expressed their will that there should be a peaceful transfer of power in a manner that secures the democratic future of their country," it said.
A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe has said that Robert Mugabe should be brought before the International Criminal Court to face charges relating to atrocities carried out in Zimbabwe by the military in the 1980s. Mike Auret, who now lives in Ireland, served as a director of the Catholic Commission of Justice and Peace in Zimbabwe. He was involved in the investigation into the mass killings of the Ndebele people in the Matabeleland and midland regions of Zimbabwe between 1983 and 1988. A report published following the investigation found that over 20,000 men, women and children were killed by the military branch called the Fifth Brigade in this period.
The military campaign was aimed at quelling "dissidents" in the support base of political rival Joshua Nkomo. Mr Auret presented the finished report to Mr Mugabe in the hope that the actions of the military would stop. Mr Auret said that he initially thought that Mr Mugabe was not aware of the atrocities, but now says that not alone was Mr Mugabe aware of it, he must have ordered it.
As preparations are under way for Mr Mnangagwa to be sworn in as successor to Mr Mugabe on Friday, Mr Auret said he holds little hope that this will mean a new era of economic prosperity for his native Zimbabwe. He has met Mr Mnangagwa on a number of occasions, but said that Mr Mnangagwa's decades in power with Mr Mugabe could mean that very little will change as the ruling party will try to cling on to power. Mr Auret said that the African Union and the International Community should now take a role in leading reform after the Mugabe years in Zimbabwe.

Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa has been sworn in as the country’s president, bringing the final curtain down on the 37-year rule of Robert Mugabe.
Taking his oath of office, the 75-year-old former security chief known as 'The Crocodile' vowed to uphold the constitution of the former British colony and protect the rights of all Zimbabwe's 16 million citizens. He also said that all foreign investments would be safe in Zimbabwe.
Mr Mugabe, 93, who had led the country from independence in 1980, stepped down on Tuesday after the army seized power and the ruling ZANU-PF party turned against him. The world's oldest serving head of state resigned as parliament began a process to impeach him, sparking wild celebrations in the streets.
His sudden fall had been triggered by a battle to succeed him that pitted Mr Mnangagwa against Mr Mugabe's much younger wife Grace. Just two weeks ago, she seemed to have the upper hand after Mr Mugabe fired Mr Mnangagwa on 6 November as vice president for showing "traits of disloyalty".
That prompted Mr Mnangagwa, one of Mugabe's most trusted lieutenants, to flee the country in fear for his life. It also brought the tanks into the streets.
Addressing a cheering crowd in Harare on Wednesday night after his return, Mr Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe was entering a new stage of democracy. "The people have spoken. The voice of the people is the voice of God," he told thousands of supporters. Yesterday, Mr Mnangagwa urged citizens not to undertake "vengeful retribution", striking a tone of reconciliation that echoed those made by Mr Mugabe almost four decades ago.
Mr Mugabe was granted immunity from prosecution and assured that his safety would be protected in his home country as part of a deal that led to his resignation. Some of Mr Mnangagwa's supporters have called for unspecified action against the "G40" group that backed Mr Mugabe and his wife, known as "Gucci Grace" for her reputed dedication to shopping, an affront to many in a country with an unemployment rate of 90%.

LONDON, Nov 21 (Reuters) - British Prime Minister Theresa May said on Tuesday Robert Mugabe’s resignation gave Zimbabwe the chance to forge a new path, free from oppression. “The resignation of Robert Mugabe provides Zimbabwe with an opportunity to forge a new path free of the oppression that characterised his rule,” May said.

HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe’s main opposition leader said on Monday President Robert Mugabe’s refusal to resign had dampened people’s spirits and called for an inclusive political process in the aftermath of a military intervention last week. Morgan Tsvangirai said there should be an all-stakeholders meeting to chart the country’s future and that the next elections due next year should be supervised by the international community.

The military in Zimbabwe says it has temporarily taken control of the country to “target criminals” around the president, Robert Mugabe, amid high tension and reports of explosions in Harare.
Soldiers have sealed access to parliament, government offices and courts in the capital, residents said. Access to the president’s official residence was also blocked by troops.
A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo made an announcement on state television early on Wednesday saying Mugabe and his family were “safe and sound and their security is guaranteed”. Troops had seized the network’s offices late on Tuesday night.
Moyo said the army was targeting “criminals around” Mugabe, who were “committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in order to bring them to justice”. The takeover comes amid a bitter battle over who will succeed 93-year-old Mugabe. Emmerson Mnangagwa, the veteran vice-president and former spy chief who has strong support among many in Zimbabwe’s armed forces, was unceremoniously fired last week.
The move opened the road to power open to Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife, and a rival faction within the ruling Zanu-PF party. The finance minister, Ignatius Chombo, a member of Grace Mugabe’s G40, was reportedly among those detained by the military. Profile
Who is Grace Mugabe and why is she controversial? Show Background Grace Mugabe is the 52-year-old first lady of Zimbabwe. Born in South Africa, she married Robert Mugabe, 40 years her senior, in 1996. Initially struggling to emerge from the shadows of the president’s popular first wife, Sally, who died in 1992, Mugabe appeared by her husband’s side for official functions but rarely got involved in politics herself, focusing publicly on her charity work while gaining a reputation for legendary shopping expeditions.
Controversies In 2009 a British photographer alleged that she punched him repeatedly in the face when he tried to take a picture of her in Hong Kong. She has since been implicated in several incidents outside Zimbabwe: in Singapore, in Malaysia and most recently in South Africa, where she allegedly assaulted a model in August.
Political ambitions The unveiling of Grace Mugabe as a potential successor to her husband began in 2014, when she became head of the ruling party’s women’s league and the state propaganda machine began talking up her political acumen.
Before the events of 14 November her path to power had received a boost when her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, was fired on 6 November. The feud between Mugabe and Mnangagwa had been bitter – in October she publicly denied poisoning him after he fell ill at a rally in August.
Photograph: Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.
Insisting it was not a coup, Moyo said “as soon as [the armed forces] are done the situation will come to normalcy”. “We urge you to remain calm and limit unnecessary movement. However, we encourage those who are employed and those with essential business in the city to continue their normal activities as usual,” he said.
Moyo said the army had acted because the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation had been ordered not to broadcast a statement from the military on Monday and “the situation in our country has moved to another level”. Cancelling all leave for members of the military, he urged the security forces to “cooperate for the good of our country”.
He warned “any provocation will be met with an appropriate response”. There were reports of a number of loud explosions and some incidents of members of the armed forces harassing passers-by during the night.
Residents of Harare said the city was quiet on Wednesday morning, though the usually busy streets were empty. There was no sign of any disturbance elsewhere in the country. A witness told Agence France-Presse that gunfire had erupted near Mugabe’s private residence in the suburb of Borrowdale early on Wednesday, but there was no independent confirmation of the report.
Nelson Chamisa, the deputy head of opposition MDC party, called for “peace, constitutionalism, democratisation, the rule of law and the sanctity of human life”. The US embassy in the capital tweeted out a message citing “ongoing uncertainty.” A statement later posted by the embassy told US citizens in Zimbabwe to “shelter in place until further notice”. The British embassy said that due to the “uncertain political situation” British nationals should remain at home.
Military convoys had been seen driving through the capital earlier on Tuesday, sparking rumours of a coup attempt just a day after the country’s military chief – flanked by other senior officers – warned that he was prepared to “step in” to end turmoil in Zanu-PF. Zimbabwe’s government accused the head of the armed forces of “treasonable conduct” in the early evening, ratcheting up the tension.
Mugabe, the only leader Zimbabwe has known in 37 years of independence, spent Tuesday afternoon in a cabinet meeting, but his whereabouts overnight were unknown. In its statement the military said they continued to recognise the president as commander in chief of the armed forces.
Mugabe’s sacking of Mnangagwa came as a shock to many observers. Profile
Who is Emmerson Mnangagwa? Show Emmerson Mnangagwa was sworn in as president of Zimbabwe on 24 November, capping a dramatic few weeks that began when he was sacked as vice-president by Robert Mugabe on 6 November. Mnangagwa, a 75-year-old former intelligence chief, had been locked in a battle with the first lady, Grace Mugabe, to succeed her husband as president.
His sacking – an attempt to clear Grace's path to power - was a tactical error that triggered a military takeover, Mugabe's impeachment by parliament, and his resignation. Mnangagwa has strong support within the security establishment and among veterans of Zimbabwe’s 1970s guerrilla war, when he earned the nickname “the crocodile”. Despite allegations about his role in atrocities in the 1980s, much of the international community had long seen him as being the most likely figure in Zimbabwe to guarantee a stable transition and implement economic reforms.
Photograph: Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful?
Thank you for your feedback. Nicknamed “the crocodile” from his time fighting in the country’s liberation wars, Mnangagwa has strong support among veterans and within the security establishment that he once ran.
He had been considered the mostly likely candidate to succeed Mugabe if the president decided to step down or died in office. Mnangagwa’s sacking was widely seen as a move to pave the way for Grace Mugabe to take power instead.
It caused widespread discontent among Mnangagwa’s supporters and exposed deep factional divides within Zanu-PF ranks. On Monday, Gen Constantine Chiwenga, the head of Zimbabwe’s military, called a press conference to warn that troops could intervene if long-term political allies continued to suffer. “We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that, when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, the military will not hesitate to step in,” Chiwenga said in a statement read at a news conference packed with 90 senior officers from key units, in a show of military unity.
The statement was initially carried on state media, then removed from the airwaves, but the government was slow to respond, with no word from Mugabe himself. After the cabinet meeting on Tuesday, however, a statement was issued by Simon Khaya-Moyo, the government spokesman and national secretary for information and publicity, accusing Chiwenga of “treasonable conduct”.
“Such conduct stands unreservedly condemned not only in the party ... but also in the [region] and the entire African continent where subversion of constitutional authority is ... regarded as absolute anathema,” the statement read. Mugabe’s authoritarian rule has been anchored by support from the military but the ageing leader has systematically dismissed veterans of the liberation struggle from party posts in recent years, leaving the top echelons stacked with officials who did not fight in the independence war. War veterans broke ranks with him in 2016 and have vowed to form a broad front with the opposition to challenge his rule.
Chris Mutsvangwa, the head of the war veterans’ group, told reporters in Johannesburg last week that Grace Mugabe was “a mad woman” who had won power through a “coup ... by marriage certificate”. Grace Mugabe is a deeply divisive figure in Zimbabwe with limited popular support. She has been tarnished by an alleged assault against a model she had found with her sons in a luxury apartment in Johannesburg in September. Granted diplomatic immunity after the incident, she was allowed to leave South Africa despite a police inquiry, and denies any wrongdoing.
Reports of extravagant purchases, including property in South Africa and a Rolls-Royce, have also angered many Zimbabweans. Pictures of one of the first lady’s sons apparently pouring most of a bottle of champagne over a luxury watch worth tens of thousands of dollars in a nightclub were shared widely on social media this week. The crisis comes at a time when Zimbabwe faces severe economic problems. The country is struggling to pay for imports due to a shortage of dollars, which has also caused acute cash shortages.

Zimbabwe’s army chief has demanded a halt to the purge in the ruling Zanu-PF party after the sacking of vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa, and warned the military could intervene. “The current purging, which is clearly targeting members of the party with a liberation background, must stop forthwith,” Gen Constantino Chiwenga told a media conference on Monday attended by about 90 senior army officers at military HQ.
Mnangagwa was dismissed and humiliated a week earlier after clashing with President Robert Mugabe’s wife, Grace, who is now in prime position to succeed her 93-year-old husband. Analysts had warned that the sacking would spark repercussions beyond Robert Mugabe’s control.
Mnangagwa’s main rivals within the ruling Zanu-PF party are the younger Generation 40 or G40 group, which has Grace Mugabe’s support. But the 75-year-old former vice-president has powerful military connections, having served as defence and state security minister. Soon after his dismissal Mnangagwa fled into exile, vowing to return.
He launched a direct challenge to Mugabe by calling for members of the ruling party to desert the president. Mnangagwa – whose nickname is the Crocodile – defiantly told Mugabe that the party was “not personal property for you and your wife to do as you please”. Mugabe reacted by expelling his longtime confidante and former liberation war guerrilla from the party. Zanu-PF is due to hold a congress next month, when 52-year-old Grace, a hugely divisive figure, could be appointed as one of the country’s two vice-presidents.
The move could pave the way for her to get the top job. Mugabe, the world’s oldest president, has refused to name his successor.
Zimbabwe goes to elections next year to vote for a president and lawmakers. Chiwenga urged unfettered participation at the party’s special congress in December to choose new leaders. “Members must go with equal opportunity to exercise their democratic rights,” he said.
Chiwenga claimed Zanu-PF had been infiltrated by people who were seeking to destroy it from within. “Known counter-revolutionaries … must be exposed and fished out,” he said.
The purging in the party had plunged the country into a crisis, he added. He also called on the ruling party officials to “stop reckless utterance … denigrating the military, which is causing alarm and despondency within the rank and file”. The army boss added that the infighting in the party was damaging the country, which is gripped by an economic crisis.
The crisis had resulted in “cash shortages and rising commodity prices”, he said. Zimbabwe abandoned its currency in 2009 in favour of the US dollar because of hyperinflation. However, it started running out of dollars and last year it introduced bond notes, a parallel currency pegged to the US dollar. The bond notes are running short, forcing banks to ration cash withdrawals.

Zimbabwe remained in political limbo a day and a half after the military takeover that appears to have put an end to Robert Mugabe’s 37-year grip on power. Talks between the president, who has been confined to his residence in Harare by the army, and senior military officers continued on Thursday morning, with senior church leaders and envoys sent from neighbouring South Africa involved in mediation efforts.
The Zimbabwean capital remained tense but calm amid the political uncertainty. Troops have secured the airport, government offices, parliament and other key sites. The rest of the country has remained peaceful.
The takeover has been cautiously welcomed by many Zimbabweans. The military declared on national television in the early hours of Wednesday morning that it had temporarily taken control of the country to “target criminals” around the 93-year-old president.
It now seems likely that the ruthless rule of the world’s oldest leader will be definitively over within days. The takeover by the armed forces appears to have resolved a bitter battle to succeed Mugabe that had pitted his wife Grace against the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mnangagwa was reported to have returned to Zimbabwe on Tuesday evening from South Africa, where he fled last week after being stripped of his office by Mugabe in an apparent attempt to clear Grace Mugabe’s path to power.
Reports that Grace Mugabe had fled to Namibia on Wednesday appeared false, with several sources saying she was detained with her husband in their residence in Harare.. The future of the first lady is a key element in the ongoing discussions between Mugabe and the military. Singapore and Malaysia, where the Mugabes own property, are potential destinations if she is allowed to travel into exile.
Forty-eight hours of drama and confusion had begun on Monday when the army chief – flanked by other senior officers – warned he was prepared to “step in” to end turmoil in the ruling Zanu-PF party. The 93-year-old has ruled over Zimbabwe like a medieval monarch, favouring loyal followers with gifts of land, office and money, but pursuing those seen as traitors with a cruelty only marginally moderated by a residual respect for legal process. A former guerrilla leader, Mugabe was ready to sacrifice his country’s economy to maintain his grip on power, turning to increasingly tired revolutionary rhetoric, corruption and coercion to stave off any threats. Few other than the close associates who benefited directly from Mugabe’s rule will mourn his passing from power.
One high-profile opposition leader said there was “a lot of talking going on”, with the army “reaching out to different factions to discuss the formation of a transitional government. Negotiations had been ongoing for several months with “certain people within the army”, a second senior opposition official said.
The official said Mugabe would resign this week and be replaced by Mnangagwa, with opposition leaders taking posts as vice-president and prime minister. There was no independent confirmation of his claim. The fragmented opposition has not publicly condemned the military move.
Nelson Chamisa, the deputy head of the opposition MDC party, called for “peace, constitutionalism, democratisation, the rule of law and the sanctity of human life”. The MDC’s leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, arrived in Harare from Johannesburg on Wednesday night. He has been tipped as a potential prime minister in a new political set-up.
Tendai Biti, an opposition leader, called for a “roadmap back to legitimacy”. Profile
Who is Emmerson Mnangagwa? Show Emmerson Mnangagwa was sworn in as president of Zimbabwe on 24 November, capping a dramatic few weeks that began when he was sacked as vice-president by Robert Mugabe on 6 November.
Mnangagwa, a 75-year-old former intelligence chief, had been locked in a battle with the first lady, Grace Mugabe, to succeed her husband as president. His sacking – an attempt to clear Grace's path to power - was a tactical error that triggered a military takeover, Mugabe's impeachment by parliament, and his resignation. Mnangagwa has strong support within the security establishment and among veterans of Zimbabwe’s 1970s guerrilla war, when he earned the nickname “the crocodile”.
Despite allegations about his role in atrocities in the 1980s, much of the international community had long seen him as being the most likely figure in Zimbabwe to guarantee a stable transition and implement economic reforms. Photograph:
Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.
South Africa appeared to be backing the takeover and sent ministers to Harare to help with negotiations to form a new government and decide the terms of Mugabe’s resignation. The South African president Jacob Zuma said in a statement that he had spoken to Mugabe, who told him he was “confined” but “fine”.
Zuma called for calm and a transition in line with the Zimbabwean constitution. Boris Johnson, the UK’s foreign secretary, told parliament that the UK wanted to see “proper, free and fair elections” in the former British colony.
Presidential polls are due to be held next year but may well now be brought forward. “Nobody wants simply to see the transition from one unelected tyrant to a next. No one wants to see that,” Johnson said. The African Union called for the “constitutional order to be restored immediately and ... all stakeholders to show responsibility and restraint”.
A coalition of churches issued a statement explaining that “the current crisis is an opportunity for the birth of a new nation” and calling for the formation of a transitional government of national unity as soon as possible. The Zimbabwean military have insisted – despite appearances – that a coup had not taken place. A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo, pledged that “as soon as [the armed forces] are done the situation will come to normalcy” during an announcement of the military intervention on state television early on Wednesday.
There has been no sign of any resistance to the takeover or to the arrest of a series of senior officials associated with Grace Mugabe and her G40 faction. The youth wing of the ruling Zanu-PF, which had made defiant statements directed at the military earlier in the week, appeared to condone the military action. Late on Wednesday, the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation interrupted its programming to broadcast a statement by the party’s youth leader, Kudzai Chipanga, who apologised for “denigrating” military chiefs.
Chipanga, who on Tuesday said he and his followers would be “prepared to die” for Mugabe, had been a strong supporter of the president and his wife. But Grace Mugabe is deeply unpopular and has few allies internally or, crucially, regionally.
In contrast, Mnangagwa, a former spy chief, has strong support among many in Zimbabwe’s armed forces, and it is unclear who might oppose him in coming days. Profile
Who is Grace Mugabe and why is she controversial? Show Background Grace Mugabe is the 52-year-old first lady of Zimbabwe. Born in South Africa, she married Robert Mugabe, 40 years her senior, in 1996. Initially struggling to emerge from the shadows of the president’s popular first wife, Sally, who died in 1992, Mugabe appeared by her husband’s side for official functions but rarely got involved in politics herself, focusing publicly on her charity work while gaining a reputation for legendary shopping expeditions.
Controversies In 2009 a British photographer alleged that she punched him repeatedly in the face when he tried to take a picture of her in Hong Kong. She has since been implicated in several incidents outside Zimbabwe: in Singapore, in Malaysia and most recently in South Africa, where she allegedly assaulted a model in August.
Political ambitions The unveiling of Grace Mugabe as a potential successor to her husband began in 2014, when she became head of the ruling party’s women’s league and the state propaganda machine began talking up her political acumen.
Before the events of 14 November her path to power had received a boost when her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, was fired on 6 November. The feud between Mugabe and Mnangagwa had been bitter – in October she publicly denied poisoning him after he fell ill at a rally in August. Photograph:
Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.
Evan Mawarire, a pastor and one of Zimbabwe’s best-known activists, called on Zimbabweans to “remain calm and hopeful, alert but prayerful”. Mawarire, who has been jailed and prosecuted since launching the #thisflag movement last year, which led to huge protests, said developments were “the culmination of the work that citizens have been doing”.
Mugabe’s sacking of Mnangagwa came as a shock to many observers. Nicknamed “the crocodile” from his time fighting in the country’s liberation wars, he had been considered the most likely candidate to succeed Mugabe if the president decided to step down or died in office.
But the increasingly infirm president’s gamble exposed deep factional divides within the ranks of Zanu-PF as well as the political weakness of his wife and her faction. “It was a spectacular miscalculation,” said Pigou.
Mugabe has systematically dismissed veterans of the liberation struggle from party posts in recent years, leaving the top echelons stacked with officials who did not fight in the independence war. This exacerbated a long-running battle between an old political elite forged in the 1970s and 1980s, and a new generation that coalesced around Grace Mugabe.
War veterans broke ranks with the president in 2016 and have vowed to form a broad front with the opposition to challenge his rule. Chris Mutsvangwa, the head of the war veterans’ group, issued a statement from Johannesburg on Wednesday praising the military for carrying out “a bloodless correction of gross abuse of power” that would return Zimbabwe to “genuine democracy”.
Many of the first lady’s supporters believed that Mugabe would name his wife as his successor at the Zanu-PF annual conference in December. Grace Mugabe’s reputation has been tarnished by a series of violent outbursts, including an alleged assault against a model she had found with her sons in a luxury apartment in Johannesburg in September. Granted diplomatic immunity after the incident, she was allowed to leave South Africa despite a police inquiry, and denies any wrongdoing.
Reports of extravagant purchases, including property in South Africa and a Rolls-Royce, have also angered many Zimbabweans. The crisis comes at a time when Zimbabwe faces severe economic problems.
The country is struggling to pay for imports due to a shortage of dollars, which has also caused acute cash shortages. State employees, including some soldiers and policemen, have gone for months without payment of their salaries, deepening discontent with the government.

“Good morning Zimbabwe. Fellow Zimbabweans.
Following the address we made on 13 November 2017, which we believe our main broadcaster Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation and the Herald were directed not to publicise, the situation in our country has moved to another level. Firstly we wish to assure our nation, His Excellency, the president of the republic of Zimbabwe and commander in chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, comrade R G Mugabe and his family, are safe and sound and their security is guaranteed. We are only targeting criminals around him who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country in order to bring them to justice.
As soon as we have accomplished our mission we expect that the situation will return to normalcy. To the civil servants, as you are aware there is a plan by the same individuals to influence the current purging which is taking place in the political sphere.
To the civil service, we are against that act of injustice and we intend to protect every one of you against that. To the judiciary, the measures underway are intended to ensure that as an independent arm of the state you are able to exercise your independent authority without fear of being obstructed as has been the case with this group of individuals. To our members of parliament, your legislative role is of paramount importance, of peace and stability in this country, and it is our desire that a dispensation is created that allows you to serve your respective political constituencies according to democratic tenants.
To the generality of the people of Zimbabwe, we urge you to remain calm and limit unnecessary movement. However we encourage those who are employed and those with essential business in the city to continue their normal activities as usual.
Our wish is that you will enjoy your rights and freedoms and that we return our country to a dispensation that allows for investment, development and prosperity that we all fought for and for which many of our citizens paid the supreme sacrifice. To political parties, we urge you to discourage your members from engaging in violent behaviour.
To the youth, we call upon you to realise that the future of this country is yours. Do not be enticed with the dirty coins of silver, be disciplined and remain committed to the efforts and values of this great nation.
To all churches and religious organisations in Zimbabwe we call upon your congregations to pray for our country and preach the gospel of love, peace and unity and development. To both our people and the world beyond our borders, we wish to make this abundantly clear this is not a military takeover of government.
What the Zimbabwe defence forces is doing is to pacify a degenerating political, social and economic situation in our country which if not addressed may result in violent conflict. We call upon all the war veterans to play a positive role in ensuring peace, stability and unity in the country. To members of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, all leave is cancelled and you are all to return to your barracks with immediate effect.
To the other security forces, we urge you to cooperate for the good of our country. Let it be clear we intend to address the human security threats in our country.
Therefore any provocation will be met with an appropriate response. And to the media, we urge you to report fairly and responsibly.

Thirty-seven years after he took control of his country, Robert Mugabe’s dethroning was so abrupt that many Zimbabweans did not realise their country had been transformed overnight. Samaz, a roadside fruit and vegetable seller who gave only his first name, said the first signs of change were the roadblocks set up central Harare and manned by twitchy soldiers.
There were brief exchanges of gunfire and explosions were reported overnight, and some civilians were beaten up by police. But the only damage reported from the dramatic power struggle was to the gate of a minister’s home, after his guards put up a brief defence. Any injuries were treated in private.
The Harare snatched from Mugabe’s control on Wednesday looked very much as it had the previous day, but with an unfamiliar sense of exhilaration in the air for the many who opposed their president or were weary of his decades-long rule. “People are excited because they are ready for change,” said one official who asked not to be named.
Mugabe is the only leader Zimbabwe has had since independence in 1980, and a fast-growing population means more than half its citizens were born under his rule. The apparently bloodless seizure of power, the army’s insistence that it was engaged in a course-correction of democracy rather than a coup, and the almost immediate return to something like routine all helped to allay the fears that a military intervention would normally stir up.
There were traffic blocks and a few armoured personnel carriers around one block of key government buildings in the heart of town, and traffic was a little lighter than usual, but there was little else to indicate a moment of historic change. Schools opened for classes, people queued for driving licenses and most of the country went to work as usual.
“I am doing business, and these politicians are doing their business,” said one Zimbabwean from the mining sector, heading off on a planned trip to a concession. By midday even the roadblocks had gone, the armoured personnel carriers that announced the start of military action were back in their barracks, and in the upmarket suburb of Borrowdale – where Mugabe and many of his closest allies have their private homes – there was no extra security visible.
“I don’t know what I expected but I never thought the end would be so surreal. It is almost like a dream,” the writer and activist Grace Mutandwa marvelled on Twitter.
State radio and TV channels under military control projected an image of studied normality while officers hammered out the country’s future. The programming could have come straight from a coup-planner’s handbook: upbeat but bland, and empty of any real information that Zimbabweans nervous about their country’s future might be hoping to seek out. On one radio station, the coup got just over two minutes of coverage in the midday “in depth” news bulletin, dedicated to how normally the day was playing out nationwide, before the presenter turned to foreign affairs.
As rumours, fears, worries and memes ricocheted around social media, the lack of real information stirred up trepidation even among those keen to see the president leave office. Timeline Zimbabwe timeline: the week that led to Mugabe's detention Show 6 November 2017 Mugabe fires vice president Robert Mugabe fires his powerful vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, clearing the way for his wife, Grace, to succeed him as leader of Zimbabwe.
Grace had accused 75-year-old Mnangagwa, a former intelligence chief, of being the “root cause of factionalism” in the ruling Zanu-PF party. 8 November 2017 Mnangagwa defiant Mnangagwa reportedly flees to South Africa, but vows to return to Zimbabwe to lead party members. The party "is not personal property for you and your wife to do as you please," Mnangagwa tells Mugabe in an angry five-page statement.
13 November 2017 Army chief issues warning Zimbabwe’s army chief demands a halt to the purge in Zanu-PF, and warns that the military could intervene. “We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, the military will not hesitate to step in,” General Constantino Chiwenga told a media conference attended by about 90 senior army officers. 14 November 2017 Army denies coup A convoy of tanks is seen moving on the outskirts of the Zimbabwean capital but the military denies a coup.
In an overnight declaration on state television, they say Mugabe is safe and they are "only targeting criminals around him". 15 November 2017 Mugabe detained Military vehicles take control of the streets of Harare in the early hours. South Africa says Mugabe has told its president, Jacob Zuma, by telephone that he is under house arrest but is "fine".
Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback. The army had promised a press conference on Wednesday morning, when officers were expected to unveil a deal with the president, settling his fate and that of some allies.
It would have limited the military intervention to barely 12 hours. But the event was postponed and then cancelled, amid rumours of huge gaps between the military’s demands and what Mugabe would concede. The longer the military remain in control without spelling out their plans, the greater the risk that generals will be unwilling or unable to disentangle themselves from power.
“The darkest hour is just before the dawn,” said one senior opposition politician, expressing the hope of many Zimbabweans that if the military intervention had really been planned as a precursor to major change, the generals would hand the country back to civilian leaders shortly. Naison, a 76-year-old farmer in the Midlands province, said few in his village objected to the removal of Mugabe, though many questioned whether real change would ensue, given that the military had taken action in support of the ousted vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa, a stalwart of the ruling Zanu-PF party. “Generally there is a bit of mixed reaction, some think its so good, as they are hoping for something new. Others say we have to wait to see what’s happening, and anyway its going to be another wing of Zanu-PF,” Naison said by phone.

Zimbabwe's parliament has begun formal proceedings to impeach Robert Mugabe, with its speaker announcing to the house that a motion to remove the President from office has been brought forward by the war veterans leader Chris Mutsvangwa and seconded by an opposition politician.
The full motion was expected to accuse Mr Mugabe of allowing his wife to "usurp" his position, and of being too old to effectively carry out his duties. As politicians arrived at parliament on Tuesday afternoon to begin the impeachment proceedings, thousands of Zimbabweans attended a rally in the capital Harare in support of the motion and the actions of the military in placing Mr Mugabe under house arrest. "We are here because we want to be part of this very important occasion in the history of this country," said Harare resident Samuel Wadzai.
Mr Tsvangirai said the culture of the ruling party "must end" and everyone must put their heads together and work toward free and fair elections. "Now the question is, how do we end Mugabe," said the opposition leader, who shared power with Mr Mugabe as prime minister for a number of years. It is not clear how long impeachment would take, though the ruling party has said it could vote Mr Mugabe out as early as Wednesday.
Earlier, in a bid to show he was still in control of the country, Mr Mugabe called a meeting of his Cabinet. But the last gasp attempt to stay in power appears to have backfired.
According to the Reuters news agency, only five ministers and the Attorney General answered Mr Mugabe's call, with the 17 other members of Cabinet instead attending a meeting to plan the 93-year-old leader's impeachment. Lovemore Matuke, a senior official of the ruling Zanu-PF party told the Associated Press that "all" ministers snubbed the Cabinet meeting and instead heeded a directive to attend the party caucus.
Four regional countries are meeting on Zimbabwe's political crisis. South Africa's president is joining the Angola-hosted summit of the Southern African Development Community, along with the leaders of Zambia and Tanzania. A committee of the regional bloc has recommended a full summit of all 16 members to discuss Zimbabwe. And also on Tuesday, Botswana's government posted online what it calls an open letter from President Ian Khama urging Mr Mugabe to step down. Mr Khama adds that Zimbabwe's people have been "subjected to untold suffering" under Mr Mugabe, who has ruled for 37 years while the once-prosperous southern African nation's economy collapsed.

Robert Mugabe’s most likely successor, the ousted vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa, has broken more than a week of silence to call for the 93-year-old leader to “accept the will of the people” and step down immediately. Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party is expected to begin impeachment proceedings in parliament on Tuesday in an attempt to strip Mugabe of the presidency, as the political crisis triggered by a military takeover moves into a second week.
Mugabe is accused of allowing his wife, Grace Mugabe, to “usurp constitutional power”. The legal basis for impeachment has been drawn up by Zanu-PF, which chose Mnangagwa to replace Mugabe as its leader at the weekend.
Zimbabwe’s political and military establishment appears wary of forcing Mugabe from office because of the censure and sanctions a coup can trigger. Having failed to persuade him to step aside, they are focused on attempts to remove him from power through constitutional measures.
“I am aware that parliament intends to impeach the president,” Mnangagwa said, throwing his weight behind the attempt to end Mugabe’s rule. “Parliament is the ultimate expression of the will of the people outside an election and in my view is expressing national sentiment by implementing the impeachment,” he said.
Profile Who is Emmerson Mnangagwa? Show Emmerson Mnangagwa was sworn in as president of Zimbabwe on 24 November, capping a dramatic few weeks that began when he was sacked as vice-president by Robert Mugabe on 6 November. Mnangagwa, a 75-year-old former intelligence chief, had been locked in a battle with the first lady, Grace Mugabe, to succeed her husband as president.
His sacking – an attempt to clear Grace's path to power - was a tactical error that triggered a military takeover, Mugabe's impeachment by parliament, and his resignation. Mnangagwa has strong support within the security establishment and among veterans of Zimbabwe’s 1970s guerrilla war, when he earned the nickname “the crocodile”.
Despite allegations about his role in atrocities in the 1980s, much of the international community had long seen him as being the most likely figure in Zimbabwe to guarantee a stable transition and implement economic reforms. Photograph: Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful?
Thank you for your feedback. Mnangagwa, a veteran of the liberation war and for decades Mugabe’s right-hand man, fled into exile earlier this month after being ousted from his position in government and Zanu-PF by a faction allied to the president’s wife.
His supporters are widely believed to be behind the military’s takeover of power. Zanu-PF has named him as the party’s new leader and nominee to take over as president if Mugabe steps down or is impeached. In a written statement, which gave no clue as to his whereabouts, Mnangagwa said he had fled Zimbabwe after he was warned by security officials that “plans were underfoot to eliminate me”. Mnangagwa said he had spoken to Mugabe, and told him he needed to resign because huge demonstrations in Harare on Saturday, and the party vote against him, showed he no longer had a popular mandate.
“Mugabe has always said that if the people don’t want him he will leave office, now that they have spoken he must now accept the will of the people and resign,” the statement said. Mnangagwa also made what appeared to be an appeal to opposition politicians and their supporters. Laying out his vision for a “new Zimbabwe”, Mnangagwa said it was a national, not a party political project.
“In that new Zimbabwe it is important for everyone to join hands so that we rebuild this nation to its full glory. This is not a job for Zanu-PF alone but for all people of Zimbabwe,” he said. Mnangagwa, who is known as “the Crocodile” from his time fighting in the country’s liberation wars, orchestrated repeated crackdowns on Zimbabwe’s opposition under Mugabe’s rule.
He said he would return home “as soon as the right conditions for security and stability prevail”, but did not give any further details of when that might be. Mugabe had been given a deadline of noon local time on Monday to resign as head of state or face impeachment but he ignored the deadline and instead called a cabinet meeting for 9am on Tuesday. A notice from his chief secretary said all ministers should attend.
Lovemore Matuke, a senior Zanu-PF official, told Reuters that “all” ministers heeded a party directive to skip the cabinet meeting and instead attend a party caucus to discuss impeaching Mugabe on Tuesday morning. A draft impeachment motion published by Zanu-PF said the ageing leader was a “source of instability” who had shown disrespect for the rule of law and was to blame for an unprecedented economic tailspin over the past 15 years.
It also said that at his “advanced age” Mugabe no longer had the physical capacity to run the government. Although Zanu-PF has the required two-thirds majority in parliament necessary to remove Mugabe, the arrest or flight of some MPs may mean the support of opposition parties is needed for the impeachment motion to pass.
Lawmakers from Zimbabwe’s main opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), will hold a meeting on Tuesday to decide whether to join Zanu-PF to impeach Mugabe, according to officials. David Coltart, the MDC’s secretary for legal affairs, said he supported the move in principle.
“I have long felt he should have been impeached for what he has done of the last decades and for how he has violated the constitution,” he said. Mugabe stunned the southern African country by failing to resign as expected in a televised speech on Sunday night.
Instead, his rambling address offered no substantial concessions to the tens of thousands of people who have marched calling for his resignation, though it did exonerate the army commanders who led the military takeover last week. The autocrat called for compatriots to avoid “bitterness or revengefulness, which would not make us any better … Zimbabweans”, and said he would preside over a special Zanu-PF congress scheduled for next month.
It is unclear how long the procedure to impeach the president might take but it is likely to last several days.
Both houses of the Zimbabwean parliament will have to sit at least twice, with the impeachment motion also going to a committee of senators. If it is passed, Mugabe, who as president is also commander-in-chief of the armed forces, would be reduced to the status of any other citizen.

Leaders of Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party are meeting on Friday to draft a resolution to dismiss President Robert Mugabe at the weekend and lay the ground for his impeachment next week if he refuses to stand down, a senior party source said.
The unfolding drama in the capital, Harare, had been thrown into confusion when a smiling Mugabe was pictured on Thursday shaking hands with Zimbabwe's military chief, the man behind the coup, raising questions about whether or not the end of an era was near. Mugabe unexpectedly drove on from his lavish “Blue Roof” compound yesterday, where he had been confined, to the State House, where official media pictured him meeting military boss Constantino Chiwenga and South African mediators.
The official Herald newspaper carried no reports of the meeting's outcome, leaving Zimbabwe's 13 million people in the dark about the situation. The United States, a longtime critic of Mugabe over allegations of human rights abuses and election rigging, said it is seeking “a new era” for Zimbabwe, the State Department's top official for Africa said, an implicit call for the nonagenarian leader to quit.

Zimbabwe’s ongoing crisis descended into outright chaos on Sunday after president Robert Mugabe failed to announce his resignation as widely expected in a national address on live television.
Instead, in a rambling 30 minute address, Mugabe offered no concessions to his critics, the tens of thousands who marched calling for his resignation or the army commanders who led the military takeover last week. The 93-year-old autocrat said that “we cannot be guided by bitterness or revengefulness which would not makes us any better ...
Zimbabweans” and said that he would preside over a special congress of the ruling Zanu-PF party scheduled for next month – suggesting he has no immediate intention of stepping down. Mugabe, who repeatedly cited the legacy of Zimbabwe’s brutal liberations wars of the 1970s, said he believed that the military “operation” launched last Tuesday by army commanders was motivated by “a deep patriotic concern for the stability of the nation” and “did not amount to a threat to our well-cherished constitutional order”. “I am aware that many developments have occurred in the party, given the failings of the past, and anger they might have triggered in some quarters .... [but] I am confident that from tonight our whole nation will put shoulder to the wheel,” Mugabe said.
His once-loyal Zanu-PF party warned it would seek to impeach him if he fails to quit by midday (1000 GMT) on Monday. Earlier on Sunday, the veteran leader, who has been in power for 37 years, was sacked as leader of the Zanu-PF and told by 200 of the party’s top officials gathered at an extraordinary meeting in Harare to resign as head of state or face impeachment when parliament reconvenes on Tuesday. After the speech, the chief whip of Zimbabwe’s ruling party said the central committee would proceed with impeaching Mugabe on Tuesday. Lovemore Matuke said: “the speech was just surprising.
It is not in line with what we expected. We had understood that his resignation was coming to avoid the embarrassment of impeachment.
Emmerson Mnangagwa, the vice-president whose sacking 13 days ago led to the military takeover, was appointed interim leader of the party. Mnangagwa is widely expected to take over from Mugabe as president.
The moves by Zanu-PF follows huge demonstrations in cities across the country on Saturday demanding Mugabe leave power. His refusal to go plunges the country into deep uncertainty.
The leader of Zimbabwe’s influential war veterans said plans for impeachment would go ahead as scheduled. Chris Mutsvangwa, who has been leading a campaign to oust Mugabe, told Reuters in a text message moments after Mugabe finished his speech that people would take to the streets of Harare on Wednesday. Observers say Mugabe may hope to oblige the military to depose him by force, which could theoretically trigger an intervention by regional powers.
The South African Development Community (SADC), headed by South Africa, is to meet in Angola on Tuesday to discuss the situation. Last week the SADC called for a “constitutional” solution to the crisis, which was understood by some to be a call for the military to allow Mugabe to serve out his current electoral mandate as president. According to sources close to the military, the president, who has been kept under house arrest in his sprawling residence in Harare, wants to be allowed to remain in power until elections scheduled for next summer are held. The military has said it has no intention of taking permanent control of government but has indicated it does not want to leave Mugabe in office.
A microphone caught later muffled comments from the elderly leader referring to either a “long” or a “wrong” speech, leading to speculation that Mugabe may have deliberately or otherwise omitted pages or read content that varied substantially from that reportedly cleared with the military high command. Zimbabweans who gathered at a bar in the capital to celebrate Mugabe’s expected announcement of his resignation said they were frustrated.
Earlier in the day Zanu-PF delegates had broken into cheers, song and dance when the motion was passed, removing Mugabe as the head of the party and appointing Mnangagwa to replace him. The 200 or so members of the central committee leapt to their feet, many singing Mnangagwa’s name. “This is the day that is defining the new birth and development of our country,” said Mike Madiro, chairman of one of the provincial party branches that had formally set Mugabe’s dethroning in motion.
Zanu-PF also expelled Grace Mugabe, the divisive first lady, and 20 of her closest associates. The military commanders claim last week’s takeover was necessary to remove “criminals” close to the president, a reference to Grace Mugabe and her “G40” faction. The purge has in effect decimated the group and underlines the degree to which the overthrow of Mugabe’s 37-year rule has been driven more by competition for power within the Zanu-PF than popular anger at a dictatorial and corrupt regime.
“The party constitution must apply in all situations and to all members ... victimisation and arbitrary decisions must be put behind. Grace Mugabe, 52, has not been seen since the takeover. Sources told the Guardian she was in her husband’s Harare residence when he was detained on Tuesday and had not moved since.
Since taking power, the military has arrested about a dozen senior officials and ministers. Several remain detained. Two senior politicians close to the first lady are believed to have taken refuge with their families in the president’s residence on the night of the military takeover.
Few options are now open to Mugabe, who ruled Zimbabwe through a mixture of coercion, bribery and revolutionary rhetoric, beyond playing for time. Support in some branches of the security establishment – such as the police – has evaporated.
Army commanders have long had good relations with Mnangagwa, a former intelligence chief and veteran Zanu-PF official who was responsible for the repression of opposition parties in successive elections between 2000 and 2008. Opposition leaders in Zimbabwe have called for the formation of an inclusive transitional government but risk being sidelined by the powerful army and Zanu-PF.
There are also concerns that the military will maintain significant influence in the future. “The ruling party have allowed the military to taste political power [and] … We have to expect some role of the armed forces to continue for some time,” said Martin Rupiya, a former Zimbabwean army general.
Knox Chitiyo, of London’s Chatham House, said it was a “momentous time”. “There is no question that there is a huge element of faction score settling in this but that has inadvertently triggered a military-guided popular revolt. The military are being held up as the liberators of the country. But it remains to be seen how long that will be the case,” Chitiyo said.

Military authorities in Zimbabwe have agreed to grant the former president Robert Mugabe immunity from prosecution and a “generous pension” and have told him his safety will be protected in his home country.
Mugabe, who ruled Zimbabwe with an iron fist for 37 years, resigned on Tuesday, hours after parliament launched proceedings to impeach him. He had refused to leave office during eight days of uncertainty that began with a military takeover. Emmerson Mnangagwa, the former vice-president sacked by Mugabe this month, is to be sworn in as president on Friday.
Mugabe held out for protection of businesses belonging to his family as he negotiated a deal that would allow him to live in Zimbabwe after his resignation. Sources close to the negotiations said the 93-year-old refused to leave Zimbabwe, saying he wanted to die there, and rejected safe passage to exile in Singapore and Malaysia, where he has been receiving medical treatment and is believed to have several properties.
“Much of the deal is around the family, his wife and kids so that they are not touched,” said one source. It is thought the immunity deal covers Mugabe’s numerous extended family, including his stepson and nephews, and may also include senior ruling party officials detained by the military or in hiding overseas. There is still much residual respect for Mugabe in Zimbabwe, and many in Harare say he should be allowed to “rest” rather than face charges or enforced exile.
However, his wife, Grace, 52, and the ministers who supported her bid for power are reviled by many. The military gave safe passage this week to Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere, leaders of the G40 faction loyal to the former first lady, officials said.
Both had sought refuge in Mugabe’s residence during the takeover and were held under house arrest there by the military during the eight-day crisis. “The delays in [Mugabe] resigning were because of the tally of all his investments, the negotiations took much longer because of the investments, so the delay was because of the vast empire which he has that had to be accounted for,” said the source. The former president is expected to receive a pension from the state after “serving for [so long]”, which would be “quite generous”.
“He insisted that he was being asked to step down when he was going to win an election next year. So he was also refusing, wanting to stand in polls next year,” the source said.
A government source confirmed to Reuters that Mugabe had told negotiators “it was very important that he be guaranteed security to stay in the country … although that will not stop him from travelling abroad when he wants to or has to”. A second source, who was not authorised to speak on the details of the negotiated settlement, said: “The outgoing president is obviously aware of the public hostility to his wife [Grace], the anger in some circles about the manner in which she conducted herself and approached Zanu-PF party politics. Zanu-PF officials told the Guardian that Mugabe and his wife would be allowed to live in peace.
Ziyambi Ziyambi, a Zanu-PF MP and former minister, said both had been guaranteed immunity from prosecution and other unspecified protections. “There has been an agreement.
They are elder statesmen and will be respected and given their dues. He was our president and he agreed to resign, so he will enjoy the benefits of being an ex-president, and his wife too.
He is our icon,” Ziyambi said. On Wednesday, Mnangagwa, 75, a liberation war veteran, said the country was witnessing a “new and unfolding democracy” as he returned to a jubilant welcome two weeks after fleeing to South Africa.
Mugabe had angered many Zimbabweans when he did not resign in a televised address on Sunday, as many had anticipated. The government source said the tipping point for him was the realisation that he would be impeached and ousted in an undignified way. “When the process started, he then realised he had lost the party,” the source said.
Mugabe will receive a retirement package that includes a pension, housing, holiday and transport allowance, health insurance, limited air travel and security. The generosity of the package is likely to anger many in Zimbabwe, where unemployment is as high as 80%, many live in deep poverty and opposition has been brutally repressed over decades.
Mugabe was “drained” by the events of the past week and may travel to Singapore for medical checks in the coming weeks, one source told Reuters. He had been due to leave for Singapore in mid-November before the military put him under house arrest.
Mugabe has always maintained that he leads a frugal life and does not possess any wealth or properties outside Zimbabwe. But last month a legal quarrel between Grace Mugabe and a Belgian-based businessman over a $1.3m (£1m) diamond ring lifted a veil on the lifestyle of his wife, nicknamed “Gucci Grace” for her reputed dedication to shopping.
The family is believed to have an extensive portfolio of luxury homes overseas. In Zimbabwe, Mugabe runs a dairy business and the family has several farms, while local and foreign media have reported that Grace has bought properties and cars worth millions of dollars in South Africa.

Robert Mugabe and his wife will receive a “golden handshake” worth many millions of dollars as part of a deal negotiated before the resignation of the ageing autocrat last week.
The exact sums to be paid to the former president and his wife Grace are still unclear, though one senior ruling party official with direct knowledge of the agreement said the total would not be less than $10m. The official said that Mugabe, who has been granted immunity from prosecution and a guarantee that no action will be taken against his family’s extensive business interests, would receive a “cash payment of $5m” immediately, with more paid in coming months. The 93-year-old’s $150,000 salary will also be paid until his death. The 52-year-old first lady, reviled for her extravagance and greed, will then receive half that amount for the rest of her life.
Mugabe’s 37-year rule left Zimbabwe with a worthless currency, massive debts, an impoverished population and an estimated unemployment rate of more than 80%. Roads are rutted, many rural communities have no electricity, education is basic and healthcare almost non-existent.
A life expectancy of 60 is one of the lowest in the world. The first couple will be able to remain in their sprawling mansion known as the Blue Roof, in Harare. The state will pay for their medical care, domestic staff, security and foreign travel. A second official defended the agreement, made early last week after protracted negotiations between senior politicians close to the new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, and representatives of Mugabe. Mnangagwa was sworn in on Friday in a colourful ceremony before tens of thousands of people in Harare’s main stadium.
The 75-year-old stalwart of the ruling Zanu-PF party promised a new era for his country, and said that he would govern for “all Zimbabweans”. Opposition politicians have criticised the agreement with the former president.
“We are not privy to any deal reached with Mugabe, and if there is any deal on money or anything else it is unconstitutional,” said Douglas Mwonzora, secretary general of the Movement for Democratic Change, the main opposition party. Themba Mliswa, an independent MP, said “there was no country which would like to see a former president in a state of poverty”, but that leaders must understand they were accountable. “There must be a good precedent.
You can’t see a president come in looking to loot and plunder and thinking he will be allowed to keep it,” Mliswa said. Grace Mugabe was called “Gucci Grace” in Zimbabwe for her lavish spending. The former secretary, who married the president in 1996, recently bought millions of dollars worth of property and luxury cars in South Africa.
Her eldest son, 25-year-old Bellarmine Chatunga, recently enraged Zimbabweans by posting a clip on social media taken in a well-known Johannesburg nightclub showing him pouring a £200 bottle of champagne over a £45,000 watch on a night out in South Africa, boasting that “daddy runs the whole country”. The deal also extends to the Mugabes’ wide business interests, which include a series of dairy farms, and those of his extended family.
“None of this will be [seized] or in any way molested,” said the official involved in the negotiations. The difficulties of drawing up a list of the many assets to be covered by the agreement contributed to the delay in Mugabe’s resignation, which had been widely expected as early as last Sunday, he said. Grace Mugabe’s oldest son, Russell Goreraza, 33, from her first marriage, is reported to have a substantial stake in Zimbabwe’s lucrative mining industry. He imported two Rolls-Royce limousines in September. One relative of Mugabe confirmed on Saturday that he was “covered” by the deal and that he would not be leaving Zimbabwe.
“I was worried about what the changes would mean for me personally … but I am now reassured that I can live on in my country,” said the relative, who lives in Harare and has a large farm in western Zimbabwe. Mnangagwa, who was a loyal aide of Robert Mugabe for decades, has urged the country’s citizens not to undertake any form of “vengeful retribution” and in his inaugural speech praised the “immense contribution” made by the former president. Though there is still much residual respect for Mugabe, based on his record as a leader in Zimbabwe’s wars of liberation in the 1960s and 1970s, there is little affection for his wife. It was her bid to succeed her husband that triggered the events leading to his overthrow. The first lady and prominent members of her G40 faction engineered the firing of Mnangagwa as vice-president. The army then took over to allow the former spy chief to return to Zimbabwe to take power.
Those not covered by the deal with the Mugabes may face harsh punishment for picking the wrong side. The former finance minister Ignatius Chombo who was among those detained by the military when it seized power, appeared in court on Saturday to face corruption charges. Chombo’s lawyer, Lovemore Madhuku, had said that his client was admitted to hospital on Friday with injuries sustained from beatings he received while in military custody. Chombo is accused of having stolen $3.6m. An early indication of Mnangagwa’s style of government will come with his selection of a new cabinet, possibly as early as Sunday.
There are widespread hopes – not least among western diplomats – that officials from the MDC and other opposition parties will be included in the new government. Mnangagwa has also pledged to respect the constitution and hold elections by next August. “The people’s voice will be heard,” he told the jubilant crowd of tens of thousands who packed the Harare stadium.

Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe, his wife Grace and two key figures from her G40 political faction are under house arrest at Mugabe's "Blue House" compound in Harare and are insisting the 93 year-old finishes his presidential term, a source said. The G40 figures are cabinet ministers Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere, who fled to the compound after their homes were attacked by troops in Tuesday night's coup, the source, who said he had spoken to people inside the compound, told Reuters.
Mr Mugabe is resisting mediation by a Catholic priest to allow the former guerrilla a graceful exit after the military takeover. The priest, Fidelis Mukonori, is acting as a middle-man between Mr Mugabe and the generals, who seized power in a targeted operation against "criminals" in his entourage, a senior political source told Reuters. The source could not provide details of the talks, which appear to be aimed at a smooth and bloodless transition after the departure of Mr Mugabe, who has led Zimbabwe since independence in 1980. Mr Mugabe, still seen by many Africans as a liberation hero, is reviled in the West as a despot whose disastrous handling of the economy and willingness to resort to violence to maintain power destroyed one of Africa's most promising states.

Zimbabwe's military appealed for calm on Monday as MPs prepared to to impeach Robert Mugabe as a "source of instability" amid mounting public outrage at his refusal to step down as the country's president on Sunday. In a public address on Monday evening, the military, which launched a soft coup against Mr Mugabe last week, said it had agreed on a "road map" out of the deadlock and that a former vice president whose sacking triggered the crisis would return to the country shortly.
Emmerson Mnangagwa, who fled the country after Mr Mugabe was fired him as vice president earlier this month, has not been seen since the coup began. The military is widely assumed to be seeking to install him as president.

It had been seen by many as an attempt to clear the way for Grace Mugabe to succeed her husband as leader and riled the military leadership, who stepped in and put Mr Mugabe under house arrest.

The military has taken control in Zimbabwe but said President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980, was safe. After seizing state TV, an army spokesman announced it was targeting people close to Mr Mugabe.
South Africa's President Jacob Zuma later said he had spoken to Mr Mugabe who had indicated that he "was confined to his home but said that he was fine". The move may be a bid to replace Mr Mugabe with his sacked deputy, Emmerson Mnangagwa, BBC correspondents say. The dismissal of Mr Mnangagwa last week had left Mr Mugabe's wife Grace as the president's likely successor.
Heavy gun and artillery fire could be heard in northern parts of the capital Harare early on Wednesday. A statement read out by a general on air denied it was a coup.
There was no immediate word from the president himself. Mr Mugabe, 93, has dominated the impoverished country's political scene since independence from the UK.
Mr Zuma earlier said he hoped events in Zimbabwe would not lead to "unconstitutional changes of government". Messages appeared on a Twitter account purportedly run by the ruling Zanu-PF party saying Mr Mugabe had been detained.
But there has been no confirmation by the army and it is not clear who runs the account. The UK Foreign Office advised Britons "currently in Harare to remain safely at home or in their accommodation until the situation becomes clearer", while the US embassy in Harare advised US citizens in Zimbabwe to "shelter in place" until further notice.
China, Zimbabwe's biggest trading partner, says it is closely watching the situation and hopes that the relevant parties can properly handle their internal affairs. Troops in armoured vehicles have been out in the streets of the capital Harare since Tuesday.
After soldiers overran the headquarters of the ZBC broadcaster, Maj Gen Sibusiso Moyo went on air to say the military wished to "assure the nation that his Excellency the president... and his family are safe and sound and their security is guaranteed". "We are only targeting criminals around him who are committing crimes... that are causing social and economic suffering in the country," he said. It is not clear who is leading the military action. Army chief Gen Constantino Chiwenga, who visited China last week, said on Monday the army was prepared to act to end purges within Zanu-PF.
This is all about the leadership succession, as Mr Mugabe's powers finally falter. The people who fought in the 1970s guerrilla war against white minority rule still dominate Zimbabwe's government and especially its security forces, and they are worried about losing that power and the wealth it generates. In his statement on Monday, Gen Chiwenga warned against the "purging, which is clearly targeting members of the party with a liberation background". This was obviously a reference to the sacking last week of Mr Mugabe's once loyal deputy, Mr Mnangagwa, a former defence minister, spy chief and veteran of the war of independence.
He and Grace Mugabe, who is four decades younger than her husband, had been seen as the main candidates to succeed Mr Mugabe. Mrs Mugabe's supporters are known as Generation 40 or G40 - a name which signals a changing of the guard in Zimbabwe, at least partially, 37 years after independence.
So this military action is the old guard reasserting its authority. Mr Mugabe was the political leader of the guerrilla war so the army always professed loyalty to him until he explicitly came out in favour of his wife.
The firing was coming from northern suburbs where Mr Mugabe and a number of government officials live, the BBC's Shingai Nyoka reports from Harare. Some staff at ZBC were manhandled when the soldiers moved in, sources told Reuters. A government source told Reuters news agency that Finance Minister Ignatius Chombo had been detained.
He is a leading member of a faction of Zanu-PF led by Grace Mugabe. Alex Magaisa, former adviser to Zimbabwean opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, told the BBC: "They have decided not to call it a coup because they know that a coup does not sell, it will be condemned.
Zanu-PF had accused Gen Chiwenga of "treasonable conduct" after he issued his warning that the army might intervene. Last month, Mrs Mugabe accused allies of Mr Mnangagwa of planning a coup.
The rivalry between Mrs Mugabe and Mr Mnangagwa split Zanu-PF. Gen Chiwenga is a close ally of Mr Mnangagwa and both are veterans of the 1970s war which ended white minority rule. The leader of the war veterans, Chris Mutsvangwa, welcomed the military move, telling Reuters: "This is a correction of a state that was careening off the cliff.

Social media users have been trying to make up for the lack of news by posting their own observations and pictures of street scenes in the capital Harare, including some of troops and police being made to sit in a line outside parliament and people going about their daily lives.

Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe has been holding direct talks with the army over his future. Pictures emerged of the 93-year-old meeting the army chief and two envoys from South Africa at his official residence in Harare. The army put Mr Mugabe under house arrest on Wednesday after moving in to take control.
Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai says Mr Mugabe must resign but sources suggest the president is resistant. The crisis stems from a power struggle in recent months over who might succeed him - his wife Grace Mugabe or former Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Last week, Mr Mugabe came down in favour of his wife, sacking Mr Mnangagwa and provoking the ire of the army chiefs. It's very unclear.
Photos in the Zimbabwe Herald showed Mr Mugabe meeting army chief Gen Constantino Chiwenga and the two South African envoys from the Southern African Development Community (Sadc) at State House in Harare. Alongside them was Father Fidelis Mukonori, a Roman Catholic priest known to Mr Mugabe for years, who has been brought in to mediate.
Sources close to the talks say Mr Mugabe - who has been in control of Zimbabwe since it threw off white minority rule in 1980 - is refusing to stand down voluntarily before next year's planned elections. "He is refusing to step down. I think he is trying to buy time," one source close to the army leadership told the AFP news agency.
Zanu-PF officials had earlier suggested Mr Mugabe could remain nominally in power until the party congress in December, when Mr Mnangagwa would be formally installed as party and national leader. Many Zimbabweans almost instantly warmed to the military's move to take control of the country, and confine President Mugabe to his official residence.
He is firmly convinced that Mr Mugabe's 37-year rule is coming to an end. There has been a sudden change of tone in the country, and the sense is that many Zimbabweans have been yearning for change.
Any change, it seems, would do. South Africa is hosting millions of Zimbabweans who fled after the country's economy crashed in 2008.
It has a special interest in seeing stability restored. South African Defence Minister Nosiviwe Maphisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo are the envoys meeting Mr Mugabe on behalf of Sadc, which South Africa currently leads. They will be pushing for a democratic solution.
The body, which represents 16 countries, does not support coup-led governments as this would set a dangerous precedent in the largely peaceful region, says the BBC's Pumza Fihlani in Johannesburg. The head of the African Union (AU), Guinean President Alpha Condé, was clear the AU would "in no case accept" a military seizure of power.
He said he was "inviting the army to return to its barracks and return to constitutional order". Mr Tsvangirai, who has been abroad receiving treatment for cancer, also called for a "negotiated all-inclusive transitional mechanism" that would lead to "comprehensive reforms for free and fair elections to be held". This has been echoed by another Zimbabwean opposition leader, Tendai Biti, who also spoke of the need for a "transitional period".
Early reports suggested Mrs Mugabe had fled to Namibia, but sources now say she is in the family compound along with senior figures from the "Generation-40" group that backs her - cabinet ministers Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere. On Wednesday, one of her key allies, Zanu-PF youth wing leader Kudzai Chipanga, made a televised apology for criticising the head of the army as a war of words raged prior to the military takeover. Mr Chipanga is thought to be in army custody but insisted his statement was voluntary.
Local media reports say a number of other senior members of the "Generation-40" group have also been detained. In the early hours of Wednesday, Zimbabwe's military took over the headquarters of national broadcaster ZBC and issued a statement saying they were targeting "criminals" around President Mugabe.
Troops and armoured vehicles encircled parliament and other key buildings throughout the day. On Monday, Gen Chiwenga had warned the army would intervene to end what he called the "purging" of Zanu-PF members "with a liberation background", referring to the country's struggle for independence.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Negotiations are going on behind the scenes to persuade President Mugabe to step down. It is understood that he has insisted that he cannot do so and legitimise a coup.

"The main charge is that he has allowed his wife to usurp constitutional power when she has no right to run government. But she is insulting civil servants, the vice president, at public rallies. They are denigrating the army - those are the charges," Paul Mangwana said, emerging from a party meeting.

These are, of course, unpredictable times for Zimbabwe and yet there is a chance that the army's extraordinary overnight gamble will pay off, and that President Robert Mugabe, humiliated and powerless, will nonetheless be allowed to retire with at least the pretence of dignity.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

"Whatever the pros and cons of how they [the army] went about their operation, I, as commander-in-chief, do acknowledge their concerns," he said, in reference to the army's move last week to take over the state broadcaster.

Beijing has said speculation it had a hand in efforts to dethrone Robert Mugabe is an “evil” plot designed to sully its reputation and derail China-Africa relations.
A recent visit to Beijing by one of the architects of last week’s slow-burn coup has stoked suspicions China played some role in attempts to oust its longtime ally. Experts say Mugabe had fallen from favour with China’s Communist party leaders in recent years, with Beijing particularly alarmed at the prospect of his wife, Grace Mugabe, succeeding him.
However, China issued a forceful denial of any connection to the unfolding political crisis on Monday, calling such speculation “complete nonsense, and purely fictitious”. Such allegations were “illogical, inconsistent and filled with evil motives”.
China claimed Mugabe himself had approved a trip to Beijing by Gen Constantino Chiwenga, the head of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) and one of those behind last week’s intervention. Timeline Zimbabwe timeline: the week that led to Mugabe's detention Show 6 November 2017 Mugabe fires vice president Robert Mugabe fires his powerful vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, clearing the way for his wife, Grace, to succeed him as leader of Zimbabwe.
Grace had accused 75-year-old Mnangagwa, a former intelligence chief, of being the “root cause of factionalism” in the ruling Zanu-PF party. 8 November 2017 Mnangagwa defiant Mnangagwa reportedly flees to South Africa, but vows to return to Zimbabwe to lead party members.
The party "is not personal property for you and your wife to do as you please," Mnangagwa tells Mugabe in an angry five-page statement. 13 November 2017 Army chief issues warning Zimbabwe’s army chief demands a halt to the purge in Zanu-PF, and warns that the military could intervene. “We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, the military will not hesitate to step in,” General Constantino Chiwenga told a media conference attended by about 90 senior army officers.
14 November 2017 Army denies coup A convoy of tanks is seen moving on the outskirts of the Zimbabwean capital but the military denies a coup. In an overnight declaration on state television, they say Mugabe is safe and they are "only targeting criminals around him".
15 November 2017 Mugabe detained Military vehicles take control of the streets of Harare in the early hours. South Africa says Mugabe has told its president, Jacob Zuma, by telephone that he is under house arrest but is "fine".
Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.
Observers believe Chiwenga’s pre-coup call on Beijing suggests some level of Chinese involvement or support for Mugabe’s removal. “It certainly is eye-popping,” Cobus van Staden, a South African academic and journalist who specialises in China-Africa relations, said last week.
However, Ross Anthony, the director of the Centre for Chinese Studies at South Africa’s Stellenbosch University, said he doubted Beijing had played an active role. “I’m sure this [coup] was being brought up [during Chiwenga’s visit] – but that’s not to say China had any part in it.
Judging from China’s previous dealings with regime changes in Africa – especially in places where they have got big investments – as far as I can tell they’re not in the business of actively promoting coups,” he said. As evidence, Anthony pointed to China’s recent dealings with Libya – where he said it had focused on securing its economic interests after Muammar Gaddafi’s 2011 fall – and Sudan, where Chinese diplomats had played “quite a constructive role” in mediating peace talks that preceded the 2011 referendum leading to the creation of South Sudan. Still, the fact that Beijing appeared to have been tipped off about the coup in Zimbabwe underlined China’s growing importance on the world stage.
“The fact that they go to China now is significant ... China is now a global power which has to be consulted,” Anthony added.

The Zimbabwe Republic Police’s Support Unit, colloquially known as the “black boots” is reported to have attempted to arrest Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) Commander General Constantino Chiwenga when he returned from China on Sunday. The attempted arrest took place at the Robert Mugabe International Airport and is reported to have triggered the military’s seizure of power. According to weekly publication, The Independent, the team from the Support Unit was disarmed and defeated by soldiers who had been deployed to safeguard Chiwenga, as Military Intelligence was aware of the plot.

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content HARARE, Zimbabwe — The Latest on the military takeover in Zimbabwe (all times local): 10:45 p.m. Zimbabwe’s state broadcaster has interrupted its programming to air an apology by the ruling party’s youth leader to army commanders for “denigrating” them.
Kudzanai Chipanga says the statement he made earlier this week attacking the military did not originate with him. He also said he was making his public apology without coercion.
Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS Enjoy the latest local, national and international news.
Exclusive articles by Conrad Black, Barbara Kay, Rex Murphy and others. Plus, special edition NP Platformed and First Reading newsletters and virtual events.
Unlimited online access to National Post and 15 news sites with one account. National Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles including the New York Times Crossword.
Unlimited online access to National Post and 15 news sites with one account. National Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles including the New York Times Crossword.
Support local journalism. REGISTER FOR MORE ARTICLES Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience. Access articles from across Canada with one account.
Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments. Enjoy additional articles per month.
Advertisement 3 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Haq wouldn’t speculate on what’s going to happen in Zimbabwe, saying “at this stage there’s a bit of confusion on the ground.” Haq added that “we are aware that our colleagues in Harare have been able to go about their work.” —— 9:35 p.m.
The chairman of the African Union Commission has told reporters in Washington that Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe and his wife are “safe in the country.” The comments by Moussa Faki Mahamat at the National Press Club were shared on Twitter by a spokeswoman for the continental body. There had been questions over whether first lady Grace Mugabe had left Zimbabwe.
The AU leader also says a delegation from the 15-nation Southern African Development Community is already in Zimbabwe’s capital, Harare, as authorities seek to meet with Mugabe and the army. The AU chair also says the continental body is against “any unlawful takeover of power anywhere on the continent.” —— 9:15 p.m.
The chairman of the African Union Commission says the crisis in Zimbabwe must be resolved “in a manner that promotes democracy and human rights.” Moussa Faki Mahamat in a statement Wednesday says the continental body aligns itself with the statement made by South African President Jacob Zuma on behalf of the 15-country southern African regional bloc.
Advertisement 4 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Advertisement 5 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content Tendai Biti spoke to South African broadcaster eNCA as the 93-year-old Mugabe was said to be in army custody after an unprecedented public rift with the military. Zimbabweans are hoping that whatever happens next will occur without bloodshed. Biti says that Mugabe is a “very intelligent man who must know the die is cast.”
—— 1:45 p.m. South Africa’s president says he hopes Zimbabwe’s military will respect the constitution “so the situation will not go beyond the situation where it is now.” President Jacob Zuma addressed the nation on television not long after speaking with Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe. Zuma said Mugabe is “fine” but confined to his home after the army appeared to take control.
Zuma says he hopes the situation in the neighbouring country “is going to be controlled.” His office has said he is sending his defence and security ministers to meet with Mugabe and Zimbabwe’s army.
—— 1:10 p.m. The head of Zimbabwe’s influential war veterans association says they stand with the army and that President Robert Mugabe should be recalled as president and ruling party leader.
Advertisement 6 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Advertisement 7 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content Zuma urged all members of the Zimbabwe government and the military to “resolve the political impasse amicably.” The South African president said southern Africa’s regional body will “closely monitor the situation and remains ready to assist where necessary.”
—— 9:25 a.m. In the wake of the military takeover in Zimbabwe, the national police force has recalled all officers on leave.
A top police official who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the press told The Associated Press that all police on leave have been ordered to return to their posts immediately. —— 8:30 a.m.
Zimbabwe’s army said Wednesday it has President Robert Mugabe and his wife in custody and is securing government offices and patrolling the capital’s streets following a night of unrest that included a military takeover of the state broadcaster. The night’s action triggered speculation of a coup, but the military’s supporters praised it as a “bloodless correction.”
Overnight three explosions were heard in the capital, Harare, and military vehicles were seen in the streets. The military actions appear to put the army in control of the country. —— AP journalist Farai Mutsaka in Harare, contributed to this report. Read Next Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Zimbabwe’s ruling party expects to start impeachment proceedings against longtime President Robert Mugabe in parliament Tuesday, after he failed to meet a deadline set by the party for him to step down.
Mugabe has clung to the presidency amid increasing pressure from party leaders, much of the public and the military, which took control of the country last week and arrested most of his allies. Party officials wanted him to resign by noon Monday.
For the record: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Levi Nyagura is vice chancellor of the University of Harare. He is vice chancellor at the University of Zimbabwe.
The president has been stripped of executive power and confined to his house. The generals who took control hoped that by offering Mugabe safety for his family and a dignified exit, he would step down once it became clear he lacked the support to remain as leader, but he has rebuffed the offer.
The ZANU-PF party will move for impeachment on grounds of misconduct and failure to uphold the constitution. A draft of the motion claims Mugabe, who has been president for 37 years, abused his constitutional mandate to favor his wife, Grace, who is deeply unpopular.
Of ZANU-PF’s 250 lawmakers, all but 20 at a caucus meeting Monday endorsed the impeachment motion, according to party Chairman Simon Khaya-Moyo. The party dismissed Mugabe as its leader and voted in Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month. Mugabe, 93, was widely expected to announce his resignation during his television address to the nation Sunday night.
Instead, he said he expected to preside over a party congress next month. Instead, he said he expected to preside over a party congress next month.
A simple majority of a joint sitting of both houses of parliament is needed to begin impeachment proceedings. This is followed by a parliamentary investigation and finally an impeachment vote, which requires a two-thirds majority of a joint sitting of both houses.
Zimbabwe’s military command wants to maintain a veneer of legitimacy, insisting its intervention is legal and does not breach the constitution. But it also wants a swift, clean exit, which Mugabe is resisting.
ZANU-PF believes opposition lawmakers will support an impeachment motion, guaranteeing its passage. If successful, the motion would enable Zimbabwe’s military to reinforce its claim that the president’s removal did not breach the constitution. There are three grounds for impeachment: serious misconduct; violation of the constitution or a failure to uphold it; or inability to do the job because of physical or mental incapacity.
During impeachment proceedings, Mugabe must be given an opportunity to respond to accusations against him, posing the risk he could try to drag out proceedings or air embarrassing allegations about ZANU-PF and military figures. However, ZANU-PF is expected to try to rush the motion through the parliament in a bid to oust him swiftly.
Mugabe appears determined to refuse to do anything that would legitimize the military’s attempts to remove him. By refusing to cooperate, Mugabe risks angering the military, which may act against his wife and launch proceedings to confiscate the family’s wealth. “We will not leave parliament tomorrow until the impeachment process is completed!”
one ZANU-PF lawmaker, Terence Mukupe, a former investment banker, tweeted. Chris Mutsvangwa, leader of the Zimbabwe war veterans association, called for Mugabe to leave power immediately. He called on Zimbabweans to stage a mass march Tuesday to Mugabe’s residence to increase the pressure on him to go.
ZANU-PF deputy legal secretary Paul Mangwana said Monday the government needed the support of 73 opposition members of parliament for the impeachment motion to succeed. He suggested the impeachment vote could take place Wednesday.
London-based analyst Alex T. Magaisa said the process was not as straightforward as some assumed. Magaisa said officials had a duty to protect the president’s rights or it would set a dangerous precedent.
“As experiences elsewhere demonstrate, impeachment proceedings are not a simple one-day or one-week affair. Should the president’s constitutional rights and principles of natural justice be flouted, he may well challenge the process in a court of law,” Magaisa said.
Although Mnangagwa was voted in as party leader, he has no government position after Mugabe sacked him as vice president. The remaining vice president, a close ally of Mugabe, Phelekezela Mphoko, is out of the country. Under the constitution, if Mugabe were to stand down or be impeached, Mphoko would take over as acting president, but this would likely be unacceptable to the Mnangagwa faction, which has seized control of ZANU-PF. Mnangagwa’s supporters appear to be casting around for means to reverse Mnangagwa’s dismissal by Mugabe so that he can take the reins of government rather than Mphoko. The war veterans association, closely allied to Mnangagwa, said Monday that Mugabe’s dismissal of Mnangagwa was illegal because the vice president never received a formal dismissal notice.
Mutsvangwa, of the war veterans association, said that under Mugabe the intelligence service and police had fallen prey to interference by a ruling party faction, known as G40, that is close to the president’s wife. Several members of G40, including Higher Education Minister Jonathan Moyo, political commissar Saviour Kasukuwere and Finance Minister Ignatius Chombo, have been arrested. There was no word on whether they have been charged.
Chombo owns more than 100 properties and 15 cars, according to a divorce claim filed in court filed by his estranged wife and reported in the state-owned Herald newspaper. Students at the University of Zimbabwe on Monday staged a protest calling for Vice Chancellor Levi Nyagura to step down, after he awarded a philosophy doctorate to Grace Mugabe in 2014.

Scenes from Parliament of Zimbabwe during President Mugabe's impeachment process. . . The revolutionary leader later resigned amid impeachment.
17:46 – Hon Bonyongwe and Hon Chinamasa are back to the Speaker of Parliament and can be heard talking of terminating the debate. Debate has briefly stopped here as and the Speaker announces that debate has been terminated. The house erupts in cheers and the speaker struggles to contain the gallery.
Parliament this afternoon sits to start the process of impeaching President Mugabe. Zimpapers Online gives you updates of this historic event.
14:30 – The Speaker of the National Assembly Advocate Jacob Mudenda has acknowledged to the House receipt of the motion to impeach President Mugabe and he says the motion is admissible in terms of the rules of Parliament. 14:35– The motion was moved by Senator Monica Mutsvangwa and seconded by Mabvuku/Tafara legislator James Maridadi.
14:40– Advocate Mudenda is now outlining the procedures to be followed and outlining what the Constitution provides in moving such a motion which he described as historic since independence. 14:42–
The National chamber is packed beyond its capacity which has resulted in some of the legislators to sit in the public gallery. 14:47- Advocate Mudenda said after consultation with the president of the Senate they have agreed to convene the joint sitting of both houses at the Harare International Conference Center at 16:30 hours today. 14:48 -He has appealed for tolerance, patience and maintaining dignity during the process.
14:56-The House is now adjourning and will resume at 16:30 hours at the HICC. 16:47 – Minister of Justice, Honourable Happyton Bonyongwe kneels near the Speaker of Parliament and legislators across the house shout, “Ibva apo mutengesi!
(Go away sellout!). 16:00 – Moving the motion, Senetor Mutsvangwa says President Mugabe is old and he needs to be hand held. As such, he is no longer fit for office. 17:00 – President Mugabe, according to Senetor Mutsvangwa, has not taken any meaningful steps to stem endemic corruption which has become the country’s number one enemy as evidenced in the ZESA case where his cabinet minister (Dr Samuel Undenge) approved the transfer of US$5 million without following provisions laid down in the Public Finance Management Act.
She also cites the ZIMDEF case involving Higher and Tertiary Education Minister Professor Jonathan Moyo. 17:08 – Senator Monica Mutsvangwa moves the motion to impeach Pres Mugabe and Hon James Maridadi seconds.
17:09 – Senator Mutsvangwa introduces the motion and says among other reasons for impeaching President Mugabe is serious misconduct. 17:11 – The President has abrogated his constitutional mandate to his wife who makes public utterances on issues of government like the appointing and dismissal of Government Ministers and senior civil servants.
(d) Inability to perform the functions of the office because of physical or mental incapacity. “Itai Dzamara disappeared for calling on President Mugabe to step down and Masuku died after he was incarcerated despite the fact the court had not found him guilty.
17:18– Hon Maridadi says President Mugabe presided over a non functioning health system and unemployment. As such, he has to go and go now.
17:19 – Hon Maridadi chides Zanu PF members, who include the Speaker of Parliament saying, “Imbwa hadzisvinure musi umwechete.” He says the very motion was dismissed and described as frivolous before.
He says for the past 17 years, MDC T has been arguing that President Mugabe is not fit for office but as late as last week, Zanu PF was endorsing him as their 2018 candidate. 17:24 – Hon Mandipaka thanks Commander of the Defence Forces General Constantino Guvheya Chiwenga for moving in very swiftly adding that Zanu PF cleanses itself when there is a threat in the house, to which opposition Members of Parliament grumble and tell him to go away.
17:26 – Sen Chipanga moves to debate the motion and he supports it saying President Mugabe has let the nation down by failing to act on cases of corruption, citing the case where Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko caused the release of suspects from police stations.
17:28 – Hon Jessie Majome is now debating the motion and says it’s needless to say she is in supports of it.
17:35 – Hon Majome has applauded members of the august House for putting aside their political differences to guard the constitution against President Mugabe due to dereliction of duty. Among reasons for supporting the motion, Hon Majome says President Mugabe has made Zimbabwe a laughing stock because he sleeps even at high level functions, under development, unemployment and also threatening the rule of law.
17:38 -Its now Hon Priscilla Misihairabwi move in support of the motion and says President Mugabe murdered more than 20 000 people from the year 1983 throughout the period of Gukurahundi period. “President Robert Mugabe is the man who presided over the killings of opposition supporters,” says Hon Misihairabwi.
17:46 – Hon Bonyongwe and Hon Chinamasa are back to the Speaker of Parliament and can be heard talking of terminating the debate. The house erupts in cheers and the speaker struggles to contain the gallery. 17:04 – Jubilant Zanu PF supporters sing Good bye Gushungo, endai munozorora . . . 17:10 – Multitudes of people immediately flood the streets of all cities and towns across the country.

President Mugabe’s sudden resignation on Tuesday afternoon left the country with no one to exercise the functions of President.
Both Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President, and Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe, were outside the country. Yesterday the Speaker was formally notified that ZANU-PF had nominated Mr Mnangagwa as the new President, and he arrived back in Zimbabwe in the evening. He is due to be sworn in tomorrow.
As we shall point out, these questions are not entirely academic. Well, yes and no.
Following constitutional procedures, the last President’s party let the Speaker know they had nominated Mr Mnangagwa to replace Mr Mugabe. The Speaker announced he would be sworn in on Friday 24th – arrangements to be announced.
Between now and Friday, according to the Constitution, Mr Mphoko is currently the acting President, and will remain such until Mr Mnangagwa is sworn in as President. When Mr Mugabe resigned Mr Mphoko was the sole Vice-President. He therefore assumed office as acting President in terms of paragraph 14(4)(a) of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution.
He did not need to be sworn in, and the fact that he was outside the country at the time is of no legal consequence. Mr Mphoko continues to act as President until ZANU-PF’s nominee takes the presidential oath of office, which he is scheduled to do tomorrow.
In our Constitution Watch 9/2017 of 20th November we said Mr Mphoko’s term would end when ZANU-PF notified the Speaker of its nominee for President, but this was on the assumption that the swearing-in would follow immediately after the notification. In fact there will be a two-day interval. A President only assumes office when he or she is sworn in, and the previous President or (in this case) acting President remains in office until the swearing-in
[this is the effect of sections 94(1) & (2) and 337 of the Constitution]. So in the interval, legally we do have a President, albeit an acting one.
It is Mr Mphoko. He will continue to hold office, phantom-like, until Mr Mnangagwa is sworn in.
The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe did not go out of office when he resigned. They kept their portfolios under Mr Mphoko as acting President but will go out of office under section 108(1)(c) of the Constitution when Mr Mnangagwa is sworn in tomorrow.
So all Mr Mugabe’s Ministers are still in office, even those who are in detention or outside the country. Unless the acting President dismisses them they remain Ministers. Anything lawfully done by the Ministers in their official capacities between the 15th November, when the Defence Forces took control of the government, and tomorrow when Mr Mnangagwa is sworn in as President, is legally valid.
Anything lawfully done by civil servants on behalf of their Ministers is legally valid even if the Ministers were in detention or outside the country. This is so because the law recognises that civil servants can exercise delegated functions under a general authority from their Ministers.
All Ministers will cease to hold office as soon as Mr Mnangagwa is sworn in. They will not be able to exercise ministerial functions after that unless Mr Mnangagwa reappoints them as Ministers.
Nor will their civil servants. For this reason Mr Mnangagwa should appoint a new Cabinet without delay – which, with his reputation for administrative efficiency, he will probably do. As we have indicated above, some Ministers – at least two ‒ are in detention, reportedly on account of crimes they are alleged to have committed.
Everyone who has been arrested and detained for a crime, whatever its nature, must be brought before a court as soon as possible and in any event within 48 hours . This is required by section 50(2) of the Constitution. We urge the authorities to accord the detained Ministers their fundamental constitutional rights, rights upon which Zimbabwe itself is founded by virtue of section 3 of the Constitution.

A visit by Zimbabwean army commander Constantino Chiwenga to China would not normally be seen as unusual, given Beijing’s status as Zimbabwe’s largest foreign investor and longtime ally. But days after Chiwenga returned from a recent trip to meet senior Chinese military leaders, Harare was plunged into political chaos as the Zimbabwean military – led by Chiwenga – seized control and placed President Robert Mugabe under house arrest.
In that context, Chiwenga’s visit to China has come under scrutiny, with speculation that he had sought Beijing’s tacit approval for a possible move against Mugabe. China’s involvement in Zimbabwe stretches back to the 1970s, when Beijing covertly supplied ammunition and financing to Mugabe’s guerrilla forces during the country’s war of independence. In the intervening years, China has continued to provide financial and political support to the African nation, investing extensively across a range of sectors and helping to develop key infrastructure projects. “Since Mugabe took power he has been consistently supported by the Chinese government. China has become the second largest trading partner with Zimbabwe and has invested very largely in the country,” said Wang Xinsong, associate professor at Beijing Normal University School of Social Development and Public Policy. China would be very reluctant to see Zimbabwe fall into a period of social instability and political turmoil, he added.
He also met with Chinese Defense Minister Gen. Chang Wanquan on November 10 in Beijing. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a press briefing on Thursday the visit was just a “normal military-to-military exchange” which had been planned in advance. “Since the defense ministry hosted him, I don’t have other details,” he said.
Zimbabwe’s recently deposed Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was fired on November 7 by Mugabe in a move that likely triggered this week’s apparent coup, was among the first Zimbabwean Zanu Party guerilla fighters to travel to China for military training. More recently, China has helped finance and construct Zimbabwe’s first highly specialized professional military college, Harare’s National Defense College.
But it is 93-year-old Mugabe, now under house arrest, who has benefited most from China’s unwavering support. As Mugabe’s relationship with the West began to deteriorate into the later part of the 1990s, he increasingly looked to his old ally China for economic and political assistance.
In 2015 alone, Chinese investment topped $450 million, accounting for more than half of all foreign investment into Zimbabwe. “China is very loyal in this kind of way, they tend to stand by these long-time allies and every time someone like Mugabe would go to Beijing they’d roll out the red carpet,” said Van Staden.
But writing in the influential state media tabloid Global Times on Friday, Wang Hongyi, an associate research fellow at the Institute of West-Asian and African Studies, said concerns had begun to grow over the long-term safety of Beijing’s investment in its African partner. In the opinion piece, Wang said a change of government could be beneficial to China Zimbabwe relations. “Friendly ties will embrace new development opportunities,” he said.
Official Chinese channels are being more circumspect though, not picking one side over the other. In a statement released after the apparent coup was under way, a Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman said China was “playing close attention” to the situation.
“We sincerely hope that the situation will remain stable in Zimbabwe and relevant affairs can be handled in a peaceful and proper way,” the statement read. On Wednesday, an editorial published in the Global Times said no matter what, the Chinese government was unlikely to back down on its close relationship with Zimbabwe.
“China has played a positive and constructive role in Africa. The long-term friendship between China and Zimbabwe will transcend the internal disturbances in Zimbabwe,” the editorial said.

