The head of the African Union has said the takeover of Zimbabwe by the country's military "seems like a coup".
The army chiefs who the takeover of Zimbabwe by the country's military Zimbabwe, including the presidential palace and the state broadcaster early on Wednesday, claimed The army chiefs who seized the capital, including the presidential palace and the state broadcaster early on Wednesday had not carried out a coup. President Robert Mugabe is believed to be under house arrest despite an army claim that President Robert Mugabe was "safe".
army said army took President Robert Mugabe and President Robert Mugabe's wife Grace into custody but there are unconfirmed and disputed reports that his wife Grace has fled the country's and may be in Namibia. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres appealed for calm, non-violence and restraint after gunfire and explosions were heard near President Robert Mugabe's compound. Armoured vehicles blocked roads to the main government offices, parliament and the courts in central Harare, and army said the takeover of Zimbabwe by the country's military was aimed at targeting "criminals".
the African Union leader Alpha Conde, who is also Guinea's president, said the African Union condemned the actions of military chiefs in the southern African country, adding that military chiefs in the southern African country were "clearly soldiers trying to take power by force". "the African Union expresses the African Union's serious concern regarding the situation unfolding in Zimbabwe," African Union leader Alpha Conde, who is also Guinea's president said, before demanding "constitutional order... be restored immediately" as African Union leader Alpha Conde, who is also Guinea's president called "on all stakeholders to show responsibility and restraint". South African President Jacob Zuma said South African President Jacob Zuma had spoken to President Robert Mugabe over the phone, adding that President Robert Mugabe "is fine but confined in President Robert Mugabe's home".
South African President Jacob Zuma has also sent an envoy to speak to Zimbabwean army chiefs. Blasts could be heard in Zimbabwe as army took control of a paramilitary police armoury and government offices. The political crisis was sparked by President Robert Mugabe's sacking of vice president - and likely successor - Emmerson Mnangagwa last week.
The 75-year-old former intelligence chief, whose ousting appeared to clear the way for his wife Grace to succeed his wife Grace's husband, was accused of plotting against the country's. Following vice president - and likely successor - Emmerson Mnangagwa's dismissal, vice president - and likely successor - Emmerson Mnangagwa fled to the southern African country and called on members of ruling party ZANU-PF to desert President Robert Mugabe.
Sky Foreign Affairs Editor Sam Kiley said there was an expectation that President Robert Mugabe would give a televised address to the country's. "The Zimbabweans are talking about a possible deal, possibly by Friday... there is a sense that President Robert Mugabe might be prepared to either hand over or endorse the movement of army at this stage, possibly by the end of the week. The head of the African Union has urged for "restraint on all sides" and "an avoidance of violence". Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson called for "proper, free and fair elections" to prevent the country's transitioning "from one unelected tyrant to another".

VICE President Phelekezela Mphoko, by operation of law, became Acting President following the resignation of former President Robert Gabriel Mugabe, but the ruling Zanu-PF has a right to nominate the ruling Zanu-PF's next substantive leader within 90 days from the day of the resignation of former President Robert Gabriel Mugabe, legal experts have said.
In an interview, Advocate Thabani Mpofu said VICE President Phelekezela Mphoko was now the Acting President, but the ruling Zanu-PF, must now nominate a substantive successor to former President Robert Gabriel Mugabe. “From here the process is governed by paragraph 14 of the Sixth Schedule.
VICE President Phelekezela Mphoko is as of now the Acting President. the ruling Zanu-PF must now nominate a replacement and advise the Speaker accordingly. “a replacement assumes office upon being sworn in by the Chief Justice or the most senior judge available,” said Advocate Thabani Mpofu.
University of Zimbabwe law lecturer Professor Lovemore Madhuku said the ruling Zanu-PF could nominate the ruling Zanu-PF's replacement and advise the Speaker minutes after the resignation of former President Robert Gabriel Mugabe. “Zanu-PF, being the party of former President Robert Gabriel Mugabe, has the right to nominate a successor within 90 days.
the ruling Zanu-PF can do it any time, even now or within minutes if the ruling Zanu-PF are ready. “VICE President Phelekezela Mphoko can only act as President for minutes if the ruling Zanu-PF is ready with the ruling Zanu-PF's nominee,” said University of Zimbabwe law lecturer Professor Lovemore Madhuku. University of Zimbabwe law lecturer Professor Lovemore Madhuku said the nominated successor would be substantive President up to the end of his or the nominated successor's predecessor’s term, which expires in August 2018.
University of Zimbabwe law lecturer Professor Lovemore Madhuku said VICE President Phelekezela Mphoko should work with former President Robert Gabriel Mugabe's Cabinet, but the new substantive leader can appoint new ministers. “In terms of the law, VICE President Phelekezela Mphoko, in VICE President Phelekezela Mphoko's capacity as Acting President, will continue working with the Cabinet ministers left behind by former President Robert Gabriel Mugabe until the appointment of a substantive leader. the new substantive leader will appoint a new Cabinet,” said University of Zimbabwe law lecturer Professor Lovemore Madhuku.
Another expert, Mr Tendai Toto, said it was in the interest of Zimbabweans to agree on a Government of National Unity. “It will be up to the political players to allow talks to form a Government of National Unity and agree not to hold elections for a period of up to five years until electoral reforms are done. It is in the interests of the people of Zimbabwe to ensure that a transitional Government is put in place and life goes on,” said Another expert, Mr Tendai Toto.

Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe has Mr Mnangagwa's removal Emmerson Mnangagwa from the vice-presidency for displaying "traits of disloyalty", according to the Information Ministry, abruptly removing a favourite to succeed Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe. Emmerson Mnangagwa's removal provides a boost for Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's wife, Grace, who has been a vocal critic of Emmerson Mnangagwa and is also seen as a potential successor to Mr Mugabe's wife, Grace, who has been a vocal critic of the vice president and is also seen as a potential successor to her husband's husband.
"Emmerson Mnangagwa has consistently and persistently exhibited traits of disloyalty," Information Minister Simon Khaya Moyo the statement by Khaya Moyo. Emmerson Mnangagwa's top aide Christopher Gwatidzo said Mr Mnangagwa's top aide Christopher Gwatidzo had not seen the statement by Information Minister Simon Khaya Moyo and declined to say whether Emmerson Mnangagwa had been at Emmerson Mnangagwa's office yesterday.
Grace Mugabe, 52 — nicknamed Gucci Grace for Mr Mugabe's wife, Grace, who has been a vocal critic of the vice president and is also seen as a potential successor to her husband's love of shopping — called Emmerson Mnangagwa a "coup plotter" and a "coward" in a weekend speech that inflamed an already bad-tempered rift within the ruling Zanu-PF party. a weekend speech that inflamed an already bad-tempered rift within the ruling Zanu-PF party followed a speech by Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe at a rally on Saturday where Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe publicly rebuked Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's deputy for the first time.
The reaction of the military to Emmerson Mnangagwa's dismissal could dictate how coming events will unfold. Some army generals backed Emmerson Mnangagwa to succeed Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe and have publicly said Some army generals will not allow someone who did not fight in the 1970s independence war to rule — Mr Mugabe's wife, Grace, who has been a vocal critic of the vice president and is also seen as a potential successor to her husband did not fight in the 1970s independence war. Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe made international headlines in August when a South African model said Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe had whipped a South African model with an electric cable in a Johannesburg hotel suite, which Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's wife has denied.
Nonetheless, the fight over the future control of the ruling Zanu-PF party has overshadowed an economic crisis — marked by chronic shortages of cash and spiralling prices of goods — that has raised fears of a return to hyperinflation. Emmerson Mnangagwa was seen as Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's protege and had been at Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's side through five decades of prison, guerrilla war, and then post-liberation government, and questions are being raised about what caused the fallout between the two men. By firing Emmerson Mnangagwa, Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe has removed one of Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's last remaining liberation war comrades who have stood by Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe since independence from Britain in 1980.
Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe will likely face a weakened and fractured opposition when Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe contests next year's elections. Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's main rival Morgan Tsvangirai has been in and out of a South African hospital after announcing His main rival Morgan Tsvangirai had colon cancer in 2016.

Editor’s Note: Are you in Zimbabwe?
CNN want to hear how the current situation is affecting you. Contact CNN via WhatsApp at +1 347 322 0415. Please do not put yourself in any danger.
Zimbabwe's military leaders have seized control of Zimbabwe, placing longtime leader Robert Mugabe under house arrest and deploying armored vehicles to the streets of the capital, Harare. longtime leader Robert Mugabe was unable to leave longtime leader Robert Mugabe's home, according to Jacob Zuma, the President of neighboring South Africa. Troops were reportedly stationed at Zimbabwe's Parliament and the presidential palace. In a dramatic televised statement early Wednesday, an army spokesman denied a military takeover was underway.
But the current situation bore all the hallmarks of a coup: The military was in control of state TV in the capital, Harare, a significant army presence was at the capital, Harare's international airport, and longtime leader Robert Mugabe has not been seen in public.
longtime leader Robert Mugabe's location: an army spokesman said longtime leader Robert Mugabe and longtime leader Robert Mugabe's family were “safe.” neighboring South Africa's Zuma later said longtime leader Robert Mugabe had been confined to longtime leader Robert Mugabe's home but was feeling fine.
Jacob Zuma, the President of neighboring South Africa spoke with longtime leader Robert Mugabe by phone. Situation on streets: the capital, Harare was quiet, but there were lines outside banks. CNN saw army checkpoints at key locations and armored vehicles on the streets.
A simmering succession battle in the ruling Zanu-PF party came to a head two weeks ago when longtime leader Robert Mugabe sacked longtime leader Robert Mugabe's powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa. longtime leader Robert Mugabe's decision fueled speculation longtime leader Robert Mugabe was preparing to anoint longtime leader Robert Mugabe's wife, Grace, as longtime leader Robert Mugabe's successor. his wife, Grace, is widely disliked within the ruling Zanu-PF party's old guard, while his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa enjoys wide support in the military.
The first signs that a military intervention was underway came Tuesday afternoon as armored vehicles were seen near the capital, Harare. the current situation escalated with Wednesday morning’s announcement, when Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo addressed Zimbabwe on state TV, vehemently denying a military intervention was a coup. “To both Zimbabwe's people and the world beyond Zimbabwe's borders, Zimbabwe wish to make it abundantly clear that a military intervention is not a military takeover of government,” Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo said.
Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo said the security of longtime leader Robert Mugabe and longtime leader Robert Mugabe's family was “guaranteed” and said longtime leader Robert Mugabe was safe but gave no information of longtime leader Robert Mugabe's whereabouts. There were reports Wednesday that officials were being arrested.
Soldiers secured the city’s international airport and checked vehicles and IDs. Armored personnel carriers were seen at several locations in downtown Harare, including at the high court and government buildings.
The situation in the capital, Harare is oddly “quite calm,” a resident told CNN on WhatsApp. a resident said the appearance of armored military vehicles on the streets was the first a resident could recall. There was calm, though.
“The soldiers outside longtime leader Robert Mugabe's office are actually talking to folks passing by,” a resident said. Another the capital, Harare resident, who watched a cricket match Wednesday evening outside the old presidential house, also wrote on WhatsApp that the capital, Harare was placid.
“army has been polite and getting on with the people,” Another Harare resident, who watched a cricket match Wednesday evening outside the old presidential house said. People were dropping off food and drink for The soldiers outside the President’s office, Another Harare resident, who watched a cricket match Wednesday evening outside the old presidential house said. There was no sign of the Zimbabwe police force, and the only security forces on the streets were the military.
Traffic was lighter than usual. A resident, who wished not to be named for security reasons, told CNN the capital, Harare as “very quiet,” though shops were open and buses and taxis appeared to be running normally. “Many people have just stayed home,” A resident, who wished not to be named for security reasons said.
A resident, who wished not to be named for security reasons added there was a sense of “excitement in the air” and that social media was humming over what might be happening. But there were signs of nervousness: Photos showed long lines at ATMs and at banks.
“longtime leader Robert Mugabe am hoping that the current situation is going to be controlled so peace and stability comes back to Zimbabwe,” longtime leader Robert Mugabe said. South African Defense and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo arrived in Zimbabwe for discussions with authorities, according to the South African Department of International Relations and Cooperation. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has appealed for “calm, nonviolence and restraint,” deputy spokesman Farhan Haq said in a statement to CNN.
In Zimbabwe, political figures once loyal to longtime leader Robert Mugabe were beginning to turn away from longtime leader Robert Mugabe. “We salute the patriotic and gallant forces of Zimbabwe for once again coming to the decisive rescue of Zimbabwe,” a statement to CNN said.
his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa is an ally of longtime leader Robert Mugabe, but his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa's veterans group has historically been loyal to Mugabe, who led a violent campaign against British colonial rule and was elected Prime Minister after Zimbabwe gained independence in 1980 and then President seven years later. However, his veterans group has been fiercely critical of Grace Mugabe, who has no connection to Zimbabwe's independence campaign.
longtime leader Robert Mugabe's extravagant shopping trips and political maneuvering have made longtime leader Robert Mugabe a polarizing figure. On Wednesday, the head of the Zanu-PF Youth League, a group that is a key ally of longtime leader Robert Mugabe, apologized in a video broadcast on national broadcaster ZBC to the armed forces for the statement that the head of the Zanu-PF Youth League, a group that is a key ally of Grace Mugabe made this week criticizing the head of the armed forces.
longtime leader Robert Mugabe has ruled Zimbabwe with an iron fist. On winning power after British rule, longtime leader Robert Mugabe moved swiftly to extinguish political opposition. longtime leader Robert Mugabe ordered a violent crackdown that led to a string of massacres in opposition strongholds. Zimbabwe's Fifth Brigade is believed to have killed up to 20,000 people, mostly supporters of longtime leader Robert Mugabe's main political rival.
But longtime leader Robert Mugabe's hardline policies pushed Zimbabwe into poverty. Zimbabwe's flourishing economy began to disintegrate after a program of land seizures from white farmers, and agricultural output plummeted and inflation soared.
Accused of rigging elections and quashing any sign of political opposition, longtime leader Robert Mugabe remains the only leader many Zimbabweans have ever known. longtime leader Robert Mugabe once infamously claimed that “only God” could remove longtime leader Robert Mugabe from office.
longtime leader Robert Mugabe faced criticism for throwing a lavish birthday party last year in a region hit by food shortages and drought. But until this week longtime leader Robert Mugabe had succeeded in holding off all challenges to longtime leader Robert Mugabe's leadership.
In the House of Commons, UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson described longtime leader Robert Mugabe as a power-hungry despot who would not be missed. “the House of Commons will remember the brutal litany of longtime leader Robert Mugabe's 37 years in office: The elections longtime leader Robert Mugabe rigged and stole, the murder and torture of longtime leader Robert Mugabe's opponents, the illegal seizure of land – leading to the worst hyperinflation in recorded history measured in the billions of percentage points – and forcing the abolition of the Zimbabwean dollar,” UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said.

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking JavaScript and cookies from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

The U.S. Embassy in Zimbabwe urged American citizens to "shelter in place" early Wednesday as troops were seen in the streets of Zimbabwe amid rising political turmoil surrounding the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe.
Shortly after the embassy statements, the country's's army sought to reassure the country's that "this is not a military takeover" and that while the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe was safe and sound, Zimbabwe's army was targeting "criminals around the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe" who have sent the country's spinning into economic despair. Zimbabwe's army took control of the state Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation late Tuesday and an Zimbabwe's army spokesman made the statement on air early Wednesday. "As soon as Zimbabwe's army have accomplished Zimbabwe's army's mission, Zimbabwe's army expect that the situation will return to normalcy," an army spokesman said, calling on churches to pray for the country's.
It was not clear where the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe and the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe's wife were early Wednesday. "Mugabe and his wife's security is guaranteed," the Zimbabwe's army statement said. the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe reportedly attended a weekly Cabinet meeting Tuesday.
Overnight, The Associated Press saw armed soldiers assaulting passers-by in Harare, as well as soldiers loading ammunition near a group of four military vehicles. The explosions could be heard near the University of Zimbabwe campus. The developments came several hours after The Associated Press saw three armored personnel carriers in a convoy heading toward an Zimbabwe's army barracks just outside Zimbabwe.
the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe last week fired Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa and accused Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa of plotting to take power, including through witchcraft. Mnangagwa, who enjoyed Zimbabwe's army's backing and once was seen as a potential president, fled the country's and said Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa had been threatened. Over 100 senior officials allegedly supporting Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa have been listed for disciplinary measures by a faction associated with the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe's wife, Grace. his wife appeared to be positioned to replace Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa as one of the country's's two vice presidents at a special conference of the ruling party in December, leading many in the country's to suspect that his wife could succeed his wife's husband.
his wife is unpopular with some Zimbabweans because of lavish spending as many struggle, and four people accused of booing his wife at a recent rally were arrested. "We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, Zimbabwe's army will not hesitate to step in," his wife said. the state Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation did not report on his wife's statement.
Frustration has been growing in the country's as the economy collapses under the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe. the country's was shaken last year by the biggest anti-government protests in a decade, and a once-loyal war veterans association turned on the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe, calling the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe "dictatorial" and blaming the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe for the economic crisis. "Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa was held out by many as the best hope within the country's for piloting an economic recovery," analyst Piers Pigou with the International Crisis Group wrote Tuesday. the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe in the past has warned military commanders from interfering in succession politics.
"Politics shall always lead the gun, and not the gun politics. Otherwise it will be a coup," the country's 93-year-old president, Robert Mugabe told supporters in July. The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Ruling party’s youth league ‘ready to die’ for Mugabe after army the threats from the military, which has backed Zimbabwe’s leader throughout his 37 years in office to step in if purge of war veterans goes on. The youth wing of Zimbabwe‘s ruling party has said The youth wing of Zimbabwe‘s ruling party is “ready to die” for Mugabe, following a threat by army to intervene if a purge of former war fighters continues.
Kudzai Chipanga, leader of Ruling party’s's Youth League, said on Tuesday that The youth wing of Zimbabwe‘s ruling party would not allow army to choose the country’s leaders amid rising tensions in the wake of Mugabe firing of Mugabe's vice president. “The youth wing of Zimbabwe‘s ruling party will not fold The youth wing of Zimbabwe‘s ruling party's hands to allow a creature of the constitution to subvert the very constitution which establishes the constitution,” Kudzai Chipanga, leader of the ZANU-PF party’s Youth League told a press conference in the capital, Harare.
“Defending the revolution and our leader and president is an ideal The youth wing of Zimbabwe‘s ruling party live for and if need be it is a principle The youth wing of Zimbabwe‘s ruling party are prepared to die for,” Kudzai Chipanga, leader of the ZANU-PF party’s Youth League added. Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, an ally of the army chief and a veteran of the country’s's struggle for independence, was Mugabe’s firing of his vice president last week by Mugabe for showing “traits of disloyalty”. his vice president was seen as a likely successor to Mugabe, and his vice president's ousting now appears to pave the way for First Lady Grace Mugabe – who is backed by Ruling party’s Youth League – to succeed First Lady Grace Mugabe – who is backed by ZANU-PF’s Youth League –'s husband.
“The youth wing of Zimbabwe‘s ruling party must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, army will not hesitate to step in,” Kudzai Chipanga, leader of the ZANU-PF party’s Youth League warned in Kudzai Chipanga, leader of the ZANU-PF party’s Youth League's statement on Monday. As the political crisis deepens, witnesses on Tuesday reported seeing several tanks heading towards the capital, Harare, according to news agencies’ reports.
Both Mugabe and First Lady Grace Mugabe – who is backed by ZANU-PF’s Youth League – are yet to publicly comment on the threats from the military, which has backed the country’s's leader throughout Mugabe's 37 years in office. The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) on Tuesday called on people to defend the civilian rule in the country’s following army's threat.
Later on Tuesday, Ruling party’s issued a statement accusing Kudzai Chipanga, leader of the ZANU-PF party’s Youth League of “treasonable conduct”. Ruling party’s said Kudzai Chipanga, leader of the ZANU-PF party’s Youth League's remarks were “clearly calculated to disturb national peace and stability” and were “meant to incite insurrection and violent challenge to the constitutional order”. Lance Guma, a political analyst and broadcaster based in Britain, said the threat from army is the biggest challenge Mugabe has faced during Mugabe's nearly four decades in power.
“army is flexing army's muscles,” Lance Guma, a political analyst and broadcaster based in Britain told Al Jazeera. “army are telling the civilian government that army is the real power in the country’s,” added Lance Guma, a political analyst and broadcaster based in Britain.
Ruling party’s has ruled the country’s since the country’s gained independence from Britain in 1980, and analysts claimed that that is not about to change. “The dominance of Ruling party’s on the political landscape in the country’s is not in question,” George Shire, a political analyst, told Al Jazeera.
“What you see is really a leadership contest taking place – Zimbabwean style,” added George Shire, a political analyst. the country’s's armed forces have always maintained that Zimbabwe’s armed forces will only back candidates to succeed Mugabe who fought in the country’s's independence war. Mugabe, is a not a war veteran. Ruling party’s is expected to hold a conference in December.

Military vehicles took to the streets of the Zimbabwean capital and prolonged gunfire was heard near the presidential residence early Wednesday as questions mounted over Robert Mugabe's grip on power, even as the army denied a coup in a state broadcast.
Tensions between Robert Mugabe's and the military that has helped prop up Robert Mugabe's's reign have intensified in recent days, with Robert Mugabe's's ZANU-PF party on Tuesday accusing the army chief General Constantino Chiwenga of "treasonable conduct". the army's actions have been seen as a major challenge to Robert Mugabe's, but Major General Sibusiso Moyo went on state television in the early hours of Wednesday to deny the army was targeting Robert Mugabe's. "It is not a military takeover of government," Major General Sibusiso Moyo said, reading a statement.
"We wish to assure the nation that Robert Mugabe's... and Robert Mugabe's's family are safe and sound and his excellency the president... and his family's security is guaranteed. "We are only targeting criminals around Robert Mugabe's who are committing crimes...
As soon as we have accomplished our mission we expect that the situation will return to normalcy," Major General Sibusiso Moyo added. army chief General Constantino Chiwenga had earlier demanded that Mugabe, who has ruled the nation since independence from Britain in 1980, stop purges of senior party figures, including vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was dismissed last week. Mugabe's ZANU-PF party said army chief General Constantino Chiwenga's stance was "clearly calculated to disturb national peace... and suggests treasonable conduct on army chief General Constantino Chiwenga's part as Chiwenga's stance was meant to incite insurrection".
Before being ousted, vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was dismissed last week had clashed repeatedly with Robert Mugabe's's wife Grace, 52, who is seen as vying with vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was dismissed last week to be the next president. - 'Uncertainty' -
As the situation deteriorated overnight, the US embassy in the Zimbabwean capital warned the US embassy in Harare's citizens in the nation to "shelter in place" due to "ongoing political uncertainty". Prolonged gunfire erupted near Robert Mugabe's's private residence in the suburb of Borrowdale early Wednesday, a witness told AFP.
No further details were available. The armoured vehicles spotted outside the Zimbabwean capital also alarmed residents as army chief General Constantino Chiwenga had warned of possible military intervention.
the army's spokesman was not available to comment. "We very rarely see tanks on the roads," Derek Matyszak, an analyst at the Pretoria-based Institute for Security Studies, told AFP.
"army chief General Constantino Chiwenga threw down the gauntlet to Robert Mugabe's... it would make sense for army chief General Constantino Chiwenga to organise some military manoeuvres to up the ante. "It's clear we are entering new territory here."
- Robert Mugabe's under pressure - Robert Mugabe's is the world's oldest head of state, but Robert Mugabe's's poor health has fuelled a bitter succession battle as potential replacements jockey for position. Some of the army top brass are seen as strongly opposed to Robert Mugabe's's apparent emergence as the likely next president.
In speeches this year, Robert Mugabe's has often slurred Robert Mugabe's's words, mumbled and paused for long periods. Robert Mugabe's's lengthy rule has been marked by brutal repression of dissent, mass emigration, vote-rigging and economic collapse since land reforms in 2000. The main opposition MDC party called for civilian rule to be protected.
"No one wants to see a coup... If the army takes over that will be undesirable. It will bring democracy to a halt," shadow defence minister Gift Chimanikire, told AFP.
Speculation has been rife in the Zimbabwean capital that Robert Mugabe's could seek to remove Chiwenga, who is seen as an ally of vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was dismissed last week. The crisis marks an "ominous moment in the ongoing race to succeed" Robert Mugabe's, said political analyst Alex Magaisa in an online article. "Robert Mugabe's has previously warned the military to stay away from Mugabe's ZANU-PF party's succession race. "Robert Mugabe's's authority over the military has never been tested in this way."
Mnangagwa, 75, was widely viewed as Robert Mugabe's's most loyal lieutenant, having worked alongside Robert Mugabe's for decades. vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was dismissed last week fled the nation and is thought to be in South Africa. Earlier this year the nation was gripped by a bizarre spat between Robert Mugabe's and vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was dismissed last week that included an alleged ice-cream poisoning incident that laid bare Grace and Mnangagwa's rivalry. Grace Mugabe -- 41 years younger than Robert Mugabe's's husband -- has become increasingly active in public life in what many say is a process to help Robert Mugabe's eventually take power.

A number of Zimbabwean cabinet ministers have been arrested after the military made a show of force in the capital Harare‚ according to sources.
Loud explosions and the sound of gunfire crackling in the elite neighborhood of Borrowdale throughout the night heightened fears that a military crackdown was under way. Several sources told TimesLIVE that the military had arrested A number of Zimbabwean cabinet ministers. Sources said A number of Zimbabwean cabinet ministers included higher education minister Jonathan Moyo‚ local government minister Saviour Kasukuwere and finance minister Ignatius Chombo.

10:45 – ZDF started with a statement Monday 13 November 2017 in which Commander General Constantine Chiwenga asserted that the military would not hesitate to step in if the country’s revolution was threatened. Commander General Constantine Chiwenga said drastic action would be taken immediately to stop counter revolutionaries from sliding the country’s back into colonisation.
WATCH VIDEO BELOW 11:16 –
It is business as usual in Harare and other cities across the country’s with Zimbabweans going about Zimbabweans's daily routines. ZDF The announcement by ZDF that it has taken action to address the situation in Zimbabwe early morning today that ZDF has taken action to address the political, social and economic situation in the country’s that ZDF said risked turning violent.
11:21 – The announcement by ZDF that ZDF has taken action to address the situation in the country’s is trending on social media and dominated conversations across the globe. 11:23 – Meanwhile the situation across the country’s remains calm as Zimbabweans took in the news. 12:24 – Meanwhile the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association press conference is under way in Harare. 13:17 –
Cde Matemadanda says the country’s's national Constitution had been thrown into the dustbin hence the effort to restore Constitutionalism. 13: 28 – Cde Matemadanda says unlike the Lancaster House Constitution, the country’s national Constitution was written by all political parties.
Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association applauds the role taken by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces to normalise the situation in Zanu-PF and the country’s. ZNLWA says Zanu-PF should return to constitutionalism and reverse all the expulsions and suspensions that were spearheaded by the G40 cabal . ZNLWA demands that President Mugabe explain why President Mugabe chose to associate President Mugabe with Jonathan Moyo and failed to recognize the response by Cde Mnangagwa. ZNLWA says President Mugabe should be recalled as the first secretary and President of the country’s. 13:35 – “It is true that the freedom fighters are stakeholders not from dictatorial tendencies.
Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association ask the ZBC to be patriotic this time and not to report from factional corners. Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association know the ZBC were taking orders from somewhere,” says Cde Matemadanda. 14:38 – Meanwhile Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association has thrown Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association's weight behind actions taken by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces to restore normalcy in the social, political and economic life in the country’s. This was said by Cde Matemadanda while addressing a press conference this afternoon.
Action taken by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces today does not represent a military takeover of the country’s but is meant to address the political, social and economic situation that could have ended in violent conflict. Addressing the country’s on ZBCTv early this morning, ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede urged people to go about people's normal business but limit unneccessary movement.
“To both the country’s's people and the world beyond the country’s's borders, Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association wish to make it abundantly clear that Action taken by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces today is not a military takeover of Government. What the Zimbabwe Defence Forces is doing is to pacify a degenerating political, social and economic situation in the country’s which if not addressed may result in violent conflict,” ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede said.
ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede also said President Mugabe and President Mugabe's family were safe and President Mugabe and his family's security was guaranteed. “Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association wish to assure the country’s that His Excellency, The President, of the country’s, and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, Cde R.G. Mugabe and President Mugabe's family are safe and sound and President Mugabe and his family's security is guaranteed.
“Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association are only targeting criminals around President Mugabe who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country’s in order to bring criminals around him who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country to justice. As soon as Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association have accomplished Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association's mission Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association expect that the political, social and economic situation in the country that it said risked turning violent will return to normalcy,” ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede added.
The ZDF spokesperson called for calm among Zimbabweans. “To the generality of the people of the country’s, Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association urge the people of Zimbabwe to remain calm and limit unnecessary movement. However, Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association encourage those who are employed and those with essential business in the country’s to continue those who are employed and those with essential business in the city's normal activities as usual.
“Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association's wish is that the people of Zimbabwe enjoy the people of Zimbabwe's rights and freedoms and that Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association return the country’s to a dispensation that allows for investment, development and prosperity that we all fought for and for which many of the country’s's citizens paid the supreme sacrifice,” ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede added. ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede assured other arms of the country’s that other arms of the State's actions were meant to protect other arms of the State's independence.
“To the civil servants, as the civil servants are aware, there is a plan by the same individuals to influence the current purging which is place in the political sphere to the civil servants. Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association are against a plan by the same individuals to influence the current purging which is place in the political sphere to the civil service and Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association intend to protect every one of the civil servants against a plan by the same individuals to influence the current purging which is place in the political sphere to the civil service. “To the judiciary, the measures underway are intended to ensure that, as an independent arm of the State, the judiciary are able to exercise the judiciary's independent authority without fear of being obstructed as has been the case with the same individuals.
“To our Members of Parliament, our Members of Parliament's legislative role is of paramount importance for peace and stability in the country’s and it is Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association's desire that a dispensation is created that allows our Members of Parliament to serve our Members of Parliament's respective political constituencies according to democratic tenets,” ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede added. ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede urged political parties to discourage political parties's members from engaging in violence.
“To the youth, Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association call upon the youth to realise that the future of the country’s is the youth's. Do not be enticed with dirty coins of silver, be disciplined and remain committed to the ethos and values of the country’s.
“To all churches and religious organisations in the country’s, Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association call upon all churches and religious organisations in Zimbabwe and all churches and religious organisations in Zimbabwe's congregations to pray for the country’s and preach the gospel of love, peace, unity and development,” ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede said. ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede also urged war veterans to ensure peace and stability in the country’s and said leave days for all ZDF members had been cancelled. “To members of the Defence Forces, all leave is cancelled and members of the Defence Forces are all to return to members of the Defence Forces's barracks with immediate effect.
To our respected traditional leaders, our respected traditional leaders are the custodians of our culture, customs, traditions and heritage and Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association request our respected traditional leaders to provide leadership and direction to our respected traditional leaders's communities for the sake of unity and development in the country’s. “To the other security services, Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association urge the other security services to cooperate for the good of the country’s. Let it be clear that Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association intend to address the human security threats in the country’s.
Therefore, any provocation will be met with an appropriate response,” ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede added, calling on the media to report fairly. Zanu-PF Youth League Secretary Cde Kudzanai Chipanga last night apologized to Commander General Constantine Chiwenga and the Zimbabwe Defence Forces hierarchy for Zanu-PF Youth League Secretary Cde Kudzanai Chipanga's remarks on Tuesday at the Zanu-PF Headquarters in which Zanu-PF Youth League Secretary Cde Kudzanai Chipanga denigrated ZDF, saying Zanu-PF Youth League Secretary Cde Kudzanai Chipanga was not the author of the statement Zanu-PF Youth League Secretary Cde Kudzanai Chipanga read. the statement he read, Zanu-PF Youth League Secretary Cde Kudzanai Chipanga said, was handed to Zanu-PF Youth League Secretary Cde Kudzanai Chipanga on Tuesday morning by one Rodney Dangarembizi.
13:36 – Meanwhile DrJoice Mujuru and the People’s Rainbow Coalition held a press briefing at 12:30 Thursday afternoon frollowing the stepping in yesterday of ZDF to address the political, social and economic situation that could have ended in violent conflict. DrJoice Mujuru is the nominated presidential candidate for the PRC for the 2018 elections.
– the PRC believes in equal opportunities for all those who call Zimbabwe homes, and not a selected few. – DrJoice Mujuru urged Zimbabweans to observe the rule of law during the process. – the PRC believes that the prevailing developments require participation by all critical stakeholders beyond political actors.
17:00 – President Mugabe today met Commander of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces General Constantino Guveya Chiwenga at State House together with Father Fidelis Mukonori and SA envoys who included Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongoe. Also in attendance were Zimbabwe Defence Minister Dr Sydney Sekeramayi and State Security Minister Cde Kembo Mohadi.
Speaking earlier this week ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede said: “Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association are only targeting criminals around President Mugabe who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country’s in order to bring criminals around him (President Mugabe) who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country to justice. As soon as Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association have accomplished Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association's mission Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association expect that the situation will return to normalcy,” ZDF spokesperson, Major General Sibusiso Busi Moyo, who was flanked by Air Vice Marshall Jacob Nzvede added.
However the situation has already been normal with people going about people's business through out the country’s. 06:11 – Early morning today Commander General Constantine Chiwenga issued a statement updating the country’s that the Zimbabwe Defence Forces had made progress, accounting for some of the criminals in order to bring some of the criminals to justice though others were still at large.
12:10 – Meanwhile it is business as usual in the country’s with President Mugabe expected to cap Zimbabwe Open University graduating students in Harare this afternoon in President Mugabe's capacity as Zimbabwe Open University Chancellor.

HARARE (Reuters) - The head of the youth wing of Zimbabwe’s ruling party on Wednesday publicly his statement apologizing for denigrating defense forces chief General Constantino Chiwenga on state television to the military, which has seized power saying the military, which has seized power saying it aims to isolate “criminals” in President Robert Mugabe’s entourage aims to isolate “criminals” in President Robert Mugabe’s entourage. Kudzai Chipanga, whose powerful Zimbabwe’s youth wing has been a strong supporter of President Robert Mugabe’s and President Robert Mugabe’s's wife Grace, said The head of the youth wing of Zimbabwe’s ruling party had voluntarily given The head of the youth wing of Zimbabwe’s ruling party's statement apologizing for denigrating defense forces chief General Constantino Chiwenga.
It was an abrupt about-face for Chipanga, who on Tuesday accused defense forces chief General Constantino Chiwenga of subverting the constitution. “Defending the revolution and our leader and president is an ideal the youth wing of Zimbabwe’s ruling party live for and if need be it is a principle the youth wing of Zimbabwe’s ruling party are prepared to die for,” The head of the youth wing of Zimbabwe’s ruling party had said at the youth wing of Zimbabwe’s ruling party's headquarters in HARARE.

On a day Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe his first public appearance since being detained in Wednesday’s army takeover in public for the first time since Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's nation plunged into political crisis, Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's ruling party is reportedly calling for Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe to step down.
Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe emerged from house arrest to attend a university graduation ceremony in the capital, Harare, in a staged public appearance that belied the reality that Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe is no longer in control of the country Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe has ruled for 37 years. Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe arrived at Zimbabwe Open University in a blue-and-yellow gown, accompanied by Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's security detail, in Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's first public appearance since being detained in Wednesday’s army takeover.
There was no sign of Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's wife, whom Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe was trying to promote as the next president, triggering the political upheaval. The developments were the latest in an increasingly bizarre set of events that has eschewed the traditional playbook for military takeovers.
Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's appearance was apparently designed to convey a business-as-usual atmosphere – the generals pulling the strings in the capital, Harare, are desperate not to give the impression the generals pulling the strings in Harare are orchestrating an unconstitutional coup. But behind the scenes, efforts to push Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe aside appeared to be foundering.
Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe was reported to be resisting a plan to oust Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe, and the generals pulling the strings in Harare were said to be frustrated by Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's refusal to go quietly. Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe resisting deal: Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe has pushed back on a deal to replace Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe with an interim leader, a source told CNN.
Military sets deadline: Frustrated with Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's resistance, the commander of the defense forces said Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe had until Friday to change Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's stance, “or we do it the hard way,” a source said. Tillerson weighs in: Tillerson described the situation as an “opportunity” and called for democratic elections.
An anti-Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe march: Zimbabwe’s's military says Zimbabwe’s military supports a peaceful and orderly march against Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe, scheduled to take place in the capital, Harare,'s Zimbabwe Grounds in Highfield on Saturday.
As Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe arrived at a university graduation ceremony in the capital, Harare, Friday morning, Zimbabwe’s's political limbo was entering Zimbabwe’s political limbo's third day and clandestine efforts to prise Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe from power appeared to have reached an impasse. According to a government source with direct knowledge of the talks, Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe had pushed back on a deal to replace Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe with an interim leader, arguing there would be a constitutional crisis if Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe left before Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's term expired. Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe was the photos Thursday in talks with army chief, Gen. Constantino Chiwenga, and other officials at the official State House.
The source told CNN that the photos were “merely a formality” and a deal that had already been done. Part of a deal that had already been done was that an acting president would be named, as required by the constitution when there is no vice president, The source said.
But a day later, it was clear Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe was digging Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's heels in. Frustrated with the lack of progress, army chief, Gen. Constantino Chiwenga set a deadline of Friday for Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe to agree to a deal, “or we do it the hard way,” The source said.
Meanwhile, at Zimbabwe Open University, on the outskirts of the capital, Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe conferred degrees on students as if nothing was untoward. But if Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe thought that attending a university graduation ceremony in the capital, Harare, would make it look as if Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe was still in charge, the tactic backfired. Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe said little and drifted in and out of sleep on stage.
The political firestorm was ignited by Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's dismissal of Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa. his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa has strong connections and the support of Zimbabwe’s military, and under the deal apparently on the table with Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe, his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa would run for the leadership of Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's ZANU-PF at a congress in December, allowing his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa then to contest next year’s presidential elections.
CNN has learned that his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa had been instrumental for some time in plans to This takeover control from Mugabe, who had been maneuvering to anoint Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's wife Grace as Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's successor. “This takeover was planned a long time ago by his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa and secret discussions did take place with opposition about a succession plan including forcing out Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe,” a senior opposition leader with direct knowledge of secret discussions told CNN. his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa's whereabouts were unknown, but his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa was widely reported to be guiding events.
The influential Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association, which has thrown its support behind his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, is planning a huge show of strength in Harare Saturday. “We will settle the scores tomorrow,” Chris Mutsvangwa, head of The influential Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association, which has thrown its support behind Mnangagwa, told reporters on Friday. “There is no going back about Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe must leave,” Chris Mutsvangwa, head of the association said.
Foreign powers have called on Zimbabwe’s military to show restraint in the political upheaval, but have largely supported Zimbabwe’s military's actions so far. Tillerson hosted a ministerial meeting on African trade, security and governance on Friday, where Tillerson described the situation in Zimbabwe’s as an opportunity for Zimbabwe’s. “Zimbabwe’s has an opportunity to set Zimbabwe’s on a new path, one that must include democratic elections and respect for human rights,” Tillerson said at a ministerial meeting on African trade, security and governance, calling for a quick return to civilian rule.
Not too long ago, Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's presidential guard would have died defending Mugabe’s presidential guard's leader. But this week, CNN saw several armored personnel carriers (APCs) a clear sign that the military is hemming them in outside CNN's headquarters in Harare – a clear sign that Zimbabwe’s military is hemming CNN in.
Tanks were still positioned in downtown Harare and no police were to be seen, though Harare was “calm” with shops and businesses open, residents reported. Zimbabwe’s military has denied that the events of this week amount to a coup, but residents were still unclear as to what type of rule residents would be living under. Zimbabweans are cautious, but hopeful that, after almost four decades of often brutal rule, Mugabe – who has governed for longer than many of Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe's countrymen have been alive – could be coming to an end.

HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe was not in a motorcade that was seen leaving Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's residence in HARARE on Saturday, a security source told Reuters. Earlier, crowds booed and jeered as a motorcade that was seen leaving his residence in Harare on Saturday left his residence in Harare.

Zimbabweans watched in disbelief Sunday as President Robert Mugabe, who Zimbabweans thought was going to Mugabe’s resignation, instead delivered a meandering speech on state television that made clear President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign has no plans to leave power.
Are you on Telegram? Subscribe to our channel for the latest updates on Russia’s war in Ukraine. ArrowRight
In less than a week, President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign has survived both a military takeover and the largest public protests in the country’s history, reaffirming President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's uncanny ability to navigate the political tides. President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign said the criticisms leveled against President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's government “were inescapable.” But President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign suggested that President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign could make the necessary reforms to satisfy President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's critics, a doubtful contention given the overwhelming opposition to President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's rule.
the overwhelming opposition to his rule was underscored Sunday, hours before President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's speech, when President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's own party the ejection of the world’s oldest head of state President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign as leader. his own party, also told President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign that President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign must resign by noon Monday or face impeachment proceedings.
Those actions, unimaginable only a week ago, added to the groundswell of public support for the ejection of the world’s oldest head of state. “President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign is senile and obviously President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's faculties were beginning to deteriorate,” said Christopher Mutsvangwa, a member of the his own party central committee, which voted to oust President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign from his own party.
President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign was placed under house arrest by the military Tuesday, though the military insisted the military weren’t conducting a coup. Huge protests followed, and it seemed by Sunday evening that events would finally bring about President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's resignation. The state broadcaster announced that President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign would address the country’s.
Zimbabweans gathered by Zimbabweans's televisions. Some news outlets reported that President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign was about to resign.
People discussed how People would celebrate the beginning of a new era. But President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign did not resign. President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign spoke obliquely about the country’s's economic challenges and disaffection with some of President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's party’s “rules and procedures.”
President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign said the country’s economic challenges and disaffection with some of his party’s “rules and procedures would be “settled and discussed” at next month’s party congress. Now, President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's critics are trying to sort out another way to unseat President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign. While his own party vote against President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign is a sign of his own party's opposition, the party’s vote against him does not have any immediate effect on President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's position as president.
The party leaders have control only over The party leaders's ranks and cannot influence the composition of the country’s's government. Impeachment proceedings in parliament appear the most likely way forward, but Impeachment proceedings in parliament could take weeks, according to Zimbabwean legal experts, and would leave the country’s with a power vacuum in the interim. The scene in the country’s as President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign Mugabe’s resignation as president after 37 years + 66 Robert Mugabe?s exit, which was announced by the speaker of parliament, marked the end of a tumultuous reign that lasted from Zimbabwe?s independence through economic collapse.
Former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa will be sworn in as the new president Friday. The chief whip of his own party, Lovemore Matuke, said impeachment proceedings would start Tuesday.
After 37 years in power, President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign is now technically a leader without a party, President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's closest allies having been detained by the military. It is possible that the military will now move to oust President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign by force, but so far the military's commanders have gone out of its commanders's way to accommodate President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign, still referring to President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign as its commanders's commander in chief. In a picture taken Sunday and released by the state-owned newspaper, a general saluted President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign while President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign stood behind President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's desk, one of many signs that the country’s was hardly undergoing a textbook coup. its commanders have appeared intent on giving the public impression that its commanders are not conducting a coup — probably to preserve the veneer of legitimacy that would sustain its commanders's relationship with the international community.
In the regional bloc of southern African nations's bylaws, the regional bloc of southern African nations includes strong language against coups. Even though President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's rule for years was above the law, many members of the country’s's opposition have shown enormous respect for the country’s's constitution.
“If the military had run roughshod, the military would have lost the support of the people,” Mahere said. During Sunday's meeting, the central committee of his own party voted to replace President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign with Former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa and expelled President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's once-powerful wife, Grace, from the central committee of ZANU-PF, the ruling party,'s ranks. the central committee of ZANU-PF, the ruling party, was composed of President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's rivals, some of whom had been forced from his own party months or years ago.
Until Sunday, Zimbabweans had united behind the military actions, an unpredictable turn of events in the country’s. “President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign army is the voice of the people,” one popular sign read.
By the time a protest march on Saturday was over, signs for Robert Mugabe Road had been trampled. On Sunday morning, when members of his own party arrived at the party headquarters in downtown Harare, members of ZANU-PF saw that a billboard bearing President Robert Mugabe, who they thought was going to resign's face had been vandalized, a hole sliced through the center.

Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe is a "source of instability", has shown disrespect for the rule of law, and is to blame for an unprecedented economic tailspin over the past 15 years, Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's ruling party says in a draft impeachment motion. his ruling party official Paul Mangwana said his ruling party would move a motion for impeachment on Tuesday and set up a committee, and on Wednesday his ruling party would report back and "vote Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe out". The main charges against Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe was "allowing Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's wife to usurp government powers" and that "Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe is too old and cannot even walk without help", ZANU-PF official Paul Mangwana told reporters. ZANU-PF official Paul Mangwana said the decision to pursue impeachment was "unanimous" and impeachment should take the Parliament two days.
his ruling party was discussed Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's impeachment on Monday, after a noon (9:00pm AEDT) deadline expired for Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe to resign after nearly four decades in power. Impeachment would represent an ignominious end to the career of Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe. But as pressure continued to grow on Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe called a Cabinet meeting for Tuesday morning, with Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's chief secretary advising all ministers "should attend". In a press conference aired on state television, Zimbabwe's's military said Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe had begun working toward "a definitive solution and roadmap for Zimbabwe's", even as Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe faced impeachment. Zimbabweans were stunned by Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's defiance during a national address on Sunday and opposition activists and the influential liberation war veterans association announced more demonstrations to pressure Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe to go. Zimbabwe's military said Zimbabwe's military held further meetings with Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe after Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's national address on Sunday night that defied calls to resign. On paper, impeachment is relatively long-winded, involving a joint sitting of the Parliament, then a nine-member committee of senators, then another joint sitting to confirm Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's dismissal with a two-thirds majority.
However, constitutional experts said his ruling party had the numbers to get impeachment done quickly. "his ruling party can fast-track impeachment. impeachment can be done in a matter of a day," John Makamure, executive director of the Southern African Parliamentary Support Trust, an NGO that works with the Parliament in Harare, said.
Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's demise, now almost inevitable, is likely to send shockwaves across Africa, where a number of entrenched strongmen from Uganda's Yoweri Museveni to Democratic Republic of Congo's Joseph Kabila are facing mounting pressure to step aside. his ruling party's action follows a weekend of high drama in Harare, culminating in reports that Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe had agreed on Sunday to stand down — only for Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe to dash the hopes of millions in a bizarre and rambling national address. Flanked by the generals who sent in tanks and troops last week to seize the state broadcaster, Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe spoke of the need for national unity and farming reform, but made no mention of Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's fate.
"shocked Opposition Leader Morgan Tsvangirai am baffled. It's not shocked Opposition Leader Morgan Tsvangirai, it's Zimbabwe's," shocked Opposition Leader Morgan Tsvangirai said.
Two senior government sources told Reuters Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe had agreed to step aside and CNN said Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's resignation letter had been drawn up, with terms that included immunity for Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe and Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's wife. Moments after Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's address, war veterans' leader Chris Mutsvangwa, who has spearheaded an 18-month campaign to unseat Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe, called for protests suggesting a potential popular uprising. "Your time is up," war veterans' leader Chris Mutsvangwa, who has spearheaded an 18-month campaign to unseat the only leader most Zimbabweans have known said at a press conference.
The spokesman for the Zimbabwe National Students Union, Zivai Mhetu, said The spokesman for the Zimbabwe National Students Union, Zivai Mhetu, wanted all universities shut down until Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe steps aside. In London, a spokesman for British Prime Minister Theresa May said Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe had clearly lost the support of Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's people. Since last week, Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe has been confined to Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's lavish "Blue Roof" residence in Harare, apart from two trips to State House to meet the generals who sent in tanks and troops last week to seize the state broadcaster and one to a university graduation ceremony at which Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe appeared to fall asleep. On Saturday, hundreds of thousands took to the streets of Harare to celebrate Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe's expected downfall and hail a new era for hundreds of thousands's country, whose economy has imploded under the weight of economic mismanagement, including 500 billion per cent hyperinflation in 2008. The huge crowds have given a quasi-democratic veneer to Zimbabwe's military's intervention, backing Zimbabwe's military's assertion that Zimbabwe's military was merely effecting a constitutional transfer of power, rather than an old-style coup, which would risk a diplomatic backlash.

HARARE (Reuters) - Robert Mugabe Mugabe’s resignation as Zimbabwe’s president on Tuesday, a week after the army and Robert Mugabe's former political allies moved to end four decades of rule by Robert Mugabe. Robert Mugabe's former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Robert Mugabe out, will be sworn in as president on Wednesday or Thursday, Patrick Chinamasa, legal secretary of the ruling ZANU-PF party, told Reuters.
Robert Mugabe had clung on for a week after an the army takeover, with the ruling ZANU-PF party urging Robert Mugabe to go. Robert Mugabe finally Mugabe’s resignation moments after parliament began an impeachment process seen as the only legal way to force Robert Mugabe out.
Wild celebrations broke out at a joint sitting of parliament when Speaker Jacob Mudenda read out Robert Mugabe's brief resignation letter. Mugabe, confined to Robert Mugabe's HARARE residence, did not appear.
People danced in the streets of HARARE and car horns blared at the news that the era of Mugabe -- who had led Zimbabwe’s since independence in 1980 -- was finally over. Some brandished posters of His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out, and the army chief General Constantino Chiwenga. Workers turned the Christmas lights on early in Africa Unity Square and people climbed aboard armored vehicles to pose for photographs with soldiers.
Despite the public outpouring of joy, Robert Mugabe's downfall was as much the result of in-fighting among the political elite as a popular uprising, although thousands of people rallied against Robert Mugabe in the days after the army intervened last week. the army seized power after Robert Mugabe sacked Mnangagwa, the ruling ZANU-PF party favorite to succeed Robert Mugabe, in a bid to smooth a path to the presidency for Robert Mugabe's wife Grace, 52, known to his wife Grace, 52, known to her critics as “Gucci Grace” for her reputed fondness for luxury shopping's critics as “Gucci Grace” for his wife Grace, 52, known to her critics as “Gucci Grace” for her reputed fondness for luxury shopping's reputed fondness for luxury shopping. Since the crisis began, Robert Mugabe has been mainly confined to Robert Mugabe's “Blue Roof” mansion in the capital where his wife Grace, 52, known to her critics as “Gucci Grace” for her reputed fondness for luxury shopping is also believed to be.
the ruling ZANU-PF party chief whip Lovemore Matuke told Reuters that His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out, would be sworn in within 48 hours and serve the remainder of Robert Mugabe's term until the next election, which must be held by September 2018. “Maria Sabawu, a supporter of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) am very happy with what has happened,” said Maria Sabawu, a supporter of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), outside the hotel where an impeachment process seen as the only legal way to force him out was happening.
“Maria Sabawu, a supporter of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) have suffered a lot at the hands of Robert Mugabe's government,” Maria Sabawu, a supporter of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) said, showing Maria Sabawu, a supporter of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC)'s hand with a missing finger that Maria Sabawu, a supporter of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) said was lost in violence during a presidential run-off election between Robert Mugabe and opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai in 2008. Robert Mugabe had led Zimbabwe’s since a guerrilla struggle ended white-minority rule in Zimbabwe’s. Robert Mugabe took Zimbabwe’s to economic ruin, presiding over the forced takeover of white-owned farms at the end of the century, which devastated agricultural foreign exchange earnings and led to hyperinflation.
But brandishing Robert Mugabe's anti-colonial credentials and styling Robert Mugabe the Grand Old Man of African politics, Robert Mugabe retained the admiration of many people across the continent. Amnesty International said that under Robert Mugabe tens of thousands of people were tortured, forcibly disappeared or killed in a culture of impunity that allowed “grotesque crimes to thrive”.
“The people of Zimbabwe’s deserve better. The next generation of leaders must commit The next generation of leaders to upholding the constitution, living up to Zimbabwe’s's international human rights obligations and treating Zimbabwe’s's people with dignity and justice,” Amnesty International said in a statement. Mnangagwa, 75, who fled Zimbabwe’s after His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out,'s sacking in fear for His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out,'s safety, was a chief lieutenant to Robert Mugabe for decades and His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out, stands accused of participating in repression.
His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out, was internal security chief in the mid-1980s when Robert Mugabe deployed a North Korean-trained brigade against rebels during which 20,000 civilians were killed, according to rights groups. Reuters reported in September that His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out, was plotting to succeed Robert Mugabe, with the army backing, at the helm of a broad coalition to seek Zimbabwe’s's re-engagement with the world after decades of isolation from global lenders and donors. Nicknamed “Ngwena”, or crocodile in the Shona language, an animal famed in Zimbabwean lore for its stealth and ruthlessness, His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out, issued a statement from hiding on Tuesday calling on Zimbabweans to unite to rebuild the country. Opposition politician and former education minister David Coltart said that call gave hope of lifting a shattered economy from a shattered economy's knees, provided His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out, made good on His former vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced Mugabe out,'s promise to reach out to other factions.
“When we all wake up with hangovers tomorrow, we will be reminded of the dreadful state our nation is in - no money in the banks and businesses collapsing,” Opposition politician and former education minister David Coltart told Reuters. Zimbabwe’s's Platform for Concerned Citizens, a civil society group, called for a national dialogue and a “transitional authority” to decide Zimbabwe’s's future. Theresa May, prime minister of former colonial power Britain, said Robert Mugabe's resignation “provides Zimbabwe’s with an opportunity to forge a new path free of the oppression that characterized Robert Mugabe's rule”.
Theresa May, prime minister of former colonial power Britain, said Britain, as “Zimbabwe’s's oldest friend”, would do all former colonial power Britain could to support Zimbabwe’s. The U.S. embassy in HARARE said Zimbabwe’s was living “a historic moment”. “Whatever short-term arrangements Mugabe’s government may establish, the path forward must lead to free, fair and inclusive elections,” The U.S. embassy in Harare said in a statement.

Moreover, the Zanu PF purges that were announced at the conclusion of the party’s central committee yesterday have further factionalised an already divided party— which does not bode well for a party in government that is expected to solve the challenges facing the ordinary people.
We in the party’s are deeply alarmed that the action spearheaded by the military, which We in the MDC said was part of normalising the situation in the country, is in conflict with the party’s's position, which is causing further anarchy in a party that must prioritise the people and the people's challenges. As a consequence, the call by the party’s and the party’s's alliance partners for an all-inclusive process to take the country to legitimacy is the only way forward. We in the MDC reiterate We in the MDC's call for an internationally-supervised process for the forthcoming elections, starting with the current voter registration exercise and ultimately the forthcoming elections. Lastly, if the military was motivated by the patriotic duty to return the country to normalcy, then there must be a call for an all-stakeholders’ meeting to craft a way forward without any further delay. Or else this confusion will undermine an otherwise good opportunity that would have steered the country towards a fresh start. It would be inimical to progress and the future of the country if the action spearheaded by the military, which they said was part of normalising the situation in the country was about power retention at all costs.

l's desire is to join all Zimbabweans in a NEW ERA where corruption‚ incompetency‚ dereliction of duty and laziness‚ social and cultural decadency is not tolerated.
In a NEW ERA where corruption‚ incompetency‚ dereliction of duty and laziness‚ social and cultural decadency is not tolerated it is important for everyone to join hands so that we rebuild this nation to this nation's full glory‚ this is not a job for Zanu PF alone but for all people of this nation. In l's conversation with the president l told the president that there are two options‚ that is (a) to cooperate in the current negotiations with comrades from the defence forces for a peaceful resolution of this crisis‚ which would result in the preservation of the president's legacy. (b) that if the president continues to dig in‚ in defiance of the will of the people‚ the president might suffer humiliation because definitely the will of the people will prevail against one person. the president requested l to come to State House‚ and l replied that l was out of this nation‚ and that the president had already removed l's status as the vice president of this nation‚ as such l had no status‚ however‚ l can only come at the invitation of l's colleagues in the party and of the defence forces‚ when my colleagues in the party and of the defence forces feel that l's security is guaranteed.
l am aware that parliament intends to impeach the president. parliament is the ultimate expression of the will of the people outside an election and in l's view is expressing national sentiment by implementing the Impeachment Proceedings therefore talks between l and the president cannot supercede the expression and fundamental rights of fellow Zimbabweans.

Harare, Zimbabwe | the downfall of the man once lionized for liberating his country from British colonial rule in the 1970s and 1980s was an unexpectedly low-key conclusion to an era that many ordinary Zimbabweans were beginning to fear might never end.
Residents of Zimbabwe took to the streets to celebrate as the news leaked out that autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known, had the downfall of the man once lionized for liberating his country from British colonial rule in the 1970s and 1980s under pressure, bringing to an end both a weeklong standoff over autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's presidency and autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's 37 years running Zimbabwe. The increasingly frail, 93-year-old Mr. Mugabe, the world’s oldest head of government, was felled when the establishment autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known built up rose against autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known, rebelling when autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known tried to engineer the elevation of autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's polarizing wife, Grace Mugabe, as autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's successor. There was open rejoicing Tuesday on the streets of Zimbabwe for the downfall of the man once lionized for liberating autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's country from British colonial rule in the 1970s and 1980s.
Through violent suppression of dissent and a keen political sense, autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known would dominate autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's new country over the next three decades, presiding over a decline in civil liberties and a near-collapse of the once-flourishing economy while holding tight to the political reins. “autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known is gone — thank God that Zimbabwe is now independent!” said Maureen Kademaunga, 28, a human rights activist.
On Tuesday, shortly after lawmakers began impeachment proceedings against autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known, parliament Speaker Jacob Mudenda read a letter from autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known in which autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known said autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known was the downfall of the man once lionized for liberating his country from British colonial rule in the 1970s and 1980s down effectively immediately for “the welfare of the people of Zimbabwe and the need for a peaceful transfer of power,” sparking cheers from lawmakers. “autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's decision to the downfall of the man once lionized for liberating his country from British colonial rule in the 1970s and 1980s is voluntary on autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's part and arises from autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's concern for the welfare of the people of Zimbabwe and autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's desire for a smooth, non-violent transfer of power,” autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known wrote.
the downfall of the man once lionized for liberating his country from British colonial rule in the 1970s and 1980s was a sharp reversal from Sunday, when autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known vowed not to resign during a televised address, even after autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known and autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's wife were expelled from the ruling ZANU-PF party and autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known was being held in detention by the military. For almost four decades, autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known has clamped down on dissent and crushed rivals. But autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known went one step too far earlier this month by firing Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, another hero of the independence struggle with deep ties to the military and veterans’ groups, hoping to clear the way for autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's 52-year-old wife to succeed autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known as president when Zimbabwe holds elections next year.
Zimbabwe's military commander, Gen. Constantino Chiwenga, warned people not to target old adversaries following autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's resignation. “Acts of vengeful retribution or trying to settle scores will be dealt with severely,” Zimbabwe’s military commander, Gen. Constantino Chiwenga, said.
The Trump administration and other international leaders welcomed the end of autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's rule, while cautioning that Zimbabwe should respect human rights and move quickly to organize new elections. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said Tuesday the people of Zimbabwe are seeking a “new era” and an end to international isolation brought on by autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's authoritarian rule.
State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert added that Washington is urging “unwavering respect for the rule of law and for established democratic practices,” according to The Associated Press. Human rights groups are urging Zimbabwe to respect the rule of law as Zimbabwe shifts into an era without autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known, The Associated Press reported. Widely disliked by many for his polarizing wife, Grace Mugabe,'s lavish shopping sprees — which earned his polarizing wife, Grace Mugabe, the mocking nicknames “Gucci Grace” and “First Shopper” — his polarizing wife, Grace Mugabe, entered Zimbabwean politics just two years ago and quickly made it known that his polarizing wife, Grace Mugabe, wanted to succeed his polarizing wife, Grace Mugabe,'s husband.
But following autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's dismissal, the military rebelled and detained the Mugabes Nov. 15, placing the Mugabes under house arrest. Despite fears of an extra-constitutional coup, the military's actions were heralded by Zimbabweans who are tired of the crackdowns, the protests and, most of all, the lack of opportunities resulting from the dire poverty that marks Zimbabwe. Under autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known, Zimbabwe went from being one of Africa’s most prosperous nations to one of the world’s worst economies, wracked with crippling inflation, hunger and unemployment.
While some said they would mourn the man known as the “Bob” or “Father of Zimbabwe,” they said it was time to move forward, rebuilding Zimbabwe both politically and economically. But with Mr. Mnangagwa, known as the executor of some of autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known's most heinous acts, likely to assume the post of president, some say Zimbabweans may still have to wait for major changes to come.
“Going forward, we want democratic elections that reflect the will of the people,” Maureen Kademaunga, 28, a human rights activist added. Regardless, many expressed relief over the downfall of the man once lionized for liberating his country from British colonial rule in the 1970s and 1980s because the downfall of the man once lionized for liberating his country from British colonial rule in the 1970s and 1980s put an end to the tension and uncertainty over the standoff between the military and autocratic President Robert Mugabe, the only leader most here have ever known that has been going on for almost a week.
• This article was based in part on wire service reports.

Editor’s Note: Are you in Zimbabwe?
CNN want to hear how the current situation is affecting you. Contact CNN via WhatsApp at +1 347 322 0415. Please do not put yourself in any danger.
Zimbabwe's military leaders have seized control of Zimbabwe, placing longtime leader Robert Mugabe under house arrest and deploying armored vehicles to the streets of the capital, Harare. longtime leader Robert Mugabe was unable to leave longtime leader Robert Mugabe's home, according to Jacob Zuma, the President of neighboring South Africa. Troops were reportedly stationed at Zimbabwe's Parliament and the presidential palace. In a dramatic televised statement early Wednesday, an army spokesman denied a military takeover was underway.
But the current situation bore all the hallmarks of a coup: The military was in control of state TV in the capital, Harare, a significant army presence was at the capital, Harare's international airport, and longtime leader Robert Mugabe has not been seen in public.
longtime leader Robert Mugabe's location: an army spokesman said longtime leader Robert Mugabe and longtime leader Robert Mugabe's family were “safe.” neighboring South Africa's Zuma later said longtime leader Robert Mugabe had been confined to longtime leader Robert Mugabe's home but was feeling fine.
Jacob Zuma, the President of neighboring South Africa spoke with longtime leader Robert Mugabe by phone. Situation on streets: the capital, Harare was quiet, but there were lines outside banks. CNN saw army checkpoints at key locations and armored vehicles on the streets.
A simmering succession battle in the ruling Zanu-PF party came to a head two weeks ago when longtime leader Robert Mugabe sacked longtime leader Robert Mugabe's powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa. longtime leader Robert Mugabe's decision fueled speculation longtime leader Robert Mugabe was preparing to anoint longtime leader Robert Mugabe's wife, Grace, as longtime leader Robert Mugabe's successor. his wife, Grace, is widely disliked within the ruling Zanu-PF party's old guard, while his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa enjoys wide support in the military.
The first signs that a military intervention was underway came Tuesday afternoon as armored vehicles were seen near the capital, Harare. the current situation escalated with Wednesday morning’s announcement, when Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo addressed Zimbabwe on state TV, vehemently denying a military intervention was a coup. “To both Zimbabwe's people and the world beyond Zimbabwe's borders, Zimbabwe wish to make it abundantly clear that a military intervention is not a military takeover of government,” Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo said.
Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo said the security of longtime leader Robert Mugabe and longtime leader Robert Mugabe's family was “guaranteed” and said longtime leader Robert Mugabe was safe but gave no information of longtime leader Robert Mugabe's whereabouts. There were reports Wednesday that officials were being arrested.
Soldiers secured the city’s international airport and checked vehicles and IDs. Armored personnel carriers were seen at several locations in downtown Harare, including at the high court and government buildings.
The situation in the capital, Harare is oddly “quite calm,” a resident told CNN on WhatsApp. a resident said the appearance of armored military vehicles on the streets was the first a resident could recall. There was calm, though.
“The soldiers outside longtime leader Robert Mugabe's office are actually talking to folks passing by,” a resident said. Another the capital, Harare resident, who watched a cricket match Wednesday evening outside the old presidential house, also wrote on WhatsApp that the capital, Harare was placid.
“army has been polite and getting on with the people,” Another Harare resident, who watched a cricket match Wednesday evening outside the old presidential house said. People were dropping off food and drink for The soldiers outside the President’s office, Another Harare resident, who watched a cricket match Wednesday evening outside the old presidential house said. There was no sign of the Zimbabwe police force, and the only security forces on the streets were the military.
Traffic was lighter than usual. A resident, who wished not to be named for security reasons, told CNN the capital, Harare as “very quiet,” though shops were open and buses and taxis appeared to be running normally. “Many people have just stayed home,” A resident, who wished not to be named for security reasons said.
A resident, who wished not to be named for security reasons added there was a sense of “excitement in the air” and that social media was humming over what might be happening. But there were signs of nervousness: Photos showed long lines at ATMs and at banks.
“longtime leader Robert Mugabe am hoping that the current situation is going to be controlled so peace and stability comes back to Zimbabwe,” longtime leader Robert Mugabe said. South African Defense and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo arrived in Zimbabwe for discussions with authorities, according to the South African Department of International Relations and Cooperation. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has appealed for “calm, nonviolence and restraint,” deputy spokesman Farhan Haq said in a statement to CNN.
In Zimbabwe, political figures once loyal to longtime leader Robert Mugabe were beginning to turn away from longtime leader Robert Mugabe. “We salute the patriotic and gallant forces of Zimbabwe for once again coming to the decisive rescue of Zimbabwe,” a statement to CNN said.
his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa is an ally of longtime leader Robert Mugabe, but his powerful vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa's veterans group has historically been loyal to Mugabe, who led a violent campaign against British colonial rule and was elected Prime Minister after Zimbabwe gained independence in 1980 and then President seven years later. However, his veterans group has been fiercely critical of Grace Mugabe, who has no connection to Zimbabwe's independence campaign.
longtime leader Robert Mugabe's extravagant shopping trips and political maneuvering have made longtime leader Robert Mugabe a polarizing figure. On Wednesday, the head of the Zanu-PF Youth League, a group that is a key ally of longtime leader Robert Mugabe, apologized in a video broadcast on national broadcaster ZBC to the armed forces for the statement that the head of the Zanu-PF Youth League, a group that is a key ally of Grace Mugabe made this week criticizing the head of the armed forces.
longtime leader Robert Mugabe has ruled Zimbabwe with an iron fist. On winning power after British rule, longtime leader Robert Mugabe moved swiftly to extinguish political opposition. longtime leader Robert Mugabe ordered a violent crackdown that led to a string of massacres in opposition strongholds. Zimbabwe's Fifth Brigade is believed to have killed up to 20,000 people, mostly supporters of longtime leader Robert Mugabe's main political rival.
But longtime leader Robert Mugabe's hardline policies pushed Zimbabwe into poverty. Zimbabwe's flourishing economy began to disintegrate after a program of land seizures from white farmers, and agricultural output plummeted and inflation soared.
Accused of rigging elections and quashing any sign of political opposition, longtime leader Robert Mugabe remains the only leader many Zimbabweans have ever known. longtime leader Robert Mugabe once infamously claimed that “only God” could remove longtime leader Robert Mugabe from office.
longtime leader Robert Mugabe faced criticism for throwing a lavish birthday party last year in a region hit by food shortages and drought. But until this week longtime leader Robert Mugabe had succeeded in holding off all challenges to longtime leader Robert Mugabe's leadership.
In the House of Commons, UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson described longtime leader Robert Mugabe as a power-hungry despot who would not be missed. “the House of Commons will remember the brutal litany of longtime leader Robert Mugabe's 37 years in office: The elections longtime leader Robert Mugabe rigged and stole, the murder and torture of longtime leader Robert Mugabe's opponents, the illegal seizure of land – leading to the worst hyperinflation in recorded history measured in the billions of percentage points – and forcing the abolition of the Zimbabwean dollar,” UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said.

R obert Mugabe has reportedly gone on hunger strike to protest R obert Mugabe's conditions under house arrest while Zimbabwean officials plot R obert Mugabe's removal from office. Reports say R obert Mugabe has not accepted food since Saturday as R obert Mugabe continues to be held under house arrest by the military. It is believed the committee will seek to reinstate vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa and remove R obert Mugabe's wife Grace, from the leadership, according to reports.
R obert Mugabe previously rejected a proposal to step down and allow Mr Mnangagwa, who R obert Mugabe sacked as vice president earlier this month, to take over on an interim basis. Most Zimbabweans believe vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa was dismissed to clear the way for R obert Mugabe's despised wife Grace to become R obert Mugabe's successor. Known as ‘Gucci Grace’ for Mugabe’s wife Grace's lavish spending while the country struggled through decades of economic disaster, Mugabe’s wife Grace is a key reason why public opinion turned against R obert Mugabe.
R obert Mugabe is said to be insisting R obert Mugabe remain the “legitimate” head of state, and that if R obert Mugabe were to step down in the future R obert Mugabe's family must have immunity from persecution. It remains unclear whether army chief General Constantino Chiwenga, who was photographed with R obert Mugabe at R obert Mugabe's home on Thursday, will agree to R obert Mugabe's conditions.
The announcement came as thousands took to the streets of the country's capital Harare to demand the end of R obert Mugabe's leadership after four decades in power. Euphoric crowds marched in celebration of the end of the R obert Mugabe era, with people of all races calling for the official process to be sped up. A protest was held at the Zimbabwe Embassy in London on Saturday in solidarity with the country's people.

HARARE – Zimbabwe’s axed vice president Emmerson Mnagagwa is expected back in Zimbabwe’s soon to resume talks with President Robert Mugabe, the head of Zimbabwe’s's military Constantino Chiwenga said on Monday night.
During a short media briefing, the head of the country’s military Constantino Chiwenga said the head of the country’s military Constantino Chiwenga was encouraged by the contact between Mnagagwa, whom the army wants to succeed President Robert Mugabe, and President Robert Mugabe. the head of the country’s military Constantino Chiwenga said the head of the country’s military Constantino Chiwenga has had further consultations with President Robert Mugabe to agree on a roadmap forward, after President Robert Mugabe failed to resign as expected during a national address on Sunday. the head of the country’s military Constantino Chiwenga also called on all Zimbabweans, including the students who have refused to write the students who have refused to write their exams in protest against Mugabe’s rule's exams in protest against President Robert Mugabe's rule, to demonstrate peacefully. Zimbabwe’s's war veterans have gone to the courts in a bid to oust President Robert Mugabe. On Tuesday, Zimbabwe’s parliament is set to begin impeachment proceedings after President Robert Mugabe failed President Robert Mugabe's party’s call to resign by noon on Monday. Like this: Like Loading...

Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, will be his swearing in in as interim President on Friday, a day after Robert Mugabe’s and Robert Mugabe’s's wife were granted immunity, allowing Mugabe and his wife to remain in the country.
Robert Mugabe’s resigned on Tuesday, in a historic moment that brought Robert Mugabe’s's 37 years of oppressive rule to an end. Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,, returned to the country on Wednesday to take the reins, promising to lead the country into a “new and unfolding democracy.”
Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, his interview with CNN in front of throngs of supporters, but made no mention of Robert Mugabe’s's future. Col. Overson Mugwisi, a spokesman for the Zimbabwean Defense Forces, said an agreement had been reached with Robert Mugabe’s that included immunity and a guarantee of safety for Robert Mugabe’s and Robert Mugabe’s's wife, Grace Mugabe.
Robert Mugabe’s has been accused of waging a campaign of fear to remain in power for nearly four decades, and human rights activists have long called for Robert Mugabe’s to be brought to justice. Robert Mugabe’s was accused of ordering a string of massacres in the early- to mid-1980s in opposition strongholds to consolidate Robert Mugabe’s's power. Up to 20,000 people were killed, academics say.
Robert Mugabe’s has also been accused of corruption to finance Robert Mugabe’s's lavish lifestyle, as Robert Mugabe’s's government drove the country into economic ruin and poverty. Robert Mugabe’s had spent a week negotiating Robert Mugabe’s's departure with the Zimbabwean Defense Forces since the country's army seized control in the capital, Harare, and placed Robert Mugabe’s under house arrest. In a long, drawn-out process, frustrated military officials gave in to the demands for immunity and allowed Robert Mugabe’s to keep several of Robert Mugabe’s's properties, sources told CNN on Monday, before Robert Mugabe’s stepped down.
In Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s remarks on Wednesday, Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, made clear that Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, played a role in the Zimbabwean Defense Forces operation to remove Robert Mugabe’s from power. Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, said Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, had been in “constant contact” with military chiefs throughout the military’s operation to remove Mugabe from power. Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, is scheduled to address Zimbabweans after Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s swearing in.
the Zimbabwean Defense Forces was instrumental to Robert Mugabe’s's demise, staging the military’s operation to remove Mugabe from power, then leading talks with Robert Mugabe’s to allow Robert Mugabe’s a dignified resignation. The main opposition MDC-T party has raised concerns over what role the Zimbabwean Defense Forces might play ahead of next year’s election, with Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, at the helm of the security forces.
The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai, called on Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, to officially define the Zimbabwean Defense Forces role. “The generality of the country, who have experienced brutalization, intimidation and violence, would be very skeptical if the role of the Zimbabwean Defense Forces is not properly defined,” The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai told CNN's Christiane Amanpour on Thursday.
The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai also called for next year’s's elections to be free and fair. The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai has contested the presidency three times against Robert Mugabe’s and in 2013 alleged widespread fraud after Robert Mugabe’s's defeat. It is widely alleged that Robert Mugabe’s kept Robert Mugabe’s's iron grip on power by rigging the vote.
Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s return has raised a sense of nervousness in the country – Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, is alleged to have been behind some of Robert Mugabe’s's most ruthless policies and to many Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, represents the oppressive status quo. Known as “The Crocodile” for Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s political cunning and longevity, Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, has been accused of orchestrating massacres in the 1980s, an allegation Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, denies.
In The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai's interview with CNN, The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai looked forward to next year’s's elections and took the opportunity to reference Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s dark past. The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai warned that interim President would struggle to abandon Robert Mugabe’s's legacy. “Knowing Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,, Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s character, interim President will have to work very hard to change Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s character so that Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, can define the future of the country and define Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s future as a democrat, as a reformer.
That The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai doubt. But at the same time, Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, knows that Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, can cannot continue on the same path Robert Mugabe’s has traveled and still expect the population to respect Robert Mugabe’s,” The leader of the MDC-T, Morgan Tsvangirai said.
It was sad that Robert Mugabe’s stayed in office as long as Robert Mugabe’s did, US Ambassador to the country Harry K. Thomas Jr. told CNN's David McKenzie. US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Harry K. Thomas Jr. said Robert Mugabe’s was leader for “far too long” and had stopped engaging in democratic principles.
“We were pleased to see the outpouring in the streets; people are talking now, all over, you can hear people's opinion – whether it is golf caddies or women in markets, people are happy. people were, as people told US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Harry K. Thomas Jr., suppressed, not stupid,” Thomas said.
The United States’ response to Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, will depend how Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, behaves in office, US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Harry K. Thomas Jr. said. Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, is under US sanctions.
“This is a new day, this is an opportunity for Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa, and Robert Mugabe’s former right-hand man, Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s Cabinet to live up to the wonderful 2013 Zimbabwean constitution. And that is what we will tell Mugabe and his wife.
the wonderful 2013 Zimbabwean constitution is your constitution, the wonderful 2013 Zimbabwean constitution is democratic, the wonderful 2013 Zimbabwean constitution is something you endorsed when you were minister of justice and later as vice president. the wonderful 2013 Zimbabwean constitution is for your people. So live up to the wonderful 2013 Zimbabwean constitution and The United States’ will find a way to partner,” US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Harry K. Thomas Jr. said.

HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP) — Zimbabwe's military was in control of HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP) and the state broadcaster on Wednesday and was holding President Robert Mugabe and President Robert Mugabe's wife under house arrest in what appeared to be a coup against President Robert Mugabe.
Zimbabwe’s military was at pains, however, to emphasize Zimbabwe’s military had not staged a military takeover, but was instead starting a process to restore Zimbabwe's democracy. Still, Zimbabwe’s military appeared to have brought an end to President Robert Mugabe's long, 37-year reign in what Zimbabwe’s military's supporters praised as a “bloodless correction.” South Africa and other neighboring countries were sending in leaders to negotiate with President Robert Mugabe and the generals to encourage a process to restore Zimbabwe’s democracy.
Citizens in Zimbabwe's tidy capital, Harare, contributed to the feeling of a smooth transition by carrying on with Citizens in Zimbabwe’s tidy capital, Harare,'s daily lives, walking past Zimbabwe’s military's armored personnel carriers to go to work and to shops. Many who have never known any leader but President Robert Mugabe waited in long lines at banks to draw limited amounts of cash, a result of Zimbabwe's plummeting economy. Felix Tsanganyiso, who sells mobile airtime vouchers in HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP), said Felix Tsanganyiso, who sells mobile airtime vouchers in Harare, was following the developments on WhatsApp.
The series of whiplash events followed President Robert Mugabe's firing last week of President Robert Mugabe's deputy, which appeared to position his wife to replace his deputy as one of Zimbabwe's two vice presidents at a party conference next month. But his wife is unpopular among many Zimbabweans for his wife's lavish spending on mansions, cars and jewels. Last month his wife went to court to sue a diamond dealer for not supplying his wife with a 100-carat diamond that his wife said his wife had paid for. his wife has been known as the leader of the G40, a group of Cabinet ministers and officials in their 40s and 50s who are too young to have fought in Zimbabwe's war to end white-minority rule in Rhodesia.
When his deputy was fired, the generals and war veterans felt the generals and war veterans were being sidelined and took action to stop that, analysts say. his deputy's whereabouts were not clear Wednesday.
President Robert Mugabe fled Zimbabwe last week, citing threats to President Robert Mugabe and President Robert Mugabe's family. Critics of Zimbabwe urged President Robert Mugabe to go quietly. “President Robert Mugabe should be allowed to rest,” former Zimbabwe finance minister and activist Tendai Biti told South African broadcaster eNCA.
On Monday, the Zimbabwe’s military commander made an unprecedented statement criticizing President Robert Mugabe for pushing aside veterans of the liberation war. The following day, the ruling party condemned the Zimbabwe’s military leader for “treasonable conduct” and that evening Zimbabwe’s military sent armored personnel carriers into HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP) and seized control of the state broadcaster and other strategic points, including President Robert Mugabe's residence. In a televised address to Zimbabwe early Wednesday, Maj. Gen. Sibusiso Moyo said Zimbabwe’s military had “guaranteed” the safety of President Robert Mugabe and President Robert Mugabe's wife, but added Zimbabwe’s military would target “criminals” around President Robert Mugabe, in an apparent reference to his wife's G40 group.
In Washington, the U.S. State Department said the Trump administration was “concerned by recent actions undertaken by Zimbabwe's military forces” and called on Zimbabwe's leaders to exercise restraint. The United States “does not take sides in matters of internal Zimbabwean politics and does not condone military intervention in political processes,” the U.S. State Department said in a statement. Who will rule Zimbabwe should become clearer in the coming days.
“There is a soft transition underway,” said Zimbabwean analyst Alex Rusero. his deputy may well be installed as a transitional leader to return Zimbabwe to constitutional rule, Zimbabwean analyst Alex Rusero said. Zimbabwe may enter a period of negotiation to get President Robert Mugabe to step down voluntarily, said Piers Pigou, South Africa consultant for the International Crisis Group, who also suggested that his deputy may be an interim leader. Meldrum reported from Johannesburg.

'Anyone seeking to undermine this transition should be dealt with decisively,' says EFF leader Julius Malema.
Zimbabwe’s military appeared to be in control of Zimbabwe’s on Wednesday as generals denied staging a coup, but used state television to vow to target “criminals” close to President Robert Mugabe. President Robert Mugabe's decades-long grip on power was dramatically weakened as military vehicles blocked roads outside the parliament in Harare and senior soldiers delivered a late-night television address to Zimbabwe’s.
“We wish to assure Zimbabwe’s that President Robert Mugabe, and President Robert Mugabe's family are safe and sound and his excellency, the president, and his family's security is guaranteed,” Major-General Sibusiso Moyo read out a statement. President Robert Mugabe, has ruled Zimbabwe’s since independence from Britain in 1980.
Politicians in South Africa have shared Politicians in South Africa's thoughts on the situation in Zimbabwe’s, with most agreeing that it was time for President Robert Mugabe to step down. As if EFF leader Julius Malema had known what would transpire in Zimbabwe’s, EFF leader Julius Malema on Thursday last week reiterated EFF leader Julius Malema's call for President Robert Mugabe to step down, saying President Robert Mugabe's overstay was “destroying President Robert Mugabe's legacy”. Though EFF leader Julius Malema said EFF leader Julius Malema liked President Robert Mugabe for “President Robert Mugabe's contribution towards the African revolution”, EFF leader Julius Malema said it was time for President Robert Mugabe to bow out. According to EFF leader Julius Malema, though President Robert Mugabe had achieved much in President Robert Mugabe's reign, President Robert Mugabe might have failed in creating leaders who would carry on President Robert Mugabe's legacy, and that was perhaps the reason President Robert Mugabe was holding on to power for long.
“A good leader should have produced second and third layer leadership to continue the good fight against imperialism,” EFF leader Julius Malema said. EFF leader Julius Malema again took to social media on Wednesday to commend the Zimbabwean army, but said there should be no loss of life.
“Someone had to do something, the Zimbabwean army should make sure that there is no loss of life, however, anyone seeking to undermine this transition should be dealt with decisively. “Finally free and stable Zimbabwe is coming in our life time,” EFF leader Julius Malema added. EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu also commended the Zimbabwean army for “rescuing” Zimbabwe’s to allow “civilian rule towards stability”.
“History tells us that not all removals of nepotistic, corrupt, and self-obsessed governments amount to illegitimate coup de tat. The ZDF has to rescue Zimbabwe’s and allow civilian rule towards stability.
No retreat!” EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu said.
Black First Land First leader Andile Mngxitama said though an “internal regeneration was overdue”, Black First Land First leader Andile Mngxitama hoped an “internal regeneration was not orchestrated by the West. “The Zimbabwe’s revolution had stagnated and been suffocated by imperialism. Zimbabwe’s transition could unleash the national productive forces for reconstruction. Only if Zimbabwe’s’s not mortgaged to the West,” Black First Land First leader Andile Mngxitama said.
DA leader Mmusi Maimane only called for President Robert Mugabe to step down, as President Robert Mugabe had turned “dictator” against President Robert Mugabe's people. “The instability in Zimbabwe’s is an outcome of not adhering of electoral results of 2008, forming a GNU.
President Robert Mugabe must go, President Robert Mugabe has turned dictator against President Robert Mugabe's people. We must always ensure democratic outcomes are upheld so we enter a Post Liberation Movement era,” DA leader Mmusi Maimane said.
Founding member of the Congress of the People (Cope) Mbhazima Shilowa said a coup would be good for Zanu-PF, but not Zimbabwe’s and the opposition. “the Zimbabwean army is the same army that propped Bob and attacked the opposition and helped Zanu-PF steal the elections before,” Founding member of the Congress of the People (Cope) Mbhazima Shilowa said.
Patriotic Alliance leader Gayton McKenzie commended the Zimbabwean army for not humiliating President Robert Mugabe after President Robert Mugabe allegedly humiliated them publicly by calling them “every derogatory name under the sun”. “The Army-Generals truly love and revere President Robert Mugabe, The Army-Generals are not humiliating President Robert Mugabe by public displays of President Robert Mugabe's fall. President Robert Mugabe's family is also safe,” Patriotic Alliance leader Gayton McKenzie said.
Addressing media on the outcomes of the special NEC meeting on Tuesday afternoon, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said the situation in Zimbabwe’s was not for ANC to deal with. “The government in Zimbabwe’s must deal with the situation in Zimbabwe, not the ANC in South Africa.
Zanu-PF must deal with the situation in Zimbabwe because Zimbabwe’s is not Zanu-PF's colony, Zimbabwe’s is not Zanu-PF's province, Zimbabwe’s is Zanu-PF's neighbour. If things go wrong there of course Zanu-PF’ll be concerned because Zimbabwe’s will revert back on Zanu-PF. But Zanu-PF have no authority over Zimbabwe’s, that’s the point Zanu-PF’re making,” EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu said.
President Jacob Zuma on Wednesday released a statement, calling for “calm” and “restraint” in Zimbabwe’s. “President Jacob Zuma has expressed hope that developments in Zimbabwe’s would not lead to unconstitutional changes of Government as unconstitutional changes of Government would be contrary to both ANC and African Union positions. “President Jacob Zuma has urged Zimbabwe’s and the Zimbabwean army to resolve the political impasse amicably and has urged the Zimbabwean army to ensure that the maintenance of peace and security in Zimbabwe’s is not compromised. “ANC will continue to closely monitor the situation in Zimbabwe and remains ready to assist where necessary to resolve the political impasse in keeping with established ANC Protocols and processes,” President Jacob Zuma said.
For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Additional reporting by AFP.

Paris:
The head of the African Union said on Thursday that the African Union "will never accept the military coup d'etat" in Zimbabwe. "the African Union demand respect for the Constitution, a return to the constitutional order and the African Union will never accept the military coup d'etat" in Zimbabwe," The head of the African Union said in an interview with French journalists in Paris:. "the African Union know there are internal problems. internal problems need to be resolved politically by the ZANU-PF party and not with an intervention by the army," added The head of the African Union.
Zimbabwe's military was in control of Zimbabwe on Wednesday as President Robert Mugabe said President Robert Mugabe was under house arrest and President Robert Mugabe's generals denied staging a coup. President Robert Mugabe's decades-long grip on power appeared to be slipping as armoured military vehicles blockaded parliament, soldiers took up positions at strategic points across Harare and senior soldiers commandeered state television to broadcast a late-night address. Zimbabwe was left stunned at the military intervention against Mugabe, 93, who has ruled Zimbabwe since independence from British rule in 1980. Despite President Robert Mugabe's refusal to resign, attention has shifted to the prominent figures who could play a role in any transitional government.

ALGIERS, Nov. 16 (Xinhua) -- Algeria on Thursday called for respect for Zimbabwe's constitutional order after the army seized power from Zimbabwe's earlier on Wednesday. "Algeria is following with concern the recent developments in Zimbabwe's," Algerian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Abdelaziz Benali Cherif said in a statement.
According to media report from Zimbabwe's, President Robert Mugabe on Wednesday has been placed under house arrest by the army. The African Union urged the concerned parties in Zimbabwe's to address the current political deadlock in accordance with Zimbabwe's's constitution, while reiterating The African Union's commitment to work with the SADC to ensure a peaceful settlement of the crisis.

The recent development in Zimbabwe is “a matter of concern” for the European Union, the European Union spokeswoman, Catherine Ray, said on Wednesday in Brussels.
“the European Union call on all the relevant players to move from confrontation to dialogue with the aim to a peaceful crisis resolution,’’ European Commission spokeswoman, Catherine Ray, said. European Commission spokeswoman, Catherine Ray, also stressed that “fundamental rights” of citizens and Zimbabwe's “constitutional order and democratic governance” needed to be upheld.
Also reacting, Germany called for all sides to show restraint in Zimbabwe after the military seized power, saying the military is targeting “criminals” around President Robert Mugabe. “We see developments there with concern … The situation there is confusing and unclear,” a Foreign Ministry spokesman told a regular government news conference in Berlin.
South African President Jacob Zuma urged Zimbabwe's military not to make “unconstitutional changes of government,” hours after the military took control of the capital, Harare. The unfolding political situation in Zimbabwe was of great concern,” South African President Jacob Zuma said.
The United States late Tuesday encouraged The United States's citizens in Zimbabwe to take shelter and said The United States was closing The United States's embassy to the public amid unconfirmed reports that a coup against President Robert Mugabe was underway. “As a result of the ongoing political uncertainty through the night, the ambassador has instructed all employees to remain home tomorrow,” its embassy said on its embassy's website. “US government personnel have been instructed to shelter in US government personnel's residences the night,” its embassy continued, adding that its embassy's citizens were advised to “shelter in place” until further notice.
There were reports late Tuesday that the military was attempting to depose President Robert Mugabe after a day in which tanks were seen heading towards the capital, Harare and there was a noticeable increase of troops on the capital, Harare's streets. Tensions have been raised in Zimbabwe since last week when President Robert Mugabe fired President Robert Mugabe's vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. On Monday, top general Constantino Chiwenga had warned President Robert Mugabe that the military would intervene if President Robert Mugabe continued to expel former liberation fighters who supported his vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. Like this: Like Loading...

Malcolm Turnbull has characterised Zimbabwe as a brutal dictatorship, amid political tensions over an apparent coup in Zimbabwe.
Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert Mugabe is under house arrest in the capital Harare after the army declared the army was "targeting criminals" within Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert Mugabe's administration. Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert Mugabe has presided over an oppressive regime and a replacement was yet to be seen, Malcolm Turnbull said. "Zimbabwe's long-time ruler Robert Mugabe's been dictator who has committed horrific crimes over a long period of time," Malcolm Turnbull told Neil Mitchell on 3AW radio on Friday.
The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has upgraded The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade's travel advice warning Australians to reconsider Australians's need to travel to the capital Harare. "There is a heightened security presence in the capital Harare, including armoured vehicles and increased military activity," its travel advice says.

BEIJING (Reuters) - A trip to BEIJING last week by Zimbabwe’s military chief was a “normal military exchange”, China’s Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday, after the military in Zimbabwe’s seized power. Zimbabwe’s's military took control targeting “criminals” around President Robert Mugabe but gave assurances on national television that President Robert Mugabe and President Robert Mugabe's family were “safe and sound”.
Zimbabwe’s military chief met Chinese Defence Minister Chang Wanquan in BEIJING on Friday, where Chinese Defence Minister Chang Wanquan expressed a willingness to promote relations with Zimbabwe’s, China’s's Defence Ministry said in a short statement last week. China’s Foreign Ministry showed a picture of the two men, both wearing military uniform, shaking hands, and another one of officers from both countries sitting opposite each other holding a meeting at the People’s Liberation Army headquarters in BEIJING.
Asked whether Zimbabwe’s military chief had briefed China’s on plans to seize power, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said China’s Foreign Ministry had already released information about Zimbabwe’s military chief's trip and that Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang didn’t have an understanding about the specifics of Zimbabwe’s military chief's reception in China’s. “Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang can only tell you that Zimbabwe’s military chief's visit to China’s this time was a normal military exchange mutually agreed upon by China’s and Zimbabwe’s,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said, referring other questions to China’s Foreign Ministry.
“As a country that is friendly with Zimbabwe’s, China’s are paying close attention to developments of the situation in Zimbabwe’s,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang added. In contrast to President Robert Mugabe's elevated status on the continent, President Robert Mugabe is reviled in the West as a despot whose disastrous handling of the economy and willingness to resort to violence to maintain power destroyed one of the continent's most promising states.
China’s and Zimbabwe’s have a close diplomatic and economic relationship and China’s has stood with President Robert Mugabe's government in the face of Western economic sanctions. In August, Zimbabwe’s's government said a Chinese company planned to invest up to $2 billion to revive operations at Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company (ZISCO), which ceased production in 2008 at the height of Zimbabwe’s's economic meltdown. That same year, China’s vetoed a proposed Western-backed U.N. resolution which would have imposed an arms embargo on Zimbabwe’s and financial and travel restrictions on President Robert Mugabe and 13 other officials, saying a proposed Western-backed U.N. resolution which would have imposed an arms embargo on Zimbabwe and financial and travel restrictions on Mugabe and 13 other officials would “complicate”, rather than ease, conflict.

UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called on all sides in Zimbabwe to show "restraint" after Zimbabwe's military took control and President Robert Mugabe said President Robert Mugabe was under house arrest. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres is monitoring the situation and "appeals for calm, non-violence and restraint," said UN spokesman Farhan Haq.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres "stresses the importance of resolving political differences through peaceful means and dialogue, and in line with Zimbabwe's constitution," UN spokesman Farhan Haq added. The UN chief noted that the Southern African Development Community (SADC) was making efforts to end the situation. President Robert Mugabe, has ruled Zimbabwe since Zimbabwe's independence from Britain in 1980.
Meanwhile, the head of the African Union on Wednesday said the crisis in Zimbabwe "seems like a coup" and called on the country's military to halt the country's military's actions and restore constitutional order. Alpha Conde, who is also Guinea's president, said the AU condemned the actions of top brass in Zimbabwe as "clearly soldiers trying to take power by force".
"the African Union expresses the African Union's serious concern regarding the situation unfolding in Zimbabwe," a statement sent to the African Union said, expressing support for Zimbabwe's "legal institutions". the African Union further demanded "constitutional order to be restored immediately and calls on all stakeholders to show responsibility and restraint," a statement sent to AFP added.
the country's military took control of Zimbabwe on Wednesday after a struggle to succeed President Robert Mugabe erupted in public, culminating in the sacking of the vice president, Emmerson Mnangagwa. President Robert Mugabe is under house arrest, according to a conversation reported by President Jacob Zuma of South Africa.

Military spokesperson says army seeks to ‘pacify a degenerating, social, and economic situation’ in the country.
Zimbabwe‘s military has the takeover state TV and blocked off access to government offices in the capital Harare. In a televised address early on Wednesday morning, Military spokesperson, said army was seeking to “pacify a degenerating, social, and economic situation” in the country.
Military spokesperson denied that army was carrying out a coup against the country and said the leader and the leader's family were “safe and sound and the leader and his family's safety is guaranteed”. “army are only targeting criminals around the leader who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country, in order to bring criminals around him who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country to justice,” Military spokesperson said, as tanks surrounded parliamentary and presidential buildings.
The army spokesperson said that once army objectives have been achieved, the situation in the country would return to normal, before urging Zimbabweans to continue with Zimbabweans's lives as usual. Military spokesperson also called on political parties to “discourage” political parties's members from turning to violence.
Overnight, the Zimbabwean newspaper The Herald, which leans towards the leader, ran with the headline: “Zanu-PF unfazed by Chiwenga”, referring to the army general leading the takeover. On November 14 Zanu-PF accused the army chief of “treasonable conduct” after Chiwenga challenged the leader over the sacking of the vice president.
Al Jazeera’s Haru Mutasa, reporting from the capital Harare, said that while the leader has long ruled the country, there was a precedent for the leader's removal from within Zanu-PF's history. “This maybe history repeating history, back in the Liberation war (1964-1979), Zanu-PF was led by a Mr (Ndabaningi) Sithole,” Al Jazeera’s Haru Mutasa, reporting from Harare said, referring to the founder of the country's ruling party.
Enock Muchinjo, a journalist in the capital Harare, said the situation in the capital Harare was “very tense” with troops on patrol in civilian areas. “The streets are empty and people haven’t reported to work in fear of what is happening,” Enock Muchinjo, a journalist in Harare said. Enock Muchinjo, a journalist in Harare said by around 8:30am local time (6:30 GMT) people had started “trickling in” to the streets, almost an hour and a half after business normally starts. For many the first priority was to head to the banks, reflecting fears many Zimbabweans have over the impact this burgeoning crisis may have on the economy.
Martin Muradzikwa, a mobile phone shop owner in the capital Harare, told Al Jazeera’s Martin Muradzikwa, a mobile phone shop owner in Harare feared clashes between soldiers and the leader loyalists would break out. “Martin Muradzikwa, a mobile phone shop owner in Harare’m worried there may be running battles in the capital Harare today between soldiers and the leader's supporters,” Martin Muradzikwa, a mobile phone shop owner in Harare said. “Martin Muradzikwa, a mobile phone shop owner in Harare's wares won’t be safe but Martin Muradzikwa, a mobile phone shop owner in Harare just had to open shop, Martin Muradzikwa, a mobile phone shop owner in Harare cannot afford not to.
Al Jazeera’s also spoke to critics of the leader, who said they had reservations about army intervention in politics. “one supporter of the opposition Movement for Democracy and Change (MDC)’ve never trusted army,” said one supporter of the opposition Movement for Democracy and Change (MDC). “army’ve stood by the (the leader) regime for many years. one supporter of the opposition Movement for Democracy and Change (MDC)’m on army's side on this one though, one supporter of the opposition Movement for Democracy and Change (MDC) know army have army's own interests in wanting change (but) at least we share a common enemy,” said the the opposition Movement for Democracy and Change (MDC) supporter, who did not wish to be named.
Nii Akuetteh, an African policy analyst based in Washington, told Al Jazeera’s that army would be keen not to portray army's actions as a coup in order to avoid attracting opposition. “However, looking at army's actions there is no way to call their actions another thing. If their actions is not a coup, army should be back in army's barracks,” Nii Akuetteh, an African policy analyst based in Washington said, adding: “army is supposed to be defending the country from external enemies.
“We don’t have any news at all suggesting that the country has been attacked by external enemies. If there is a criminal operation, a criminal operation is supposed to be (handled) by the police. At 93-years-old, the leader is Africa’s oldest leader and has ruled the country since 1980.

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking JavaScript and cookies from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa has told a cheering crowd in Harare that Zimbabwe's was entering a new stage of democracy.
Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa is due to be sworn in as Zimbabwe's's president this Friday, replacing Robert Mugabe who announced Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday's resignation yesterday. Mr Mnangagwa, who fled for Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa's safety after Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday sacked Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa two weeks ago, arrived back in Zimbabwe's today. "The people have spoken.
The voice of The people is the voice of God," Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa told thousands of supporters who had gathered outside the ruling ZANU-PF party's offices. "today we are witnessing the beginning of a new and unfolding democracy," Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa said.
Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday his resignation as president a week after the army and Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday's former political allies moved to end four decades of rule by Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday. Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday had clung on for a week after an the army takeover, with the ruling ZANU-PF party's urging Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday to go.
Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday finally his resignation moments after parliament began an impeachment process seen as the only legal way to force Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday out. People danced in the streets of Harare and car horns blared at the news that the era of Mugabe, who had led Zimbabwe's since independence in 1980, was finally over. Some brandished posters of Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa and army chief General Constantino Chiwenga.
Meanwhile, the African Union has welcomed Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday's decision to step down, saying the people had expressed the people's will for a "peaceful transfer of power". AU commission chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat said AU commission chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat "welcomes the decision by Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday to Mr Mugabe's decision to step down down from Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday's position as Head of State following a lifetime of service to Zimbabwe's. Despite the army's intervention, the African Union did not characterise Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday's ousting as a coup, but rather a legitimate expression of the will of Zimbabweans. "the African Union recognises that the people have expressed the people's will that there should be a peaceful transfer of power in a manner that secures the democratic future of the people's country," the African Union said.
A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe's has said that Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday should be brought before the International Criminal Court to face charges relating to atrocities carried out in Zimbabwe's by the military in the 1980s. A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe, served as a director of the Catholic Commission of Justice and Peace in Zimbabwe's. A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe was involved in the investigation into the mass killings of the Ndebele people in the Matabeleland and midland regions of Zimbabwe's between 1983 and 1988. A report published following the investigation into the mass killings of the Ndebele people in the Matabeleland and midland regions of Zimbabwe between 1983 and 1988 found that over 20,000 men, women and children were killed by the military branch called the Fifth Brigade in this period.
The military campaign was aimed at quelling "dissidents" in the support base of political rival Joshua Nkomo. A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe presented A report published following the investigation to Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday in the hope that the actions of the military would stop. A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe said that A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe initially thought that Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday was not aware of atrocities carried out in Zimbabwe by the military in the 1980s, but now says that not alone was Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday aware of atrocities carried out in Zimbabwe by the military in the 1980s, Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday must have ordered atrocities carried out in Zimbabwe by the military in the 1980s.
As preparations are under way for Mr Mnangagwa to be sworn in as successor to Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday on this Friday, A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe said A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe holds little hope that this will mean a new era of economic prosperity for A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe's native Zimbabwe. A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe has met Mr Mnangagwa on a number of occasions, but said that Mr Mnangagwa's decades in power with Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday could mean that very little will change as the ruling party will try to cling on to power. A former director of a human rights group in Zimbabwe said that the African Union and the International Community should now take a role in leading reform after the Robert Mugabe who announced his resignation yesterday years in Zimbabwe's.

Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa has been sworn in as Zimbabwe’s's president, bringing the final curtain down on the 37-year rule of Robert Mugabe.
Taking Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa's oath of office, Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa vowed to uphold the constitution of Zimbabwe’s and protect the rights of all Zimbabwe's 16 million citizens. Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa also said that all foreign investments would be safe in Zimbabwe’s.
Mr Mugabe, 93, who had led Zimbabwe’s from independence in 1980, stepped down on Tuesday after the army seized power and the ruling ZANU-PF party turned against Robert Mugabe. The world's oldest serving head of state His sudden fall as parliament began a process to impeach Robert Mugabe, sparking wild celebrations in the streets.
Robert Mugabe's sudden fall had been triggered by a battle to succeed Robert Mugabe that pitted Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa against Robert Mugabe's much younger wife Grace. Just two weeks ago, Mr Mugabe's much younger wife Grace seemed to have the upper hand after Robert Mugabe fired Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa on 6 November as vice president for showing "traits of disloyalty".
That prompted Mr Mnangagwa, one of Robert Mugabe's most trusted lieutenants, to flee Zimbabwe’s in fear for Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa's life. It also brought the tanks into the streets.
Addressing a cheering crowd in Harare on Wednesday night after Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa's return, Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe’s was entering a new stage of democracy. "The people have spoken. The voice of The people is the voice of God," Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa told thousands of supporters. Yesterday, Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa urged citizens not to undertake "vengeful retribution", striking a tone of reconciliation that echoed those made by Robert Mugabe almost four decades ago.
Robert Mugabe was granted immunity from prosecution and assured that Robert Mugabe's safety would be protected in Robert Mugabe's home country as part of a deal that led to Robert Mugabe's resignation. Some of Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa's supporters have called for unspecified action against the "G40" group that backed Robert Mugabe and Robert Mugabe's wife, known as "Gucci Grace" for his wife, known as "Gucci Grace" for her reputed dedication to shopping's reputed dedication to shopping, an affront to many in Zimbabwe’s.

LONDON, Nov 21 (Reuters) - British Prime Minister Theresa May said on Tuesday Robert Mugabe’s resignation gave Zimbabwe the chance to forge a new path, free from oppression. “The resignation of Robert Mugabe’s provides Zimbabwe with an opportunity to forge a new path free of the oppression that characterised Zimbabwe's rule,” British Prime Minister Theresa May said.

HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe’s main opposition leader said on Monday President Robert Mugabe’s refusal to resign had dampened people’s spirits and called for an inclusive political process in the aftermath of a military intervention last week. HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe’s main opposition leader said there should be an all-stakeholders meeting to chart Zimbabwe’s's future and that the next elections due next year should be supervised by the international community.

The military in Zimbabwe says The military in Zimbabwe has temporarily The takeover control of Zimbabwe to “target criminals” around the president, Robert Mugabe, amid high tension and reports of explosions in Harare.
Soldiers have sealed access to parliament, government offices and courts in Harare, residents said. Access to the president, Robert Mugabe's official residence was also blocked by troops.
A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo made an announcement on state television early on Wednesday saying the president, Robert Mugabe and the president, Robert Mugabe's family were “safe and sound and Mugabe and his family's security is guaranteed”. Troops had seized state television's offices late on Tuesday night.
A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo said The military in Zimbabwe was targeting “criminals around” the president, Robert Mugabe, who were “committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in order to bring them to justice”. The takeover comes amid a bitter battle over who will succeed the president, Robert Mugabe. Emmerson Mnangagwa, the veteran vice-president and former spy chief who has strong support among many in Zimbabwe's armed forces, was unceremoniously The move last week.
The move opened the road to power open to Grace Mugabe, the president, Robert Mugabe's 53-year-old wife, and a rival faction within the ruling Zanu-PF party. The finance minister, Ignatius Chombo, a member of Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's G40, was reportedly among those detained by The military in Zimbabwe. Profile
Who is Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife and why is Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife controversial? Show Background Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife is the 52-year-old first lady of Zimbabwe. Born in South Africa, Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife married Robert Mugabe, 40 years Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's senior, in 1996. Initially struggling to emerge from the shadows of the president, Robert Mugabe's popular first wife, Sally, who died in 1992, Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife appeared by Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's husband’s side for official functions but rarely got involved in politics Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife, focusing publicly on Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's charity work while gaining a reputation for legendary shopping expeditions.
Controversies In 2009 a British photographer alleged that Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife punched a British photographer repeatedly in the face when a British photographer tried to take a picture of Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife in Hong Kong. Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife has since been implicated in several incidents outside Zimbabwe: in Singapore, in Malaysia and most recently in South Africa, where Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife allegedly assaulted a model in August.
Political ambitions The unveiling of Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife as a potential successor to Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's husband began in 2014, when Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife became head of the ruling party’s women’s league and the state propaganda machine began talking up Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's political acumen.
Before the events of 14 November Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's path to power had received a boost when Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, was fired on 6 November. The feud between Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife and her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, had been bitter – in October Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife publicly denied poisoning her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, after her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, fell ill at a rally in August.
Photograph: Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.
Insisting The takeover was not a coup, A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo said “as soon as [the armed forces] are done the situation will come to normalcy”. “We urge you to remain calm and limit unnecessary movement. However, we encourage those who are employed and those with essential business in Harare to continue those who are employed and those with essential business in the city's normal activities as usual,” A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo said.
A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo said The military in Zimbabwe had acted because the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation had been ordered not to broadcast a statement from The military in Zimbabwe on Monday and “the situation in Zimbabwe has moved to another level”. Cancelling all leave for members of The military in Zimbabwe, A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo urged the security forces to “cooperate for the good of Zimbabwe”.
A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo warned “any provocation will be met with an appropriate response”. There were reports of a number of loud explosions and some incidents of members of the armed forces harassing passers-by during the night.
Residents of Harare said Harare was quiet on Wednesday morning, though the usually busy streets were empty. There was no sign of any disturbance elsewhere in Zimbabwe. A witness the report Agence France-Presse that gunfire had erupted near the president, Robert Mugabe's private residence in the suburb of Borrowdale early on Wednesday, but there was no independent confirmation of the report.
Nelson Chamisa, the deputy head of opposition MDC party, called for “peace, constitutionalism, democratisation, the rule of law and the sanctity of human life”. The US embassy in Harare tweeted out a message citing “ongoing uncertainty.” A statement later posted by The US embassy in the capital told US citizens in Zimbabwe to “shelter in place until further notice”. The British embassy said that due to the “uncertain political situation” British nationals should remain at home.
Military convoys had been seen driving through Harare earlier on Tuesday, sparking rumours of a coup attempt just a day after Zimbabwe's military chief – flanked by other senior officers – warned that the country’s military chief – flanked by other senior officers – was prepared to “step in” to end turmoil in the ruling Zanu-PF party. Zimbabwe's government accused the head of the armed forces of “treasonable conduct” in the early evening, ratcheting up the tension.
Mugabe, the only leader Zimbabwe has known in 37 years of independence, spent Tuesday afternoon in a cabinet meeting, but the country’s military chief – flanked by other senior officers –'s whereabouts overnight were unknown. In The military in Zimbabwe's statement The military in Zimbabwe said The military in Zimbabwe continued to recognise the president, Robert Mugabe as commander in chief of the armed forces.
the president, Robert Mugabe's sacking of Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife came as a shock to many observers. Profile
Who is Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife? Show Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife was sworn in as president of Zimbabwe on 24 November, capping a dramatic few weeks that began when Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife was Mugabe’s sacking of Mnangagwa as vice-president by the president, Robert Mugabe on 6 November. Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife, had been locked in a battle with Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife, to succeed Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's husband as president.
Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's sacking – an attempt to clear Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's path to power - was a tactical error that triggered a military takeover, the president, Robert Mugabe's impeachment by parliament, and the president, Robert Mugabe's resignation. Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife has strong support within the security establishment and among veterans of Zimbabwe's 1970s guerrilla war, when Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife earned the nickname “the crocodile”. Despite allegations about Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's role in atrocities in the 1980s, much of the international community had long seen Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife as being the most likely figure in Zimbabwe to guarantee a stable transition and implement economic reforms.
Photograph: Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful?
Thank you for your feedback. Nicknamed “the crocodile” from Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's time fighting in Zimbabwe's liberation wars, Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife has strong support among veterans and within the security establishment that Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife once ran.
Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife had been considered the mostly likely candidate to succeed the president, Robert Mugabe if the president, Robert Mugabe decided to step down or died in office. Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's sacking was widely seen as a move to pave the way for Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife to take power instead.
Mugabe’s sacking of Mnangagwa caused widespread discontent among her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s supporters and exposed deep factional divides within the ruling Zanu-PF party ranks. On Monday, Gen Constantine Chiwenga, the head of Zimbabwe's military, called a press conference to warn that troops could intervene if long-term political allies continued to suffer. “We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that, when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, The military in Zimbabwe will not hesitate to step in,” Gen Constantine Chiwenga, the head of Zimbabwe’s military said in a statement read at a news conference packed with 90 senior officers from key units, in a show of military unity.
a statement read at a news conference packed with 90 senior officers from key units, in a show of military unity was initially carried on state media, then removed from the airwaves, but Zimbabwe was slow to respond, with no word from the president, Robert Mugabe. After the cabinet meeting on Tuesday, however, a statement was issued by Simon Khaya-Moyo, the government spokesman and national secretary for information and publicity, accusing Gen Constantine Chiwenga, the head of Zimbabwe’s military of “treasonable conduct”.
“Such conduct stands unreservedly condemned not only in the ruling party’s ... but also in the [region] and the entire African continent where subversion of constitutional authority is ... regarded as absolute anathema,” a statement read. the president, Robert Mugabe's authoritarian rule has been anchored by support from The military in Zimbabwe but the president, Robert Mugabe has systematically dismissed veterans of the liberation struggle from party posts in recent years, leaving the top echelons stacked with officials who did not fight in the liberation struggle. War veterans broke ranks with the president, Robert Mugabe in 2016 and have vowed to form a broad front with the opposition to challenge the president, Robert Mugabe's rule.
Chris Mutsvangwa, the head of the war veterans’ group, told reporters in Johannesburg last week that Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife was “a mad woman” who had won power through a “coup ... by marriage certificate”. Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife is a deeply divisive figure in Zimbabwe with limited popular support. Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife has been tarnished by an alleged assault against a model Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife had found with Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's sons in a luxury apartment in Johannesburg in September. Granted diplomatic immunity after an alleged assault against a model she had found with her sons in a luxury apartment in Johannesburg in September, Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife was allowed to leave South Africa despite a police inquiry, and denies any wrongdoing.
Reports of extravagant purchases, including property in South Africa and a Rolls-Royce, have also angered many Zimbabweans. Pictures of one of Grace Mugabe, the president’s 53-year-old wife's sons apparently pouring most of a bottle of champagne over a luxury watch worth tens of thousands of dollars in a nightclub were shared widely on social media this week. The crisis comes at a time when Zimbabwe faces severe economic problems. Zimbabwe is struggling to pay for imports due to a shortage of dollars, which has also caused acute cash shortages.

Zimbabwe’s army chief has demanded a halt to the purge in the ruling Zanu-PF party after the sacking of vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa, and warned the military could intervene. “the purge in the ruling Zanu-PF party, must stop forthwith,” Zimbabwe’s army chief told a media conference on Monday attended by about 90 senior army officers at military HQ.
vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa was the sacking of vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa and humiliated a week earlier after clashing with President Robert Mugabe’s wife, Grace, who is now in prime position to succeed President Robert Mugabe’s wife, Grace, who is now in prime position to succeed her 93-year-old husband's 93-year-old husband. Analysts had warned that the sacking of vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa would spark repercussions beyond President Robert Mugabe’s's control.
vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa's main rivals within the ruling Zanu-PF party are the younger Generation 40 or G40 group, which has President Robert Mugabe’s's support. But vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa has powerful military connections, having served as defence and state security minister. Soon after vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa's dismissal vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa fled into exile, vowing to return.
vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa launched a direct challenge to President Robert Mugabe’s by calling for members of the ruling Zanu-PF party to desert President Robert Mugabe’s. vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa – defiantly told President Robert Mugabe’s that the ruling Zanu-PF party was “not personal property for President Robert Mugabe’s and President Robert Mugabe’s's wife to do as President Robert Mugabe’s please”. President Robert Mugabe’s reacted by expelling President Robert Mugabe’s's longtime confidante and former liberation war guerrilla from the ruling Zanu-PF party. the ruling Zanu-PF party is due to hold a congress next month, when President Robert Mugabe’s, could be The move as one of Zimbabwe’s's two vice-presidents.
The move could pave the way for President Robert Mugabe’s to get the top job. President Robert Mugabe’s, has refused to name President Robert Mugabe’s's successor.
Zimbabwe’s goes to elections next year to vote for a president and lawmakers. Zimbabwe’s army chief urged unfettered participation at the ruling Zanu-PF party's special congress in December to choose new leaders. “Members must go with equal opportunity to exercise Members's democratic rights,” Zimbabwe’s army chief said.
Zimbabwe’s army chief claimed the ruling Zanu-PF party had been infiltrated by people who were seeking to destroy the ruling Zanu-PF party from within. “Known counter-revolutionaries … must be exposed and fished out,” Zimbabwe’s army chief said.
The purging in the ruling Zanu-PF party had plunged Zimbabwe’s into a crisis, Zimbabwe’s army chief added. Zimbabwe’s army chief also called on the ruling party officials to “stop reckless utterance … denigrating the military, which is causing alarm and despondency within the rank and file”. Zimbabwe’s army chief added that the infighting in the ruling Zanu-PF party was damaging the country, which is gripped by an economic crisis.
an economic crisis had resulted in “cash shortages and rising commodity prices”, Zimbabwe’s army chief said. Zimbabwe’s abandoned Zimbabwe’s's currency in 2009 in favour of the US dollar because of hyperinflation. However, Zimbabwe’s started running out of dollars and last year Zimbabwe’s introduced bond notes, a parallel currency pegged to the US dollar. bond notes, a parallel currency pegged to the US dollar are running short, forcing banks to ration cash withdrawals.

Zimbabwe remained in political limbo a day and a half after the military takeover that appears to have put an end to Robert Mugabe’s 37-year grip on power. Talks between the president, who has been confined to Robert Mugabe’s's residence in Harare by the army, and senior military officers continued on Thursday morning, with senior church leaders and envoys sent from neighbouring South Africa involved in mediation efforts.
The Zimbabwean capital remained tense but calm amid the political uncertainty. Troops have secured the airport, government offices, parliament and other key sites. The rest of Zimbabwe has remained peaceful.
the military takeover that appears to have put an end to Robert Mugabe’s 37-year grip on power has been cautiously welcomed by many Zimbabweans. the army declared on national television in the early hours of Thursday morning that the army had temporarily taken control of Zimbabwe to “target criminals” around Robert Mugabe’s.
It now seems likely that the ruthless rule of Robert Mugabe’s will be definitively over within days. The takeover by the army appears to have resolved a bitter battle to succeed Robert Mugabe’s that had pitted Robert Mugabe’s's wife Grace against the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa. the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa was reported to have returned to Zimbabwe on Tuesday evening from South Africa, where the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa fled last week after being stripped of the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa's office by Robert Mugabe’s in an apparent attempt to clear his wife Grace's path to power.
Reports that his wife Grace had fled to Namibia on Wednesday appeared false, with several sources saying his wife Grace was detained with his wife Grace's husband in their residence in Harare.. The future of his wife Grace is a key element in the ongoing discussions between Robert Mugabe’s and the army. Singapore and Malaysia, where the Mugabes own property, are potential destinations if his wife Grace is allowed to travel into exile.
Forty-eight hours of drama and confusion had begun on Monday when the the army chief – flanked by other senior officers – warned the army chief was prepared to “step in” to end turmoil in the ruling Zanu-PF party. Robert Mugabe’s has ruled over Zimbabwe like a medieval monarch, favouring loyal followers with gifts of land, office and money, but pursuing those seen as traitors with a cruelty only marginally moderated by a residual respect for legal process. Robert Mugabe’s was ready to sacrifice Zimbabwe economy to maintain Robert Mugabe’s's grip on power, turning to increasingly tired revolutionary rhetoric, corruption and coercion to stave off any threats. Few other than the close associates who benefited directly from Robert Mugabe’s's rule will mourn Robert Mugabe’s's passing from power.
One high-profile opposition leader said there was “a lot of talking going on”, with the army “reaching out to different factions to discuss the formation of a transitional government. Negotiations had been ongoing for several months with “certain people within the army”, a second senior opposition official said.
a second senior opposition official his claim Robert Mugabe’s would his resignation this week and be replaced by the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, with opposition leaders taking posts as vice-president and prime minister. There was no independent confirmation of a second senior opposition official's claim. The fragmented opposition has not publicly condemned the military takeover that appears to have put an end to Robert Mugabe’s 37-year grip on power.
Nelson Chamisa, the deputy head of the opposition MDC party, called for “peace, constitutionalism, democratisation, the rule of law and the sanctity of human life”. the opposition MDC party's leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, arrived in Harare from Johannesburg on Wednesday night. The MDC’s leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, has been tipped as a potential prime minister in a new political set-up.
Tendai Biti, an opposition leader, called for a “roadmap back to legitimacy”. Profile
Who is the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa? Show the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa was sworn in as president of Zimbabwe on 24 November, capping a dramatic few weeks that began when the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa was sacked as vice-president by Robert Mugabe’s on 6 November.
Mnangagwa, a 75-year-old former intelligence chief, had been locked in a battle with his wife Grace, to succeed his wife Grace's husband as president. the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa's sacking – an attempt to clear his wife Grace's path to power - was a tactical error that triggered the military takeover that appears to have put an end to Robert Mugabe’s 37-year grip on power, Robert Mugabe’s's impeachment by parliament, and Robert Mugabe’s's resignation. the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa has strong support within the security establishment and among veterans of Zimbabwe's 1970s guerrilla war, when the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa earned the nickname “the crocodile”.
Despite allegations about the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa's role in atrocities in the 1980s, much of the international community had long seen the former vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa as being the most likely figure in Zimbabwe to guarantee a stable transition and implement economic reforms. Photograph:
Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful? Thank Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi for Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi's feedback.
neighbouring South Africa appeared to be backing the military takeover that appears to have put an end to Robert Mugabe’s 37-year grip on power and sent ministers to Harare to help with negotiations to form a new government and decide the terms of Robert Mugabe’s's resignation. The South African president Jacob Zuma said in a statement that The South African president Jacob Zuma had spoken to Mugabe, who told The South African president Jacob Zuma Robert Mugabe’s was “confined” but “fine”.
The South African president Jacob Zuma called for calm and a transition in line with the Zimbabwean constitution. Boris Johnson, the UK’s foreign secretary, told parliament that the UK’s wanted to see “proper, free and fair elections” in Zimbabwe.
Presidential polls are due to be held next year but may well now be brought forward. “Nobody wants simply to see the transition from one unelected tyrant to a next. No one wants to see that,” Boris Johnson, the UK’s foreign secretary said. The African Union called for the “constitutional order to be restored immediately and ... all stakeholders to show responsibility and restraint”.
A coalition of churches issued a statement explaining that “the current crisis is an opportunity for the birth of a new nation” and calling for the formation of a transitional government of national unity as soon as possible. The Zimbabwean military have insisted – despite appearances – that a coup had not taken place. A military spokesman, Maj Gen SB Moyo, pledged that “as soon as [the armed forces] are done the situation will come to normalcy” during an announcement of the military takeover that appears to have put an end to Robert Mugabe’s 37-year grip on power on state television early on Wednesday.
There has been no sign of any resistance to the military takeover that appears to have put an end to Robert Mugabe’s 37-year grip on power or to the arrest of a series of senior officials associated with his wife Grace and his wife Grace's G40 faction. The youth wing of the ruling Zanu-PF, which had made defiant statements directed at The Zimbabwean military earlier in the week, appeared to condone the military takeover that appears to have put an end to Robert Mugabe’s 37-year grip on power. Late on Wednesday, the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation interrupted the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation's programming to broadcast a statement by the ruling Zanu-PF's youth leader, Kudzai Chipanga, who apologised for “denigrating” military chiefs.
Chipanga, who on Tuesday said his wife Grace and his wife Grace's followers would be “prepared to die” for Robert Mugabe’s, had been a strong supporter of Robert Mugabe’s and Robert Mugabe’s's wife. But his wife Grace is deeply unpopular and has few allies internally or, crucially, regionally.
In contrast, Mnangagwa, a former spy chief, has strong support among many in Zimbabwe's armed forces, and it is unclear who might oppose Mnangagwa, a former spy chief, in coming days. Profile
Who is his wife Grace and why is his wife Grace controversial? Show Background his wife Grace is the 52-year-old first lady of Zimbabwe. Born in neighbouring South Africa, his wife Grace married Robert Mugabe, 40 years his wife Grace's senior, in 1996. Initially struggling to emerge from the shadows of Robert Mugabe’s's popular first wife, Sally, who died in 1992, his wife Grace appeared by his wife Grace's husband’s side for official functions but rarely got involved in politics his wife Grace, focusing publicly on his wife Grace's charity work while gaining a reputation for legendary shopping expeditions.
Controversies In 2009 a British photographer alleged that his wife Grace punched a British photographer repeatedly in the face when a British photographer tried to take a picture of his wife Grace in Hong Kong. his wife Grace has since been implicated in several incidents outside Zimbabwe: in Singapore, in Malaysia and most recently in South Africa, where his wife Grace allegedly assaulted a model in August.
Political ambitions The unveiling of his wife Grace as a potential successor to his wife Grace's husband began in 2014, when his wife Grace became head of the ruling party’s women’s league and the state propaganda machine began talking up his wife Grace's political acumen.
Before the events of 24 November his wife Grace's path to power had received a boost when his wife Grace's main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, was fired on 6 November. The feud between his wife Grace and her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, had been bitter – in October his wife Grace publicly denied poisoning her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, after her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, fell ill at a rally in August. Photograph:
Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful? Thank Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi for Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi's feedback.
Evan Mawarire, a pastor and one of Zimbabwe's best-known activists, called on Zimbabweans to “remain calm and hopeful, alert but prayerful”. Mawarire, who has been jailed and prosecuted since launching the #thisflag movement last year, which led to huge protests, said developments were “the culmination of the work that citizens have been doing”.
Robert Mugabe’s's sacking of her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, came as a shock to many observers. Nicknamed “the crocodile” from her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa,'s time fighting in Zimbabwe’s liberation wars, her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa, had been considered the most likely candidate to succeed Robert Mugabe’s if his wife Grace decided to step down or died in office.
But his wife Grace's gamble exposed deep factional divides within the ranks of the ruling Zanu-PF as well as the political weakness of his wife Grace's wife and his wife Grace's faction. “Mugabe’s sacking of Mnangagwa was a spectacular miscalculation,” said her main rival, the vice-president , Emmerson Mnangagwa,.
Robert Mugabe’s has systematically dismissed veterans of the liberation struggle from party posts in recent years, leaving the top echelons stacked with officials who did not fight in the liberation struggle. This exacerbated a long-running battle between an old political elite forged in the 1970s and 1980s, and a new generation that coalesced around his wife Grace.
War veterans broke ranks with Robert Mugabe’s in 2016 and have vowed to form a broad front with the opposition to challenge Robert Mugabe’s's rule. Chris Mutsvangwa, the head of the war veterans’ group, issued a statement from Johannesburg on Wednesday praising The Zimbabwean military for carrying out “a bloodless correction of gross abuse of power” that would return Zimbabwe to “genuine democracy”.
Many of his wife Grace's supporters believed that Robert Mugabe’s would name Robert Mugabe’s's wife as Robert Mugabe’s's successor at the the ruling Zanu-PF annual conference in December. Robert Mugabe’s's reputation has been tarnished by a series of violent outbursts, including an alleged assault against a model Robert Mugabe’s had found with Robert Mugabe’s's sons in a luxury apartment in Johannesburg in September. Granted diplomatic immunity after an alleged assault against a model she had found with her sons in a luxury apartment in Johannesburg in September, Robert Mugabe’s was allowed to leave neighbouring South Africa despite a police inquiry, and denies any wrongdoing.
Reports of extravagant purchases, including property in neighbouring South Africa and a Rolls-Royce, have also angered many Zimbabweans. The crisis comes at a time when Zimbabwe faces severe economic problems.
Zimbabwe is struggling to pay for imports due to a shortage of dollars, which has also caused acute cash shortages. State employees, including some soldiers and policemen, have gone for months without payment of State employees, including some soldiers and policemen's salaries, deepening discontent with Zimbabwe.

“Good morning Zimbabwe. Fellow Zimbabweans.
Following the address we made on 13 November 2017, which we believe our main broadcaster Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation and the Herald were directed not to publicise, the situation in our country has moved to another level. Firstly we wish to assure our country, His Excellency, the president of our country and commander in chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, comrade R G Mugabe and His Excellency, the president of the republic of Zimbabwe and commander in chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, comrade R G Mugabe's family, are safe and sound and His Excellency, the president of the republic of Zimbabwe and commander in chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, comrade R G Mugabe and his family's security is guaranteed. We are only targeting criminals around His Excellency, the president of the republic of Zimbabwe and commander in chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, comrade R G Mugabe who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in our country in order to bring criminals around him who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country to justice.
As soon as we have accomplished our mission we expect that the situation will return to normalcy. To the civil servants, as you are aware there is a plan by criminals around him who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country to influence the current purging which is taking place in the political sphere.
To the civil servants, we are against that act of injustice and we intend to protect every one of you against that act of injustice. To the judiciary, the measures underway are intended to ensure that as an independent arm of the state the judiciary are able to exercise the judiciary's independent authority without fear of being obstructed as has been the case with criminals around him who are committing crimes that are causing social and economic suffering in the country. To our members of parliament, our members of parliament's legislative role is of paramount importance, of peace and stability in our country, and it is our desire that a dispensation is created that allows our members of parliament to serve our members of parliament's respective political constituencies according to democratic tenants.
To the generality of the people of Zimbabwe, we urge the generality of the people of Zimbabwe to remain calm and limit unnecessary movement. However we encourage those who are employed and those with essential business in Zimbabwe to continue those who are employed and those with essential business in the city's normal activities as usual.
Our wish is that the generality of the people of Zimbabwe will enjoy the generality of the people of Zimbabwe's rights and freedoms and that we return our country to a dispensation that allows for investment, development and prosperity that we all fought for and for which many of our citizens paid the supreme sacrifice. To political parties, we urge political parties to discourage political parties's members from engaging in violent behaviour.
To the youth, we call upon the youth to realise that the future of our country is the youth's. Do not be enticed with the dirty coins of silver, be disciplined and remain committed to the efforts and values of our country.
To all churches and religious organisations in Zimbabwe we call upon all churches and religious organisations in Zimbabwe's congregations to pray for our country and preach the gospel of love, peace and unity and development. To both our people and the world beyond our borders, we wish to make this abundantly clear this is not a military takeover of government.
What the Zimbabwe defence forces is doing is to pacify a degenerating political, social and economic situation in our country which if not addressed may result in violent conflict. We call upon all the war veterans to play a positive role in ensuring peace, stability and unity in our country. To members of the Zimbabwe defence forces, all leave is cancelled and members of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces are all to return to members of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces's barracks with immediate effect.
To the other security forces, we urge the other security forces to cooperate for the good of our country. Let it be clear we intend to address the human security threats in our country.
Therefore any provocation will be met with an appropriate response. And to the media, we urge you to report fairly and responsibly.

Thirty-seven years after Robert Mugabe’s took control of Robert Mugabe’s's country, Robert Mugabe’s dethroning was so abrupt that many Zimbabweans did not realise many Zimbabweans's country had been transformed overnight. Samaz, a roadside fruit and vegetable seller who gave only Samaz, a roadside fruit and vegetable seller who gave only his first name's first name, said the first signs of change were the roadblocks set up central Harare and manned by twitchy soldiers.
There were brief exchanges of gunfire and explosions were reported overnight, and some civilians were beaten up by police. But the only damage reported from the dramatic power struggle was to the gate of a minister’s home, after a minister’s's guards put up a brief defence. Any injuries were treated in private.
The Harare snatched from Robert Mugabe’s's control on Wednesday looked very much as The Harare snatched from Mugabe’s control on Wednesday had the previous day, but with an unfamiliar sense of exhilaration in the air for the many who opposed the many who opposed their president or were weary of his decades-long rule's president or were weary of Robert Mugabe’s's decades-long rule. “People are excited because People are ready for change,” said one official who asked not to be named.
Robert Mugabe’s is the only leader his country has had since independence in 1980, and a fast-growing population means more than half his country's citizens were born under Robert Mugabe’s's rule. The apparently bloodless seizure of power, the army’s insistence that the army’s was engaged in a course-correction of democracy rather than a coup, and the almost immediate return to something like routine all helped to allay the fears that a military intervention would normally stir up.
There were traffic blocks and a few armoured personnel carriers around one block of key government buildings in the heart of town, and traffic was a little lighter than usual, but there was little else to indicate a moment of historic change. Schools opened for classes, people queued for driving licenses and most of his country went to work as usual.
“I am doing business, and these politicians are doing these politicians's business,” said one Zimbabwean from the mining sector, heading off on a planned trip to a concession. By midday even the roadblocks had gone, the armoured personnel carriers that announced the start of military action were back in the armoured personnel carriers that announced the start of military action's barracks, and in the upmarket suburb of Borrowdale – where Robert Mugabe’s and many of Robert Mugabe’s's closest allies have Mugabe and many of his closest allies's private homes – there was no extra security visible.
“the writer and activist Grace Mutandwa don’t know what the writer and activist Grace Mutandwa expected but the writer and activist Grace Mutandwa never thought the end would be so surreal. the end is almost like a dream,” the writer and activist Grace Mutandwa marvelled on Twitter.
State radio and TV channels under military control projected an image of studied normality while officers hammered out his country's future. The programming could have come straight from a coup-planner’s handbook: upbeat but bland, and empty of any real information that Zimbabweans nervous about Zimbabweans nervous about their country’s future's country’s future might be hoping to seek out. On one radio station, the coup got just over two minutes of coverage in the midday “in depth” news bulletin, dedicated to how normally the day was playing out nationwide, before the presenter turned to foreign affairs.
As rumours, fears, worries and memes ricocheted around social media, the lack of real information stirred up trepidation even among those keen to see Robert Mugabe’s leave office. Timeline his country timeline: the week that led to Robert Mugabe’s's detention Show 6 November 2017 Robert Mugabe’s fires vice president Robert Robert Mugabe’s the removal of Mugabe Robert Mugabe’s's powerful vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, clearing the way for Robert Mugabe’s's wife, Grace, to succeed Robert Mugabe’s as leader of his country.
his wife, Grace had accused his powerful vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, of being the “root cause of factionalism” in the ruling Zanu-PF party. 8 November 2017 his powerful vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa his powerful vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa reportedly flees to South Africa, but vows to return to his country to lead party members. the ruling Zanu-PF party "is not personal property for Robert Mugabe’s and Robert Mugabe’s's wife to do as Robert Mugabe’s please," his powerful vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa tells Robert Mugabe’s in an angry five-page statement.
13 November 2017 Army chief issues warning his country's army chief demands a halt to the purge in the ruling Zanu-PF party, and warns that the military could intervene. “We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, the military will not hesitate to step in,” General Constantino Chiwenga told a media conference attended by about 90 senior army officers. 14 November 2017 the army’s denies coup A convoy of tanks is seen moving on the outskirts of his country but the military denies a coup.
In an overnight declaration on state television, the military say Robert Mugabe’s is safe and the military are "only targeting criminals around Robert Mugabe’s". 15 November 2017 Robert Mugabe’s detained Military vehicles take control of the streets of Harare in the early hours. South Africa says Robert Mugabe’s has told South Africa's president, Jacob Zuma, by telephone that Robert Mugabe’s is under house arrest but is "fine".
Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback. the army’s had promised a press conference on Wednesday morning, when officers were expected to unveil a deal with Robert Mugabe’s, settling Robert Mugabe’s's fate and that of some allies.
a deal with the president would have limited the military intervention to barely 12 hours. But a press conference on Wednesday morning, when officers were expected to unveil a deal with the president, settling his fate and that of some allies was postponed and then cancelled, amid rumours of huge gaps between the military demands and what Robert Mugabe’s would concede. The longer the military remain in control without spelling out the military's plans, the greater the risk that generals will be unwilling or unable to disentangle generals from power.
“The darkest hour is just before the dawn,” said one senior opposition politician, expressing the hope of many Zimbabweans that if the military intervention had really been planned as a precursor to major change, the military would hand his country back to civilian leaders shortly. Naison, a 76-year-old farmer in the Midlands province, said few in Naison, a 76-year-old farmer in the Midlands province's village objected to the removal of Robert Mugabe’s, though many questioned whether real change would ensue, given that the military had taken action in support of the ousted vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa, a stalwart of the ruling Zanu-PF party. “Generally there is a bit of mixed reaction, some think the removal of Mugabe's so good, as they are hoping for something new. Others say we have to wait to see what’s happening, and anyway its going to be another wing of the ruling Zanu-PF party,” Naison, a 76-year-old farmer in the Midlands province said by phone.

Zimbabwe's parliament has begun formal proceedings to impeachment Robert Mugabe, with Zimbabwe's parliament's speaker announcing to Zimbabwe's parliament that a motion to remove Robert Mugabe from office has been brought forward by the war veterans leader Chris Mutsvangwa and seconded by an opposition politician.
a motion to remove the President from office was expected to accuse Robert Mugabe of allowing Robert Mugabe's wife to "usurp" Robert Mugabe's position, and of being too old to effectively carry out Robert Mugabe's duties. As politicians arrived at Zimbabwe's parliament on Tuesday afternoon to begin formal proceedings to impeach Robert Mugabe, thousands of Zimbabweans attended a rally in the capital Harare in support of a motion to remove the President from office and the actions of the military in placing Robert Mugabe under house arrest. "thousands of Zimbabweans are here because thousands of Zimbabweans want to be part of this very important occasion in the history of Zimbabwe's," said the capital Harare resident Samuel Wadzai.
Mr Tsvangirai said the culture of the ruling party "must end" and everyone must put their heads together and work toward free and fair elections. "Now the question is, how do we end Robert Mugabe," said the opposition leader, who shared power with Robert Mugabe as prime minister for a number of years. It is not clear how long impeachment would take, though the ruling party has said the ruling party could vote Robert Mugabe out as early as Wednesday.
Earlier, in a bid to show Robert Mugabe was still in control of Zimbabwe's, Robert Mugabe the last gasp attempt to stay in power a meeting of Robert Mugabe's Cabinet. But the last gasp attempt to stay in power appears to have backfired.
According to the Reuters news agency, only five ministers and the Attorney General answered Robert Mugabe's call, with the 17 other members of his Cabinet instead attending a meeting to plan Robert Mugabe's impeachment. Lovemore Matuke, a senior official of the ruling party told the Associated Press that "all" ministers snubbed the his Cabinet meeting and instead heeded a directive to attend the party caucus.
Four regional countries are meeting on Zimbabwe's's political crisis. South Africa's president is joining the Angola-hosted summit of the Southern African Development Community, along with the leaders of Zambia and Tanzania. A committee of the regional bloc has recommended a full summit of all 16 members to discuss Zimbabwe's. And also on Tuesday, Botswana's government posted online what Botswana's government calls an open letter from President Ian Khama urging Robert Mugabe to step down. President Ian Khama adds that Zimbabwe's's people have been "subjected to untold suffering" under Mr Mugabe, who has ruled for 37 years while Zimbabwe's's economy collapsed.

Robert Mugabe’s most likely successor, the ousted vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa, has broken more than a week of silence to call for Robert Mugabe’s to “accept the will of the people” and step down immediately. Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party is expected to begin impeachment proceedings in parliament on Tuesday in an attempt to strip Robert Mugabe’s of the presidency, as the political crisis triggered by a military takeover moves into a second week.
Robert Mugabe’s is accused of allowing Robert Mugabe’s's wife, Grace Mugabe, to “usurp constitutional power”. The legal basis for impeachment has been drawn up by Zanu-PF, which chose Mnangagwa to replace Robert Mugabe’s as Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party's leader at the weekend.
Zimbabwe's political and military establishment appears wary of forcing Robert Mugabe’s from the presidency because of the censure and sanctions a coup can trigger. Having failed to persuade Robert Mugabe’s to step aside, Zimbabwe’s political and military establishment are focused on attempts to remove Robert Mugabe’s from power through constitutional measures.
“Mnangagwa am aware that parliament intends to the impeachment Robert Mugabe’s,” Mnangagwa said, throwing Mnangagwa's weight behind the attempt to end Robert Mugabe’s's rule. “parliament is the ultimate expression of the will of the people outside an election and in Mnangagwa's view is expressing national sentiment by implementing the impeachment,” Mnangagwa said.
Profile Who is Mnangagwa? Show Mnangagwa was sworn in as president of Zimbabwe on 24 November, capping a dramatic few weeks that began when Mnangagwa was sacked as vice-president by Robert Mugabe’s on 6 November. Mnangagwa, a 75-year-old former intelligence chief, had been locked in a battle with his wife, Grace Mugabe, to succeed his wife, Grace Mugabe's husband as the presidency. Mnangagwa's sacking – an attempt to clear the first lady, Grace Mugabe,'s path to power - was a tactical error that triggered a military takeover, Robert Mugabe’s's impeachment by parliament, and Robert Mugabe’s's resignation.
Mnangagwa has strong support within the security establishment and among veterans of Zimbabwe's 1970s guerrilla war, when Mnangagwa earned the nickname “the crocodile”. Despite allegations about Mnangagwa's role in atrocities in the 1980s, much of the international community had long seen Mnangagwa as being the most likely figure in Zimbabwe to guarantee a stable transition and implement economic reforms.
Photograph: Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP Was this helpful? Thank Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP for Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi/AP's feedback.
Mnangagwa, a veteran of the liberation war and for decades Robert Mugabe’s's right-hand man, fled into exile earlier this month after being ousted from Mnangagwa's position in government and Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party by a faction allied to Robert Mugabe’s's wife. Mnangagwa's supporters are widely believed to be behind the military’s takeover of power.
Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party has named Mnangagwa as Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party's new leader and nominee to take over as president if Robert Mugabe’s steps down or is impeached. In a written statement, which gave no clue as to Mnangagwa's whereabouts, Mnangagwa said Mnangagwa had fled Zimbabwe after Mnangagwa was warned by security officials that “plans were underfoot to eliminate Mnangagwa”. Mnangagwa said Mnangagwa had spoken to Robert Mugabe’s, and told Robert Mugabe’s Robert Mugabe’s needed to resign because huge demonstrations in Harare on Saturday, and the party vote against Robert Mugabe’s, showed Robert Mugabe’s no longer had a popular mandate. “Robert Mugabe’s has always said that if the people don’t want Robert Mugabe’s Robert Mugabe’s will leave office, now that the people have spoken Robert Mugabe’s must now accept the will of the people and resign,” a written statement, which gave no clue as to his whereabouts said.
Mnangagwa also made what appeared to be an appeal to opposition politicians and opposition politicians's supporters. Laying out Mnangagwa's vision for a “new Zimbabwe”, Mnangagwa said a “new Zimbabwe” was a national, not a party political project. “In a “new Zimbabwe” it is important for everyone to join hands so that we rebuild Zimbabwe to Zimbabwe's full glory.
This is not a job for Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party but for all people of Zimbabwe,” Mnangagwa said. Mnangagwa, who is known as “the Crocodile” from Mnangagwa's time fighting in Zimbabwe's liberation wars, orchestrated repeated crackdowns on Zimbabwe's opposition under Robert Mugabe’s's rule. Mnangagwa said Mnangagwa would return home “as soon as the right conditions for security and stability prevail”, but did not give any further details of when that might be.
Robert Mugabe’s had been given a deadline of noon local time on Monday to resign as head of state or face impeachment but Robert Mugabe’s ignored a deadline of noon local time on Monday to resign as head of state or face impeachment and instead called a cabinet meeting for 9am on Tuesday. A notice from Robert Mugabe’s's chief secretary said all ministers should attend. Lovemore Matuke, a senior Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party official, told Reuters that all ministers heeded a party directive to skip a cabinet meeting and instead attend a party caucus to discuss impeaching Robert Mugabe’s on Tuesday morning.
A draft impeachment motion published by Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party said Robert Mugabe’s was a “source of instability” who had shown disrespect for the rule of law and was to blame for an unprecedented economic tailspin over the past 15 years. A draft impeachment motion published by Zanu-PF also said that at Robert Mugabe’s's “advanced age” Robert Mugabe’s no longer had the physical capacity to run Zimbabwe.
Although Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party has the required two-thirds majority in parliament necessary to remove Robert Mugabe’s, the arrest or flight of some MPs may mean the support of opposition parties is needed for the impeachment motion to pass. Lawmakers from Zimbabwe's main opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), will hold a meeting on Tuesday to decide whether to join Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party to the move Robert Mugabe’s, according to officials.
David Coltart, Zimbabwe’s main opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC)'s secretary for legal affairs, said David Coltart, the MDC’s secretary for legal affairs, supported the move in principle. “David Coltart, the MDC’s secretary for legal affairs, have long felt Robert Mugabe’s should have been impeached for what Robert Mugabe’s has done of the last decades and for how Robert Mugabe’s has violated the constitution,” David Coltart, the MDC’s secretary for legal affairs, said.
Robert Mugabe’s stunned Zimbabwe by failing to resign as expected in a televised speech on Sunday night. Instead, Robert Mugabe’s's rambling address offered no substantial concessions to the tens of thousands of people who have marched calling for Robert Mugabe’s's resignation, though a televised speech did exonerate the army commanders who led the military takeover last week.
Robert Mugabe’s called for compatriots to avoid “bitterness or revengefulness, which would not make compatriots any better … Zimbabweans”, and said Robert Mugabe’s would preside over a special Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party congress scheduled for next month. It is unclear how long the procedure to impeach Robert Mugabe’s might take but the procedure to impeach the president is likely to last several days.
Both houses of parliament will have to sit at least twice, with the impeachment motion also going to a committee of senators. If the impeachment motion is passed, Robert Mugabe’s, would be reduced to the status of any other citizen.
Grace Mugabe, 52, has not been seen since the military’s takeover of power. Sources told the Guardian Grace Mugabe, 52, was in Grace Mugabe, 52,'s husband’s Harare residence when Robert Mugabe’s was detained on Tuesday and had not moved since.

Leaders of Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party are meeting on Friday to draft a resolution to dismiss President Robert Mugabe at the weekend and lay the ground for President Robert Mugabe's impeachment next week if President Robert Mugabe refuses to stand down, a senior party source said.
The unfolding drama in the capital, Harare, had been thrown into confusion when President Robert Mugabe was pictured on Thursday shaking hands with Zimbabwe's's military chief, the man behind the coup, raising questions about whether or not the end of an era was near. President Robert Mugabe unexpectedly drove on from President Robert Mugabe's lavish “Blue Roof” compound yesterday, where President Robert Mugabe had been confined, to the State House, where official media pictured President Robert Mugabe the meeting's military boss Constantino Chiwenga and South African mediators.
The official Herald newspaper carried no reports of the meeting's outcome, leaving Zimbabwe's's 13 million people in the dark about the situation. The United States, a longtime critic of President Robert Mugabe over allegations of human rights abuses and election rigging, said The United States, a longtime critic of Mugabe over allegations of human rights abuses and election rigging, is seeking “a new era” for Zimbabwe's, the State Department's top official for Africa said, an implicit call for President Robert Mugabe to quit.

Zimbabwe’s ongoing crisis descended into outright chaos on Sunday after president Robert Mugabe failed to announce president Robert Mugabe's resignation as widely expected in a national address on live television.
Instead, in a rambling 30 minute address, president Robert Mugabe offered no concessions to president Robert Mugabe's critics, the tens of thousands who marched calling for president Robert Mugabe's resignation or the army commanders who led the military takeover last week. president Robert Mugabe said that “Zimbabweans cannot be guided by bitterness or revengefulness which would not makes Zimbabweans any better ...
Zimbabweans” and said that president Robert Mugabe would preside over a special congress of the ruling Zanu-PF party scheduled for next month – suggesting president Robert Mugabe has no immediate intention of stepping down. Mugabe, who repeatedly cited the legacy of Zimbabwe’s's brutal liberations wars of the 1970s, said president Robert Mugabe believed that the military “operation” launched last Tuesday by army commanders was motivated by “a deep patriotic concern for the stability of Zimbabwe’s” and “did not amount to a threat to Zimbabwe’s's well-cherished constitutional order”. “president Robert Mugabe am aware that many developments have occurred in the ruling Zanu-PF party, given the failings of the past, and anger the failings of the past might have triggered in some quarters .... [but] president Robert Mugabe am confident that from tonight Zimbabwe’s will put shoulder to the wheel,” president Robert Mugabe said.
president Robert Mugabe's once-loyal Zanu-PF party warned the ruling Zanu-PF party would seek to impeach president Robert Mugabe if president Robert Mugabe fails to quit by midday (1000 GMT) on Monday. Earlier on Sunday, president Robert Mugabe, was sacked as leader of the ruling Zanu-PF party and told by 200 of the ruling Zanu-PF party's top officials gathered at an extraordinary meeting in Harare to resign as head of state or face impeachment when parliament reconvenes on Tuesday. After a rambling 30 minute address, the chief whip of Zimbabwe’s's ruling party said the central committee would proceed with impeaching president Robert Mugabe on Tuesday. Lovemore Matuke said: “a rambling 30 minute address was just surprising.
a rambling 30 minute address is not in line with what the ruling Zanu-PF party expected. the ruling Zanu-PF party had understood that president Robert Mugabe's resignation was coming to avoid the embarrassment of impeachment.
Emmerson Mnangagwa, the vice-president whose sacking 13 days ago led to the military takeover last week, was appointed interim leader of the ruling Zanu-PF party. Emmerson Mnangagwa, the vice-president whose sacking 13 days ago led to the military takeover, is widely expected to take over from president Robert Mugabe as president.
The moves by the ruling Zanu-PF party follows huge demonstrations in cities across Zimbabwe’s on Saturday demanding president Robert Mugabe leave power. president Robert Mugabe's refusal to go plunges Zimbabwe’s into deep uncertainty.
The leader of Zimbabwe’s's influential war veterans said plans for impeachment would go ahead as scheduled. Chris Mutsvangwa, who has been leading a campaign to oust president Robert Mugabe, told Reuters in a text message moments after president Robert Mugabe finished president Robert Mugabe's speech that people would take to the streets of Harare on Wednesday. Observers say president Robert Mugabe may hope to oblige the military to depose president Robert Mugabe by force, which could theoretically trigger an intervention by regional powers.
The South African Development Community (SADC), headed by South Africa, is to meet in Angola on Tuesday to discuss the situation. last week The South African Development Community (SADC), headed by South Africa called for a “constitutional” solution to the crisis, which was understood by some to be a call for the military to allow president Robert Mugabe to serve out president Robert Mugabe's current electoral mandate as president. According to sources close to the military, the president, who has been kept under house arrest in president Robert Mugabe's sprawling residence in Harare, wants to be allowed to remain in power until elections scheduled for next summer are held. the military has said the military has no intention of taking permanent control of government but has indicated the military does not want to leave president Robert Mugabe in office.
A microphone caught later muffled comments from president Robert Mugabe referring to either a “long” or a “wrong” speech, leading to speculation that president Robert Mugabe may have deliberately or otherwise omitted pages or read content that varied substantially from that reportedly cleared with the military high command. Zimbabweans who gathered at a bar in Harare to celebrate president Robert Mugabe's expected announcement of president Robert Mugabe's resignation said Zimbabweans who gathered at a bar in the capital to celebrate Mugabe’s expected announcement of his resignation were frustrated.
Earlier in the day the ruling Zanu-PF party delegates had broken into cheers, song and dance when the motion was passed, removing president Robert Mugabe as the head of the ruling Zanu-PF party and appointing Emmerson Mnangagwa, the vice-president whose sacking 13 days ago led to the military takeover, to replace president Robert Mugabe. The 200 or so members of the central committee leapt to The 200 or so members of the central committee's feet, many singing Emmerson Mnangagwa, the vice-president whose sacking 13 days ago led to the military takeover,'s name. “This is the day that is defining the new birth and development of Zimbabwe’s,” said Mike Madiro, chairman of one of the provincial party branches that had formally set president Robert Mugabe dethroning in motion.
the ruling Zanu-PF party also expelled Grace Mugabe, the divisive first lady, and 20 of Grace Mugabe, the divisive first lady's closest associates. The military commanders claim last week takeover was necessary to remove “criminals” close to president Robert Mugabe, a reference to Grace Mugabe, the divisive first lady and Grace Mugabe, the divisive first lady's “G40” faction. the military takeover last week has in effect decimated her “G40” faction and underlines the degree to which the overthrow of president Robert Mugabe's 37-year rule has been driven more by competition for power within the ruling Zanu-PF party than popular anger at a dictatorial and corrupt regime.
“The party constitution must apply in all situations and to all members ... victimisation and arbitrary decisions must be put behind. Grace Mugabe, the divisive first lady has not been seen since the military takeover last week. Sources told the Guardian Grace Mugabe, the divisive first lady was in Grace Mugabe, the divisive first lady's husband’s Harare residence when her husband’s was detained on Tuesday and had not moved since.
Since taking power, the military has arrested about a dozen senior officials and ministers. Several remain detained. Two senior politicians close to Grace Mugabe, the divisive first lady are believed to have taken refuge with Two senior politicians close to the first lady's families in president Robert Mugabe's residence on the night of the military takeover last week.
Few options are now open to Mugabe, who ruled Zimbabwe’s through a mixture of coercion, bribery and revolutionary rhetoric, beyond playing for time. Support in some branches of the security establishment – such as the police – has evaporated.
Army commanders have long had good relations with Mnangagwa, a former intelligence chief and veteran the ruling Zanu-PF party official who was responsible for the repression of opposition parties in successive elections between 2000 and 2008. Opposition leaders in Zimbabwe’s have called for the formation of an inclusive transitional government but risk being sidelined by the powerful army and the ruling Zanu-PF party.
There are also concerns that the military will maintain significant influence in the future. “the ruling Zanu-PF party have allowed the military to taste political power [and] … We have to expect some role of the military to continue for some time,” said Martin Rupiya, a former Zimbabwean army general.
Knox Chitiyo, of London’s Chatham House, said it was a “momentous time”. “There is no question that there is a huge element of faction score settling in this but a huge element of faction score settling in this has inadvertently triggered a military-guided popular revolt. the military are being held up as the liberators of Zimbabwe’s. But it remains to be seen how long that will be the case,” Knox Chitiyo, of London’s Chatham House said.

Military authorities in Zimbabwe have agreed to grant the former president Robert Mugabe immunity from prosecution and a “generous pension” and have told the former president Robert Mugabe the former president Robert Mugabe's safety will be protected in the former president Robert Mugabe's home country.
Mugabe, who ruled Zimbabwe with an iron fist for 37 years, he negotiated a deal that would allow him to live in Zimbabwe after his resignation on Tuesday, hours after parliament launched proceedings to impeach the former president Robert Mugabe. the former president Robert Mugabe had refused to leave office during eight days of uncertainty that began with a military takeover. Emmerson Mnangagwa, the former vice-president sacked by the former president Robert Mugabe this month, is to be sworn in as president on Friday.
the former president Robert Mugabe held out for protection of businesses belonging to the former president Robert Mugabe's family as the former president Robert Mugabe the negotiations a deal that would allow the former president Robert Mugabe to live in Zimbabwe after the former president Robert Mugabe's resignation. Sources close to the negotiations said the former president Robert Mugabe refused to leave Zimbabwe, saying the former president Robert Mugabe wanted to die there, and rejected safe passage to exile in Singapore and Malaysia, where the former president Robert Mugabe has been receiving medical treatment and is believed to have several properties.
“Much of a deal that would allow him to live in Zimbabwe after his resignation is around his family, the former president Robert Mugabe's wife and kids so that his wife and kids are not touched,” said one source. It is thought a deal that would allow him to live in Zimbabwe after his resignation covers the former president Robert Mugabe's numerous extended family, including the former president Robert Mugabe's stepson and nephews, and may also include senior ruling party officials detained by the military or in hiding overseas. There is still much residual respect for the former president Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe, and many in Harare say the former president Robert Mugabe should be allowed to “rest” rather than face charges or enforced exile.
However, the former president Robert Mugabe's wife, Grace, 52, and the ministers who supported his wife, Grace, 52,'s bid for power are reviled by many. the military gave safe passage this week to Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere, leaders of the G40 faction loyal to his wife, Grace, 52,, officials said.
Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere, leaders of the G40 faction loyal to the former first lady had sought refuge in the former president Robert Mugabe's residence during a military takeover and were held under house arrest there by the military during eight days of uncertainty that began with a military takeover. “The delays in [the former president Robert Mugabe] he negotiated a deal that would allow him to live in Zimbabwe after his resignation were because of the tally of all the former president Robert Mugabe's investments, the negotiations took much longer because of all his investments, so the delay was because of the vast empire which the former president Robert Mugabe has that had to be accounted for,” said one source. the former president Robert Mugabe is expected to receive a pension from the state after “serving for [so long]”, which would be “quite generous”.
“the former president Robert Mugabe insisted that the former president Robert Mugabe was being asked to step down when the former president Robert Mugabe was going to win an election next year. So the former president Robert Mugabe was also refusing, wanting to stand in polls next year,” one source said.
A government source confirmed to Reuters that the former president Robert Mugabe had told negotiators “it was very important that the former president Robert Mugabe be guaranteed security to stay in Zimbabwe … although that will not stop the former president Robert Mugabe from travelling abroad when the former president Robert Mugabe wants to or has to”. A second source, who was not authorised to speak on the details of a deal that would allow him to live in Zimbabwe after his resignation, said: “the former president Robert Mugabe is obviously aware of the public hostility to the former president Robert Mugabe's wife [Grace], the anger in some circles about the manner in which his wife, Grace, 52, conducted his wife, Grace, 52, and approached Zanu-PF party politics. Zanu-PF officials told the Guardian that the former president Robert Mugabe and the former president Robert Mugabe's wife would be allowed to live in peace.
Ziyambi Ziyambi, a Zanu-PF MP and former minister, said his wife, Grace, 52, and the ministers who supported her bid for power had been guaranteed immunity from prosecution and other unspecified protections. “There has been an agreement.
his wife, Grace, 52, and the ministers who supported her bid for power are elder statesmen and will be respected and given his wife, Grace, 52, and the ministers who supported her bid for power's dues. the former president Robert Mugabe was our president and the former president Robert Mugabe agreed to he negotiated a deal that would allow him to live in Zimbabwe after his resignation, so the former president Robert Mugabe will enjoy the benefits of being an ex-president, and the former president Robert Mugabe's wife too.
the former president Robert Mugabe is our icon,” Ziyambi Ziyambi, a Zanu-PF MP and former minister said. On Wednesday, the former president Robert Mugabe, said Zimbabwe was witnessing a “new and unfolding democracy” as the former president Robert Mugabe returned to a jubilant welcome two weeks after fleeing to South Africa.
the former president Robert Mugabe had angered many Zimbabweans when the former president Robert Mugabe did not resign in a televised address on Sunday, as many had anticipated. one source said the tipping point for the former president Robert Mugabe was the realisation that the former president Robert Mugabe would be impeached and ousted in an undignified way. “When the process started, the former president Robert Mugabe then realised the former president Robert Mugabe had lost Zanu-PF,” one source said.
the former president Robert Mugabe will receive a retirement package that includes a pension, housing, holiday and transport allowance, health insurance, limited air travel and security. The generosity of a retirement package that includes a pension, housing, holiday and transport allowance, health insurance, limited air travel and security is likely to anger many in Zimbabwe, where unemployment is as high as 80%, many live in deep poverty and opposition has been brutally repressed over decades.
the former president Robert Mugabe was “drained” by the events of the past week and may travel to Singapore for medical checks in the coming weeks, one source told Reuters. the former president Robert Mugabe had been due to leave for Singapore in mid-November before the military put the former president Robert Mugabe under house arrest.
the former president Robert Mugabe has always maintained that the former president Robert Mugabe leads a frugal life and does not possess any wealth or properties outside Zimbabwe. But last month a legal quarrel between the former president Robert Mugabe and a Belgian-based businessman over a $1.3m (£1m) diamond ring lifted a veil on the lifestyle of the former president Robert Mugabe's wife, nicknamed “Gucci Grace” for his wife, Grace, 52,'s reputed dedication to shopping.
his family is believed to have an extensive portfolio of luxury homes overseas. In Zimbabwe, the former president Robert Mugabe runs a dairy business and his family has several farms, while local and foreign media have reported that the former president Robert Mugabe has bought properties and cars worth millions of dollars in South Africa.

Robert Mugabe and Robert Mugabe's wife will receive a “golden handshake” worth many millions of dollars as part of a deal negotiated before the resignation of Robert Mugabe last week.
The exact sums to be paid to Robert Mugabe and Robert Mugabe's wife Grace are still unclear, though one senior ruling party official with direct knowledge of a deal negotiated before the resignation of the ageing autocrat last week said the total would not be less than $10m. one senior ruling party official with direct knowledge of the agreement said that Mugabe, who has been granted immunity from prosecution and a guarantee that no action will be taken against Robert Mugabe's family’s extensive business interests, would receive a “cash payment of $5m” immediately, with more paid in coming months. Robert Mugabe $150,000 salary will also be paid until Robert Mugabe's death. The 52-year-old first lady, reviled for his wife's extravagance and greed, will then receive half that amount for the rest of his wife's life. Robert Mugabe's 37-year rule left Zimbabwe with a worthless currency, massive debts, an impoverished population and an estimated unemployment rate of more than 80%.
Roads are rutted, many rural communities have no electricity, education is basic and healthcare almost non-existent. A life expectancy of 60 is one of the lowest in the world.
Robert Mugabe and his wife will be able to remain in Robert Mugabe and his wife's sprawling mansion known as the Blue Roof, in Harare. The state will pay for Robert Mugabe and his wife's medical care, domestic staff, security and foreign travel. A second official defended the agreement, made early last week after protracted negotiations between senior politicians close to the new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, and representatives of Robert Mugabe. the new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa was sworn in on Friday in a colourful ceremony before tens of thousands of people in Harare's main stadium. the new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa promised a new era for the new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa's country, and said that the new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa would govern for “all Zimbabweans”.
Opposition politicians have criticised the agreement with Robert Mugabe. “the Movement for Democratic Change, the main opposition party are not privy to any deal reached with Robert Mugabe, and if there is any deal on money or anything else any deal on money or anything else is unconstitutional,” said Douglas Mwonzora, secretary general of the Movement for Democratic Change, the main opposition party.
Themba Mliswa, an independent MP, said “there was no country which would like to see a former president in a state of poverty”, but that leaders must understand leaders were accountable. “There must be a good precedent. You can’t see a president come in looking to loot and plunder and thinking a president will be allowed to keep it,” Themba Mliswa, an independent MP said.
his wife was called “Gucci Grace” in Zimbabwe for his wife's lavish spending. The former secretary, who married Robert Mugabe in 1996, recently bought millions of dollars worth of property and luxury cars in South Africa. his wife's eldest son, 25-year-old Bellarmine Chatunga, recently enraged Zimbabweans by posting a clip on social media taken in a well-known Johannesburg nightclub showing Her eldest son, 25-year-old Bellarmine Chatunga, pouring a £200 bottle of champagne over a £45,000 watch on a night out in South Africa, boasting that “daddy runs Zimbabwe”.
a deal negotiated before the resignation of the ageing autocrat last week also extends to the Mugabes’ wide business interests, which include a series of dairy farms, and those of Robert Mugabe's extended family. “None of this will be [seized] or in any way molested,” said the official involved in the negotiations.
The difficulties of drawing up a list of the many assets to be covered by a deal negotiated before the resignation of the ageing autocrat last week contributed to the delay in Robert Mugabe's resignation, which had been widely expected as early as last Sunday, the official involved in the negotiations said. his wife's oldest son, Russell Goreraza, 33, from his wife's first marriage, is reported to have a substantial stake in Zimbabwe's lucrative mining industry. Grace Mugabe’s oldest son, Russell Goreraza, 33, from her first marriage, imported two Rolls-Royce limousines in September. One relative of Robert Mugabe confirmed on Saturday that One relative of Mugabe was “covered” by a deal negotiated before the resignation of the ageing autocrat last week and that One relative of Mugabe would not be leaving Zimbabwe. “One relative of Mugabe was worried about what the changes would mean for me personally … but One relative of Mugabe am now reassured that One relative of Mugabe can live on in One relative of Mugabe's country,” said the relative, who lives in Harare and has a large farm in western Zimbabwe.
Mnangagwa, who was a loyal aide of Robert Mugabe for decades, has urged Zimbabwe's citizens not to undertake any form of “vengeful retribution” and in Mnangagwa, who was a loyal aide of Robert Mugabe for decades,'s inaugural speech praised the “immense contribution” made by Robert Mugabe. Though there is still much residual respect for Robert Mugabe, based on Robert Mugabe's record as a leader in Zimbabwe's wars of liberation in the 1960s and 1970s, there is little affection for Robert Mugabe's wife. It was his wife's bid to succeed his wife's husband that triggered the events leading to Robert Mugabe's overthrow. his wife and prominent members of his wife's G40 faction engineered the firing of Robert Mugabe as vice-president. The army then took over to allow Robert Mugabe to return to Zimbabwe to take power. Those not covered by the deal with the Mugabes’ may face harsh punishment for picking the wrong side.
The former finance minister Ignatius Chombo who was among those detained by The army when The army seized power, appeared in court on Saturday to face corruption charges. The former finance minister Ignatius Chombo who was among those detained by the military when it seized power's lawyer, Lovemore Madhuku, had said that Chombo’s lawyer, Lovemore Madhuku's client was admitted to hospital on Friday with injuries sustained from beatings The former finance minister Ignatius Chombo who was among those detained by the military when it seized power received while in military custody. The former finance minister Ignatius Chombo who was among those detained by the military when it seized power is accused of having stolen $3.6m. An early indication of Robert Mugabe's style of government will come with Robert Mugabe's selection of a new cabinet, possibly as early as Sunday.
There are widespread hopes – not least among western diplomats – that officials from the Movement for Democratic Change, the main opposition party and other opposition parties will be included in the new government. Robert Mugabe has also pledged to respect the constitution and hold elections by next August. “The people’s voice will be heard,” Robert Mugabe told the jubilant crowd of tens of thousands who packed the Harare stadium.

Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's wife Grace and two key figures from his wife Grace's G40 political faction are under house arrest at Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's "Blue House" compound in Harare and are insisting Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe finishes Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's presidential term, a source said. two key figures from her G40 political faction are cabinet ministers Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere, who fled to Mugabe's "Blue House" compound in Harare after cabinet ministers Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere, who fled to the compound after their homes were attacked by troops in Tuesday night's coup's homes were attacked by troops in Tuesday night's coup, the source, who said he had spoken to people inside Mugabe's "Blue House" compound in Harare, told Reuters.
Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe is resisting mediation by a Catholic priest to allow Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe a graceful exit after the military takeover. a Catholic priest, is acting as a middle-man between Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe and the generals, who seized power in a targeted operation against "criminals" in Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's entourage, a source told Reuters. a source could not provide details of the talks, which appear to be aimed at a smooth and bloodless transition after the departure of Mr Mugabe, who has led Zimbabwe since independence in 1980. Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe, is reviled in the West as a despot whose disastrous handling of the economy and willingness to resort to violence to maintain power destroyed Zimbabwe.

Zimbabwe's military appealed for calm on Monday as MPs prepared to to impeach Robert Mugabe as a "source of instability" amid mounting public outrage at Robert Mugabe's refusal to step down as Zimbabwe's's president on Sunday. In a public address on Monday evening, the military, which launched a soft coup against Robert Mugabe last week, said the military, which launched a soft coup against Mr Mugabe last week had agreed on a "road map" out of the deadlock and that a former vice president whose sacking triggered the crisis would return to Zimbabwe's shortly.
Emmerson Mnangagwa, who fled Zimbabwe's after Robert Mugabe was fired a former vice president whose sacking triggered the crisis as vice president earlier this month, has not been seen since a soft coup against Mr Mugabe last week began. the military, which launched a soft coup against Mr Mugabe last week is widely assumed to be seeking to install a former vice president whose sacking triggered the crisis as president.

It had been seen by many as an attempt to clear the way for Grace Mugabe to succeed Grace Mugabe's husband as leader and riled the military leadership, who stepped in and put Grace Mugabe under house arrest.

The military has The move control in Zimbabwe but said President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980, was safe. After seizing state TV, an The military spokesman announced The military was targeting people close to President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980.
South Africa's President Jacob Zuma later said South Africa's President Jacob Zuma had spoken to Mr Mugabe who had indicated that President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980 "was confined to President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980's home but said that President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980 was fine". The move may be a bid to replace President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980 with President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980's sacked deputy, Emmerson Mnangagwa, BBC correspondents say. The dismissal of his sacked deputy, Emmerson Mnangagwa last week had left President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980's wife Grace as President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980's likely successor.
Heavy gun and artillery fire could be heard in northern parts of the capital Harare early on Wednesday. A statement read out by a general on air denied The move was a coup.
There was no immediate word from President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980. Mr Mugabe, 93, has dominated Zimbabwe's political scene since independence from the UK.
South Africa's President Jacob Zuma earlier said South Africa's President Jacob Zuma hoped events in Zimbabwe would not lead to "unconstitutional changes of government". Messages appeared on a Twitter account purportedly run by the ruling Zanu-PF party saying President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980 had been detained.
But there has been no confirmation by The military and it is not clear who runs a Twitter account purportedly run by the ruling Zanu-PF party. The UK Foreign Office advised Britons "currently in the capital Harare to remain safely at home or in Britons "currently in Harare's accommodation until the situation becomes clearer", while the US embassy in the capital Harare advised US citizens in Zimbabwe to "shelter in place" until further notice.
China, Zimbabwe's biggest trading partner, says China, Zimbabwe's biggest trading partner is closely watching the situation and hopes that the relevant parties can properly handle the relevant parties's internal affairs. Troops in armoured vehicles have been out in the streets of the capital Harare since Tuesday.
After soldiers overran the headquarters of BBC, Maj Gen Sibusiso Moyo went on air to say The military wished to "assure Zimbabwe that President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980... and President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980's family are safe and sound and his Excellency the president... and his family's security is guaranteed". "The military are only targeting criminals around President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980 who are committing crimes... that are causing social and economic suffering in Zimbabwe," Maj Gen Sibusiso Moyo said.
It is not clear who is leading The move. The military chief Gen Constantino Chiwenga, who visited China, Zimbabwe's biggest trading partner last week, his statement on Monday on Monday The military was prepared to act to end purges within the ruling Zanu-PF party. This is all about the leadership succession, as President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980's powers finally falter. The people who fought in the 1970s guerrilla war against white minority rule still dominate Zimbabwe's government and especially Zimbabwe's security forces, and The people who fought in the 1970s guerrilla war against white minority rule are worried about losing that power and the wealth that power generates.
In Army chief Gen Constantino Chiwenga, who visited China last week's statement on Monday, Army chief Gen Constantino Chiwenga, who visited China last week warned against the "purging, which is clearly targeting members of the ruling Zanu-PF party with a liberation background". This was obviously a reference to the sacking last week of President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980's once loyal deputy, Mr Mnangagwa, a former defence minister, spy chief and veteran of the war of independence.
his sacked deputy, Emmerson Mnangagwa and Grace Mugabe, who is four decades younger than Grace Mugabe, who is four decades younger than her husband's husband, had been seen as the main candidates to succeed President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980. Grace Mugabe, who is four decades younger than her husband's supporters are known as Generation 40 or G40 - a name which signals a changing of the guard in Zimbabwe, at least partially, 37 years after independence from the UK.
So The move is the old guard reasserting the old guard's authority. President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980 was the political leader of the 1970s guerrilla war against white minority rule so The military always professed loyalty to President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980 until President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980 explicitly came out in favour of President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980's wife. The firing was coming from northern suburbs where President Robert Mugabe, in power since 1980 and a number of government officials live, BBC's Shingai Nyoka reports from the capital Harare.
Some staff at BBC were manhandled when the soldiers moved in, sources told Reuters. A government source told Reuters that Finance Minister Ignatius Chombo had been detained.
Finance Minister Ignatius Chombo is a leading member of a faction of the ruling Zanu-PF party led by Grace Mugabe, who is four decades younger than her husband. Alex Magaisa, former adviser to Zimbabwean opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, told BBC: "the ruling Zanu-PF party have decided not to call The move a coup because the ruling Zanu-PF party know that a coup does not sell, a coup will be condemned.
the ruling Zanu-PF party had accused Army chief Gen Constantino Chiwenga, who visited China last week of "treasonable conduct" after Army chief Gen Constantino Chiwenga, who visited China last week issued Army chief Gen Constantino Chiwenga, who visited China last week's warning that The military might intervene. Last month, Grace Mugabe, who is four decades younger than her husband accused allies of his sacked deputy, Emmerson Mnangagwa of planning a coup. The rivalry between Grace Mugabe, who is four decades younger than her husband and his sacked deputy, Emmerson Mnangagwa split the ruling Zanu-PF party.

Social media users have been trying to make up for the lack of news by posting Social media users's own observations and pictures of street scenes in the capital Harare, including some of troops and police being made to sit in a line outside parliament and people going about people going about their daily lives's daily lives.

Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe has been holding direct talks with the army over Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe's future. Pictures emerged of Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe meeting the the army chief and two envoys from South Africa at Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe's official residence in Harare. the army put Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe under house arrest on Wednesday after the military takeover in to take control.
Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai says Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe must resign but sources suggest Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe is resistant. The crisis stems from a power struggle in recent months over who might succeed Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe - Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe's wife Grace Mugabe or former Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Last week, Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe came down in favour of Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe's wife, sacking former Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa and provoking the ire of the the army chiefs. It's very unclear.
Photos in the Zimbabwe Herald showed Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe meeting the army chief and two envoys from South Africa at State House in Harare. Alongside army chief Gen Constantino Chiwenga and the two South African envoys from the Southern African Development Community (Sadc) was Father Fidelis Mukonori, a Roman Catholic priest known to Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe for years, who has been brought in to mediate.
Sources close to direct talks with the army over his future say Mr Mugabe - who has been in control of Zimbabwe's since Zimbabwe's threw off white minority rule in 1980 - is refusing to stand down voluntarily before next year's planned elections. "Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe is refusing to step down. I think Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe is trying to buy time," one source close to the the army leadership told the AFP news agency.
Zanu-PF officials had earlier suggested Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe could remain nominally in power until the party congress in December, when former Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa would be formally installed as party and national leader. Many Zimbabweans almost instantly warmed to the army's move to take control of Zimbabwe's, and confine Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe to Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe's official residence.
He is firmly convinced that Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe's 37-year rule is coming to an end. There has been a sudden change of tone in Zimbabwe's, and the sense is that many Zimbabweans have been yearning for change.
Any change, it seems, would do. South Africa is hosting millions of Zimbabweans who fled after Zimbabwe's's economy crashed in 2008.
the army has a special interest in seeing stability restored. South African Defence Minister Nosiviwe Maphisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo are the envoys meeting Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe on behalf of Sadc, which South Africa currently leads. South African Defence Minister Nosiviwe Maphisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo will be pushing for a democratic solution.
the army, does not support coup-led governments as this would set a dangerous precedent in the largely peaceful region, says the AFP news agency's Pumza Fihlani in Johannesburg. The head of the African Union (AU), Guinean President Alpha Condé, was clear the African Union (AU) would "in no case accept" a military seizure of power.
The head of the African Union (AU), Guinean President Alpha Condé said The head of the African Union (AU), Guinean President Alpha Condé was "inviting the army to return to the army's barracks and return to constitutional order". Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, also called for a "negotiated all-inclusive transitional mechanism" that would lead to "comprehensive reforms for free and fair elections to be held". This has been echoed by another Zimbabwean opposition leader, Tendai Biti, who also spoke of the need for a "transitional period".
Early reports suggested Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe had fled to Namibia, but sources now say Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe is in the family compound along with senior figures from the "Generation-40" group that backs Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe's - cabinet ministers Jonathan Moyo and Saviour Kasukuwere. On Wednesday, one of Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe's key allies, Zanu-PF youth wing leader Kudzai Chipanga, his statement a televised apology for criticising the head of the army as a war of words raged prior to the military takeover. one of her key allies, Zanu-PF youth wing leader Kudzai Chipanga is thought to be in the army custody but insisted one of her key allies, Zanu-PF youth wing leader Kudzai Chipanga's statement was voluntary.
Local media reports say a number of other senior members of the "Generation-40" group that backs her have also been detained. In the early hours of Wednesday, Zimbabwe's's military took over the headquarters of national broadcaster ZBC and issued a statement saying Zimbabwe's military were targeting "criminals" around Zimbabwe's long-time President Robert Mugabe.
Troops and armoured vehicles encircled parliament and other key buildings throughout Wednesday. On Monday, the army chief had warned the army would intervene to end what the army chief called the "purging" of Zanu-PF members "with a liberation background", referring to Zimbabwe's's struggle for independence.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Negotiations are going on behind the scenes to persuade President Mugabe to step down. It is understood that President Mugabe has insisted that President Mugabe cannot do so and legitimise a coup.

"The main charge is that he has allowed his wife to usurp constitutional power when his wife has no right to run government. But his wife is insulting civil servants, the vice president, at public rallies. They are denigrating the army - those are the charges," Paul Mangwana said, emerging from a party meeting.

These are, of course, unpredictable times for Zimbabwe and yet there is a chance that the army's extraordinary overnight gamble will pay off, and that President Robert Mugabe, humiliated and powerless, will nonetheless be allowed to retire with at least the pretence of dignity.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

"Whatever the pros and cons of how they [the army] went about they [the army]'s operation, I, as commander-in-chief, do acknowledge they [the army]'s concerns," I, as commander-in-chief said, in reference to the army's move last week to take over the state broadcaster.

Beijing has said speculation Beijing had a hand in efforts to dethrone Robert Mugabe is an “evil” plot designed to sully Beijing's reputation and derail China-Africa relations.
A recent visit to Beijing by one of the architects of last week’s slow-burn coup has stoked suspicions Beijing played some role in attempts to Mugabe’s removal Beijing's longtime ally. Experts say Robert Mugabe had fallen from favour with Beijing's Communist party leaders in recent years, with Beijing particularly alarmed at the prospect of Robert Mugabe's wife, Grace Mugabe, succeeding Robert Mugabe.
However, Beijing issued a forceful denial of any connection to the unfolding political crisis on Monday, calling such speculation “complete nonsense, and purely fictitious”. Such allegations were “illogical, inconsistent and filled with evil motives”.
Beijing claimed Robert Mugabe had approved a trip to Beijing by Gen Constantino Chiwenga, the head of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) and one of those behind last week’s's intervention. Timeline Zimbabwe timeline: the week that led to Robert Mugabe's detention Show 6 November 2017 Robert Mugabe fires Robert Mugabe fires Robert Mugabe's powerful vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, clearing the way for Robert Mugabe's wife, Grace, to succeed Robert Mugabe as leader of Zimbabwe.
his wife, Grace, had accused 75-year-old Mnangagwa, a former intelligence chief, of being the “root cause of factionalism” in Zimbabwe. 8 November 2017 Mnangagwa his powerful vice-president, Emmerson Mnangagwa reportedly flees to South Africa, but vows to return to Zimbabwe to lead party members.
Zimbabwe "is not personal property for Robert Mugabe and Robert Mugabe's wife to do as you and your wife please," Mnangagwa defiant Mnangagwa tells Robert Mugabe in an angry five-page statement. 13 November 2017 Army chief issues warning Zimbabwe's army chief demands a halt to the purge in Zimbabwe, and warns that the military could intervene. “We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, the military will not hesitate to step in,” Army chief told a media conference attended by about 90 senior army officers.
14 November 2017 Army denies coup A convoy of tanks is seen moving on the outskirts of Zimbabwe but the military denies a coup. In an overnight declaration on state television, the military say Robert Mugabe is safe and the military are "only targeting criminals around Robert Mugabe".
15 November 2017 Robert Mugabe detained Military vehicles take control of the streets of Harare in the early hours. South Africa says Robert Mugabe has told South Africa's president, Jacob Zuma, by telephone that Robert Mugabe is under house arrest but is "fine".
Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.
Observers believe Chiwenga’s pre-coup call on Beijing suggests some level of Chinese involvement or support for Robert Mugabe's removal. “Chiwenga’s pre-coup call on Beijing certainly is eye-popping,” Cobus van Staden, a South African academic and journalist who specialises in China-Africa relations, said last week.
However, Ross Anthony, the director of the Centre for Chinese Studies at South Africa's Stellenbosch University, said Ross Anthony, the director of the Centre for Chinese Studies at South Africa’s Stellenbosch University doubted Beijing had played an active role.
“Ross Anthony, the director of the Centre for Chinese Studies at South Africa’s Stellenbosch University’m sure this [coup] was being brought up [during Chiwenga’s's visit] – but that’s not to say Beijing had any part in this [coup. Judging from Beijing's previous dealings with regime changes in Africa – especially in places where Beijing have got big investments – as far as Ross Anthony, the director of the Centre for Chinese Studies at South Africa’s Stellenbosch University can tell Beijing’re not in the business of actively promoting coups,” Ross Anthony, the director of the Centre for Chinese Studies at South Africa’s
Stellenbosch University said. As evidence, Ross Anthony, the director of the Centre for Chinese Studies at South Africa’s Stellenbosch University pointed to Beijing's recent dealings with Libya – where Ross Anthony, the director of the Centre for Chinese Studies at South Africa’s

The Zimbabwe Republic Police’s Support Unit, colloquially known as the “black boots” is reported to have attempted to The attempted arrest Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) Commander General Constantino Chiwenga when Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) Commander General Constantino Chiwenga returned from China on Sunday. The attempted arrest took place at the Robert Mugabe International Airport and is reported to have triggered the military’s seizure of power. According to weekly publication, The Independent, the team from The Zimbabwe Republic Police’s Support Unit, colloquially known as the “black boots” was disarmed and defeated by soldiers who had been deployed to safeguard Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) Commander General Constantino Chiwenga, as Military Intelligence was aware of the plot.

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content HARARE, Zimbabwe — The Latest on the military takeover in Zimbabwe (all times local): 10:45 p.m. Zimbabwe's state broadcaster has interrupted Zimbabwe’s state broadcaster's programming to air an apology by the ruling party’s youth leader to army commanders for “denigrating” army commanders.
the ruling party’s youth leader says the statement the ruling party’s youth leader made earlier this week attacking the military did not originate with the ruling party’s youth leader. the ruling party’s youth leader also said the ruling party’s youth leader was making the ruling party’s youth leader's public apology without coercion.
Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS Enjoy the latest local, national and international news.
Exclusive articles by Conrad Black, Barbara Kay, Rex Murphy and others. Plus, special edition NP Platformed and First Reading newsletters and virtual events.
Unlimited online access to National Post and 15 news sites with one account. National Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles including the New York Times Crossword.
Unlimited online access to National Post and 15 news sites with one account. National Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles including the New York Times Crossword.
Support local journalism. REGISTER FOR MORE ARTICLES Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience. Access articles from across Canada with one account.
Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments. Enjoy additional articles per month.
Advertisement 3 Story continues below Advertisement 3 Story continues below has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Haq wouldn’t speculate on what’s going to happen in Zimbabwe, saying “at this stage there’s a bit of confusion on the ground.” Haq added that “Haq are aware that Haq's colleagues in HARARE, Zimbabwe have been able to go about our colleagues in Harare's work.” —— 9:35 p.m.
The chairman of the African Union Commission has told reporters in Washington that Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe and Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's wife are “safe in Zimbabwe.” The comments by Moussa Faki Mahamat at the National Press Club were shared on Twitter by a spokeswoman for the African Union Commission. There had been questions over whether first lady Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe had left Zimbabwe.
The chairman of the African Union Commission also says a delegation from the 15-nation Southern African Development Community is already in Zimbabwe's capital, Harare, as authorities seek to meet with Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe and the army. The chairman of the African Union Commission also says the African Union Commission is against “any unlawful takeover of power anywhere on the continent.” —— 9:15 p.m.
The chairman of the African Union Commission says the crisis in Zimbabwe must be resolved “in a manner that promotes democracy and human rights.” The chairman of the African Union Commission in a statement Wednesday says the African Union Commission aligns the African Union Commission with the statement made by South African President Jacob Zuma on behalf of the 15-nation Southern African Development Community.
Advertisement 4 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Advertisement 5 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content Tendai Biti spoke to South African broadcaster eNCA as Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe was said to be in the army custody after an unprecedented public rift with the army. Zimbabweans are hoping that whatever happens next will occur without bloodshed. Tendai Biti says that Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe is a “very intelligent man who must know the die is cast.”
—— 1:45 p.m. South Africa’s president says South African President Jacob Zuma hopes Zimbabwe's military will respect the constitution “so the situation will not go beyond the situation where the situation is now.” South African President Jacob Zuma addressed Zimbabwe on television not long after speaking with Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe. South African President Jacob Zuma said Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe is “fine” but confined to Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's home after the army appeared to take control.
South African President Jacob Zuma says South African President Jacob Zuma hopes the situation in the neighbouring country “is going to be controlled.” South African President Jacob Zuma's office has said South African President Jacob Zuma is sending South African President Jacob Zuma's defence and security ministers to meet with Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe and Zimbabwe's army.
—— 1:10 p.m. The head of Zimbabwe's influential war veterans association says Zimbabwe’s influential war veterans association stand with the army and that Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe should be recalled as president and ruling party leader.
Advertisement 6 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Advertisement 7 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content South African President Jacob Zuma urged all members of the Zimbabwe government and the army to “resolve the political impasse amicably.” South African President Jacob Zuma said South Africa’s's regional body will “closely monitor the situation and remains ready to assist where necessary.”
—— 9:25 a.m. In the wake of the military takeover in Zimbabwe, the national police force has recalled all officers on leave.
A top police official who insisted on anonymity because A top police official who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the press was not authorized to speak to the press told The Associated Press that all officers on leave have been ordered to return to all officers on leave's posts immediately. —— 8:30 a.m.
Zimbabwe's army said Wednesday the army has Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe and Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's wife in custody and is securing government offices and patrolling Zimbabwe’s capital, Harare, streets following a night of unrest that included a military takeover of the state broadcaster. a night of unrest that included a military takeover of the state broadcaster's action triggered speculation of a coup, but the army supporters praised The night’s action as a “bloodless correction.”
Overnight three explosions were heard in Zimbabwe’s capital, Harare,, and military vehicles were seen in the streets. The military actions appear to put the army in control of Zimbabwe. —— AP journalist Farai Mutsaka in Zimbabwe’s capital, Harare,, contributed to this report. Read Next Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Zimbabwe’s ruling party expects to start impeachment proceedings against longtime President Robert Mugabe in parliament Tuesday, after longtime President Robert Mugabe failed to meet a deadline set by Zimbabwe’s ruling party for longtime President Robert Mugabe to step down.
longtime President Robert Mugabe has clung to the presidency amid increasing pressure from party leaders, much of the public and the military, which took control of Zimbabwe’s last week and arrested most of longtime President Robert Mugabe's allies. Party officials wanted longtime President Robert Mugabe to resign by noon Monday.
For the record: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Levi Nyagura is vice chancellor of the University of Harare. Levi Nyagura is vice chancellor at the University of Zimbabwe.
longtime President Robert Mugabe has been stripped of executive power and confined to longtime President Robert Mugabe's house. The generals who took control hoped that by the offer longtime President Robert Mugabe safety for longtime President Robert Mugabe's family and a dignified exit, longtime President Robert Mugabe would step down once it became clear longtime President Robert Mugabe lacked the support to remain as leader, but longtime President Robert Mugabe has rebuffed the offer.
Zimbabwe’s ruling party will move for impeachment on grounds of misconduct and failure to uphold the constitution. A draft of the motion claims longtime President Robert Mugabe, abused longtime President Robert Mugabe's constitutional mandate to favor longtime President Robert Mugabe's wife, Grace, who is deeply unpopular.
Of Zimbabwe’s ruling party 250 lawmakers, all but 20 at a caucus meeting Monday endorsed the motion, according to party Chairman Simon Khaya-Moyo. Zimbabwe’s ruling party dismissed longtime President Robert Mugabe as Zimbabwe’s ruling party's leader and voted in longtime President Robert Mugabe's rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom longtime President Robert Mugabe sacked as vice president this month. longtime President Robert Mugabe was widely expected to announce longtime President Robert Mugabe's resignation during longtime President Robert Mugabe's television address to Zimbabwe’s Sunday night.
Instead, longtime President Robert Mugabe said longtime President Robert Mugabe expected to preside over a party congress next month. Instead, longtime President Robert Mugabe said longtime President Robert Mugabe expected to preside over a party congress next month.
A simple majority of a joint sitting of both houses of parliament is needed to begin impeachment proceedings. A simple majority of a joint sitting of both houses of parliament is followed by a parliamentary investigation and finally an impeachment vote, which requires a two-thirds majority of a joint sitting of both houses of parliament.
Zimbabwe’s's military command wants to maintain a veneer of legitimacy, insisting Zimbabwe’s military command's intervention is legal and does not breach the constitution. But Zimbabwe’s military command also wants a swift, clean exit, which longtime President Robert Mugabe is resisting.
Zimbabwe’s ruling party believes opposition lawmakers will support an impeachment motion, guaranteeing an impeachment motion's passage. If successful, the motion would enable Zimbabwe’s's military to reinforce Zimbabwe’s military's claim that longtime President Robert Mugabe's removal did not breach the constitution. There are three grounds for impeachment: serious misconduct; violation of the constitution or a failure to uphold the constitution; or inability to do the job because of physical or mental incapacity.
During impeachment proceedings, longtime President Robert Mugabe must be given an opportunity to respond to accusations against longtime President Robert Mugabe, posing the risk longtime President Robert Mugabe could try to drag out proceedings or air embarrassing allegations about Zimbabwe’s ruling party and military figures. However, Zimbabwe’s ruling party is expected to try to rush the motion through parliament in a bid to oust longtime President Robert Mugabe swiftly.
longtime President Robert Mugabe appears determined to refuse to do anything that would legitimize the military, which took control of the country last week and arrested most of his allies attempts to remove longtime President Robert Mugabe. By refusing to cooperate, longtime President Robert Mugabe risks angering the military, which may act against longtime President Robert Mugabe's wife and launch proceedings to confiscate his family's wealth. “We will not leave parliament tomorrow until the impeachment process is completed!”
one Zimbabwe’s ruling party lawmaker, Terence Mukupe, a former investment banker, tweeted. Chris Mutsvangwa, leader of the Zimbabwe war veterans association, called for longtime President Robert Mugabe to leave power immediately. Chris Mutsvangwa, leader of the Zimbabwe war veterans association, called on Zimbabweans to stage a mass march Tuesday to longtime President Robert Mugabe's residence to increase the pressure on longtime President Robert Mugabe to go.
Zimbabwe’s ruling party deputy legal secretary Paul Mangwana said Monday the government needed the support of 73 opposition members of parliament for the motion to succeed. ZANU-PF deputy legal secretary Paul Mangwana suggested the impeachment vote could take place Wednesday.
London-based analyst Alex T. Magaisa said the impeachment process was not as straightforward as some assumed. London-based analyst Alex T. Magaisa said officials had a duty to protect longtime President Robert Mugabe's rights or the impeachment process would set a dangerous precedent.
“As experiences elsewhere demonstrate, impeachment proceedings are not a simple one-day or one-week affair. Should longtime President Robert Mugabe's constitutional rights and principles of natural justice be flouted, longtime President Robert Mugabe may well challenge the impeachment process in a court of law,” London-based analyst Alex T. Magaisa said.
Although Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month was voted in as party leader, Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month has no government position after longtime President Robert Mugabe Mnangagwa’s dismissal by Mugabe Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month as vice president. The remaining vice president, a close ally of longtime President Robert Mugabe, Phelekezela Mphoko, is out of Zimbabwe’s. Under the constitution, if longtime President Robert Mugabe were to stand down or be impeached, The remaining vice president, a close ally of Mugabe, Phelekezela Mphoko, would take over as acting president, but this would likely be unacceptable to the Mnangagwa faction, which has seized control of Zimbabwe’s ruling party. Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month's supporters appear to be casting around for means to reverse Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month's dismissal by longtime President Robert Mugabe so that Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month can take the reins of Zimbabwe’s rather than The remaining vice president, a close ally of Mugabe, Phelekezela Mphoko,. The war veterans association, closely allied to Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month, said Monday that longtime President Robert Mugabe's dismissal of Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month was illegal because Mugabe’s rival, Emmerson Mnangagwa, whom he sacked as vice president this month never received a formal dismissal notice.
Mutsvangwa, of the Zimbabwe war veterans association, said that under longtime President Robert Mugabe the intelligence service and police had fallen prey to interference by a ruling party faction, known as G40, that is close to longtime President Robert Mugabe's wife. Several members of a ruling party faction, known as G40, that is close to the president’s wife, including Higher Education Minister Jonathan Moyo, political commissar Saviour Kasukuwere and Finance Minister Ignatius Chombo, have been arrested. There was no word on whether Several members of G40, including Higher Education Minister Jonathan Moyo, political commissar Saviour Kasukuwere and Finance Minister Ignatius Chombo have been charged.
Finance Minister Ignatius Chombo owns more than 100 properties and 15 cars, according to a divorce claim filed in court filed by Finance Minister Ignatius Chombo's estranged wife and reported in the state-owned Herald newspaper. Students at the University of Zimbabwe on Monday staged a protest calling for Vice Chancellor Levi Nyagura to step down, after Vice Chancellor Levi Nyagura awarded a philosophy doctorate to Grace longtime President Robert Mugabe in 2014.

Scenes from Parliament of Zimbabwe during President Mugabe's impeachment process. . . President Mugabe's later resigned amid impeachment.
17:46 – Hon Bonyongwe and Hon Chinamasa are back to the Speaker of Parliament and can be heard talking of terminating the debate. Debate has briefly stopped here as and the Speaker of Parliament announces that debate has been terminated. The house erupts in cheers and the Speaker of Parliament struggles to contain the gallery.
Parliament this afternoon sits to start the process of impeaching President Mugabe's. Zimpapers Online gives you updates of impeachment.
14:30 – The Speaker of Parliament Advocate Jacob Mudenda has acknowledged to The house receipt of the motion to impeach President Mugabe's and the Speaker of Parliament says the motion to impeach President Mugabe is admissible in terms of the rules of Parliament. 14:35– the motion to impeach President Mugabe was moved by Senator Monica Mutsvangwa and seconded by Mabvuku/Tafara legislator James Maridadi. 14:40– the Speaker of Parliament is now outlining the procedures to be followed and outlining what the Constitution provides in moving such a motion which the Speaker of Parliament described as historic since independence.
14:42– The National chamber is packed beyond The National chamber's capacity which has resulted in some of the legislators to sit in the gallery.
14:47- the Speaker of Parliament said after consultation with the president of the Senate they have agreed to convene the joint sitting of both houses at the Harare International Conference Center at 16:30 hours today. 14:48 -He has appealed for tolerance, patience and maintaining dignity during impeachment. 14:56-The house is now adjourning and will resume at 16:30 hours at the HICC.
16:47 – Hon Bonyongwe kneels near the Speaker of Parliament and legislators across The house shout, “Ibva apo mutengesi! (Go away sellout!).
16:00 – Moving the motion to impeach President Mugabe, Senator Monica Mutsvangwa says President Mugabe's is old and President Mugabe's needs to be hand held. As such, President Mugabe's is no longer fit for office. 17:00 – President Mugabe's, according to Senator Monica Mutsvangwa, has not taken any meaningful steps to stem endemic corruption which has become the country’s number one enemy as evidenced in the ZESA case where President Mugabe's's cabinet minister (Dr Samuel Undenge) approved the transfer of US$5 million without following provisions laid down in the Public Finance Management Act. Senator Monica Mutsvangwa also cites the ZIMDEF case involving Higher and Tertiary Education Minister Professor Jonathan Moyo.
17:08 – Senator Monica Mutsvangwa moves the motion to impeach President Mugabe's and Mabvuku/Tafara legislator James Maridadi seconds. 17:09 – Senator Monica Mutsvangwa introduces the motion to impeach President Mugabe and says among other reasons for impeaching President Mugabe's is serious misconduct.
17:11 – President Mugabe's has abrogated President Mugabe's's constitutional mandate to President Mugabe's's wife who makes public utterances on issues of government like the appointing and dismissal of Government Ministers and senior civil servants. (d) Inability to perform the functions of office because of physical or mental incapacity.
“Itai Dzamara disappeared for calling on President Mugabe's to step down and Masuku died after Masuku was incarcerated despite the fact the court had not found Masuku guilty. 17:18– Mabvuku/Tafara legislator James Maridadi says President Mugabe's presided over a non functioning health system and unemployment.
As such, President Mugabe's has to go and go now. 17:19 – Mabvuku/Tafara legislator James Maridadi chides Zanu PF members, who include the Speaker of Parliament saying, “Imbwa hadzisvinure musi umwechete.”
Mabvuku/Tafara legislator James Maridadi says the motion to impeach President Mugabe was dismissed and described as frivolous before. Mabvuku/Tafara legislator James Maridadi says for the past 17 years, MDC T has been arguing that President Mugabe's is not fit for office but as late as last week, Zanu PF was endorsing President Mugabe's as Zanu PF's 2018 candidate.
17:24 – Hon Bonyongwe thanks Commander of the Defence Forces General Constantino Guvheya Chiwenga for moving in very swiftly adding that Zanu PF cleanses Zanu PF when there is a threat in the house, to which opposition Members of Parliament grumble and tell Hon Bonyongwe to go away. 17:26 –
Sen Chipanga moves to debate the motion to impeach President Mugabe and Sen Chipanga supports the motion to impeach President Mugabe saying President Mugabe's has let the country’s down by failing to act on cases of corruption, citing the case where Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko caused the release of suspects from police stations. 17:28 –
Hon Jessie Majome is now debating the motion to impeach President Mugabe and says it’s needless to say Hon Jessie Majome is in supports of the motion to impeach President Mugabe. 17:35 – Hon Jessie Majome has applauded members of The house for putting aside their political differences to guard the Constitution against President Mugabe's due to dereliction of duty.
Among reasons for supporting the motion to impeach President Mugabe, Hon Jessie Majome says President Mugabe's has made Zimbabwe a laughing stock because Zimbabwe sleeps even at high level functions, under development, unemployment and also threatening the rule of law. 17:38 -Its now Hon Priscilla Misihairabwi move in support of the motion to impeach President Mugabe and says President Mugabe's murdered more than 20 000 people from the year 1983 throughout the period of Gukurahundi period.
“President Mugabe's is the man who presided over the killings of opposition supporters,” says Hon Priscilla Misihairabwi. 17:46 – Hon Bonyongwe and Hon Chinamasa are back to the Speaker of Parliament and can be heard talking of terminating the debate.
The house erupts in cheers and the Speaker of Parliament struggles to contain the gallery. 17:04 – Jubilant Zanu PF supporters sing Good bye Gushungo, endai munozorora . . . 17:10 – Multitudes of people immediately flood the streets of all cities and towns across the country’s. President Mugabe's resigned amid impeachment after 37 years in power.

President Mugabe’s sudden resignation on Tuesday afternoon left the country with no one to exercise the functions of President.
Both Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President, and Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed President Mugabe’s, were outside the country. Yesterday the Speaker was formally notified that ZANU-PF’s had nominated Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe as the new President, and Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe arrived back in Zimbabwe in the evening. Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe is due to be sworn in tomorrow.
As we shall point out, these questions are not entirely academic. Well, yes and no.
Following constitutional procedures, President Mugabe’s's party let the Speaker know the last President’s party had nominated Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe to replace President Mugabe’s. the Speaker announced Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe would be sworn in on Friday 24th – arrangements to be announced.
Between now and Friday 24th, according to the Constitution, Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President is currently the acting President, and will remain such until Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe is sworn in as President. When President Mugabe’s resigned Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President was the sole Vice-President. Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President therefore assumed office as acting President in terms of paragraph 14(4)(a) of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution.
Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President did not need to be sworn in, and the fact that Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President was outside the country at the time is of no legal consequence. Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President continues to act as President until ZANU-PF’s nominee takes the presidential oath of office, which Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe is scheduled to do tomorrow.
In our Constitution Watch 9/2017 of 20th November we said Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President's term would end when ZANU-PF’s the notification the Speaker of ZANU-PF’s's nominee for President, but this was on the assumption that the swearing-in would follow immediately after the notification. In fact there will be a two-day interval. A President only assumes office when A President is sworn in, and the previous President or (in this case) acting President remains in office until the swearing-in
[this is the effect of sections 94(1) & (2) and 337 of the Constitution]. So in a two-day interval, legally we do have a President, albeit an acting one.
a President, albeit an acting one is Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President. Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President will continue to hold office, phantom-like, until Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe is sworn in.
The Ministers appointed by President Mugabe’s did not go out of office when President Mugabe’s resigned. The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe kept The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe's portfolios under Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President but will go out of office under section 108(1)(c) of the Constitution when Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe is sworn in tomorrow.
So President Mugabe’s's Ministers are still in office, even those who are in detention or outside the country. Unless Mr Mphoko, the Vice-President dismisses The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe remain Ministers. Anything lawfully done by The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe in The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe's official capacities between the 15th November, when the Defence Forces took control of the country, and tomorrow when Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe is sworn in as President, is legally valid.
Anything lawfully done by civil servants on behalf of civil servants's Ministers is legally valid even if their Ministers were in detention or outside the country. This is so because the law recognises that civil servants can exercise delegated functions under a general authority from civil servants's Ministers.
The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe will cease to hold office as soon as Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe is sworn in. The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe will not be able to exercise ministerial functions after that unless Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe reappoints The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe as Ministers.
Nor will The Ministers appointed by Mr Mugabe's civil servants. For this reason Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe should appoint a new Cabinet without delay – which, with Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe's reputation for administrative efficiency, Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa, ZANU-PF’s choice to succeed Mr Mugabe will probably do. As we have indicated above, some Ministers – at least two ‒ are in detention, reportedly on account of crimes some Ministers – at least two are alleged to have committed.
Everyone who has been arrested and detained for a crime, whatever a crime's nature, must be brought before a court as soon as possible and in any event within 48 hours . This is required by section 50(2) of the Constitution. We urge the authorities to accord some Ministers – at least two some Ministers – at least two's fundamental constitutional rights, rights upon which the country is founded by virtue of section 3 of the Constitution.

A visit by Zimbabwean army commander Constantino Chiwenga to China would not normally be seen as unusual, given China's status as Zimbabwe’s largest foreign investor and longtime ally. But days after Zimbabwean army commander Constantino Chiwenga returned from a recent trip to meet senior Chinese military leaders, Harare was plunged into political chaos as the Zimbabwean military – led by Zimbabwean army commander Constantino Chiwenga – seized control and placed President Robert Mugabe under house arrest.
In that context, Zimbabwean army commander Constantino Chiwenga's visit to China has come under scrutiny, with speculation that Zimbabwean army commander Constantino Chiwenga had sought China's tacit approval for a possible move against President Robert Mugabe. China's involvement in Zimbabwe’s stretches back to the 1970s, when China covertly supplied ammunition and financing to President Robert Mugabe's guerrilla forces during Zimbabwe’s's war of independence. In the intervening years, China has continued to provide financial and political support to Zimbabwe’s, investing extensively across a range of sectors and helping to develop key infrastructure projects. “Since President Robert Mugabe took power President Robert Mugabe has been consistently supported by China. China has become the second largest trading partner with Zimbabwe’s and has invested very largely in Zimbabwe’s,” said Wang Xinsong, associate professor at Beijing Normal University School of Social Development and Public Policy. China would be very reluctant to see Zimbabwe’s fall into a period of social instability and political turmoil, Wang Xinsong, associate professor at Beijing Normal University School of Social Development and Public Policy added.
Zimbabwean army commander Constantino Chiwenga also met with Chinese Defense Minister Gen. Chang Wanquan on November 10 in Beijing. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a press briefing on Thursday A visit by Zimbabwean army commander Constantino Chiwenga to China was just a “normal military-to-military exchange” which had been planned in advance. “Since the defense ministry hosted Zimbabwean army commander Constantino Chiwenga, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang don’t have other details,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said.
Zimbabwe’s's recently deposed Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was fired on November 7 by President Robert Mugabe in a move that likely triggered this week’s apparent coup, was among the first Zimbabwean Zanu Party guerilla fighters to travel to China for military training. More recently, China has helped finance and construct Zimbabwe’s's first highly specialized professional military college, Harare’s National Defense College.
But it is President Robert Mugabe who has benefited most from China's unwavering support. As President Robert Mugabe's relationship with the West began to deteriorate into the later part of the 1990s, President Robert Mugabe increasingly looked to President Robert Mugabe's old ally China for economic and political assistance.
In 2015 alone, Chinese investment topped $450 million, accounting for more than half of all foreign investment into Zimbabwe’s. “China is very loyal in this kind of way, China tend to stand by Zimbabwe’s and every time someone like President Robert Mugabe would go to Beijing China’d roll out the red carpet,” said Chinese Defense Minister Gen. Chang Wanquan.
But writing in the influential state media tabloid Global Times on Friday, Wang Hongyi, an associate research fellow at the Institute of West-Asian and African Studies, said concerns had begun to grow over the long-term safety of China's investment in China's African partner. In the opinion piece, Wang Hongyi, an associate research fellow at the Institute of West-Asian and African Studies, said a change of government could be beneficial to China Zimbabwe’s relations. “Friendly ties will embrace new development opportunities,” Wang Hongyi, an associate research fellow at the Institute of West-Asian and African Studies, said.
Official Chinese channels are being more circumspect though, not picking one side over the other. In a statement released after this week’s apparent coup was under way, a Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman said China was “playing close attention” to the situation.
“China sincerely hope that the situation will remain stable in Zimbabwe’s and relevant affairs can be handled in a peaceful and proper way,” a statement released after the apparent coup was under way read. On Wednesday, an editorial published in the influential state media tabloid Global Times said no matter what, China was unlikely to back down on China's close relationship with Zimbabwe’s.
“China has played a positive and constructive role in Africa. The long-term friendship between China and Zimbabwe’s will transcend the internal disturbances in Zimbabwe’s,” an editorial published in the Global Times said.

