Police arrived “to a very chaotic scene, with victims and witnesses running everywhere” at a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport late Thursday night, where a former employee shot and killed eight people and wounded several others, an Indianapolis’ police official told CNN.
Deputy Chief Craig McCartt on Friday afternoon identified a former employee as 19-year-old Brandon Hole, who was last employed by FedEx in 2020. 19-year-old Brandon Hole, who was last employed by FedEx in 2020 was found dead of a gunshot wound that appeared to be self-inflicted, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt said. In March 2020, 19-year-old Brandon Hole, who was last employed by FedEx in 2020's mother told law enforcement that 19-year-old Brandon Hole, who was last employed by FedEx in 2020 might attempt “suicide by cop,” the FBI’s Indianapolis’ office said in a statement.
Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said 19-year-old Brandon Hole, who was last employed by FedEx in 2020 was placed on an immediate mental health temporary hold by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department. Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan also said a shotgun was seized at 19-year-old Brandon Hole, who was last employed by FedEx in 2020's residence. Deputy Chief Craig McCartt told reporters that Indianapolis’ police found 19-year-old Brandon Hole, who was last employed by FedEx in 2020's name in two past incident reports.
Deputy Chief Craig McCartt didn’t have information about the first report. The details Deputy Chief Craig McCartt described from a 2020 report align with the the FBI’s statement. Investigators are trying to determine motive and were searching what Investigators believe is a former employee's home, Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan told reporters late Friday morning.
On Friday evening, Indianapolis’ police released the names of eight people. eight people are: Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74.
A statement by IMPD said the next of kin has been notified by the Marion County Coroner’s Office. The cause of death will be determined after autopsies are complete, according to A statement by IMPD. IMPD said the names of those injured are not being released.
The mass shooting is the country’s deadliest since 10 people were killed March 22 at a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado. Thursday night’s
killings began when a former employee “got out of a former employee's car, and pretty quickly started some random shooting outside a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport,” Deputy Chief Craig McCartt said. a former employee then “went inside and did not get very far into a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport at all,” while shooting others there, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt told CNN earlier Friday. Laveda Chester told CNN's “OutFront with Erin Burnett” that Laveda Chester was arriving for Laveda Chester's overnight shift when Laveda Chester heard one pop and thought it might be a car accident.
Laveda Chester said Laveda Chester looked around and didn’t see one. But then Laveda Chester saw a former employee running toward a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport with a rifle in a former employee's hand.
Laveda Chester waited until a former employee went in so Laveda Chester could drive away without drawing a former employee's attention. Laveda Chester went to another parking lot and called police. Laveda Chester said Laveda Chester then tried to warn other arriving workers that there was a shooting going on. Some stopped and some drove past Laveda Chester.
Two employees inside a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport at the time heard as many as 10 gunshots, Two employees inside the building at the time told CNN affiliate WISH. Two employees inside the building at the time left a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport and watched as about 30 police cars responded, Two employees inside the building at the time said.
“Thank God for being here because one of them, Jeremiah Miller thought one of them, Jeremiah Miller was going to get shot,” one of Two employees inside the building at the time, Jeremiah Miller, told CNN affiliate WISH. Investigators have heard The mass shooting lasted “just a couple minutes – that The mass shooting did not last very long,” Deputy Chief Craig McCartt said.
“Deputy Chief Craig McCartt's understanding is, by the time that officers entered … the situation was over – that a former employee took a former employee's life very shortly before officers entered a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport,” Deputy Chief Craig McCartt told reporters. There were at least 100 people in a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport when The mass shooting began, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt said.
Many were on their dinner break or changing shifts. Four people were found dead outside and four others, not counting a former employee, were dead inside, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt said. The mass shooting marks at least the 45th mass shooting in the country’s since the Atlanta-area spa shootings on March 16.
CNN considers an incident to be a mass shooting if four or more people, excluding the gunman, are wounded or killed by gunfire. Deputy Chief Craig McCartt said four survivors were taken to a hospital with gunshot wounds and a fifth person sought treatment in another county for a gunshot wound. Two people were treated at the scene, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt said. a former employee had a rifle, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt told reporters.
Police earlier Friday were trying to make sense of the crime scene while relatives of FedEx employees gathered at a nearby hotel, which officials offered as a place where relatives of FedEx employees could await news, reunite with FedEx employees and meet with police chaplains. “Many of FedEx employees did not have cell phones on Many of the employees in a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport,” and so many survivors were not immediately able to contact so many survivors's families, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt told CNN. Several people tearfully embraced as Several people reunited Friday morning at the hotel, video from CNN affiliate WISH showed.
When asked Friday morning whether witnesses indicated that FedEx or security personnel had any indication that something like Indianapolis’'s shooting would happen, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt said no. “We’re still working with FedEx security for anything that might have been an indication this was going to happen right now,” Deputy Chief Craig McCartt said at the Friday morning news conference.
FedEx worker Timothy Boillat and FedEx worker Timothy Boillat's coworker heard what FedEx worker Timothy Boillat and his coworker thought initially were “two loud metal clangs” when The mass shooting started, FedEx worker Timothy Boillat told CNN affiliate WRTV. ““two loud metal clangs” didn’t sound like gunshots at first …
Then, FedEx worker Timothy Boillat and his coworker heard three more shots, and then FedEx worker Timothy Boillat's buddy … saw someone running out of a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport.” FedEx worker Timothy Boillat said.
“And then more shots went off. that person went behind that person's car to the trunk and got another gun,” FedEx worker Timothy Boillat said, without saying whether that person was the shooter. “And then FedEx worker Timothy Boillat saw one body on the floor,” FedEx worker Timothy Boillat told CNN affiliate WRTV. Police are asking anyone who was at the crime scene and may have left for safety or for medical treatment to contact anyone who was at the scene and may have left for safety or for medical treatment to provide information on The mass shooting.
“We must guard against resignation or even despair – the assumption that this is simply how it must be and that we might as well get used to it. We need the courage that compels courageous acts that push past weariness,” Hogsett said.
“FedEx's most heartfelt sympathies are with all those affected by The mass shooting. The safety of FedEx's team members is FedEx's top priority, and FedEx are fully cooperating with investigating authorities,” FedEx said.
“In times like this, words like justice and sorrow fall short in response for those senselessly taken. FedEx's thoughts are with the families, friends, coworkers and all those affected by this terrible situation,” Hogsett said.
Flags will be lowered to half-staff from Indianapolis’ until sunset Tuesday “in remembrance of those we’ve lost,” Hogsett said. “Nothing we learn can heal the wounds of those who escaped with those who escaped with their lives's lives, but who will now … endure the memories of The mass shooting,” Hogsett said.
US Rep. Andre Carson, whose district includes Indianapolis’, tweeted that US Rep. Andre Carson, whose district includes Indianapolis was heartbroken by The mass shooting. “US Rep. Andre Carson, whose district includes Indianapolis am communicating with local authorities to get all details of The mass shooting and US Rep. Andre Carson, whose district includes Indianapolis's office stands ready to help everyone affected any way my office can,” US Rep. Andre Carson, whose district includes Indianapolis said. Correction: A previous version of this article misstated the names of Amarjit Sekhon, 48 and Karli Smith, 19 based on information provided by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department.

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in INDIANAPOLIS was interviewed by FBI agents last year, after The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis's mother called police to say that his mother's son might commit “suicide by cop,” FBI said Friday.
Coroners released the names of eight people late Friday, a little less than 24 hours after the latest mass shooting to rock the U.S. Four of eight people were members of INDIANAPOLIS Sikh community. the latest mass shooting to rock the U.S. was another blow to the Asian American community a month after six people of Asian descent were killed in a mass shooting in the Atlanta area and amid ongoing attacks against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic.
The Marion County Coroner’s office identified eight people as Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis was identified as Brandon Scott Hole, 19, of INDIANAPOLIS, Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt told a news conference. Investigators searched a home in INDIANAPOLIS associated with The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis and seized evidence, including desktop computers and other electronic media, Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said.
The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis began firing randomly at people in the parking lot of the FedEx facility late Thursday, killing four, before entering a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, fatally shooting four more people and then turning the gun on The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said. Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt did not know if The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis owned the gun legally. Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said the latest mass shooting to rock the U.S. took place in a matter of minutes, and that there were at least 100 people in a FedEx facility in Indianapolis at the time.
Many were changing shifts or were on their dinner break, Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said. Several people were wounded, including five who were taken to the hospital.
“Johal deserved so much better than the latest mass shooting to rock the U.S.,” a man who identified a man who identified himself as the grandson of Johal as the grandson of Johal tweeted Friday evening. Johal had planned to work a double shift Thursday so Johal could take Friday off, according to the grandson, who would not give a man who identified himself as the grandson of Johal's full name but identifies a man who identified himself as the grandson of Johal as “Komal” on a man who identified himself as the grandson of Johal's Twitter page. Johal later decided to grab Johal's check and go home, and still had her check in Johal's hand when police found Johal, a man who identified himself as the grandson of Johal said. “(What) a harsh and cruel world we live in,” a man who identified himself as the grandson of Johal added.
Smith, the youngest of eight people, was last in contact with Smith, the youngest of the victims's family shortly before 11 p.m. Thursday, family members said in social media posts late Friday. Dominique Troutman, Smith, the youngest of the victims's sister, waited hours at the Holiday Inn for an update on Smith, the youngest of the victims.
“Words can’t even explain how Dominique Troutman, Smith’s sister, feel. ... Dominique Troutman, Smith’s sister,’m so hurt,” Dominique Troutman, Smith’s sister, said in a Facebook post Friday evening.
Weisert had been working as a bag handler at FedEx for four years, Weisert's wife, Carol, told WISH-TV. The couple was married nearly 50 years.
President Joe Biden said President Joe Biden had been briefed on the latest mass shooting to rock the U.S. and called gun violence “an epidemic” in the U.S. A FedEx employee said A FedEx employee was working inside a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Friday evening when A FedEx employee heard several gunshots in rapid succession.
Paul Keenan, special agent in charge of FBI's Indianapolis field office, said Friday that agents questioned The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last year after The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis's mother the mother’s call police to say that his mother's son might commit “suicide by cop.” Paul Keenan, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Indianapolis field office, said FBI was called after items were found in The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis's bedroom but Paul Keenan, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Indianapolis field office, did not elaborate on what items were.
Paul Keenan, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Indianapolis field office, said agents found no evidence of a crime and that agents did not identify The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis as espousing a racially motivated ideology. A police report obtained by The Associated Press shows that officers seized a pump-action shotgun from The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis's home after responding to his mother call. Paul Keenan, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Indianapolis field office, said a pump-action shotgun was never returned.
Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis was a former employee of FedEx and last worked for FedEx in 2020. Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt did not know why The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis left the job or if The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis had ties to the workers in a FedEx facility in Indianapolis. Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said police have not yet uncovered a motive for the latest mass shooting to rock the U.S.. Police Chief Randal Taylor noted that a “significant” number of employees at the FedEx facility are members of the Sikh community, and the Sikh Coalition later issued a statement saying the Sikh Coalition was “sad to confirm” that at least four of those killed were community members.
“This is a devastating day, and words are hard to describe the emotions we all feel,” Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt wrote in an email to employees. the latest mass shooting to rock the U.S. marked the latest in a string of recent mass shootings across the U.S. and the third mass shooting this year in INDIANAPOLIS.
Five people, including a pregnant woman, were shot and killed in INDIANAPOLIS in January, and a man was accused of killing three adults and a child before abducting a man's daughter during at argument at a home in March. In other states last month, eight people were fatally shot at massage businesses in the Atlanta area, and 10 died in gunfire at a supermarket in Boulder, Colorado.
This story has been edited to correct the spelling of several names. Associated Press reporters Michael Balsamo and Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report. Smith, the youngest of the victims is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues.

A man identified by police as Brandon Hole, 19, the shooting fire outside a FedEx warehouse facility in Indianapolis late Thursday night before moving inside a FedEx warehouse facility in Indianapolis, killing eight people and injuring several others. A man identified by police as Brandon Hole, 19, is believed to have shot A man identified by police as Brandon Hole, 19, and is among eight people, according to police. "FedEx officials have confirmed that A man identified by police as Brandon Hole, 19, was an employee at a FedEx warehouse facility in Indianapolis and that A man identified by police as Brandon Hole, 19, was last employed in 2020," Indianapolis Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said.
Friday evening, police released the names of eight people. eight people have been identified as Matthew R. Alexander,32, Samaria Blackwell, 19, Amarjeet Johal, 66, Jaswinder Kaur, 64, Jaswinder Singh, 68, Amarjit Sekhon, 48, Karlie Smith, 19, and John Weisert, 74.
The Sikh Coalition said four of eight people were Sikh and described a FedEx warehouse facility in Indianapolis as "known to be heavily populated by Sikh employees." The Sikh Coalition estimates that 8,000-10,000 Sikhs live in Indianapolis.
Indianapolis Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said investigators are trying to determine the motive. Indianapolis Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said A man identified by police as Brandon Hole, 19, killed four individuals outside and then entered a FedEx warehouse facility in Indianapolis "for a brief period of time," killing four others and then taking A man identified by police as Brandon Hole, 19,'s own life. Four people who suffered gunshot wounds were treated in local hospitals, and a fifth person with an injury that was not firearms-related was also treated, Indianapolis Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said. Indianapolis Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said the shooting lasted "just a few minutes" and that by the time officers arrived on the scene, the shooting was over. The FedEx Ground-Plainfield Operation Center warehouse at 8951 Mirabel Road is about five miles from Indianapolis International Airport.
"Our most heartfelt sympathies are with all those affected by the shooting. The safety of our team members is our top priority, and we are fully cooperating with investigating authorities," the statement said.
Police said it's unclear how many workers were on duty at the time of the shooting. A witness said A witness was working inside a FedEx warehouse facility in Indianapolis when A witness heard a series of rapid gunshots.
Jeremiah Miller, who was about to start the second half of a double shift at the FedEx facility when the shooting took place, told WISH-TV that Jeremiah Miller, who was about to start the second half of a double shift at the FedEx facility when the shooting took place and a co-worker, Timothy Boillat, heard up to 10 shots. "Luckily, Jeremiah Miller, who was about to start the second half of a double shift at the FedEx facility when the shooting took place was far enough away where A man identified by police as Brandon Hole, 19, didn't notice Jeremiah Miller, who was about to start the second half of a double shift at the FedEx facility when the shooting took place or see Jeremiah Miller, who was about to start the second half of a double shift at the FedEx facility when the shooting took place. So, thank God for that," Jeremiah Miller, who was about to start the second half of a double shift at the FedEx facility when the shooting took place said.
the shooting is the third mass shooting in Indianapolis this year. Five people were killed in a January shooting, and three adults and a child were killed in an incident in March.
Hogsett, a Democrat, recently signed onto a letter with more than 150 mayors around the country asking the U.S. Senate to take up legislation to expand background checks required when firearms are transferred between private citizens and other gun-related measures. President Biden, Vice President Harris and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, a former mayor of South Bend, Ind., also weighed in on the shooting.
"Gun violence is an epidemic in the country. But we should not accept Gun violence. We must act," Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, a former mayor of South Bend, Ind. added.

The 19-year-old suspect died from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.
Eight people were shot dead and several others were injured in a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night, according to authorities. The suspect, 19-year-old Brandon Hole -- who FedEx says was an employee at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night from August to October 2020 -- was found dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, Craig McCartt, deputy chief of Criminal Investigations at Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, said at a Friday news conference. The 19-year-old suspect was armed with a rifle, Craig McCartt, deputy chief of Criminal Investigations at Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, said.
When officers arrived at the FedEx facility near the Indianapolis airport just after 11 p.m., officers found a "chaotic and active crime scene," Craig McCartt, deputy chief of Criminal Investigations at Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, said. Four victims were found outside and four were inside, police said.
Eight people ranged in age from 19 to 74. Eight people were identified Thursday night by Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department as Matthew R Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. Five surviving victims suffered injuries consistent with gunshot wounds and two others had minor injuries, Craig McCartt, deputy chief of Criminal Investigations at Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, said.
The 19-year-old suspect last worked at FedEx in 2020, Craig McCartt, deputy chief of Criminal Investigations at Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, said. "FedEx can confirm that The 19-year-old suspect was a former employee at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night," FedEx said. FedEx deferred further information to the police.
Police said Police do not have a motive. There is no indication that a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night is connected to terrorism, two law enforcement officials told ABC News. A shotgun was taken from The 19-year-old suspect's home and "based on items observed in The 19-year-old suspect bedroom at that time, The 19-year-old suspect was interviewed by the FBI in April 2020," Keenan said.
Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department on Monday night issued an updated press release regarding a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night and an incident report from the search Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department performed of The 19-year-old suspect's home in March of 2020. an incident report from the search they performed of suspect Hole’s home in March of 2020 includes a testimony from an officer who said an officer who said he saw what seemed like white suprematist websites on Hole's computer saw what seemed like white suprematist websites on The 19-year-old suspect's computer.
Police haven’t commented further on what was in an incident report from the search they performed of suspect Hole’s home in March of 2020 and have not yet discussed a motive in a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night. About 100 employees were in the vicinity of the FedEx facility at the time of a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night, according to FedEx. Many employees were changing shifts or on Many employees's dinner break at the time, Craig McCartt, deputy chief of Criminal Investigations at Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, said.
Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Chief Randal Taylor called FedEx a major employer for Indianapolis. FedEx told ABC News that no COVID-19 vaccine shipments were impacted by a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night. "As law enforcement works to learn more about this tragedy, FedEx's prayers are with the families of those whose lives were cut short," Hogsett said.
"a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night’s a mass shooting just a week after we met, in the Rose Garden, with families who lost children and dear friends as bullets pierced children and dear friends's bodies and souls in schools, a night club, in a car at a gas station, and a town meeting at a grocery store. And a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night came just the night before 14th anniversary of the shooting at Virginia Tech, in which a gunman murdered 32 people," Hogsett said. "Last night and into the morning in Indianapolis, yet again families had to wait to hear word about the fate of families's loved ones.
What a cruel wait and fate that has become too normal and happens every day somewhere in Indianapolis," Hogsett said. Hogsett once again ordered White House flags to be lowered to half-staff, as Hogsett has done following other mass shootings. “There is no question that this violence must end," Hogsett said. ABC News's Luke Barr, Alexandra Faul, Ben Gittleson, Josh Hoyos and Aaron Katersky contributed to an incident report from the search they performed of suspect Hole’s home in March of 2020.

Deputy Chief Craig McCartt with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police described what happened when officials arrived at the FedEx, but said "this investigation is still very much in this investigation's infancy" and officials are still working to figure out what happened. Deputy Chief Craig McCartt with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police said officers responded to a call of shots fired at the FedEx.
When officers arrived "officers found a very chaotic and active crime scene," Deputy Chief Craig McCartt with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police said. "officers found several victims injured and several victims deceased as well as the suspect, who was deceased, as well, of an apparent self inflicted gunshot wound," Deputy Chief Craig McCartt with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police said.
Deputy Chief Craig McCartt with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police said detectives then arrived and started interviewing witnesses. the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police's crime lab also responded and started processing a very chaotic and active crime scene. "That continues now and the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police're still several hours from being able to complete that at this time. There is a lot of work to do out there," Deputy Chief Craig McCartt with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police said.
the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police's Victim Assistance and Chaplin office came to help take employees, witness and families to the family reunification site that was set up at a nearby hotel, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police said. "the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police continue to work with employees, witness and families as the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police work through identification and speaking with employees, witness and families," Deputy Chief Craig McCartt with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police said.

The gunman in the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility was a former employee there and, according to law enforcement sources, known to federal and local authorities prior to the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility.
The gunman in the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility was identified as Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at a FedEx Ground facility in 2020, according to Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Deputy Chief of Criminal Investigations Craig McCartt. Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Deputy Chief of Criminal Investigations Craig McCartt said Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020's name appeared in two previous police reports, including one last year from an incident in which a gun was seized. “FedEx Ground can confirm that The gunman in the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility was a former employee at a FedEx Ground facility,” company spokesperson Jim Masilak told CNN Friday, declining to name The gunman in the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility and directing further questions to Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department.
The gunman in the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility fire outside and inside a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis's main airport Thursday night, killing eight people, wounding several others and sending witnesses running before taking The gunman in the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility's own life, police said. the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility was the country’s deadliest shooting since 10 people were killed March 22 at a grocery in Colorado.
Investigators are trying to determine the motive for the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility. Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020's mother told law enforcement in March 2020 that Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020 might try to “commit suicide by cop,” the FBI Indianapolis office said in a statement. Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020 was placed on an “immediate detention mental health temporary hold” by Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, according to statement from FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan.
FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said a shotgun was seized at Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020's residence. A family member of The gunman in the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility the outreach out to authorities the warning about Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020 potential for violence, according to three law enforcement sources briefed on the matter.
It was not clear when the warning was given but the outreach was followed up by both local authorities and FBI, three law enforcement sources briefed on the matter said. FBI eventually closed FBI's inquiry into Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020 after concluding there wasn’t sufficient evidence to continue their inquiry into the suspect, according to the sources, who did not specify why federal investigators dropped the matter. FBI is helping Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department “on the search of Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020 home,” FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said at a Friday morning news conference.
When asked Friday morning whether witnesses indicated that FedEx or security personnel had any indication that something like Friday's shooting would happen, Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Deputy Chief of Criminal Investigations Craig McCartt said no. “Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department’re still working with FedEx security for anything that might have been an indication the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility was going to happen right now,” Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Deputy Chief of Criminal Investigations Craig McCartt said on Friday.
A spokeswoman for Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department declined to comment on CNN's reporting. “Well, once Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department positively identify who Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020 is, Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department will be able to research further,” spokeswoman Genae Cook said.

The suspect in the Indianapolis mass shooting was known to federal and local authorities prior to the Indianapolis mass shooting.
A family member of The suspect in the Indianapolis mass shooting the outreach out to authorities the warning about The suspect in the Indianapolis mass shooting potential for violence, according to three law enforcement sources briefed on the matter. It was not clear when the warning was given but the outreach was followed up by both local authorities and FBI, which opened a preliminary investigation into any possible threat, three law enforcement sources briefed on the matter said.
FBI, which opened a preliminary investigation into any possible threat eventually closed FBI, which opened a preliminary investigation into any possible threat's inquiry after concluding there wasn’t sufficient evidence to continue a preliminary investigation into any possible threat, according to three law enforcement sources briefed on the matter. The suspect in the Indianapolis mass shooting has not been publicly identified. FBI, which opened a preliminary investigation into any possible threat is helping Indianapolis Metro Police Department “on the search of The suspect in the Indianapolis mass shooting home,” the FBI, which opened a preliminary investigation into any possible threat special agent in charge Paul Keenan said at a Friday morning news conference.
Asked whether authorities had any indication the Indianapolis mass shooting would occur, police said no. “Indianapolis Metro Police Department’re still working with FedEx security for anything that might have been an indication the Indianapolis mass shooting was going to happen right now,” said Indianapolis Metro Police Department Deputy Chief Craig McCartt, at the same Friday briefing.
A spokesperson for Indianapolis Metro Police Department declined to comment about CNN’s reporting. “Well once Indianapolis Metro Police Department positively identify who The suspect in the Indianapolis mass shooting is, Indianapolis Metro Police Department will be able to research further,” spokesperson Genae Cook said.

Eight people were killed after a gunman the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall fire at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis late Thursday before killing a gunman, according to police. Four others who were shot and another who was injured were taken to hospitals, officials said, adding that some may have been privately transported to medical facilities.
No law enforcement officers were hurt in the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis late Thursday in the fall, authorities said Friday afternoon. A motive for the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall wasn't immediately clear, but a year ago, a gunman's mother said the shooter's mother feared a gunman might be suicidal. “In March 2020, a gunman mother contacted law enforcement to report a gunman might try to" attempt "suicide by cop," said FBI Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan, who runs FBI's Indianapolis field office. The phrase "suicide by cop" refers to a self-destructive person who intentionally draws the attention of police in hopes of a deadly confrontation.
Law enforcement officials identified a gunman as 19-year-old Brandon Scott Hole. the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall was reported shortly after 11 p.m. ET and officers arrived to an active shooter incident, according to police.
"a gunman came to a FedEx facility in Indianapolis late Thursday, and when a gunman came there a gunman got out of a gunman's car and pretty quickly started some random shooting outside a FedEx facility in Indianapolis late Thursday," Craig McCartt, deputy chief of criminal investigations for the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, said during a news conference Friday morning. Craig McCartt, deputy chief of criminal investigations for the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said the initial investigation shows there was no disturbance or argument that preceded the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall. a gunman killed a gunman shortly before police arrived, Craig McCartt, deputy chief of criminal investigations for the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said, adding that investigators believe a gunman had a rifle.
Four bodies were found outside a FedEx facility in Indianapolis late Thursday, and four more were found inside, Craig McCartt, deputy chief of criminal investigations for the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. Police said Friday evening that Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74, were killed in the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall.
FedEx CEO Frederick W. Smith said Eight people were company employees. "This is a devastating day, and words are hard to describe the emotions we all feel," FedEx CEO Frederick W. Smith said in a statement. "FedEx CEO Frederick W. Smith want to express FedEx CEO Frederick W. Smith's deepest sympathies to the families, friends, and co-workers of Eight people," FedEx CEO Frederick W. Smith said, adding that counselors were on site at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis late Thursday to provide support.
A FedEx employee told NBC's "TODAY" show that A FedEx employee was sitting outside a FedEx facility in Indianapolis late Thursday when A FedEx employee heard what A FedEx employee initially thought was a car with engine problems. A FedEx employee soon realized the sound was actually gunfire.
"And when A FedEx employee stand up, A FedEx employee see a man — a hooded figure — A FedEx employee was unable to see a man — a hooded figure's face in detail however," A FedEx employee said. A FedEx employee said a man — a hooded figure had a rifle "and a man — a hooded figure started shouting, and then a man — a hooded figure started firing in random directions." A FedEx employee couldn't tell what a man — a hooded figure was yelling. "A FedEx employee thought a man — a hooded figure saw A FedEx employee and so A FedEx employee immediately ducked for cover," A FedEx employee said.
Family members were waiting at a nearby Holiday Inn Express hotel early Friday to hear if Family members's loved ones were safe while police chaplains provided support, WTHR photojournalist Joe Fenton tweeted. Craig McCartt, deputy chief of criminal investigations for the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said there was some frustration in connecting family members with survivors because employees did not have employees's cellphones on employees as employees fled a FedEx facility in Indianapolis late Thursday. "Their quick response provided critical aid to those injured in the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall and brought a measure of calm to an otherwise chaotic scene," Craig McCartt, deputy chief of criminal investigations for the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said in a tweet. "What we are left with Friday morning is grief — grief for the families of Eight people, grief for the employees who have lost the employees who have lost their co-workers's co-workers, grief for the many Americans struggling to understand how tragedies like the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall continue to occur again and again," Hogsett said Friday morning.
Indianapolis Gov. Eric Holcomb ordered flags to be flown at half-staff. U.S. Rep. André Carson, D-Indiana, whose district includes Indianapolis, said that U.S. Rep. André Carson, D-Indiana, whose district includes Indianapolis, was devastated by the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall. "U.S. Rep. André Carson, D-Indiana, whose district includes Indianapolis, am heartbroken by the mass shooting at the FedEx facility here in Indianapolis and praying for all affected by the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall," U.S. Rep. André Carson, D-Indiana, whose district includes Indianapolis, said on Twitter.
There have been several mass shootings in the United States in recent weeks, including an April 8 shooting at a cabinet company facility in Bryan, Texas, that left one person dead and five others wounded. the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall is the third high-profile shooting this year in Indianapolis. In January, five people, including a pregnant woman, were shot dead in the city's northeast side. And in March, a man fatally shot three adults and a child at a home in a dispute over a stimulus check, police said.
President Joe Biden also ordered flags be lowered to half-staff. "Last night and into the morning in Indianapolis, yet again families had to wait to hear word about the fate of families's loved ones. What a cruel wait and fate that has become too normal and happens every day somewhere in the United States," President Joe Biden said in a statement. the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall "is just the latest in a string of tragedies, following closely after gunmen firing bullets in broad daylight at spas in and around Atlanta, Georgia, a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado, a home in Rock Hill, South Carolina, and so many other shootings," President Joe Biden said.
"Gun violence is an epidemic in the United States. But the United States should not accept Gun violence. the United States must act," President Joe Biden said Friday.
President Joe Biden's proposals, which are likely to face legal hurdles, are aimed at reducing mass shootings, suicides and domestic violence. His proposals, which are likely to face legal hurdles aim to limit so-called "ghost guns," which can be assembled at home without traceable serial numbers, and make it easier for relatives to flag family members who shouldn't be allowed to buy firearms. President Joe Biden is also seeking to reduce access to stabilizing braces, which can effectively turn a pistol into a more lethal rifle while not being subject to the same regulations that a rifle of similar size would be.
Vice President Kamala Harris said Friday: "Yet again we have families in the United States that are grieving the loss of families in America that are grieving the loss of their family members because of gun violence's family members because of gun violence. There is no question gun violence must end and we are thinking of the families that lost the families that lost their loved ones's loved ones. Gun violence, in general, has skyrocketed in recent years. The Gun Violence Archive, a nonprofit group that tracks gun violence in the United States, found that more than 19,000 people died in gun homicides last year.
This was the the highest yearly figure in more than two decades, up by nearly 25 percent from 2019. If you or someone you know is in crisis, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255, text HOME to 741741 or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional resources.

President Joe Biden deemed the recent spate of mass shooting a “national embarrassment” on Friday, hours after President Joe Biden ordered flags to be lowered to half-staff on Friday in the wake of the mass shooting at an Indianapolis FedEx facility that killed at least eight people. It’s only been two weeks since the last time President Joe Biden made such an order after a previous mass shooting, and President Joe Biden said in a news conference with Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga that it’s time for Congress to act.
In an earlier statement, President Joe Biden noted that the mass shooting at an Indianapolis FedEx facility that killed at least eight people took place on the 14th anniversary of the murder of 32 people at Virginia Tech University. President Joe Biden said gun violence “pierces the very soul of our nation” and called gun violence an “epidemic” in our nation.
the mass shooting at an Indianapolis FedEx facility that killed at least eight people is the latest in a series of several high-profile mass shootings that have rocked our nation, including one at a supermarket in Boulder, Colorado, that killed 10 people and a shooting rampage in the Atlanta, Georgia, area that killed eight people. The incident in Indianapolis is at least the 45th mass shooting in our nation in the last month following the Atlanta-area killings.
the recent spate of mass shooting has led to increased calls for gun control measures, but the prospect for any bills in Congress is grim. “Yet again, we have families in our nation that are grieving the loss of families in our country that are grieving the loss of their family members because of gun violence's family members because of gun violence,” Harris said at the White House. Five people have been taken to local hospitals for treatment following the mass shooting at an Indianapolis FedEx facility that killed at least eight people.
Police say Police believe the shooter took the shooter's own life, and the FBI is assisting Indianapolis police with Indianapolis police's investigation. The shooting in Indianapolis is the latest in a recent spate of mass shootings across our nation and comes a little more than a week after President Joe Biden unveiled several actions President Joe Biden's administration would be taking to curb the level of gun violence in our nation. “Gun violence in our nation is an epidemic and Gun violence in this country’s an international embarrassment,” President Joe Biden said last week at the White House.
President Joe Biden's recently unveiled executive actions include efforts to restrict weapons known as “ghost guns” that can be built using parts and instructions purchased online. Biden’s recently unveiled executive actions are limited in scope and President Joe Biden said Biden’s recently unveiled executive actions are initial steps to address gun violence.
the White House press secretary Jen Psaki echoed President Joe Biden call for the Senate to pass three bills strengthening background checks that have already passed the House of Representatives and to pass a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. “Like all of you, we’re horrified by the shooting overnight at a FedEx facility,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at a the White House briefing on Friday.
Passing gun reform legislation through Congress remains an uphill climb for Democrats in the face of stiff Republican opposition and it is unclear what a bipartisan way forward on the issue could look like. President Joe Biden made an extensive case for Congress to gut the liability protections for gun makers during a private meeting with Democratic lawmakers earlier this week, reiterating President Joe Biden's public position as discussions are beginning in the House of Representatives to pass legislation on the issue, according to multiple attendees. Speaking with Democratic members of the Congressional Black Caucus, President Joe Biden talked at length about targeting the lawsuit protections gun manufacturers enjoy under federal law – even though getting such legislation through the 50-50 Senate remains highly unlikely.
“President Joe Biden is committed to removing the liability protections for gun makers – and to make sure gun manufacturers are held accountable,” said Rep. Steven Horsford, a Nevada Democrat who was at a private meeting with Democratic lawmakers earlier this week and who lost Rep. Steven Horsford, a Nevada Democrat who was at the meeting and who lost his own father to gun violence at the age of 19's own father to gun violence at the age of 19. Rep. Steven Horsford, a Nevada Democrat who was at the meeting and who lost his own father to gun violence at the age of 19 told CNN that President Joe Biden talked about fingerprint technology that could be used by gun manufacturers to make firearm use easier to trace, as well as getting rid of the liability protections for gun makers once-and-for-all.
Democratic Rep. Sean Casten is working on legislation on the issue, and Rep. Steven Horsford, a Nevada Democrat who was at the meeting and who lost his own father to gun violence at the age of 19 said that Democrats will push Democrats's leadership to schedule a vote on the issue. “President Joe Biden said it was important that the liability protections for gun makers be removed from gun manufacturers – with that, there would be some accountability and from some accountability, we would see some reform from a free market standpoint,” said Georgia Rep. Hank Johnson, who was in a private meeting with Democratic lawmakers earlier this week, said of President Joe Biden.
Sens. Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy, two Connecticut Democrats, have been calling Republicans to see if there could be any support for gun legislation that could reach the necessary 60 vote in the 50-50 Senate to pass, CNN has reported. Democrats currently have 50 senators in the 50-50 Senate, which means Democrats need every Democrat on board and then 10 Republicans in order to reach the necessary 60 vote threshold to pass gun legislation that could reach the necessary 60 vote in the Senate to pass.
Blumenthal and Chris Murphy acknowledge Sens. Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy, two Connecticut Democrats, will have to pare back a the House of Representatives bill that would mandate background checks on firearm sales on commercial and private transactions as Sens. Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy, two Connecticut Democrats, face opposition from Republican senators and skepticism from moderate Democrats on the issue. “the 50-50 Senate will act to address this epidemic in our nation,” Schumer said, reiterating that Schumer will bring legislation to prevent gun violence to the the 50-50 Senate floor for a vote.
Schumer is planning to bring the the House of Representatives bills to expand background checks to the floor, but the House-passed bills to expand background checks lack 60 votes and also face resistance from Democratic moderate senators. This story and This story's headline have been updated with additional reporting.

Authorities were on the scene of yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday. The shooter is also dead, police said. Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said at a news conference Friday the investigation “is still very much in the investigation's infancy,” and there are still questions investigators are working to answer.
Here’s what the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department know about yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday so far. Gunfire erupted at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday late Thursday when a gunman “got out of a gunman's car, and pretty quickly started some random shooting outside a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday,” Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. According to Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, investigators have heard yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday lasted just a couple of minutes. By the time officers entered a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said at a news conference Friday, “the situation was over.” a gunman had taken a gunman's own life shortly before officers entered and no officers fired no officers's weapons, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said.
“They found several victims injured and several victims deceased as well as The shooter,” Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday was at least the 45th mass shooting reported in the United States since March 16. CNN defines a mass shooting as a shooting incident that results in four or more casualties – dead or wounded – excluding the shooter.
eight people were killed, according to police. Four were found outside a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday and another four were found inside a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. On Friday evening, Indianapolis police released the names of eight people.
eight people are: Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jasvinder Kaur, 50; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. Four of eight people were Sikh, Maninder Singh Walia, a member of the Sikh community in Indianapolis, told CNN.
the Sikh community in Indianapolis has grown in Indianapolis in recent years; according to the Sikh Coalition, Indianapolis's first gurdwara – a Sikh house of worship – was established in 1999. Now Indianapolis has 10 gurdwaras and is home to an estimated 8,000 to 10,000 Sikh Americans. “the Sikh community in Indianapolis has a long road of healing physically, mentally and spiritually to recover from yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday,” Walia said.
A statement by IMPD said the next of kin has been notified by the Marion County Coroner’s Office. The cause of death will be determined after autopsies are complete, according to A statement by IMPD.
IMPD said the names of those injured are not being released. At a news conference Friday afternoon, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said four victims with injuries consistent with gunshot wounds were taken to local hospitals Thursday night, while a fifth sought treatment in another county. Two additional people were treated for injuries at the scene and were released, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. There were at least 100 people in a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday at the time of yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. Many were in the middle of a shift change or on their dinner break.
Rimpi Girn lives in Indianapolis and knew two of eight people: Sekhon, a family friend whom Rimpi Girn considers an aunt, and Kaur, the mother of Rimpi Girn's sister-in-law. Kaur, the mother of Girn’s sister-in-law also had two children – a daughter and a son, Rimpi Girn said. Kaur, the mother of Girn’s sister-in-law immigrated to the United States in 2018 and was the main breadwinner for the family. Kaur, the mother of Girn’s sister-in-law sent money earned from Kaur, the mother of Girn’s sister-in-law's job at FedEx to Kaur, the mother of Girn’s sister-in-law's son living in India as financial support.
Police identified The shooter as 19-year-old Brandon Hole. 19-year-old Brandon Hole was a former employee at FedEx and had last been employed there in 2020, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. Previously, FedEx declined to name 19-year-old Brandon Hole, but spokesperson Jim Masilak confirmed 19-year-old Brandon Hole had previously worked at the facility where yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday took place. FBI Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said FBI assisted Indianapolis police investigators with a search of 19-year-old Brandon Hole's home.
The shooter had at least one weapon, and Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department told CNN The shooter was believed to have been carrying “a rifle of some sort” during yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday.
19-year-old Brandon Hole's mother told law enforcement in March 2020 19-year-old Brandon Hole might try to attempt “suicide by cop,” FBI's Indianapolis office said in a statement. 19-year-old Brandon Hole was placed on an “immediate detention mental health temporary hold” by Indianapolis police, FBI Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said in a statement, and a shotgun was seized at 19-year-old Brandon Hole's home. IMPD announced Saturday that 19-year-old Brandon Hole purchased two guns used in yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday legally.
The motive remains unknown, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said Friday afternoon. But now that The shooter has been identified, Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said investigators can start to explore a potential motive. “We’ve recently identified The shooter so now the work really begins trying to establish some of a potential motive and see if we can figure out some sort of motive in yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday, but we don’t have some sort of motive in this right now,” Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said.
But officials believe there is “no further threat,” Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. Correction: A previous version of this article misstated the names of Amarjit Sekhon and Karli Smith, 19 based on information provided by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department.

the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated.
Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the article was last updated. PLAINFIELD, Ind. —
For survivors of the mass shooting at a Plainfield FedEx, now is the time to process what survivors of the mass shooting at a Plainfield FedEx just lived through. Some may be hearing the names of the eight victims for the first time or realizing who the 19-year-old suspect is. It’s also a time to relive how survivors of the mass shooting at a Plainfield FedEx made it out alive.
“Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night's heart hurts. Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night feel horrible for the families that have to suffer.
For the people who were victims of the 19-year-old suspect,” says Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night. Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night was on break with three other workers when Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night heard the first series of shots. As the frequency of gunfire began to rise, Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night stood on a bench for a better look.
Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night believes Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night saw the 19-year-old suspect shoot to Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night's right while yelling out words that Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night could not make out. “When Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night saw the first series of shots, Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night immediately told Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night's friends, the 19-year-old suspect has a gun. Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night ducked and hid into the shadows in the shed,” retells Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night.
The mother of one of the four coworkers also works at the a Plainfield FedEx facility. The mother of one of the four coworkers came around to pick the four coworkers up in a car to whisk the four coworkers to safety.
That’s when Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night began to help others. A shift change was occurring at that time.
“a Plainfield FedEx works 24-hours, so there are multiple people from different shifts coming in and out,” adds Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night, “Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night remember telling everyone who was driving to work that there was the 19-year-old suspect. Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night believes Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night may have seen the 19-year-old suspect's face once or twice but has never interacted with the 19-year-old suspect.
At a nearby building, other survivors had taken cover not knowing if the 19-year-old suspect would come other survivors's way. a Plainfield FedEx has a no cell phone policy, so Lara and Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night say people inside could not contact help. Luckily, Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night was on break, so Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night had Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night's phone, and was able to call law enforcement. Even if a no cell phone policy were to change, Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night is unsure if Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night would ever feel comfortable working in that particular building again.

The Indian embassy in Washington DC has reached out to the community leaders.
India will render "all possible assistance" to local authorities and community leaders in Indianapolis, US, where at least eight people, including four Sikhs, have died after a gunman the incident fire at a FedEx facility on Thursday night, a "deeply shocked" Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said today. About 90 per cent of the workers at a FedEx facility are said to be Indian-Americans, mostly from the Sikh community. the incident was at least the third mass shooting this year in Indianapolis, US, where at least eight people, including four Sikhs, have died after a gunman opened fire at a FedEx facility on Thursday night, news agency AP reported.
Late on Friday night, the Marion County Coroner's Office and Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department released the names of at least eight people, including four Sikhs. The first three who died are women, news agency PTI reported.
a gunman has been identified as a gunman. The police could not yet say why a gunman opened fire as a gunman shot a gunman before being apprehended. "Deeply shocked by shooting at FedEx facility in Indianapolis, US, where at least eight people, including four Sikhs, have died after a gunman opened fire at a FedEx facility on Thursday night.
Victims include persons of the Sikh community. India's Consulate General in Chicago in touch with Mayor & local authorities in Indianapolis, US, where at least eight people, including four Sikhs, have died after a gunman opened fire at a FedEx facility on Thursday night as well as community leaders. Will render all possible assistance," a "deeply shocked" Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet today.
One person injured in the incident has been identified as Harpreet Gill, an American citizen of Indian heritage, from Amritsar's Jagdev Kalan, news agency ANI reported. Harpreet Gill, an American citizen of Indian heritage, from Amritsar's Jagdev Kalan was hit in the head.
Reacting to the incident, Dr Rajwant Singh, Chairman of the Sikh Council on Religion and Education, expressed grief over this latest killing in Indianapolis, US, where at least eight people, including four Sikhs, have died after a gunman opened fire at a FedEx facility on Thursday night, the report said. The Indian embassy in Washington DC conveyed The Indian embassy in Washington DC's heartfelt condolences to the families of at least eight people, including four Sikhs and said The Indian embassy in Washington DC is praying "for the speedy recovery of those injured".
US President Joe Biden, yesterday, termed the incident a "national embarrassment". All US flags will be flown at half-staff until April 20 out of respect for at least eight people, including four Sikhs, the White House said in a statement. This applies to embassies, military bases, and other US facilities around the world.

April 16 (Reuters) - Four members of the Sikh religious community, three women and one man, were killed in a Thursday night shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis that claimed the lives of eight workers, a community group and local leader said on Friday. "Out of eight workers, four are Sikh community members," said businessman Gurinder Singh Khalsa, who identified a community group and local leader as a leader of the Sikh religious community and said a community group and local leader had spoken with the families of eight workers.
a community group and local leader said the FedEx operations center near Indianapolis's international airport was known for providing employment to older members of the Sikh religious community who did not necessarily speak fluent English. Thousands of Sikh-Americans live in Indianapolis, according to community members.
Indianapolis police have yet to confirm the identities of any of the victims of a Thursday night shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis that claimed the lives of eight workers. Most of the world's roughly 25 million Sikhs live in the northern Indian state of Punjab, according to the New York-based Sikh Coalition advocacy group. An estimated 500,000 Sikhs live in the United States.
A Twitter user identified as Aurinder, who said A Twitter user identified as Aurinder, who said they were Chohan's sibling were Chohan's sibling, also posted about A Twitter user identified as Aurinder, who said they were Chohan's sibling's grandmother. "Every time A Twitter user identified as Aurinder, who said they were Chohan's sibling saw news articles of mass shootings news articles of mass shootings never really phased A Twitter user identified as Aurinder, who said they were Chohan's sibling.
A Twitter user identified as Aurinder, who said they were Chohan's sibling's Nani Ji (beloved grandmother) was murdered last night coming back home from work," A Twitter user identified as Aurinder, who said they were Chohan's sibling wrote. a Thursday night shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis that claimed the lives of eight workers is the most recent in a series of U.S. mass shootings that has again pushed the issue of gun violence to the political foreground. Eight people were shot to death at three day spas in the Atlanta area in mid-March, raising fears that the gunman had targeted Asian Americans amid a rise in hate crimes.
Days later, a gunman killed 10 people at a supermarket in Boulder, Colorado. FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said it would be premature to speculate on the motive of the gunman in Indianapolis, a 19-year-old former FedEx employee.
Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States perpetrated by the Islamist militant group al Qaeda, Sikh men have sometimes been confused publicly with Muslims because Sikh men wear turbans and Sikh men's hair and beards uncut. In 2012, a lone white, male gunman shot and killed six people at a Sikh temple in Wisconsin in what authorities said was a domestic terrorism incident. a gunman fatally shot a gunman after a gun battle with police. "a gunman's nani, a gunman's family, and our families should not feel unsafe at work, at My nani, my family, and our families's place of worship, or anywhere," a gunman said in a statement sent to Reuters. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

After another mass shooting in the US, the president calls on Congress to Biden’s proposed assault weapon ban military-style ‘assault’ weapons. the president faced increased pressure on Friday to stem gun violence amid a rash of mass shootings across the US, but the president faces an uphill battle to significantly change the US's permissive firearms laws.
The day after an attacker killed eight people and an attacker at a FedEx Corp facility in Indianapolis, the president insisted the president could tackle the problem while also pushing a sweeping jobs package and working to rein in the coronavirus pandemic. “the problem has to end. the problem’s a national embarrassment,” the president said at a White House news conference alongside Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga.
the president said Congress should ban military-style ‘assault’ weapons. the president authored a similar ban in the US Senate that expired in 2004. White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said earlier in the day that Congress should also allow victims to sue gun manufacturers.
The Indianapolis shooting was at least the fifth such event in as many weeks, an unwelcome return to frequent high-profile violence as many in the US emerge from a pandemic bubble. the president has taken limited steps so far to tighten federal gun regulations, and has called for more money to fight the problem.
the president will have to persuade congressional Republicans to agree to take more significant steps. That is a challenge given that previous attempts at legislation have stalled repeatedly during the past decade, even as hundreds of thousands of Americans have died.
The Democratic-controlled House of Representatives this year passed legislation to expand background checks for gun buyers, But legislation to expand background checks for gun buyers faces steep odds in the US Senate as legislators from rural states where gun ownership is widespread wield disproportionate influence. Democrats and Republicans in the US Senate are discussing a possible compromise. Congress has yet to take up the president's proposed assault weapon ban, though several states have prohibitions in place.
Opinion polls show broad public support for tighter gun laws. Gun-control advocates said on Friday that the US Senate Democrats should be ready to override Republicans if necessary by ditching longstanding rules that require a supermajority to advance most legislation in the US Senate.
the US Senate is currently split 50-50 between the two parties. Gun-control advocates also said the president should demonstrate that the problem is a priority by discussing the problem in a planned April 28 speech to Congress.
At a news conference organised by The Time is Now Coalition, an advocacy group, several people who have suffered losses from gun violence said on Friday that several people who have suffered losses from gun violence were frustrated by the inaction. “The time is indeed now to act but the time has been now to act for years, for decades,” said Peter Read, whose daughter Mary was one of 32 people killed in a mass shooting at Virginia Tech University 14 years ago.
With about 121 firearms for every 100 residents, the US is by far the most heavily armed society in the world, and the number of gun deaths has climbed steadily in recent years. Some 43,539 Americans died of gun violence last year, with more than half of Some 43,539 Americans due to suicide, according to the Gun Violence Archive, a research group.
At least 30 people have been killed in US mass shootings in the last month alone. US mass shootings draw headlines, but US mass shootings typically account for fewer than 1 percent of firearms deaths each year. The Indianapolis shooting came on the heels of deadly shootings at spas in the Atlanta area and a supermarket in Boulder.
Police say suspects in deadly shootings at spas in the Atlanta area and a supermarket in Boulder bought suspects in those incidents's weapons legally. the president earlier this month said the president's administration would crack down on self-assembled ghost guns and tightly regulate stabilising braces that effectively turn pistols into rifles. the president also said the president would make it easier for states to adopt red-flag laws that allow authorities to take guns from people deemed to be a danger to themselves or others.
Those initiatives do not require cooperation from Congress, but Those initiatives will take time to put in place. The Department of Justice needs to create a paper trail to show that any rule change was not abrupt or political and has a strong foundation in law to stave off anticipated legal challenges.

Alex Sundby is a senior editor for CBSNews.com. Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting.

A police officer standing over the body of the FedEx shooter on Thursday night radioed a report that should shame every member of Congress who persists in doing nothing meaningful about gun control.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole, shot and killed The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole after the mass shooting incident fire at the FedEx Ground Facility in Indianapolis on Thursday night. The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole was a former FedEx employee.
The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole's family released a statement to the families of the victims and the Indianapolis community on Saturday. "Hole's family are devastated at the loss of life caused as a result of The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole's actions; through the love of The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole's family, Hole's family tried to get The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole the help The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole needed.
The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole is accused of killing Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. Police say Police are trying to understand the motive behind the mass shooting incident.
In March 2020, The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole's mother told law enforcement authorities that The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole might attempt "suicide by cop," the FBI's Indianapolis office said. Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole was placed on an immediate mental health temporary hold by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department. Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan also said a shotgun was seized at The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole's residence.
"Based on items observed in The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole's bedroom at that time, The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole was interviewed by the FBI's in April 2020," CNN quoted a statement as saying. McCartt said that Indianapolis police found The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole's name in two past incident reports.
Meanwhile, the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department on Saturday that The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole purchased two guns used in the mass shooting incident legally. "During Saturday's incident, The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole, was witnessed using assault rifles in the mass shooting incident," the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said.
While The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole's motive is not yet known, "The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole targeted a facility known to be heavily populated by Sikh employees, and the mass shooting incident is traumatic for the Indianapolis community as the Indianapolis community continue to face senseless violence," said Satjeet Kaur, executive director of the Sikh Coalition. "the victims were not random targets," the Sikh Coalition said.
Subscribe today by clicking the link and stay updated with the latest news!" "Exciting news! Hindustan Times is now on WhatsApp ChannelsSubscribe today by clicking the link and stay updated with the latest news!"
Click here! Get Latest World News along with Latest News from India at Hindustan Times.

The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week apparently browsed white supremacist websites a little over a year before the deadly shooting, police said.
On March 3, 2020, The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week's mother went to the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department seeking help after Brandon Hole's mother's son had purchased a shotgun with no bullets, according to new details in an incident report released Monday. Brandon Hole's mother told police that Brandon Hole's mother's son became angry, struck Brandon Hole's mother in the arm with a closed fist and told Brandon Hole's mother to "shut up" when Brandon Hole's mother had asked what The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week was going to do with a shotgun with no bullets. Brandon Hole's mother said Brandon Hole's mother's son told Brandon Hole's mother that The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week was going to point a shotgun with no bullets at police officers so police officers would shoot The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week, saying, "This is not the life The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week want to live, The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week'll end it The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week's way," according to an incident report released Monday. After speaking with Brandon Hole's mother, police officers went to the family's home and placed The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week in handcuffs.
The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week, "became immediately anxious" and told police officers, "Please just turn the power strip off on The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week's computer ... The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week don't want anyone to see what's on my computer," according to an incident report released Monday.
One of police officers went upstairs to seize a shotgun with no bullets and "observed what through One of the officers's training and experience indicated was white supremist (sic) websites" on The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week's computer, an incident report released Monday said. While speaking with police officers, The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week "downplayed any suicidal thoughts or plans" but said The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week felt "sad and depressed and that The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week would benefit from counselling, according to an incident report released Monday. police officers placed The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week on an immediate detention mental health temporary hold and transported The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week to a local hospital for further assessment. police officers also notified the criminal intelligence unit about what was observed on The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week's computer and took a shotgun with no bullets to the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department's property room with "seized by dangerous person" written on the inventory sheet, an incident report released Monday said.
Nevertheless, police said The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week was able to legally purchase two assault rifles in July and September 2020, which were recovered at the scene of the attack at the FedEx facility on April 15, 2021. The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week was found dead inside a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said. FedEx said The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week was an employee at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week from August to October 2020. The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week's employment was terminated when The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week failed to return to work.
Police said the deadly shooting lasted less than four minutes and was over by the time Police arrived on scene. Officers found eight people -- four in the parking lot and four inside a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week -- who were later pronounced dead.
Four surviving victims who suffered injuries consistent with gunshot wounds were transported to various local hospitals. A fifth person with injuries consistent with gunshot wounds sought medical attention in another country. Two others who suffered minor injuries were treated by medics at scene and were released, police this report. ABC News' Matt Foster contributed to this report.

the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the story was last updated.
INDIANAPOLIS– The community continues to heal from the mass shooting at the FedEx ground facility.
Berman’s assisting the crisis response team as the crisis response team help those who experienced the mass shooting at the FedEx ground facility firsthand. the mass shooting at the FedEx ground facility is shining a light on mental health services in the Hoosier state. Berman says progress starts with ending the stigma surrounding mental health and supporting one another. Governor Eric Holcomb announced Tuesday that Governor Eric Holcomb is restoring full funding for mental health programs and appropriating an additional $100 million over the next two years to fund mental health initiatives.

After the recent mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, it was tough for workers' friends and family to get in touch with workers''s loved ones. That's because of a company cellphone policy.
Last week, a man the recent mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis. eight people and others working on site couldn't call or text Those people and others working on site's families to tell their families what was happening because some FedEx employees aren't allowed to bring some FedEx employees's cellphones into work.
Here's NPR's David Gura. NPR's David Gura, BYLINE:
Renee Larson was desperate for details when Renee Larson heard there'd been a shooting at the FedEx Ground Plainfield Operations Center on Thursday night. Renee Larson: Renee Larson get, like, the breaking news notifications from the local news stations here on Renee Larson's phone. And it just kept going, like, off and off.
NPR's David Gura: Renee Larson was worried because Renee Larson knows several people who could have been there. Renee Larson: Renee Larson actually have an aunt, a cousin and several friends that work at FedEx. NPR's David Gura:
Renee Larson called several people who could have been there, and Renee Larson texted several people who could have been there. Renee Larson sent Facebook messages, and Renee Larson was able to track down several people who could have been there.
Renee Larson was relieved to learn several people who could have been there were all off several people who could have been there's shifts and not at work. If several people who could have been there had been, Renee Larson would have had to deal with the agony and uncertainty many other families faced.
many other families couldn't reach many other families's loved ones because, at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, many workers are not allowed to carry personal cellphones. BILL CASTELLANO: BILL CASTELLANO think that's a highly draconian and unusual policy.
NPR's David Gura: BILL CASTELLANO used to work in corporate H.R. UPS, a FedEx rival, has a similar policy. A spokesperson says employees can enter corporate H.R. UPS, a FedEx rival, facilities with cellphones in some instances. At the U.S. Postal Service, workers can have workers's phones, but workers can't take photos.
BILL CASTELLANO says there are lots of reasons why a worker would want to have a phone handy, especially in an age when so many of us rely on a phone 24/7. BILL CASTELLANO:
It could be a family emergency with a child, with an aging spouse or an aging parent. And BILL CASTELLANO mean, BILL CASTELLANO have in BILL CASTELLANO's life had plenty of situations where BILL CASTELLANO really needed BILL CASTELLANO's phone because BILL CASTELLANO was in the midst of some kind of unique personal crisis.
NPR's David Gura: In a statement, FedEx says FedEx limits cellphone access within certain areas of FedEx's field operations based on workplace safety considerations.
Mark Pearce was the chairman of the National Labor Relations Board, the NLRB, during the Obama administration. Mark Pearce says there are businesses that want to safeguard secrets or protect proprietary information. Mark Pearce:
But for a company that is just transporting goods, that borders on the unreasonable. NPR's David Gura: Workers are at a disadvantage, though, because of how the law is written. Mark Pearce:
Employers have the ability to set whatever policies Employers can, provided that whatever policies are not patently illegal or discriminatory. NPR's David Gura: the National Labor Relations Board, the NLRB has not ruled on a blanket ban of cellphones at work, but the National Labor Relations Board, the NLRB did rule in favor of one employer who banned phones on the manufacturing floor.
This is also about PR. The cellphone has become an effective tool for employees to shine a light on workplace issues. Mark Pearce remembers how doctors and nurses showed the world how ill-equipped doctors and nurses were to fight COVID-19. Mark Pearce: These devices are reliable alternatives to eyes and ears, and These devices become almost a necessity for employees to feel comfortable and safe.
NPR's David Gura: After the shooting in Indianapolis, Renee Larson joined a chorus calling on FedEx to change FedEx's policy. Renee Larson posted a message on Twitter directed at FedEx.
Renee Larson: Because you never know when the next shooting could happen or next life-defining or a life-changing event could happen in which you need to get with somebody ASAP. NPR's David Gura: So is FedEx reconsidering a company cellphone policy? FedEx tells NPR's FedEx believes FedEx continues to be in the best interests of FedEx's employees to limit cellphone access while its employees're on duty.
NPR's David Gura, NPR's, New York. Copyright © 2021 NPR's.
All rights reserved. Visit NPR's's website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information.
NPR's transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR's contractor. This text may not be in This text's final form and may be updated or revised in the future.
Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR's's programming is the audio record.

This article contains content provided by Facebook. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Facebook Facebook cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the story was last updated.
INDIANAPOLIS — A week after the deadly mass shooting at an Indianapolis FedEx facility, the Indianapolis Fraternal Order of Police is criticizing the Marion County prosecutor for failing to monitor the shooting suspect under the state’s red flag law. The law, named after slain the state’s Police Officer Jake Laird, allows law enforcement to seize firearms if a suspect demonstrates mental instability.
Police seized a shotgun and placed the shooting suspect on temporary hold. Prosecutors then decided not to file a petition with the court to add the shooting suspect to the red flag list, because the shooting suspect's family That decision to forfeit a shotgun. That decision ultimately allowed the shooting suspect to legally purchase two assault rifles months later, which the shooting suspect used to attack former coworkers at an Indianapolis FedEx facility, killing eight people.
“The system didn’t fail, instead the Marion County prosecutor failed to give The system the chance to work,” said the Indianapolis Fraternal Order of Police president Rick Snyder. Indy FOP president Rick Snyder believes the Marion County prosecutors office should have at least asked for a court hearing to determine if the shooting suspect was a threat, potentially banning the shooting suspect from buying any guns. “One thing the Indianapolis Fraternal Order of Police know for sure is 100 percent of the time they won’t be on The system if you don’t try initiate The system and apply the state’s red flag law,” said Indy FOP president Rick Snyder.
“This case does illustrate some of the shortcomings that exist with the state’s red flag law,” said Mears, who earlier this week called for lawmakers to expand the state’s's red flag law. the Marion County prosecutor insisted there wasn’t enough evidence to ask a judge to declare the shooting suspect an ongoing danger to the community, because prosecutors did not have timely access to the shooting suspect's medical records.
“A loophole did not thwart this opportunity, instead The system was sidestepped,” Indy FOP president Rick Snyder suggested. “Ralph Staples, a local defense attorney get Indy FOP president Rick Snyder's point, but there are a lot of moving parts,” said Ralph Staples, a local defense attorney.
Ralph Staples, a local defense attorney agrees both sides have legitimate concerns, but both sides need to work together to prevent future tragedies. “Bad facts bring about change, but instead of trying to fix the blame, let’s fix the problem,” Ralph Staples, a local defense attorney said.

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — An Indiana prosecutor is facing mounting criticism for declining to pursue court hearings that could have prevented a man from accessing the guns used to shoot and kill eight people at a FedEx facility in INDIANAPOLIS.
The law allows police to confiscate guns from a person deemed dangerous to police or others. Prosecutors can then decide whether to ask a court to ban a person deemed dangerous to themselves or others from buying any other firearms.
The law came under scrutiny following the assault after An Indiana prosecutor criticized The law for having too many “loopholes.” Despite calls from Democratic lawmakers’ to review and those actions the red flag provisions, those actions were put on hold.
The 2021 legislative session ended Thursday. Police seized a pump-action shotgun from a man in March 2020 after Police received the call from a man's mother.
An Indiana prosecutor said Monday that prosecutors did not seek a “red flag” hearing to try to prevent a man from possessing a gun because prosecutors did not have enough time under The law to definitively demonstrate a man's propensity for suicidal thoughts. An Indiana prosecutor specifically pointed to a 2019 change in The law that requires courts to make a “good-faith effort” to hold a hearing within 14 days. An additional amendment requires authorities to file an affidavit with the court within 48 hours.
INDIANAPOLIS police previously said that Indianapolis police never returned a pump-action shotgun to a man. Authorities have said a man used two “assault-style” rifles to gun down eight people, four of eight people, four of them from the city’s Sikh community from INDIANAPOLIS's Sikh community, at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis on April 15 before a man killed a man.
Members and leaders of the city’s Sikh community have Those calls that law enforcement conduct a “thorough” and “transparent” investigation, including a probe into the possibility of bias as a man's motivation, said Satjeet Kaur, Executive Director of the Sikh Coalition. Those calls have so far avoided direct criticism of An Indiana prosecutor, however.
Republican state Sen. Erin Houchin, who sponsored the 2019 changes to Indiana's red flag law, said the 2019 changes to Indiana’s red flag law “could have worked just as the 2019 changes to Indiana’s red flag law should” in the a man case. “Republican state Sen. Erin Houchin, who sponsored the 2019 changes to Indiana’s red flag law, think that had An Indiana prosecutor followed the red flag procedure in the Hole case, then a man might have not been able to purchase a second firearm after the family did voluntarily turn over a pump-action shotgun,” Republican state Sen. Erin Houchin, who sponsored the 2019 changes to Indiana’s red flag law, said.
An Indiana prosecutor did not return messages Friday seeking additional comment. Indiana law does not mandate prosecutors to pursue court hearings in red flag law cases. Republican state Sen. Erin Houchin, who sponsored the 2019 changes to Indiana’s red flag law, said Republican state Sen. Erin Houchin, who sponsored the 2019 changes to Indiana’s red flag law, would consider amending language to “firm up” the red flag procedure, but only after more facts surrounding the assault come to light.
Snyder said the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department has made at least 45 red flag referrals to the prosecutor’s office so far this year. An Indiana prosecutor said Monday that An Indiana prosecutor's office had filed eight red flag petitions since January. eight red flag petitions are still awaiting rulings.
Casey Smith is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues.

The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility browsed White supremacist websites a little over a year before an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility, police said.
In March 2020, the mother of The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility contacted police because the mother of gunman Brandon Hole was worried about The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility's behavior after The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility purchased a gun, according to recently released details from Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD). the mother of gunman Brandon Hole told police The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility told the mother of gunman Brandon Hole
“The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility was going to point a gun at police officers so police officers would shoot The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility.” And when police went to their home, police observed The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility had visited White supremacist websites, recently released details from Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) said.
Investigators are still trying to determine the motive behind an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility. In an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility, The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility opened fired at the facility near Indianapolis's main airport before taking The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility's own life Thursday night. Of eight people, four were members of Indianapolis's Sikh community, Maninder Singh Walia, a member of the Sikh community in Indianapolis, told CNN on Friday.
an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility marks at least the 50th mass shooting – defined as four or more casualties excluding the shooter – since the Atlanta-area spa shootings March 16. an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility was the US’s deadliest shooting since 10 people were killed March 22 at a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado.
The case has also raised concerns over access to guns, as The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility had The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility's gun seized in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility. After The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility's mother told officers on March 3 that the mother of gunman Brandon Hole feared for the mother of gunman Brandon Hole's safety after the mother of gunman Brandon Hole's son purchased a gun a day earlier, Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) detained The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility, seized a gun, put The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility on an immediate mental health temporary hold and then transported The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility to a local hospital for evaluation, recently released details from Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) said. As The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility was being placed in handcuffs, The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility became anxious and said, “Please just turn the power strip off on The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility's computer” and “The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility don’t want anyone to see what’s on my computer,” according to recently released details from Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD).
One officer, who was described as clearing the upstairs and securing a gun, “observed what through One officer, who was described as clearing the upstairs and securing the shotgun's training and experience” were White supremacist websites, recently released details from Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) said. Despite the temporary mental health hold in March 2020, The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility was able to legally purchase assault rifles in July and September 2020, Indianapolis police said. The case “illustrates the limitations” of state law, The Marion County, Indianapolis, Prosecutor Ryan Mears said Monday.
The Marion County, Indiana, Prosecutor Ryan Mears said Indianapolis Jake Laird Red Flag gun law allows police to seize and hold firearms from individuals undergoing mental health issues, but Indianapolis only has 14 days to file a petition requesting a person be designated as having a violent propensity or mental instability. Because the shotgun taken from The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility's home had been secured and the family didn’t want a gun back, prosecutors felt prosecutors “achieved” the objective of the state’s Jake Laird Red Flag gun law, The Marion County, Indiana, Prosecutor Ryan Mears said. If Indianapolis had filed a petition, the court might have determined prosecutors didn’t have legal authority to keep a gun.
“In this particular case, a petition was not filed because the family in this particular case had agreed to forfeit a gun and the family were not going to pursue the return of a gun,” The Marion County, Indiana, Prosecutor Ryan Mears said. “We have 14 days under the state’s Jake Laird Red Flag gun law and because we have 14 days our ability to have access to meaningful medical history, meaningful mental health records, is severely limited.” the state’s Jake Laird Red Flag gun law allows a person 30 days to respond to a subpoena, The Marion County, Indiana, Prosecutor Ryan Mears said. “The sad reality is that during the pendency of these matters there’s nothing prohibiting someone from purchasing a firearm, that’s just the sad truth,” The Marion County, Indiana, Prosecutor Ryan Mears said.
On Friday night, Indianapolis police released the names of eight people. eight people were Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jasvinder Kaur, 50; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. Four individuals remained hospitalized Monday with injuries sustained in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility, FedEx said.
While The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility motive isn’t yet known, “The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility targeted a FedEx facility, and an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility is traumatic for our community as our community continue to face senseless violence,” said Satjeet Kaur, executive director of the Sikh Coalition. Two of eight people, Amarjit Sekhon, 48 and Jasvinder Kaur, 50, were relatively new to Indianapolis and were working the overnight shift at the FedEx facility when Two of the victims, Sekhon and Kaur, were killed, said Rimpi Girn, an Indianapolis resident who knew Two of the victims, Sekhon and Kaur,.
Amarjit Sekhon, 48, after immigrating to the US’s in 2004, moved to Indianapolis in 2019 from Ohio to be closer to family and relatives, said Rimpi Girn, an Indianapolis resident who knew them. Amarjit Sekhon, 48 leaves a husband and two sons, ages 13 and 19, Rimpi Girn, an Indianapolis resident who knew them said.
Kaur, who immigrated to the US’s in 2018, was the breadwinner for Kaur, who immigrated to the US in 2018,'s family, according to Rimpi Girn, an Indianapolis resident who knew them. Amarjit Sekhon, 48 drove Kaur, who immigrated to the US in 2018, to work because Kaur, who immigrated to the US in 2018, didn’t have a driver’s license, Rimpi Girn, an Indianapolis resident who knew them said.

INDIANAPOLIS (WISH) — A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state's mental state was identified Friday as the man who fatally shot eight people late Thursday night at a FedEx facility before he killed himself inside a FedEx facility. eight people were identified late Thursday night as Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jasvinder Kaur, 50; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Steve Weisert, 74.
Brandon Scott Hole of INDIANAPOLIS (WISH) the shooting a rifle minutes after 11 p.m. Thursday in the parking lot and inside the FedEx facility on the southeast side near Indianapolis International Airport, IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said in a late-afternoon news conference Friday. IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt did not know the type of rifle used in the shooting or whether A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state legally owned a rifle.
A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state last worked for FedEx in 2020, IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said. IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt did not know if A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state had been fired from FedEx. IMPD shared a photo of A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state from an earlier encounter with the police.
Investigators on Friday afternoon were searching a blue and brick, two-story ranch home on the east side associated with A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state. Neighbors told News 8’s Dan Klein that Neighbors began seeing flashing lights about 6 a.m. Friday, less than seven hours after the shooting.
At a blue and brick, two-story ranch home on the east side associated with Hole, authorities seized evidence including desktop computers and other electronic media, officials told The Associated Press. officials could not discuss the matter publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.
A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state had previous interactions with IMPD and the Indianapolis office of the FBI, both which are investigating the shooting. A year ago, a gun was seized from A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state in an incident involving IMPD, IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said. An IMPD police report from March 3, 2020, says a gun was confiscated from A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state during a mental health check in the same block where investigators on Friday were searching the home associated with A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state.
The search for a motive and whether A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state targeted someone at the FedEx facility remained elusive for investigators. the FBI revealed Friday afternoon that A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state's mother had contacted them in March 2020 and feared A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state would try to commit “suicide by cop,” a term describing a person who intends to provoke a lethal response from a public safety officer. IMPD had also encountered A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state in 2013, IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said, but IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt had no details. IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said in a late-afternoon news conference Friday that IMPD was nearing the completion of IMPD's investigation at the crime scene, and hoped to have identifications of eight people later Friday once surviving family members are notified.
One of eight people was Amarjeet Kaur Johal, family told News 8’s Sierra Hignite. About 100 people were in the FedEx facility when the shooting happened, and many were changing shifts and on dinner breaks, IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said Friday afternoon. IMPD was sent to reports of shots fired and an active shooter shortly before 11:10 p.m. Thursday at the FedEx facility, 8951 Mirabel Road.
a FedEx facility’s in a commercial area with a few hotels and multiple warehouses just south of the I-70 interchange at AmeriPlex Parkway. a FedEx facility is south of Indianapolis International Airport, FedEx's second-busiest hub with nearly 4,000 workers.
Longtime INDIANAPOLIS (WISH) law-enforcement sources told News 8’s Richard Essex that Thursday shooting was the deadliest single-shooter mass homicide in INDIANAPOLIS (WISH) history. Investigators say an active shooter came to a FedEx facility, got out of an active shooter's car and immediately started shooting randomly.
The carnage took just a couple of minutes. “The carnage did not last very long,” an active shooter said. Police say four people were killed outside a FedEx facility and four more were killed inside a FedEx facility.
Five other people also were shot. Two other people also received what were described by police as minor injuries.
A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state shot A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state inside a FedEx facility. No police officers were hurt.
Genae Cook, an IMPD spokeswoman, said early Friday morning that many people who were injured drove many people who were injured to area hospitals for treatment. IMPD has asked any one injured in the shooting to contact the police department.
Hearses arrived Friday afternoon at the FedEx facility as the coroner’s office was doing the coroner’s office's work at the crime scene. Police Chief Randal Taylor noted in a Friday midmorning news conference that a “significant” number of a FedEx facility's employees belong to the Sikh community.
The Sikh Coalition says that members of the Sikh community were among the wounded and killed. The coalition, which identifies The Sikh Coalition as the largest Sikh civil rights organization in the United States, said in a statement that The Sikh Coalition expected authorities to “conduct a full investigation — including the possibility of bias as a factor.” The Sikh Coalition's executive director, Satjeet Kaur, noted in a statement that more than 8,000 Sikh Americans live in INDIANAPOLIS (WISH).
IMPD held a press conference in the early morning hours on Friday. Jeremiah Miller had finished a shift at the FedEx facility and was preparing to work a second consecutive shift when Jeremiah Miller and a coworker, Timothy Boillat, heard gunfire, up to 10 shots. About an hour after the shooting, Jeremiah Miller and a coworker, Timothy Boillat were telling other workers not to come to work for the next shift.
The families’ agonizing waiting for word on The families’'s loved ones was exacerbated by the fact that most employees aren’t allowed to carry cellphones inside the FedEx building, making contact with most employees difficult. “When you see notifications on your phone, but you’re not getting a text back from your kid and you’re not getting information and you still don’t know where their loved ones are … what are you supposed to do?”
Mindy Carson said early Friday. Later Friday morning, Mindy Carson said Mindy Carson had heard from Mindy Carson's daughter Jessica, who works in a FedEx facility, and that her daughter Jessica, who works in the facility was OK. After the shooting, IndyGo dispatched four buses to help take workers away from a FedEx facility.
I-70 reopened shortly before 1 a.m. Friday after being closed for more than 90 minutes between I-465 and Ronald Reagan Parkway. However, Indiana State Police said AmeriPlex Parkway was closed south of I-70 for several more hours; also, the ramp from the interstate to AmeriPlex Parkway was closed for a longer time.
Main thoroughfares in the area have reopened. Early Friday morning, people concerned about family members were told to go to the Holiday Inn Indianapolis Airport at 8555 Stansted Road, which is southeast of a FedEx facility. Hundreds of people were waiting in and around the Holiday Inn Indianapolis Airport at 8555 Stansted Road, which is southeast of the FedEx facility for information.
A line had formed to a ballroom inside the hotel, where FedEx staffers were meeting with people to help FedEx staffers find workers. Chaplains, gathered by IMPD, also were comforting those waiting for news at the Holiday Inn Indianapolis Airport at 8555 Stansted Road, which is southeast of the FedEx facility.
The American Red Cross was providing snacks and drinks. Cook said early Friday morning that FedEx workers should contact FedEx workers's supervisors or human resources about reporting to work Friday. Cook said a FedEx facility will be closed for some time.
The White House has been in contact with INDIANAPOLIS (WISH). President Joe Biden’s chief of staff, Ron Klain, a native of INDIANAPOLIS (WISH), has been in communication with Mayor Joe Hogsett this morning.
The FedEx incident is the fourth mass shooting in INDIANAPOLIS (WISH) this year, according to the Gun Violence Archive. The others were March 15 in the 2300 block of North Harding Street, Feb. 13 in the 3800 block of North Sherman Drive, and Jan. 24 in the 3540 block of Adams Street. The Associated Press and CNN contributed to this story.
Vice President Harris and I have been Today’s briefing by our homeland security team on the mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, INDIANAPOLIS (WISH), where an active shooter murdered eight people and wounded several more in the dark of night. Friday's briefing is just the latest in a string of tragedies, following closely after gunmen firing bullets in broad day light at spas in and around Atlanta, Georgia, a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado, a home in Rock Hill, South Carolina, and so many other shootings.
While we await critical details about the shooting, the shooting's motivation, and other key information, once again, I have the solemn duty of ordering the flag lowered at half-staff at The White House, public buildings and grounds, and military posts and embassies, just two weeks after I gave the last such order. the shooting’s a mass shooting just a week after we met, in the Rose Garden, with families who lost children and dear friends as bullets pierced children and dear friends's bodies and souls in schools, a night club, in a car at a gas station, and a town meeting at a grocery store. And the shooting came just the night before 14th anniversary of the shooting at Virginia Tech, in which a gunman murdered 32 people.
Last night and into the morning in INDIANAPOLIS (WISH), yet again families had to wait to hear word about the fate of families's loved ones. What a cruel wait and fate that has become too normal and happens every day somewhere in INDIANAPOLIS (WISH). Gun violence is an epidemic in INDIANAPOLIS (WISH).
But we should not accept Gun violence. We must act.
Last week, I called on the Justice Department to better protect Americans from gun violence. I also urged Congress to hear the call of the American people – including the vast majority of gun owners – to enact commonsense gun violence prevention legislation, like universal background checks and a ban of weapons of war and high-capacity magazines.
Too many Americans are dying every single day from gun violence. gun violence stains our character and pierces the very soul of our nation. We can, and must, do more to act and to save lives.
The White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki discussed the shooting at the beginning of White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki's daily press conference. Last night we saw our law enforcement and emergency responders give our law enforcement and emergency responders's all to save lives and care for survivors following the shooting. Following our law enforcement and emergency responders's example, every member of this Council stands ready to do everything in our power to support survivors and loved ones of those impacted by the shooting. In speaking with District 20 Councillor Josh Bain and our colleagues on this Council, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki hear in District 20 Councillor Josh Bain and our colleagues on the Council's voices equal measures of heartbreak and resolve.

Details are beginning to emerge about those killed in the Indianapolis FedEx shooting, where one of the victims had just earned one of the victims's first paycheck. one of the victims, had “started to buckle down and get a job and take life a little more serious,” said a relative of the young woman, one of the victims gunned down after a former employee opened fire at the Indianapolis facility Thursday night.
“one of the victims was a lovely, beautiful and youthful teenage girl,” a relative of the young woman, one of eight gunned down after a former employee opened fire at the Indianapolis facility Thursday night told the Indianapolis Star of Smith, who graduated high school last year. Samaria Blackwell, also 19, had joined FedEx only two months ago. Samaria Blackwell, also 19 was “such a fun-loving, caring daughter at the baby of our family,” Samaria Blackwell, also 19's parents Jeff and Tammi Blackwell said in a statement. Matthew Alexander, 32, a former student at Butler University in Indianapolis, played baseball at Avon High School where Matthew Alexander, 32, a former student at Butler University in Indianapolis, was a member of the National Honor Society.
John Steven Weisert, 74, had been married 50 years when John Steven Weisert, 74 was killed by a former employee,” John Steven Weisert, 74's son Mike wrote on social media. “his son Mike don’t understand and will never understand the reason for this kind of random violence.
John Steven Weisert, 74 was a GOOD man. John Steven Weisert, 74 was a great father.
John Steven Weisert, 74 was a wonderfully devoted and faithful husband of almost 50 years to his son Mike's mom. And John Steven Weisert, 74 was a man who worked very hard throughout John Steven Weisert, 74's life to provide the best home John Steven Weisert, 74 possibly could for John Steven Weisert, 74's family,” his son Mike wrote.
Shooter Brandon Scott Hole began Hole's rampage in the FedEx parking lot, where Hole began randomly firing Hole's weapon, killing four people, before making Hole's way into the Indianapolis facility, according to police. Once inside, Hole killed four more people, before shooting and killing Hole.
Hole had last worked for FedEx in 2020. Police have yet to specify what type of gun Hole used, identifying the weapon only as “an assault rifle” and refusing to give more details when reached by The Post.
Among the victims were four members of Indianapolis's burgeoning Sikh community, including Amarjit Sekhon. Amarjit Sekhon, had just begun working at the FedEx facility in November.
“Amarjit Sekhon was a workaholic, Amarjit Sekhon always was working, working,” said Amarjit Sekhon's brother-in-law Kuldip Sekhon. Amarjit Sekhon had a daughter and a son and had moved to the United States in 2018. Amarjit Sekhon sent money from Amarjit Sekhon's job at FedEx to help support Amarjit Sekhon's son in Indianapolis, according to the Indianapolis Star of Smith, who graduated high school last year.
Jaswinder Singh was 68. Jaswinder Singh's family told India media Jaswinder Singh had moved to the United States eight years ago.
It’s “very sad,” Jaswinder Singh's nephew Dalbar Singh told Republic World. Amarjeet Kaur Johal, 66, was a grandmother who planned to work a double shift on Thursday so that Amarjeet Kaur Johal, 66, might take Friday off, according to a grandson’s
Twitter account. “a grandson’s have several family members who work at the Indianapolis facility and are traumatized,” a grandson’s wrote.
That so many of the victims were Sikh sparked outrage and calls for action against those targeting people of color. “It was no accident that a former employee targeted this particular FedEx facility where a former employee had worked and knew was overwhelmingly staffed by Sikhs,” said the national Sikh Coalition in a statement Thursday.

More than 200 people, including local, state and federal officials, gathered Saturday evening to mourn the eight victims of Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side.
The gathering, held at Krannert Park, was the first opportunity for many employees to see one another since Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side occurred late Thursday’s night. The gathering, held at Krannert Park, included remarks from city leaders like Mayor Joe Hogsett and City-County Council President Vop Osili, Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Chief Randal Taylor and Rep. Andre Carson, whose district includes much of the city’s.
The gathering, held at Krannert Park, came about 43 hours after police say former employee Brandon Hole opened fire in the parking lot at the FedEx Ground center at 8951 Mirabel Road and then inside a FedEx facility on the city’s west side, killing the eight victims of Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side before turning the gun on former employee Brandon Hole. a FedEx facility on the city’s west side has been closed since Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side.
Erica Carrico, who has worked at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side for 10 years and finished Erica Carrico, who has worked at the facility for 10 years and finished her shift shortly before the shooting began's shift shortly before Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side began, said Erica Carrico, who has worked at the facility for 10 years and finished her shift shortly before the shooting began attended The gathering, held at Krannert Park, to mourn the loss of Erica Carrico, who has worked at the facility for 10 years and finished her shift shortly before the shooting began's coworkers. Erica Carrico, who has worked at the facility for 10 years and finished her shift shortly before the shooting began said Erica Carrico, who has worked at the facility for 10 years and finished her shift shortly before the shooting began knew one of the eight victims of Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side, 74-year-old John Weisert. Erica Carrico, who has worked at the facility for 10 years and finished her shift shortly before the shooting began said one of the eight victims, 74-year-old John Weisert went by one of the eight victims, 74-year-old John Weisert's middle name, Steve, with one of the eight victims, 74-year-old John Weisert's coworkers.
The gathering, held at Krannert Park, included opportunities for families and friends of victims to mourn together and to remember families and friends of victims's loved ones, and included speeches from several local officials. Comfort dogs from the Chicago-based Lutheran Church Charities crisis response group were also on-site, along with wooden hearts for The gathering, held at Krannert Park, participants to sign. wooden hearts for vigil participants to sign will be given to the families of the eight victims of Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side.
Vicky South, another FedEx employee, said Vicky South, another FedEx employee knew five of the eight victims of Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side. Vicky South, another FedEx employee said having the opportunity to mourn with coworkers will likely help Vicky South, another FedEx employee with the grieving process.
Vicky South, another FedEx employee also said Vicky South, another FedEx employee was thankful for the words shared by local officials and to see up close how coworkers’re being affected by Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side. “It was a little uplifting to hear … because Vicky South, another FedEx employee was very sad and upset before Vicky South, another FedEx employee came here,” said South, who added Vicky South, another FedEx employee doesn’t know how Vicky South, another FedEx employee’ll react when Vicky South, another FedEx employee returns to a FedEx facility on the city’s west side for the first time.
“Vicky South, another FedEx employee won’t know until Vicky South, another FedEx employee pull into the parking lot at the FedEx Ground center at 8951 Mirabel Road. And to be honest, Vicky South, another FedEx employee’m liable to turn around and drive right back out.
Vicky South, another FedEx employee don’t know.” Vicky South, another FedEx employee said.
IMPD’s Taylor shared with those gathered how challenging the last few days have been for IMPD’s personally, calling the situation one of the toughest of IMPD’s's three-decade law enforcement career. IMPD’s later told IBJ that when IMPD’s got home from speaking with families of the eight victims of Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side IMPD’s and IMPD’s's wife took time to mourn. “When you’re dealing with eight families, one coming in after another, to get the official bad news, it was tough, it was very tough,” IMPD’s said.
“And you have to be strong in that situation. Another vigil is planned for Sunday at 7 p.m. on the steps of Beech Grove City Hall at 802 Main Street.

The second day of prayer vigils to honor the victims of the FedEx mass shooting in Indianapolis is underway.
Watch LIVE from downtown Indy where folks gathered with flowers at Monument Circle on Sunday afternoon. Watch LIVE from Beech Grove where a community vigil is being held and the Mayor's Faith-Based Roundtable will offer prayers for the victims of the FedEx mass shooting in Indianapolis.

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — The eight people killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx warehouse will be remembered Saturday during a public ceremony hosted at Lucas Oil Stadium in downtown Indianapolis.
a public ceremony hosted at Lucas Oil Stadium in downtown Indianapolis comes two weeks after a former FedEx employee fatally shot the eight people, including four members of INDIANAPOLIS Sikh community. While Indianapolis’ Sikh community is hosting a public ceremony hosted at Lucas Oil Stadium in downtown Indianapolis, the hope is that people from across INDIANAPOLIS will join to support the affected families “as INDIANAPOLIS begins the journey of healing together and helping each other during this excruciatingly difficult time,” said Rajanpreet Kaur, a spokesperson for the Sikh Coalition. Private ceremonies for victims from Indianapolis’ Sikh community are also expected to take place in the coming week.
victims from the Sikh community's families continue to seek roughly two-dozen fast-tracked visas so relatives overseas may travel for funeral rites. funeral rites will begin with cremation and then be followed by up to 20 days of reading of the 1,400-page Guru Granth Sahib scripture.
Police said Brandon Scott Hole, 19, a former worker at the INDIANAPOLIS FedEx facility, killed The eight people killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx warehouse there on April 15 before killing a former FedEx employee. Authorities have not released a motive for a mass shooting at a FedEx warehouse but said a former FedEx employee was in possession of two assault rifles. a former FedEx employee was able to purchase two assault rifles legally, even after a former FedEx employee's mother called police last year to say his mother's son might commit “suicide by cop,” because a former FedEx employee never appeared before a judge for a hearing under INDIANAPOLIS's “red flag” law, Marion County Prosecutor Ryan Mears said last week.
a public ceremony hosted at Lucas Oil Stadium in downtown Indianapolis is scheduled from 1 to 4 p.m. Saturday and is open to the public. A full program and list of speakers have not been confirmed, but interfaith leaders and lawmakers at the local, state and federal levels have been invited, event organizers said.
Parking is free at Lucas Oil Stadium in downtown Indianapolis. Those planning to attend must arrive before 1 p.m. to ensure entry into Lucas Oil Stadium in downtown Indianapolis, and seating is first-come, first-serve. Temperatures will be checked upon arrival at Lucas Oil Stadium in downtown Indianapolis.
Masks and social distancing will also be required, as required by Marion County's COVID-19 guidelines. Casey Smith is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues.

INDIANAPOLIS — FedEx has donated $1 million to kick off a fundraising campaign for the victims and survivors of the mass shooting at one of FedEx's INDIANAPOLIS facilities. A gunman the mass shooting at one of their Indianapolis facilities fire at one of their Indianapolis facilities on Thursday, April 15, killing eight people and injuring five others. FedEx announced Monday that FedEx established a GoFundMe campaign called 'Indianapolis 4/15 Survivors Fund' through the National Compassion Fund to collect donations to support the survivors and the families of those who were killed in the mass shooting at one of their Indianapolis facilities. To kick off a GoFundMe campaign called 'Indianapolis 4/15 Survivors Fund', FedEx also donated $1 million to a GoFundMe campaign called 'Indianapolis 4/15 Survivors Fund'. "Every dollar raised will go directly to those affected," FedEx said in a release issued Monday. As of Monday morning, FedEx says four of the individuals who were injured in the mass shooting at one of their Indianapolis facilities remain hospitalized. four of the individuals who were injured in the shooting's conditions are still unknown at this time.

