Police arrived “to a very chaotic scene, with victims and witnesses running everywhere” at a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’ main airport late Thursday night, where a former employee shot and killed eight people and wounded several others, an Indianapolis police official told CNN.
Deputy Chief Craig McCartt on Friday afternoon identified the gunman as 19-year-old Brandon Hole, who was last employed by FedEx in 2020. Hole was found dead of a gunshot wound that appeared to be self-inflicted, McCartt said. In March 2020, Hole’s mother told law enforcement that he might attempt “suicide by cop,” the FBI’s Indianapolis office said in a statement.
Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said Hole was placed on an immediate mental health temporary hold by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department. He also said a shotgun was seized at Hole’s residence. McCartt told reporters that Indianapolis police found Hole’s name in two past incident reports.
The deputy chief didn’t have information about the first report. The details he described from a 2020 report align with the FBI statement. Investigators are trying to determine motive and were searching what they believe is the suspected gunman’s home, Keenan told reporters late Friday morning.
On Friday evening, Indianapolis police released the names of the eight deceased victims. They are: Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74.
A statement by IMPD said the next of kin has been notified by the Marion County Coroner’s Office. The cause of death will be determined after autopsies are complete, according to the statement. IMPD said the names of those injured are not being released.
The mass shooting is the country’s deadliest since 10 people were killed March 22 at a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado. Thursday night’s
killings began when a gunman “got out of his car, and pretty quickly started some random shooting outside the facility,” McCartt said. The gunman then “went inside and did not get very far into the facility at all,” while shooting others there, McCartt told CNN earlier Friday. Laveda Chester told CNN’s “OutFront with Erin Burnett” that she was arriving for her overnight shift when she heard one pop and thought it might be a car accident.
She said she looked around and didn’t see one. But then she saw the gunman running toward the building with a rifle in his hand.
She waited until he went in so she could drive away without drawing the gunman’s attention. She went to another parking lot and called police. She said she then tried to warn other arriving workers that there was a shooting going on. Some stopped and some drove past her.
Two employees inside the building at the time heard as many as 10 gunshots, they told CNN affiliate WISH. The men left the building and watched as about 30 police cars responded, they said.
“Thank God for being here because I thought I was going to get shot,” one of them, Jeremiah Miller, told WISH. Investigators have heard the shooting lasted “just a couple minutes – that it did not last very long,” McCartt said.
“My understanding is, by the time that officers entered … the situation was over – that the suspect took his life very shortly before officers entered the facility,” McCartt told reporters. There were at least 100 people in the facility when the shooting began, he said.
Many were on their dinner break or changing shifts. Four people were found dead outside and four others, not counting the shooter, were dead inside, McCartt said. The incident marks at least the 45th mass shooting in the United States since the Atlanta-area spa shootings on March 16.
CNN considers an incident to be a mass shooting if four or more people, excluding the gunman, are wounded or killed by gunfire. McCartt said four survivors were taken to a hospital with gunshot wounds and a fifth person sought treatment in another county for a gunshot wound. Two people were treated at the scene, he said. The gunman had at least one weapon, which investigators believe was a rifle, McCartt told reporters.
Police early Friday were trying to make sense of the crime scene while relatives of FedEx employees gathered at a nearby hotel, which officials offered as a place where they could await news, reunite with the workers and meet with police chaplains. “Many of the employees did not have cell phones on them in the facility,” and so many survivors were not immediately able to contact their families, McCartt told CNN. Several people tearfully embraced as they reunited Friday morning at the hotel, video from CNN affiliate WISH showed.
When asked Friday morning whether witnesses indicated that FedEx or security personnel had any indication that something like Friday’s shooting would happen, McCartt said no. “We’re still working with FedEx security for anything that might have been an indication this was going to happen right now,” McCartt said at the Friday morning news conference.
FedEx worker Timothy Boillat and his coworker heard what they thought initially were “two loud metal clangs” when the shooting started, he told CNN affiliate WRTV. “They didn’t sound like gunshots at first …
Then, we heard three more shots, and then my buddy … saw someone running out of the building.” Boillat said.
“And then more shots went off. Somebody went behind their car to the trunk and got another gun,” Boillat said, without saying whether that person was the shooter. “And then I saw one body on the floor,” Boillat told WRTV. Police are asking anyone who was at the scene and may have left for safety or for medical treatment to contact them to provide information on the shooting.
“We must guard against resignation or even despair – the assumption that this is simply how it must be and that we might as well get used to it. We need the courage that compels courageous acts that push past weariness,” Hogsett said.
“Our most heartfelt sympathies are with all those affected by this senseless act of violence. The safety of our team members is our top priority, and we are fully cooperating with investigating authorities,” FedEx said.
“In times like this, words like justice and sorrow fall short in response for those senselessly taken. Our thoughts are with the families, friends, coworkers and all those affected by this terrible situation,” Holcomb said.
Flags will be lowered to half-staff from Friday until sunset Tuesday “in remembrance of those we’ve lost,” Holcomb said. “Nothing we learn can heal the wounds of those who escaped with their lives, but who will now … endure the memories of this horrific crime,” Hogsett said.
US Rep. Andre Carson, whose district includes Indianapolis, tweeted that he was heartbroken by the mass shooting. “I am communicating with local authorities to get all details of the attack and my office stands ready to help everyone affected any way we can,” he said. Correction: A previous version of this article misstated the names of Amarjit Sekhon and Karli Smith based on information provided by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department.

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis was interviewed by FBI agents last year, after his mother called police to say that her son might commit “suicide by cop,” the bureau said Friday.
Coroners released the names of the victims late Friday, a little less than 24 hours after the latest mass shooting to rock the U.S. Four of them were members of Indianapolis’ Sikh community. The attack was another blow to the Asian American community a month after six people of Asian descent were killed in a mass shooting in the Atlanta area and amid ongoing attacks against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic.
The Marion County Coroner’s office identified the dead as Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. The shooter was identified as Brandon Scott Hole, 19, of Indianapolis, Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt told a news conference. Investigators searched a home in Indianapolis associated with Hole and seized evidence, including desktop computers and other electronic media, McCartt said.
Hole began firing randomly at people in the parking lot of the FedEx facility late Thursday, killing four, before entering the building, fatally shooting four more people and then turning the gun on himself, McCartt said. He said he did not know if Hole owned the gun legally. McCartt said the slayings took place in a matter of minutes, and that there were at least 100 people in the facility at the time.
Many were changing shifts or were on their dinner break, he said. Several people were wounded, including five who were taken to the hospital.
“You deserved so much better than this,” a man who identified himself as the grandson of Johal tweeted Friday evening. Johal had planned to work a double shift Thursday so she could take Friday off, according to the grandson, who would not give his full name but identifies himself as “Komal” on his Twitter page. Johal later decided to grab her check and go home, and still had the check in her hand when police found her, Komal said. “(What) a harsh and cruel world we live in,” he added.
Smith, the youngest of the victims, was last in contact with her family shortly before 11 p.m. Thursday, family members said in social media posts late Friday. Dominique Troutman, Smith’s sister, waited hours at the Holiday Inn for an update on her sister.
“Words can’t even explain how I feel. ... I’m so hurt,” Troutman said in a Facebook post Friday night.
Weisert had been working as a bag handler at FedEx for four years, his wife, Carol, told WISH-TV. The couple was married nearly 50 years.
President Joe Biden said he had been briefed on the shooting and called gun violence “an epidemic” in the U.S. A FedEx employee said he was working inside the building Thursday night when he heard several gunshots in rapid succession.
Paul Keenan, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Indianapolis field office, said Friday that agents questioned Hole last year after his mother called police to say that her son might commit “suicide by cop.” He said the FBI was called after items were found in Hole’s bedroom but he did not elaborate on what they were.
He said agents found no evidence of a crime and that they did not identify Hole as espousing a racially motivated ideology. A police report obtained by The Associated Press shows that officers seized a pump-action shotgun from Hole’s home after responding to the mother’s call. Keenan said the gun was never returned.
McCartt said Hole was a former employee of FedEx and last worked for the company in 2020. The deputy police chief said he did not know why Hole left the job or if he had ties to the workers in the facility. He said police have not yet uncovered a motive for the shooting.
Police Chief Randal Taylor noted that a “significant” number of employees at the FedEx facility are members of the Sikh community, and the Sikh Coalition later issued a statement saying it was “sad to confirm” that at least four of those killed were community members. “This is a devastating day, and words are hard to describe the emotions we all feel,” he wrote in an email to employees.
The killings marked the latest in a string of recent mass shootings across the country and the third mass shooting this year in Indianapolis. Five people, including a pregnant woman, were shot and killed in the city in January, and a man was accused of killing three adults and a child before abducting his daughter during at argument at a home in March.
In other states last month, eight people were fatally shot at massage businesses in the Atlanta area, and 10 died in gunfire at a supermarket in Boulder, Colorado. This story has been edited to correct the spelling of several names. Associated Press reporters Michael Balsamo and Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report. Casey Smith is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative.

A man identified by police as Brandon Hole, 19, opened fire outside a FedEx warehouse facility in Indianapolis late Thursday night before moving inside the facility, killing eight people and injuring several others. Hole is believed to have shot himself and is among the nine dead, according to police. "FedEx officials have confirmed that Mr. Hole was an employee at the facility and that he was last employed in 2020," Indianapolis Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said.
Friday evening, police released the names of those who were killed. They have been identified as Matthew R. Alexander,32, Samaria Blackwell, 19, Amarjeet Johal, 66, Jaswinder Kaur, 64, Jaswinder Singh, 68, Amarjit Sekhon, 48, Karlie Smith, 19, and John Weisert, 74.
The Sikh Coalition said four of the victims were Sikh and described the facility as "known to be heavily populated by Sikh employees." The group estimates that 8,000-10,000 Sikhs live in Indiana.
McCartt said investigators are trying to determine the motive. McCartt said Hole killed four individuals outside and then entered the facility "for a brief period of time," killing four others and then taking his own life. Four people who suffered gunshot wounds were treated in local hospitals, and a fifth person with an injury that was not firearms-related was also treated, he said. McCartt said the shooting lasted "just a few minutes" and that by the time officers arrived on the scene, it was over. The FedEx Ground-Plainfield Operation Center warehouse at 8951 Mirabel Road is about five miles from Indianapolis International Airport.
"Our most heartfelt sympathies are with all those affected by this senseless act of violence. The safety of our team members is our top priority, and we are fully cooperating with investigating authorities," the statement said.
Police said it's unclear how many workers were on duty at the time of the shooting. A witness said he was working inside the building when he heard a series of rapid gunshots.
Jeremiah Miller, who was about to start the second half of a double shift at the FedEx facility when the shooting took place, told WISH-TV that he and a co-worker, Timothy Boillat, heard up to 10 shots. "Luckily, I was far enough away where he (the shooter) didn't notice me or see me. So, thank God for that," he said.
The incident is the third mass shooting in Indianapolis this year. Five people were killed in a January shooting, and three adults and a child were killed in an incident in March.
Hogsett, a Democrat, recently signed onto a letter with more than 150 mayors around the country asking the U.S. Senate to take up legislation to expand background checks required when firearms are transferred between private citizens and other gun-related measures. President Biden, Vice President Harris and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, a former mayor of South Bend, Ind., also weighed in on the shooting.
"Gun violence is an epidemic in America. But we should not accept it. We must act," he added.

The 19-year-old suspect died from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.
Eight people were shot dead and several others were injured in a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis Thursday night, according to authorities. The suspect, 19-year-old Brandon Hole -- who FedEx says was an employee at the facility from August to October 2020 -- was found dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, Craig McCartt, deputy chief of Criminal Investigations at Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, said at a Friday news conference. He was armed with a rifle, McCartt said.
When officers arrived at the FedEx facility near the Indianapolis airport just after 11 p.m., they found a "chaotic and active crime scene," McCartt said. Four victims were found outside and four were inside, police said.
They ranged in age from 19 to 74. Those killed were identified Friday night by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department as Matthew R Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. Five surviving victims suffered injuries consistent with gunshot wounds and two others had minor injuries, McCartt said.
Hole last worked at FedEx in 2020, McCartt said. "We can confirm that the perpetrator was a former employee at the facility," FedEx said. The company deferred further information to the police.
Police said they do not have a motive. There is no indication that the shooting is connected to terrorism, two law enforcement officials told ABC News. A shotgun was taken from Hole's home and "based on items observed in the suspect’s bedroom at that time, he was interviewed by the FBI in April 2020," Keenan said.
The Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department on Monday night issued an updated press release regarding the shooting and an incident report from the search they performed of suspect Hole’s home in March of 2020. The report includes a testimony from an officer who said he saw what seemed like white suprematist websites on Hole's computer.
Police haven’t commented further on what was in the report and have not yet discussed a motive in the killings. About 100 employees were in the vicinity of the FedEx facility at the time of the shooting, according to the company. Many employees were changing shifts or on their dinner break at the time, McCartt said.
Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Chief Randal Taylor called FedEx a major employer for the city. FedEx told ABC News that no COVID-19 vaccine shipments were impacted by the shooting. "As law enforcement works to learn more about this tragedy, our prayers are with the families of those whose lives were cut short," Hogsett said.
"It’s a mass shooting just a week after we met, in the Rose Garden, with families who lost children and dear friends as bullets pierced their bodies and souls in schools, a night club, in a car at a gas station, and a town meeting at a grocery store. And it came just the night before 14th anniversary of the shooting at Virginia Tech, in which a gunman murdered 32 people," Biden said. "Last night and into the morning in Indianapolis, yet again families had to wait to hear word about the fate of their loved ones.
What a cruel wait and fate that has become too normal and happens every day somewhere in our nation," Biden said. Biden once again ordered White House flags to be lowered to half-staff, as he has done following other mass shootings. “There is no question that this violence must end," she said. ABC News' Luke Barr, Alexandra Faul, Ben Gittleson, Josh Hoyos and Aaron Katersky contributed to this report.

Deputy Chief Craig McCartt with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police described what happened when officials arrived at the FedEx, but said "this investigation is still very much in its infancy" and officials are still working to figure out what happened. He said officers responded to a call of shots fired at the facility.
When they arrived "they found a very chaotic and active crime scene," McCartt said. "They found several victims injured and several victims deceased as well as the suspect, who was deceased, as well, of an apparent self inflicted gunshot wound," he said.
McCartt said detectives then arrived and started interviewing witnesses. The department's crime lab also responded and started processing the crime scene. "That continues now and we're still several hours from being able to complete that at this time. There is a lot of work to do out there," he said.
The department's Victim Assistance and Chaplin office came to help take employees, witness and families to the family reunification site that was set up at a nearby hotel, McCartt said. "We continue to work with those employees and families as we work through identification and speaking with those families," he said.

The gunman in the Indianapolis mass shooting at a FedEx Ground facility was a former employee there and, according to law enforcement sources, known to federal and local authorities prior to the attack.
The gunman was identified as Brandon Hole, 19, who was last employed at the facility in 2020, according to Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Deputy Chief of Criminal Investigations Craig McCartt. McCartt said Hole’s name appeared in two previous police reports, including one last year from an incident in which a gun was seized. “We can confirm that the perpetrator was a former employee at the facility,” company spokesperson Jim Masilak told CNN Friday, declining to name the suspect and directing further questions to the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department.
The gunman opened fire outside and inside a FedEx Ground facility near Indianapolis’s main airport Thursday night, killing eight people, wounding several others and sending witnesses running before taking his own life, police said. It was the country’s deadliest shooting since 10 people were killed March 22 at a grocery in Colorado.
Investigators are trying to determine the motive for the shooting. Hole’s mother told law enforcement in March 2020 that he might try to “commit suicide by cop,” the FBI Indianapolis office said in a statement. Hole was placed on an “immediate detention mental health temporary hold” by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, according to statement from FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan.
Keenan said a shotgun was seized at Hole’s residence. A family member of the suspected shooter reached out to authorities warning about the suspect’s potential for violence, according to three law enforcement sources briefed on the matter.
It was not clear when the warning was given but the outreach was followed up by both local authorities and the FBI, which opened a preliminary investigation into any possible threat, the sources said. The FBI eventually closed their inquiry into the suspect after concluding there wasn’t sufficient evidence to continue it, according to the sources, who did not specify why federal investigators dropped the matter. The FBI is helping Indianapolis Metro Police Department “on the search of the suspect’s home,” Keenan said at a Friday morning news conference.
When asked Friday morning whether witnesses indicated that FedEx or security personnel had any indication that something like Friday’s shooting would happen, McCartt said no. “We’re still working with FedEx security for anything that might have been an indication this was going to happen right now,” McCartt said on Friday.
A spokeswoman for the police department declined to comment on CNN’s reporting. “Well, once we positively identify who he is, we will be able to research further,” spokeswoman Genae Cook said.

The suspect in the Indianapolis mass shooting was known to federal and local authorities prior to the attack.
A family member of the suspected shooter reached out to authorities warning about the suspect’s potential for violence, according to three law enforcement sources briefed on the matter. It was not clear when the warning was given but the outreach was followed up by both local authorities and FBI, which opened a preliminary investigation into any possible threat, the sources said.
The FBI eventually closed their inquiry after concluding there wasn’t sufficient evidence to continue it, according to the sources who did not specify why federal investigators dropped the matter. The suspect has not been publicly identified. The FBI is helping Indianapolis Metro Police Department “on the search of the suspects home,” the FBI special agent in charge Paul Keenan said at a Friday morning news conference.
Asked whether authorities had any indication this attack would occur, police said no. “We’re still working with FedEx security for anything that might have been an indication this was going to happen right now,” said Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Deputy Chief Craig McCartt, at the same Friday briefing.
A spokesperson for the police department declined to comment about CNN’s reporting. “Well once we positively identify who he is, we will be able to research further,” spokesperson Genae Cook said.

Eight people were killed after a gunman opened fire at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis late Thursday before killing himself, according to police. Four others who were shot and another who was injured were taken to hospitals, officials said, adding that some may have been privately transported to medical facilities.
No law enforcement officers were hurt in the shooting carried out by a former employee who last worked at the facility in the fall, authorities said Friday afternoon. A motive for the attack wasn't immediately clear, but a year ago, the shooter's mother said she feared he might be suicidal. “In March 2020, the suspect’s mother contacted law enforcement to report he might try to" attempt "suicide by cop," said FBI Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan, who runs the bureau's Indianapolis field office. The phrase "suicide by cop" refers to a self-destructive person who intentionally draws the attention of police in hopes of a deadly confrontation.
Law enforcement officials identified him as 19-year-old Brandon Scott Hole. The shooting was reported shortly after 11 p.m. ET and officers arrived to an active shooter incident, according to police.
"This suspect came to the facility, and when he came there he got out of his car and pretty quickly started some random shooting outside the facility," Craig McCartt, deputy chief of criminal investigations for the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, said during a news conference Friday morning. McCartt said the initial investigation shows there was no disturbance or argument that preceded the shooting, which lasted about two minutes. The suspected gunman killed himself shortly before police arrived, he said, adding that investigators believe he had a rifle.
Four bodies were found outside the facility, and four more were found inside, McCartt said. Police said Friday evening that Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74, were killed in the shooting.
FedEx CEO Frederick W. Smith said the eight killed were company employees. "This is a devastating day, and words are hard to describe the emotions we all feel," he said in a statement. "I want to express my deepest sympathies to the families, friends, and co-workers of those team members," he said, adding that counselors were on site at the facility to provide support.
A FedEx employee told NBC's "TODAY" show that he was sitting outside the building when he heard what he initially thought was a car with engine problems. He soon realized the sound was actually gunfire.
"And when I stand up, I see a man — a hooded figure — I was unable to see his face in detail however," Levi Miller said. He said the man had a rifle "and he started shouting, and then he started firing in random directions." He couldn't tell what the gunman was yelling. "I thought he saw me
and so I immediately ducked for cover," Miller said. Family members were waiting at a nearby Holiday Inn Express hotel early Friday to hear if their loved ones were safe while police chaplains provided support, WTHR photojournalist Joe Fenton tweeted. McCartt said there was some frustration in connecting family members with survivors because employees did not have their cellphones on them as they fled the building. "Their quick response provided critical aid to those injured in the shooting and brought a measure of calm to an otherwise chaotic scene," he said in a tweet.
"What we are left with this morning is grief — grief for the families of those killed, grief for the employees who have lost their co-workers, grief for the many Americans struggling to understand how tragedies like this continue to occur again and again," Hogsett said Friday morning. Indiana Gov. Eric Holcomb ordered flags to be flown at half-staff. U.S. Rep. André Carson, D-Indiana, whose district includes Indianapolis, said that he was devastated by the incident.
"I am heartbroken by the mass shooting at the FedEx facility here in Indianapolis and praying for all affected by this tragedy," he said on Twitter. There have been several mass shootings in the United States in recent weeks, including an April 8 shooting at a cabinet company facility in Bryan, Texas, that left one person dead and five others wounded. This is the third high-profile shooting this year in Indianapolis. In January, five people, including a pregnant woman, were shot dead in the city's northeast side.
And in March, a man fatally shot three adults and a child at a home in a dispute over a stimulus check, police said. President Joe Biden also ordered flags be lowered to half-staff. "Last night and into the morning in Indianapolis, yet again families had to wait to hear word about the fate of their loved ones. What a cruel wait and fate that has become too normal and happens every day somewhere in our nation," Biden said in a statement.
The shooting "is just the latest in a string of tragedies, following closely after gunmen firing bullets in broad daylight at spas in and around Atlanta, Georgia, a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado, a home in Rock Hill, South Carolina, and so many other shootings," he said. "Gun violence is an epidemic in America. But we should not accept it.
We must act," he said Friday. His proposals, which are likely to face legal hurdles, are aimed at reducing mass shootings, suicides and domestic violence. They aim to limit so-called "ghost guns," which can be assembled at home without traceable serial numbers, and make it easier for relatives to flag family members who shouldn't be allowed to buy firearms.
Biden is also seeking to reduce access to stabilizing braces, which can effectively turn a pistol into a more lethal rifle while not being subject to the same regulations that a rifle of similar size would be. Vice President Kamala Harris said Friday: "Yet again we have families in America that are grieving the loss of their family members because of gun violence. There is no question this violence must end and we are thinking of the families that lost their loved ones. Gun violence, in general, has skyrocketed in recent years.
The Gun Violence Archive, a nonprofit group that tracks gun violence in the U.S., found that more than 19,000 people died in gun homicides last year. This was the the highest yearly figure in more than two decades, up by nearly 25 percent from 2019.

President Joe Biden deemed the recent spate of mass shooting a “national embarrassment” on Friday, hours after he ordered flags to be lowered to half-staff on Friday in the wake of the mass shooting at an Indianapolis FedEx facility that killed at least eight people. It’s only been two weeks since the last time Biden made such an order after a previous mass shooting, and a fiery President said in a news conference with Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga that it’s time for Congress to act.
In an earlier statement, the President noted that that incident took place on the 14th anniversary of the murder of 32 people at Virginia Tech University. Biden said gun violence “pierces the very soul of our nation” and called gun violence an “epidemic” in the US.
The shooting is the latest in a series of several high-profile mass shootings that have rocked the nation, including one at a supermarket in Boulder, Colorado, that killed 10 people and a shooting rampage in the Atlanta, Georgia, area that killed eight people. The incident in Indianapolis is at least the 45th mass shooting in the US in the last month following the Atlanta-area killings.
The spate of mass shootings has led to increased calls for gun control measures, but the prospect for any bills in Congress is grim. “Yet again, we have families in our country that are grieving the loss of their family members because of gun violence,” Harris said at the White House. Five people have been taken to local hospitals for treatment following the shooting.
Police say they believe the shooter took his own life, and the FBI is assisting Indianapolis police with their investigation. The shooting in Indianapolis is the latest in a recent spate of mass shootings across the country and comes a little more than a week after Biden unveiled several actions his administration would be taking to curb the level of gun violence in the US. “Gun violence in this country is an epidemic and it’s an international embarrassment,” Biden said last week at the White House.
Biden’s recently unveiled executive actions include efforts to restrict weapons known as “ghost guns” that can be built using parts and instructions purchased online. The actions are limited in scope and Biden said they are initial steps to address gun violence.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki echoed the President’s call for the Senate to pass three bills strengthening background checks that have already passed the House of Representatives and to pass a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. “Like all of you, we’re horrified by the shooting overnight at a FedEx facility,” Psaki told reporters at a White House briefing on Friday.
Passing gun reform legislation through Congress remains an uphill climb for Democrats in the face of stiff Republican opposition and it is unclear what a bipartisan way forward on the issue could look like. Biden made an extensive case for Congress to gut the liability protections for gun makers during a private meeting with Democratic lawmakers earlier this week, reiterating his public position as discussions are beginning in the House to pass legislation on the matter, according to multiple attendees. Speaking with Democratic members of the Congressional Black Caucus, Biden talked at length about targeting the lawsuit protections gun manufacturers enjoy under federal law – even though getting such legislation through the 50-50 Senate remains highly unlikely.
“He is committed to removing it – and to make sure they are held accountable,” said Rep. Steven Horsford, a Nevada Democrat who was at the meeting and who lost his own father to gun violence at the age of 19. Horsford told CNN that Biden talked about fingerprint technology that could be used by gun manufacturers to make firearm use easier to trace, as well as getting rid of the lawsuit protections once-and-for-all.
Democratic Rep. Sean Casten is working on legislation on the liability issue, and Horsford said that Democrats will push their leadership to schedule a vote on the matter. “He said it was important that those protections– those liability protections be removed from gun manufacturers – with that, there would be some accountability and from that, we would see some reform from a free market standpoint,” said Georgia Rep. Hank Johnson, who was in the meeting, said of Biden.
Sens. Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy, two Connecticut Democrats, have been calling Republicans to see if there could be any support for gun legislation that could reach the necessary 60 vote in the Senate to pass, CNN has reported. Democrats currently have 50 senators in the chamber, which means they need every Democrat on board and then 10 Republicans in order to reach the necessary 60 vote threshold to pass the legislation.
Blumenthal and Murphy acknowledge they will have to pare back a House-passed bill that would mandate background checks on firearm sales on commercial and private transactions as they face opposition from Republican senators and skepticism from moderate Democrats on the issue. “The Senate will act to address this epidemic in America,” he said, reiterating that he will bring legislation to prevent gun violence to the Senate floor for a vote.
Schumer is planning to bring the House-passed bills to expand background checks to the floor, but both lack 60 votes and also face resistance from Democratic moderate senators. This story and its headline have been updated with additional reporting.

Authorities were on the scene of yet another mass shooting, this time at a FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis, where eight people were killed Friday. The shooter is also dead, police said. Deputy Chief Craig McCartt of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said at a news conference Friday the investigation “is still very much in its infancy,” and there are still questions investigators are working to answer.
Here’s what we know about the shooting so far. Gunfire erupted at the facility not far from the Indianapolis International Airport late Thursday when a gunman “got out of his car, and pretty quickly started some random shooting outside the facility,” McCartt said. According to McCartt, investigators have heard the shooting lasted just a couple of minutes. By the time officers entered the facility, McCartt said at the news conference, “the situation was over.” The gunman had taken his own life shortly before officers entered and no officers fired their weapons, he said.
“They found several victims injured and several victims deceased as well as the suspect, who was deceased, as well, of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound,” McCartt said. It was at least the 45th mass shooting reported in the United States since March 16. CNN defines a mass shooting as a shooting incident that results in four or more casualties – dead or wounded – excluding the shooter.
Eight people were killed, according to police. Four were found outside the facility and another four were found inside the building, McCartt said. On Friday evening, Indianapolis police released the names of the victims.
They are: Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jasvinder Kaur, 50; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. Four of those killed were Sikh, Maninder Singh Walia, a member of the Sikh community in Indianapolis, told CNN.
The community has grown in Indiana in recent years; according to the Sikh Coalition, the state’s first gurdwara – a Sikh house of worship – was established in 1999. Now the state has 10 gurdwaras and is home to an estimated 8,000 to 10,000 Sikh Americans. “Our community has a long road of healing physically, mentally and spiritually to recover from this tragedy,” Walia said.
A statement by IMPD said the next of kin has been notified by the Marion County Coroner’s Office. The cause of death will be determined after autopsies are complete, according to the statement.
IMPD said the names of those injured are not being released. At a news conference Friday afternoon, McCartt said four victims with injuries consistent with gunshot wounds were taken to local hospitals Thursday night, while a fifth sought treatment in another county. Two additional people were treated for injuries at the scene and were released, McCartt said. There were at least 100 people in the facility at the time of the shooting, he said. Many were in the middle of a shift change or on their dinner break.
Rimpi Girn lives in Indianapolis and knew two of the deceased victims: Sekhon, a family friend whom Girn considers an aunt, and Kaur, the mother of Girn’s sister-in-law. Kaur also had two children – a daughter and a son, Girn said. She immigrated to the US in 2018 and was the main breadwinner for the family. She sent money earned from her job at FedEx to her son living in India as financial support.
Police identified the gunman as 19-year-old Brandon Hole. Hole was a former employee at the facility and had last been employed there in 2020, McCartt said. Previously, FedEx declined to name him, but spokesperson Jim Masilak confirmed the gunman had previously worked at the facility where the shooting took place. FBI Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said the FBI assisted Indianapolis police investigators with a search of the man’s home.
The gunman had at least one weapon, and McCartt told CNN the man was believed to have been carrying “a rifle of some sort” during the shooting. Hole’s mother told law enforcement in March 2020 he might try to attempt “suicide by cop,” the FBI’s Indianapolis office said in a statement.
Hole was placed on an “immediate detention mental health temporary hold” by Indianapolis police, Keenan said in the statement, and a shotgun was seized at his home. IMPD announced Saturday that Hole purchased two guns used in the attack legally. The motive remains unknown, McCartt said Friday afternoon.
But now that the gunman has been identified, McCartt said investigators can start to explore a potential motive. “We’ve recently identified him so now the work really begins trying to establish some of that and see if we can figure out some sort of motive in this, but we don’t have that right now,” he said. But officials believe there is “no further threat,” he said.
Correction: A previous version of this article misstated the names of Amarjit Sekhon and Karli Smith based on information provided by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department. Jasvinder Kaur's name and age have also been corrected.

This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated.
Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated. PLAINFIELD, Ind. —
For survivors of the mass shooting at a Plainfield FedEx, now is the time to process what they just lived through. Some may be hearing the names of the eight victims for the first time or realizing who the 19-year-old suspect is. It’s also a time to relive how they made it out alive.
“My heart hurts. I feel horrible for the families that have to suffer.
For the people who were victims of this man,” says Jeremiah Levi Miller who was able to escape that night. Miller was on break with three other workers when he heard the first series of shots. As the frequency of gunfire began to rise, Miller stood on a bench for a better look.
He believes he saw suspect Brandon Hole shoot to his right while yelling out words that Miller could not make out. “When I saw those gunshots, I immediately told my friends, this guy has a gun. I ducked and hid into the shadows in the shed,” retells Miller.
The mother of one of the four coworkers also works at the FedEx facility. She came around to pick them up in a car to whisk them to safety.
That’s when Miller began to help others. A shift change was occurring at that time.
“FedEx works 24-hours, so there are multiple people from different shifts coming in and out,” adds Miller, “I remember telling everyone who was driving to work that there was a shooter. Miller believes he may have seen Hole’s face once or twice but has never interacted with the shooter.
At a nearby building, other survivors had taken cover not knowing if the shooter would come their way. FedEx has a no cell phone policy, so Lara and Miller say people inside could not contact help. Luckily, Miller was on break, so he had his phone, and was able to call law enforcement. Even if the policy were to change, Miller is unsure if he would ever feel comfortable working in that particular building again.

The Indian embassy in Washington DC has reached out to the community leaders.
India will render "all possible assistance" to local authorities and community leaders in Indianapolis, US, where at least eight people, including four Sikhs, have died after a gunman opened fire at a FedEx facility on Thursday night, a "deeply shocked" Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said today. About 90 per cent of the workers at this delivery service facility are said to be Indian-Americans, mostly from the Sikh community. This was at least the third mass shooting this year in Indianapolis alone, news agency AP reported.
Late on Friday night, the Marion County Coroner's Office and Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department released the names of the victims: Amarjeet Johal (66), Jasvinder Kaur (64), Amarjit Skhon (48) and Jaswinder Singh (68). The first three who died are women, news agency PTI reported.
The shooter has been identified as 19-year-old Brandon Hole. The police could not yet say why he opened fire as he shot himself before being apprehended. "Deeply shocked by shooting at FedEx facility in Indianapolis.
Victims include persons of Indian American Sikh community. Our Consulate General in Chicago in touch with Mayor & local authorities in Indianapolis as well as community leaders. Will render all possible assistance," Mr Jaishankar said in a tweet today.
One person injured in the incident has been identified as Harpreet Gill, an American citizen of Indian heritage, from Amritsar's Jagdev Kalan, news agency ANI reported. He was hit in the head.
Reacting to the shooting incident, Dr Rajwant Singh, Chairman of the Sikh Council on Religion and Education, expressed grief over this latest killing in Indianapolis, the report said. The Indian embassy in Washington DC conveyed its heartfelt condolences to the families of those who died and said it is praying "for the speedy recovery of those injured".
US President Joe Biden, yesterday, termed the incident a "national embarrassment". All US flags will be flown at half-staff until April 20 out of respect for the victims, the White House said in a statement. This applies to embassies, military bases, and other US facilities around the world.

April 16 (Reuters) - Four members of the Sikh religious community, three women and one man, were killed in a Thursday night shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis that claimed the lives of eight workers, a community group and local leader said on Friday. "Out of eight, four are Sikh community members," said businessman Gurinder Singh Khalsa, who identified himself as a leader of the local Sikh community and said he had spoken with the families of those killed.
He said the FedEx operations center near the city's international airport was known for providing employment to older members of the Sikh community who did not necessarily speak fluent English. Thousands of Sikh-Americans live in Indiana, according to community members.
Indianapolis police have yet to confirm the identities of any of the victims of the mass shooting. Most of the world's roughly 25 million Sikhs live in the northern Indian state of Punjab, according to the New York-based Sikh Coalition advocacy group. An estimated 500,000 Sikhs live in the United States.
A Twitter user identified as Aurinder, who said they were Chohan's sibling, also posted about their grandmother. "Every time I saw news articles of mass shootings it never really phased me.
My Nani Ji (beloved grandmother) was murdered last night coming back home from work," Aurinder wrote. The massacre is the most recent in a series of U.S. mass shootings that has again pushed the issue of gun violence to the political foreground. Eight people were shot to death at three day spas in the Atlanta area in mid-March, raising fears that the gunman had targeted Asian Americans amid a rise in hate crimes.
Days later, a gunman killed 10 people at a supermarket in Boulder, Colorado. FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said it would be premature to speculate on the motive of the gunman in Indianapolis, a 19-year-old former FedEx employee.
Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States perpetrated by the Islamist militant group al Qaeda, Sikh men have sometimes been confused publicly with Muslims because they wear turbans and their hair and beards uncut. In 2012, a lone white, male gunman shot and killed six people at a Sikh temple in Wisconsin in what authorities said was a domestic terrorism incident. The attacker fatally shot himself after a gun battle with police. "My nani, my family, and our families should not feel unsafe at work, at their place of worship, or anywhere," she said in a statement sent to Reuters. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

After another mass shooting in the US, the president calls on Congress to ban military-style ‘assault’ weapons. President Joe Biden faced increased pressure on Friday to stem gun violence amid a rash of mass shootings across the United States, but he faces an uphill battle to significantly change the country’s permissive firearms laws.
The day after an attacker killed eight people and himself at a FedEx Corp facility in Indianapolis, Biden insisted he could tackle the problem while also pushing a sweeping jobs package and working to rein in the coronavirus pandemic. “This has to end. It’s a national embarrassment,” Biden said at a White House news conference alongside Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga.
Biden said Congress should ban military-style “assault” weapons and large-capacity ammunition magazines. Biden authored a similar ban in the US Senate that expired in 2004. White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said earlier in the day that Congress should also allow victims to sue gun manufacturers.
The Indianapolis shooting was at least the fifth such event in as many weeks, an unwelcome return to frequent high-profile violence as many in the nation emerge from a pandemic bubble. Biden has taken limited steps so far to tighten federal gun regulations, and has called for more money to fight the problem.
He will have to persuade congressional Republicans to agree to take more significant steps. That is a challenge given that previous attempts at legislation have stalled repeatedly during the past decade, even as hundreds of thousands of Americans have died.
The Democratic-controlled House of Representatives this year passed legislation to expand background checks for gun buyers, But it faces steep odds in the Senate as legislators from rural states where gun ownership is widespread wield disproportionate influence. Democrats and Republicans in that chamber are discussing a possible compromise. Congress has yet to take up Biden’s proposed assault weapon ban, though several states have prohibitions in place.
Opinion polls show broad public support for tighter gun laws. Gun-control advocates said on Friday that Senate Democrats should be ready to override Republicans if necessary by ditching longstanding rules that require a supermajority to advance most legislation in the chamber.
The Senate is currently split 50-50 between the two parties. They also said Biden should demonstrate that the issue is a priority by discussing it in a planned April 28 speech to Congress.
At a news conference organised by The Time is Now Coalition, an advocacy group, several people who have suffered losses from gun violence said on Friday that they were frustrated by the inaction. “The time is indeed now to act but the time has been now to act for years, for decades,” said Peter Read, whose daughter Mary was one of 32 people killed in a mass shooting at Virginia Tech University 14 years ago.
With about 121 firearms for every 100 residents, the United States is by far the most heavily armed society in the world, and the number of gun deaths has climbed steadily in recent years. Some 43,539 Americans died of gun violence last year, with more than half of those due to suicide, according to the Gun Violence Archive, a research group.
At least 30 people have been killed in US mass shootings in the last month alone. Those events draw headlines, but they typically account for fewer than 1 percent of firearms deaths each year. The Indianapolis shooting came on the heels of deadly shootings at spas in the Atlanta area and a supermarket in Boulder.
Police say suspects in those incidents bought their weapons legally. Biden earlier this month said his administration would crack down on self-assembled ghost guns and tightly regulate stabilising braces that effectively turn pistols into rifles. He also said he would make it easier for states to adopt red-flag laws that allow authorities to take guns from people deemed to be a danger to themselves or others.
Those initiatives do not require cooperation from Congress, but they will take time to put in place. The Department of Justice needs to create a paper trail to show that any rule change was not abrupt or political and has a strong foundation in law to stave off anticipated legal challenges.

Alex Sundby is a senior editor for CBSNews.com. Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting.

A police officer standing over the body of the FedEx shooter on Thursday night radioed a report that should shame every member of Congress who persists in doing nothing meaningful about gun control.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole, shot and killed himself after opening fire at the FedEx Ground Facility in Indianapolis on Thursday night. He was a former FedEx employee.
Hole's family released a statement to the families of the victims and the Indianapolis community on Saturday. "We are devastated at the loss of life caused as a result of Brandon’s actions; through the love of his family, we tried to get him the help he needed.
Hole is accused of killing Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. Police say they are trying to understand the motive behind the mass shooting incident.
In March 2020, Hole's mother told law enforcement authorities that he might attempt "suicide by cop," the FBI's Indianapolis office said. Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said Hole was placed on an immediate mental health temporary hold by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department. He also said a shotgun was seized at Hole's residence.
"Based on items observed in the suspect's bedroom at that time, he was interviewed by the FBI in April 2020," CNN quoted the statement as saying. McCartt said that Indianapolis police found Hole's name in two past incident reports.
Meanwhile, the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD)announced on Saturday that Hole purchased two guns used in the attack legally. "During Thursday's incident, the suspect, Brandon Hole, was witnessed using assault rifles in the assault," it said.
While Hole's motive is not yet known, "he targeted a facility known to be heavily populated by Sikh employees, and the attack is traumatic for our community as we continue to face senseless violence," said Satjeet Kaur, executive director of the Sikh Coalition. "The people that were shot and killed were not random targets," the coalition said.
Subscribe today by clicking the link and stay updated with the latest news!" "Exciting news! Hindustan Times is now on WhatsApp ChannelsSubscribe today by clicking the link and stay updated with the latest news!"
Click here! Get Latest World News along with Latest News from India at Hindustan Times.

The alleged gunman who killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis last week apparently browsed white supremacist websites a little over a year before the deadly shooting, police said.
On March 3, 2020, Brandon Hole's mother went to the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department seeking help after her son had purchased a shotgun with no bullets, according to new details in an incident report released Monday. The mother told police that her son became angry, struck her in the arm with a closed fist and told her to "shut up" when she had asked what he was going to do with the gun. The mother said her son told her that he was going to point the unloaded gun at police officers so they would shoot him, saying, "This is not the life I want to live, I'll end it my way," according to the report. After speaking with the mother, police officers went to the family's home and placed Hole in handcuffs.
Hole, who was 18 at the time, "became immediately anxious" and told the officers, "Please just turn the power strip off on my computer ... I don't want anyone to see what's on it," according to the report.
One of the officers went upstairs to seize the shotgun and "observed what through his training and experience indicated was white supremist (sic) websites" on Hole's computer, the report said. While speaking with officers, Hole "downplayed any suicidal thoughts or plans" but said he felt "sad and depressed and that he would benefit from counselling, according to the report. The officers placed Hole on an immediate detention mental health temporary hold and transported him to a local hospital for further assessment. Officers also notified the criminal intelligence unit about what was observed on Hole's computer and took the shotgun to the police department's property room with "seized by dangerous person" written on the inventory sheet, the report said.
Nevertheless, police said Hole was able to legally purchase two assault rifles in July and September 2020, which were recovered at the scene of the attack at the FedEx facility on April 15, 2021. Hole, 19, was found dead inside the building from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said. FedEx said Hole was an employee at the facility from August to October 2020. His employment was terminated when he failed to return to work.
Police said the shooting lasted less than four minutes and was over by the time they arrived on scene. Officers found eight people -- four in the parking lot and four inside the facility -- who were later pronounced dead.
Four surviving victims who suffered injuries consistent with gunshot wounds were transported to various local hospitals. A fifth person with injuries consistent with gunshot wounds sought medical attention in another country. Two others who suffered minor injuries were treated by medics at the scene and were released, police said. ABC News' Matt Foster contributed to this report.

This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
INDIANAPOLIS– The community continues to heal from the mass shooting at the FedEx ground facility.
He’s assisting the crisis response team as they help those who experienced the horrific event firsthand. This tragedy is shining a light on mental health services in the Hoosier state. Berman says progress starts with ending the stigma surrounding mental health and supporting one another. Governor Eric Holcomb announced Tuesday that he is restoring full funding for mental health programs and appropriating an additional $100 million over the next two years to fund mental health initiatives.

After the recent mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, it was tough for workers' friends and family to get in touch with their loved ones. That's because of a company cellphone policy.
Last week, a man shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis. Those people and others working on site couldn't call or text their families to tell them what was happening because some FedEx employees aren't allowed to bring their cellphones into work.
Here's NPR's David Gura. DAVID GURA, BYLINE:
Renee Larson was desperate for details when she heard there'd been a shooting at the FedEx Ground Plainfield Operations Center on Thursday night. RENEE LARSON: I get, like, the breaking news notifications from the local news stations here on my phone. And it just kept going, like, off and off.
GURA: She was worried because she knows several people who could have been there. LARSON: I actually have an aunt, a cousin and several friends that work at FedEx. GURA: Larson called them, and she texted them.
She sent Facebook messages, and she was able to track down everybody. Larson was relieved to learn they were all off their shifts and not at work.
If they had been, she would have had to deal with the agony and uncertainty many other families faced. They couldn't reach their loved ones because, at that facility, many workers are not allowed to carry personal cellphones.
BILL CASTELLANO: I think that's a highly draconian and unusual policy.
GURA: Bill Castellano used to work in corporate H.R. UPS, a FedEx rival, has a similar policy. A spokesperson says employees can enter UPS facilities with cellphones in some instances. At the U.S. Postal Service, workers can have their phones, but they can't take photos.
Castellano, who's now a professor at Rutgers, says there are lots of reasons why a worker would want to have a phone handy, especially in an age when so many of us rely on them 24/7. CASTELLANO:
It could be a family emergency with a child, with an aging spouse or an aging parent. And I mean, I have in my life had plenty of situations where I really needed my phone because I was in the midst of some kind of unique personal crisis.
GURA: In a statement, FedEx says it limits cellphone access within certain areas of its field operations based on workplace safety considerations.
Mark Pearce was the chairman of the National Labor Relations Board, the NLRB, during the Obama administration. He says there are businesses that want to safeguard secrets or protect proprietary information. MARK PEARCE:
But for a company that is just transporting goods, that borders on the unreasonable. GURA: Workers are at a disadvantage, though, because of how the law is written. PEARCE:
Employers have the ability to set whatever policies they can, provided that the policies are not patently illegal or discriminatory. GURA:
The NLRB has not ruled on a blanket ban of cellphones at work, but it did rule in favor of one employer who banned phones on the manufacturing floor. This is also about PR. The cellphone has become an effective tool for employees to shine a light on workplace issues. Pearce remembers how doctors and nurses showed the world how ill-equipped they were to fight COVID-19.
PEARCE: These devices are reliable alternatives to eyes and ears, and they become almost a necessity for employees to feel comfortable and safe. GURA:
After the shooting in Indianapolis, Renee Larson joined a chorus calling on FedEx to change its policy. She posted a message on Twitter directed at the company. LARSON: Because you never know when the next shooting could happen or next life-defining or a life-changing event could happen in which you need to get with somebody ASAP.
GURA: So is FedEx reconsidering the policy?
The company tells NPR it believes it continues to be in the best interests of its employees to limit cellphone access while they're on duty. David Gura, NPR News, New York.
Copyright © 2021 NPR. All rights reserved.
Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor.

This article contains content provided by Facebook. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Meta’s Facebook cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
INDIANAPOLIS — A week after the deadly mass shooting at an Indianapolis FedEx facility, the Indianapolis Fraternal Order of Police is criticizing the Marion County prosecutor for failing to monitor the shooting suspect under the state’s red flag law. The law, named after slain Indianapolis Police Officer Jake Laird, allows law enforcement to seize firearms if a suspect demonstrates mental instability.
Police seized a shotgun and placed the teen on temporary hold. Prosecutors then decided not to file a petition with the court to add the suspect to the red flag list, because his family agreed to forfeit the firearm. That decision ultimately allowed Hole to legally purchase two assault rifles months later, which he used to attack former coworkers at the FedEx Ground facility, killing eight people.
“The system didn’t fail, instead Prosecutor Mears failed to give the system the chance to work,” said Indy FOP president Rick Snyder. Snyder believes the Marion County prosecutors office should have at least asked for a court hearing to determine if Hole was a threat, potentially banning him from buying any guns. “One thing we know for sure is 100 percent of the time they won’t be on the red flag system if you don’t try initiate the process and apply the law,” said Snyder.
“This case does illustrate some of the shortcomings that exist with this red flag law,” said Mears, who earlier this week called for lawmakers to expand the state’s red flag law. Mears insisted there wasn’t enough evidence to ask a judge to declare Hole an ongoing danger to the community, because prosecutors did not have timely access to Hole’s medical records.
“A loophole did not thwart this opportunity, instead the process was sidestepped,” Snyder suggested. “I get his point, but there are a lot of moving parts,” said Ralph Staples, a local defense attorney. Staples agrees both sides have legitimate concerns, but they need to work together to prevent future tragedies.
“Bad facts bring about change, but instead of trying to fix the blame, let’s fix the problem,” he said. Multiple prosecutors in surrounding counties say they agree the law does have some limitations, but they also believe Mears still should have filed a petition with the court.

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — An Indiana prosecutor is facing mounting criticism for declining to pursue court hearings that could have prevented a man from accessing the guns used to shoot and kill eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis.
The law allows police to confiscate guns from a person deemed dangerous to themselves or others. Prosecutors can then decide whether to ask a court to ban that person from buying any other firearms.
The law came under scrutiny following the assault after Mears criticized it for having too many “loopholes.” Despite calls from Democratic lawmakers’ to review and strengthen the red flag provisions, those actions were put on hold.
The 2021 legislative session ended Thursday. Police seized a pump-action shotgun from Hole, then 18, in March 2020 after they received the call from his mother.
Mears said Monday that prosecutors did not seek a “red flag” hearing to try to prevent Hole from possessing a gun because they did not have enough time under the law to definitively demonstrate his propensity for suicidal thoughts. Mears specifically pointed to a 2019 change in the law that requires courts to make a “good-faith effort” to hold a hearing within 14 days. An additional amendment requires authorities to file an affidavit with the court within 48 hours.
Indianapolis police previously said that they never returned that shotgun to Hole. Authorities have said he used two “assault-style” rifles to gun down eight people, four of them from the city’s Sikh community, at the FedEx facility on April 15 before he killed himself.
Members and leaders of the Sikh community have demanded that law enforcement conduct a “thorough” and “transparent” investigation, including a probe into the possibility of bias as Hole’s motivation, said Satjeet Kaur, Executive Director of the Sikh Coalition. Those calls have so far avoided direct criticism of Mears, however.
Republican state Sen. Erin Houchin, who sponsored the 2019 changes to Indiana’s red flag law, said it “could have worked just as it should” in the Hole case. “I think that had the prosecutor followed the red flag procedure in this case, then this 19-year-old might have not been able to purchase a second firearm after the family did voluntarily turn over that weapon,” Houchin said.
Mears did not return messages Friday seeking additional comment. Indiana law does not mandate prosecutors to pursue court hearings in red flag law cases. Houchin said she would consider amending language to “firm up” that process, but only after more facts surrounding the shooting come to light.
Snyder said the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department has made at least 45 red flag referrals to the prosecutor’s office so far this year. Mears said Monday that his office had filed eight red flag petitions since January. All are still awaiting rulings.
Casey Smith is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues.

The gunman in an Indianapolis shooting that left eight people dead at a FedEx facility browsed White supremacist websites a little over a year before the attack, police said.
In March 2020, the mother of gunman Brandon Hole contacted police because she was worried about his behavior after he purchased a gun, according to recently released details from Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD). She told police he told her “he was going to point a recently purchased shotgun at police officers so they would shoot him.”
And when police went to their home, they observed he had visited White supremacist websites, the report said. Investigators are still trying to determine the motive behind the shooting.
In an attack that lasted only a matter of minutes, Hole opened fired at the facility near Indianapolis’ main airport before taking his own life Thursday night. Of the eight people killed in the violence, four were members of the area’s Sikh community, Maninder Singh Walia, a member of the Sikh community in Indianapolis, told CNN on Friday. The attack marks at least the 50th mass shooting – defined as four or more casualties excluding the shooter – since the Atlanta-area spa shootings March 16.
It was the US’s deadliest shooting since 10 people were killed March 22 at a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado. The case has also raised concerns over access to guns, as Hole had his gun seized in the 2020 incident.
After his mother told officers on March 3 that she feared for her safety after her son purchased a gun a day earlier, the IMPD detained Hole, seized the gun, put him on an immediate mental health temporary hold and then transported him to a local hospital for evaluation, the police report said. As Hole was being placed in handcuffs, he became anxious and said, “Please just turn the power strip off on my computer” and “I don’t want anyone to see what’s on it,” according to the report. One officer, who was described as clearing the upstairs and securing the shotgun, “observed what through his training and experience” were White supremacist websites, the report said.
Despite the temporary mental health hold in March, Hole was able to legally purchase assault rifles in July and September 2020, Indianapolis police said. The case “illustrates the limitations” of state law, The Marion County, Indiana, Prosecutor Ryan Mears said Monday. Mears said the state’s Jake Laird Red Flag gun law allows police to seize and hold firearms from individuals undergoing mental health issues, but the state only has 14 days to file a petition requesting a person be designated as having a violent propensity or mental instability.
Because the shotgun taken from Hole’s home had been secured and the family didn’t want it back, prosecutors felt they “achieved” the objective of the law, Mears said. If the state had filed a petition, the court might have determined prosecutors didn’t have legal authority to keep the weapon. “In this particular case, the petition was not filed because the family in this particular case had agreed to forfeit the firearm that was in question and they were not going to pursue the return of that firearm,” Mears said.
“We have 14 days under the statute and because we have 14 days our ability to have access to meaningful medical history, meaningful mental health records, is severely limited.” Indiana law allows a person 30 days to respond to a subpoena, Mears said. “The sad reality is that during the pendency of these matters there’s nothing prohibiting someone from purchasing a firearm, that’s just the sad truth,” Mears said. On Friday night, Indianapolis police released the names of the eight deceased victims.
They were Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jasvinder Kaur, 50; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74. Four individuals remained hospitalized Monday with injuries sustained in the attack, FedEx said. While the shooter’s motive isn’t yet known, “he targeted a facility known to be heavily populated by Sikh employees, and the attack is traumatic for our community as we continue to face senseless violence,” said Satjeet Kaur, executive director of the Sikh Coalition.
Two of the victims, Sekhon and Kaur, were relatively new to Indianapolis and were working the overnight shift at the FedEx facility when they were killed, said Rimpi Girn, an Indianapolis resident who knew them. Sekhon, after immigrating to the US in 2004, moved to Indiana in 2019 from Ohio to be closer to family and relatives, said Girn, a close family friend.
Sekhon leaves a husband and two sons, ages 13 and 19, Girn said. Kaur, who immigrated to the US in 2018, was the breadwinner for her family, according to Girn.
Sekhon drove Kaur to work because Kaur didn’t have a driver’s license, Girn said. As of late Sunday night, a verified GoFundMe campaign for the families of the victims set up by the National Compassion Fund has raised more than $1 million, with FedEx donating $1 million.

INDIANAPOLIS (WISH) — A 19-year-old gunman whose mother once warned authorities about his mental state was identified Friday as the man who fatally shot eight people late Thursday night at a FedEx facility before he killed himself inside the building. The victims were identified Friday night as Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jasvinder Kaur, 50; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Steve Weisert, 74.
Brandon Scott Hole of Indianapolis fired a rifle minutes after 11 p.m. Thursday in the parking lot and inside the FedEx facility on the southeast side near Indianapolis International Airport, IMPD Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said in a late-afternoon news conference Friday. He did not know the type of rifle used in the shooting or whether Hole legally owned the weapon.
Hole last worked for FedEx in 2020, McCartt said. He did not know if Hole had been fired from the shipping and delivery company. IMPD shared a photo of Hole from an earlier encounter with the police.
Investigators on Friday afternoon were searching a blue and brick, two-story ranch home on the east side associated with Hole. Neighbors told News 8’s Dan Klein that they began seeing flashing lights about 6 a.m. Friday, less than seven hours after the shooting.
At the home, located northeast of the I-465 overpass at East 10th Street, authorities seized evidence including desktop computers and other electronic media, officials told The Associated Press. The officials could not discuss the matter publicly and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.
Hole had previous interactions with IMPD and the Indianapolis office of the FBI, both which are investigating the shooting. A year ago, a gun was seized from Hole in an incident involving IMPD, McCartt said. An IMPD police report from March 3, 2020, says the gun was confiscated from Hole during a mental health check in the same block where investigators on Friday were searching the home associated with Hole.
The search for a motive and whether Hole targeted someone at the FedEx facility remained elusive for investigators. The FBI revealed Friday afternoon that Hole’s mother had contacted them in March 2020 and feared he would try to commit “suicide by cop,” a term describing a person who intends to provoke a lethal response from a public safety officer. IMPD had also encountered Hole in 2013, McCartt said, but he had no details. McCartt said in the late-afternoon news conference that IMPD was nearing the completion of its investigation at the crime scene, and hoped to have identifications of the victims later Friday once surviving family members are notified.
One of the people fatally shot was Amarjeet Kaur Johal, family told News 8’s Sierra Hignite. About 100 people were in the FedEx facility when the shooting happened, and many were changing shifts and on dinner breaks, McCartt said Friday afternoon. IMPD was sent to reports of shots fired and an active shooter shortly before 11:10 p.m. Thursday at the FedEx facility, 8951 Mirabel Road.
It’s in a commercial area with a few hotels and multiple warehouses just south of the I-70 interchange at AmeriPlex Parkway. The facility is south of Indianapolis International Airport, the company’s second-busiest hub with nearly 4,000 workers.
Longtime Indianapolis law-enforcement sources told News 8’s Richard Essex that Thursday night’s shooting was the deadliest single-shooter mass homicide in the city’s history.
Investigators say the shooter came to the facility, got out of his car and immediately started shooting randomly. The carnage took just a couple of minutes. “It did not last very long,” he said.
Police say four people were killed outside the facility and four more were killed inside the building. Five other people also were shot.
Two other people also received what were described by police as minor injuries. Hole shot himself inside the facility.
No police officers were hurt. Genae Cook, an IMPD spokeswoman, said early Friday morning that many people who were injured drove themselves to area hospitals for treatment.
IMPD has asked any one injured in the shooting to contact the police department. Hearses arrived Friday afternoon at the FedEx facility as the coroner’s office was doing its work at the scene.
Police Chief Randal Taylor noted in a Friday midmorning news conference that a “significant” number of FedEx facility’s employees belong to the Sikh community. The Sikh Coalition says that members of the community were among the wounded and killed. The coalition, which identifies itself as the largest Sikh civil rights organization in the United States, said in a statement that it expected authorities to “conduct a full investigation — including the possibility of bias as a factor.”
The coalition’s executive director, Satjeet Kaur, noted in the statement that more than 8,000 Sikh Americans live in Indiana. IMPD held a press conference in the early morning hours on Friday. Jeremiah Miller had finished a shift at the FedEx facility and was preparing to work a second consecutive shift when he and a coworker, Timothy Boillat, heard gunfire, up to 10 shots.
About an hour after the shooting, Miller and Boillat were telling other workers not to come to work for the next shift. The families’ agonizing waiting for word on their loved ones was exacerbated by the fact that most employees aren’t allowed to carry cellphones inside the FedEx building, making contact with them difficult.
“When you see notifications on your phone, but you’re not getting a text back from your kid and you’re not getting information and you still don’t know where they are … what are you supposed to do?” Mindy Carson said early Friday. Later Friday morning, Carson said she had heard from her daughter Jessica, who works in the facility, and that she was OK.
After the shooting, IndyGo dispatched four buses to help take workers away from the facility. I-70 reopened shortly before 1 a.m. Friday after being closed for more than 90 minutes between I-465 and Ronald Reagan Parkway.
However, Indiana State Police said AmeriPlex Parkway was closed south of I-70 for several more hours; also, the ramp from the interstate to AmeriPlex Parkway was closed for a longer time. Main thoroughfares in the area have reopened. Early Friday morning, people concerned about family members were told to go to the Holiday Inn Indianapolis Airport at 8555 Stansted Road, which is southeast of the FedEx facility.
Hundreds of people were waiting in and around the Holiday Inn for information. A line had formed to a ballroom inside the hotel, where FedEx staffers were meeting with people to help them find workers.
Chaplains, gathered by IMPD, also were comforting those waiting for news at the hotel. The American Red Cross was providing snacks and drinks. Cook said early Friday morning that FedEx workers should contact their supervisors or human resources about reporting to work Friday.
She said the facility will be closed for some time. The White House has been in contact with the city of Indianapolis.
President Joe Biden’s chief of staff, Ron Klain, a native of Indianapolis, has been in communication with Mayor Joe Hogsett this morning. The FedEx incident is the fourth mass shooting in Indianapolis this year, according to the Gun Violence Archive. The others were March 15 in the 2300 block of North Harding Street, Feb. 13 in the 3800 block of North Sherman Drive, and Jan. 24 in the 3540 block of Adams Street.
The Associated Press and CNN contributed to this story. Vice President Harris and I have been briefed by our homeland security team on the mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, Indiana, where a lone gunman murdered eight people and wounded several more in the dark of night.
Today’s briefing is just the latest in a string of tragedies, following closely after gunmen firing bullets in broad day light at spas in and around Atlanta, Georgia, a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado, a home in Rock Hill, South Carolina, and so many other shootings. While we await critical details about the shooting, its motivation, and other key information, once again, I have the solemn duty of ordering the flag lowered at half-staff at the White House, public buildings and grounds, and military posts and embassies, just two weeks after I gave the last such order. It’s a mass shooting just a week after we met, in the Rose Garden, with families who lost children and dear friends as bullets pierced their bodies and souls in schools, a night club, in a car at a gas station, and a town meeting at a grocery store.
And it came just the night before 14th anniversary of the shooting at Virginia Tech, in which a gunman murdered 32 people. Last night and into the morning in Indianapolis, yet again families had to wait to hear word about the fate of their loved ones. What a cruel wait and fate that has become too normal and happens every day somewhere in our nation.
Gun violence is an epidemic in America. But we should not accept it.
We must act. Last week, I called on the Justice Department to better protect Americans from gun violence.
I also urged Congress to hear the call of the American people – including the vast majority of gun owners – to enact commonsense gun violence prevention legislation, like universal background checks and a ban of weapons of war and high-capacity magazines. Too many Americans are dying every single day from gun violence. It stains our character and pierces the very soul of our nation.
We can, and must, do more to act and to save lives. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki discussed the shooting at the beginning of her daily press conference. Last night we saw our law enforcement and emergency responders give their all to save lives and care for survivors following this brutal attack. Following their example, every member of this Council stands ready to do everything in our power to support survivors and loved ones of those impacted by this senseless tragedy.

Details are beginning to emerge about those killed in the Indianapolis FedEx shooting, where one of the victims had just earned her first paycheck. Karli Smith, 19, had “started to buckle down and get a job and take life a little more serious,” said a relative of the young woman, one of eight gunned down after a former employee opened fire at the Indianapolis facility Thursday night.
“She was a lovely, beautiful and youthful teenage girl,” the family member told the Indianapolis Star of Smith, who graduated high school last year. Samaria Blackwell, also 19, had joined FedEx only two months ago. She was “such a fun-loving, caring daughter at the baby of our family,” her parents Jeff and Tammi Blackwell said in a statement. Matthew Alexander, 32, a former student at Butler University in Indianapolis, played baseball at Avon High School where he was a member of the National Honor Society.
John Steven Weisert, 74, had been married 50 years when he was killed by a “sick, depraved human being out for revenge against a former employer,” his son Mike wrote on social media. “I don’t understand and will never understand the reason for this kind of random violence.
He was a GOOD man. He was a great father.
He was a wonderfully devoted and faithful husband of almost 50 years to my mom. And he was a man who worked very hard throughout his life to provide the best home he possibly could for his family,” Mike Weisert wrote.
Shooter Brandon Scott Hole began his rampage in the FedEx parking lot, where he began randomly firing his weapon, killing four people, before making his way into the building, according to police. Once inside, he killed four more people, before shooting and killing himself.
Hole had last worked for the company in 2020. Police have yet to specify what type of gun Hole used, identifying the weapon only as “an assault rifle” and refusing to give more details when reached by The Post.
Among the victims were four members of Indiana’s burgeoning Sikh community, including Amarjit Sekhon. The 48-year-old mother of two boys, ages 22 and 16, had just begun working at the FedEx facility in November.
“She was a workaholic, she always was working, working,” said her brother-in-law Kuldip Sekhon. Jasvinder Kaur, 50, had a daughter and a son and had moved to the United States in 2018. She sent money from her job at FedEx to help support her son in India, according to the Indy Star.
Jaswinder Singh was 68. His family told India media Singh had moved to the United States eight years ago.
It’s “very sad,” Singh’s nephew Dalbar Singh told Republic World. Amarjeet Kaur Johal, 66, was a grandmother who planned to work a double shift on Thursday so that she might take Friday off, according to a grandson’s
Twitter account. “I have several family members who work at the particular facility and are traumatized,” the grandson wrote.
That so many of the victims were Sikh sparked outrage and calls for action against those targeting people of color. “It was no accident that the shooter targeted this particular FedEx facility where he had worked and knew was overwhelmingly staffed by Sikhs,” said the national Sikh Coalition in a statement Saturday.

More than 200 people, including local, state and federal officials, gathered Saturday evening to mourn the eight victims of Thursday’s mass shooting at a FedEx facility on the city’s west side.
The gathering, held at Krannert Park, was the first opportunity for many employees to see one another since the shooting occurred late Thursday night. The hour-long event included remarks from city leaders like Mayor Joe Hogsett and City-County Council President Vop Osili, Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Chief Randal Taylor and Rep. Andre Carson, whose district includes much of the city.
The vigil came about 43 hours after police say former employee Brandon Hole opened fire in the parking lot at the FedEx Ground center at 8951 Mirabel Road and then inside the building, killing eight before turning the gun on himself. The facility has been closed since the shooting.
Erica Carrico, who has worked at the facility for 10 years and finished her shift shortly before the shooting began, said she attended the vigil to mourn the loss of her coworkers. She said she knew one of the eight victims, 74-year-old John Weisert. Carrio said Weisert went by his middle name, Steve, with his coworkers.
The vigil included opportunities for families and friends of victims to mourn together and to remember their loved ones, and included speeches from several local officials. Comfort dogs from the Chicago-based Lutheran Church Charities crisis response group were also on-site, along with wooden hearts for vigil participants to sign. The hearts will be given to the families of the victims.
Vicky South, another FedEx employee, said she knew five of the victims. She said having the opportunity to mourn with coworkers will likely help her with the grieving process.
She also said she was thankful for the words shared by local officials and to see up close how they’re being affected by the shooting. “It was a little uplifting to hear … because I was very sad and upset before I came here,” said South, who added she doesn’t know how she’ll react when she returns to the building for the first time.
“I won’t know until I pull into that parking lot. And to be honest, I’m liable to turn around and drive right back out.
I don’t know.” She said.
IMPD’s Taylor shared with those gathered how challenging the last few days have been for him personally, calling the situation one of the toughest of his three-decade law enforcement career. He later told IBJ that when he got home from speaking with families of the victims he and his wife took time to mourn.
“When you’re dealing with eight families, one coming in after another, to get the official bad news, it was tough, it was very tough,” he said. “And you have to be strong in that situation.

The second day of prayer vigils to honor the victims of the FedEx mass shooting in Indianapolis is underway.
Watch LIVE from downtown Indy where folks gathered with flowers at Monument Circle on Sunday afternoon. Watch LIVE from Beech Grove where a community vigil is being held and the Mayor's Faith-Based Roundtable will offer prayers for the victims.

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — The eight people killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx warehouse will be remembered Saturday during a public ceremony hosted at Lucas Oil Stadium in downtown Indianapolis.
The event, expected to draw thousands, comes two weeks after a former FedEx employee fatally shot the eight people, including four members of Indianapolis’ Sikh community. While the Sikh community is hosting the event, the hope is that people from across the state will join to support the affected families “as Indianapolis begins the journey of healing together and helping each other during this excruciatingly difficult time,” said Rajanpreet Kaur, a spokesperson for the Sikh Coalition. Private ceremonies for victims from the Sikh community are also expected to take place in the coming week.
Their families continue to seek roughly two-dozen fast-tracked visas so relatives overseas may travel for funeral rites. The proceedings will begin with cremation and then be followed by up to 20 days of reading of the 1,400-page Guru Granth Sahib scripture.
Police said Brandon Scott Hole, 19, a former worker at the Indianapolis FedEx facility, killed eight people there on April 15 before killing himself. Authorities have not released a motive for the assault but said Hole was in possession of two assault rifles. Hole was able to purchase the guns legally, even after his mother called police last year to say her son might commit “suicide by cop,” because he never appeared before a judge for a hearing under Indiana’s “red flag” law,
Marion County Prosecutor Ryan Mears said last week. The free event is scheduled from 1 to 4 p.m. Saturday and is open to the public.
A full program and list of speakers have not been confirmed, but interfaith leaders and lawmakers at the local, state and federal levels have been invited, event organizers said. Parking is free at Lucas Oil Stadium. Those planning to attend must arrive before 1 p.m. to ensure entry into the stadium, and seating is first-come, first-serve.
Temperatures will be checked upon arrival at the stadium. Masks and social distancing will also be required, as required by Marion County’s COVID-19 guidelines. Casey Smith is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative.

INDIANAPOLIS — FedEx has donated $1 million to kick off a fundraising campaign for the victims and survivors of the mass shooting at one of their Indianapolis facilities. A gunman opened fire at the FedEx Ground Smartpost facility at 8951 Mirabel Road on Thursday, April 15, killing eight people and injuring five others. FedEx announced Monday that they established a GoFundMe campaign called 'Indianapolis 4/15 Survivors Fund' through the National Compassion Fund to collect donations to support the survivors and the families of those who were killed in the tragedy. To kick off the fundraising campaign, FedEx also donated $1 million to the fund. "Every dollar raised will go directly to those affected," the company said in a release issued Monday. As of Monday morning, the company says four of the individuals who were injured in the shooting remain hospitalized. Their conditions are still unknown at this time.

