Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette, recalled on Friday how her former colleagues touched her life when she worked there. Huang remembered how nervous she was about telling victim Rob Hiaasen, an editor for the paper, that she was moving on from the newspaper. "The paper meant a lot to me, it gave me a chance," she said. She recalled Gerald Fischman's sharp eye for editing their "sometimes convoluted" stories.

The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis has been charged with five counts of murder.
Police released the names of the victims Thursday night. The front page of the Capital Gazette the morning after the shooting.
(WTOP/John Domen) WTOP/John Domen The front page of the Capital Gazette the morning after the shooting.
(WTOP/John Domen) WTOP/John Domen
The Capital Gazette shooting suspect’s apartment in Laurel was searched by police. (WTOP/Nick Iannelli) WTOP/Nick Iannelli Jarrod W. Ramos, of Laurel, Maryland, as the suspect.
He’s been charged with five counts of first-degree murder. Police searched his apartment. (WTOP/Nick Iannelli)
WTOP/Nick Iannelli “We have a responsibility to these victims. We are deeply saddened by what happened today,” Acting Anne Arundel County Police Chief William Krampf said Thursday, June 28, 2018, in Annapolis, Maryland. (WTOP/Michelle Basch)
WTOP/Michelle Basch Maryland Police Lt. Ryan Frashure speaks to the media at the scene after multiple people were shot at a newspaper office building in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Police officers secure the area after multiple people were shot at an office building housing The Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, center in sunglasses, surveys the scene of a shooting in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018.
(AP Photo/Susan Walsh) AP Photo/Susan Walsh Police officers walk at the scene after multiple people were shot at a newspaper’s office building in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. A single shooter killed several people Thursday and wounded others at a newspaper in Annapolis, Maryland, and police said a suspect was in custody. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Maryland police officers patrol the area after multiple people were shot at at The Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018.
(AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana A police officer stands guard outside The New York Times building, Thursday, June 28, 2018, in New York.
The New York Police Department has sent patrols to major news media organizations in response to a fatal shooting at a newspaper in Annapolis, Md. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer) AP Photo/Mary Altaffer Authorities stage at the building entrance after multiple people were shot at The Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana
The 888 Bestgate Road building is seen after police received reports of multiple people being shot at The Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Maryland police officers patrol the area after multiple people were shot at a newspaper in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018.
(AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Police secure the scene of a shooting at the building housing The Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) AP Photo/Susan Walsh Police secure the scene of a shooting at a newspaper in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018.
(AP Photo/Susan Walsh) AP Photo/Susan Walsh Maryland police officers block the intersection at the building entrance, after multiple people were shot at a newspaper in Annapolis, Md., Thursday, June 28, 2018. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Footage from the NBC Washington news chopper over the scene of a shooting at the Capital Gazette communications building, 888 Bestgate Road, in Annapolis, Md. (NBC Washington) NBC Washington Footage from the NBC Washington news chopper over the scene of a shooting at the Capital Gazette communications building, 888 Bestgate Road, in Annapolis, Md. (NBC Washington) NBC Washington Footage from the NBC Washington news chopper over the scene of a shooting at the Capital Gazette communications building, 888 Bestgate Road, in Annapolis, Md. (NBC Washington) NBC Washington Footage from the NBC Washington news chopper over the scene of a shooting at the Capital Gazette communications building, 888 Bestgate Road, in Annapolis, Md. (NBC Washington) NBC Washington
In this frame from video, people leave the Capital Gazette newspaper after multiple people have been shot on Thursday, June 28, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. (WJLA via AP) WJLA via AP ( 1 /22) Share This Gallery: Share on Facebook. Share on Twitter.
Share via email. Print. WASHINGTON —
The Maryland man accused of killing five Capital Gazette employees Thursday afternoon in Annapolis has been charged with five counts of murder. Police released the names of the victims Thursday night.
Jarrod W. Ramos has been charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to court records. Online records indicate he is due in court at 10:30 a.m. Friday.
“This was a targeted attack on the Capital Gazette,” Acting Anne Arundel County Police Chief William Krampf said at an 8 p.m. news conference, hours after police first received reports of multiple gunshots fired. Anne Arundel County police then released the names of the five people killed in the shooting.
They were all Capital Gazette employees: Wendi Winters, Rebecca Smith, Robert Hiaasen, Gerald Fischman and John McNamara. The Capital Gazette released more information about the victims on their website: Winters, 65, was described as a “prolific and dependable writer“; Smith, 34, was a sales assistant who was also a recent hire; Hiaasen, 59, was an assistant editor and columnist; Fischman, 61, was an editor and “great writer“; and McNamara, 56, known as “Mac,” was a reporter.
Krampf did not confirm the identity of the suspected shooter Thursday night. The suspect, who is in custody, is a Maryland resident in his late 30s. Krampf did not specify where exactly in Maryland the man lives.
The gunman entered the first floor of the building at 888 Bestgate Road with a shotgun, Krampf said. “He looked for his victims as he walked through the lower level,” Krampf said, but did not say whether the man was targeting specific people at the news outlet. Two others were injured, but Krampf said their injuries were “superficial,” likely from shattered glass from the shotgun blast.
Earlier, Krampf said that there may have been what authorities thought was an explosive device. Krampf later said that the device was actually canisters of smoke grenades that the suspect used inside of the building. “This person was prepared to shoot people. His intent was to cause harm,” Krampf said.
He added that police are investigating exactly what problem the suspect had with the Capital Gazette, but could not say any specific threats the man may have made toward the news outlet. Krampf said they were general threats to the Capital Gazette and that they indicated violence. Police worked on securing the man’s home, Krampf said.
The suspected shooter is being interrogated, Anne Arundel County police spokesman Lt. Ryan Frashure said at a press conference shortly after 5:30 p.m. Around 3:20 p.m.
Thursday, Anne Arundel County police first confirmed the presence of an active shooter at the Bestgate Road building, which contains the Capital Gazette newspaper and several other businesses. Police first received a report of multiple gunshots fired and possible injuries at 2:34 p.m., Marc Limansky, the department’s public information officer, told NBC Washington in an interview.
There was no gunfire exchange between officers and the suspect, authorities said. Around 170 people were escorted out of the building safely and taken to a reunification area at the nearby mall, Krampf added.
Police worked for more than an hour to evacuate and clear the building. Tom Marquardt, a former Capital Gazette editor, told ABC News that staff at the news outlet had dealt with threats in the past, though most of them were anonymous. Security had always been a concern, Marquardt said.
Bestgate Road is now reopened, Krampf said, but the building at 888 Bestgate Road is still closed as the investigation continues. Anne Arundel County Executive Steve Schuh called the shooting a “terrible tragedy.” But, he thanked law enforcement officials for their quick response.
Hogan first tweeted that he was “absolutely devastated” to learn about the shooting in Annapolis. The shooting brought a large police presence to the area, including the Westfield Annapolis Mall.
People with loved ones who worked in the building could reunite with them at the Lord and Taylor at the nearby mall, authorities said. The Capital Gazette shooting sparked police responses to newsrooms in other parts of the country.
The Associated Press, ABC News, and WTOP’s Michelle Basch and Sarah Beth Hensley contributed to this report. Like WTOP on Facebook and follow @WTOP on Twitter to engage in conversation about this article and others. © 2018 WTOP. All Rights Reserved.

This article contains content provided by Facebook. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Meta’s Facebook cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Several people have been killed after a gunman opened fire in what police described as a "targeted attack" at the Capital Gazette newspaper office in Annapolis, according to officials.
Anne Arundel County police said the shooting left five people dead while two others were hospitalized with what are believed to be superficial injuries, possibly from broken glass caused from the gunfire. The initial calls about the shooting came in at around 2:35 p.m. Thursday.
Police identified the victims killed as Wendi Winters, Rebecca Smith, Rob Hiaasen, Gerald Fischman and John McNamara. Four of them were journalists while the fifth victim was a sales assistant at the Capital Gazette.
Police said the gunman was taken into custody, but he has not been officially identified by officials. According to Anne Arundel County Police Deputy Chief William Krampf, the suspect is a white male in his late 30s who resides in Maryland. Authorities were working to secure his residence and warrants were being prepared to search his home Thursday night.
However, a law enforcement official has told the Associated Press that the suspect has been identified as Jarrod W. Ramos. The Baltimore Sun, which owns the Capital Gazette, was providing coverage of the shooting at the newspaper for the Capital Gazette. According to law enforcement sources, the newspaper reported Ramos filed a defamation lawsuit against the Capital Gazette and a columnist in 2012, which was dismissed. Ramos' lawsuit was over the newspaper's story about a criminal harassment case against him. A U.S. official told the Associated Press that the suspect was identified by using facial recognition technology after he damaged his fingers in an effort to prevent investigators from quickly identifying him from his fingerprints.
However, Anne Arundel County police said during a Thursday evening news conference that they could not confirm that information. Police and ATF agents were seen at the Dona Apartments in Laurel, Maryland Thursday night where Ramos is believed to have lived.
Police said when the shooter first entered the building on Bestgate Road Thursday afternoon, he was armed with a shotgun and used smoke grenade canisters when he came in. Video captured people leaving the building with their hands in the air as law enforcement swarmed the area.
Officers rushed to the scene, arriving in less than 60 seconds and immediately engaged the shooter, according to officials. Authorities said the suspect did not exchange gunfire with officers when he was taken into custody. The ATF in Baltimore confirmed it responded to the scene. Authorities said a reunification location was being established at the Lord & Taylor at Westfield Annapolis Mall.
Deputy Chief Krampf said the shooting happened after threats were made to the newspaper on social media. Investigators were working to confirm if the threats are connected to the suspect.
President Donald Trump tweeted that he had been briefed on the shooting. He said his "thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families" and thanked first responders.
The newspaper is part of Capital Gazette Communications, which also publishes the Maryland Gazette and CapitalGazette.com. Despite the tragic shooting, the Capital Gazette said it was putting out a paper on Friday. On Twitter early Friday morning, the newspaper tweeted what its front page would look like.
Davis told the paper he and others were still hiding under their desks when the gunman stopped firing. "I don't know why. I don't know why he stopped," he said.
Reporter Selene San Felice told the CNN broadcast outlet she was at her desk when she heard the shooting and ran with some others to a back door, only to find it locked. She said she saw a colleague steps away who was shot. But she didn't see the shooter as she tried to hide. "I heard footsteps a couple of times ...
I was breathing really loud and was trying not to, but I couldn't be quiet," she added. Having gone to school in Florida, she recalled accounts of a gunman's June 2016 mass shooting attack on Orlando's gay nightclub Pulse and accounts of terrified people crouching inside as they texted families amid fears for their lives.
Dozens were killed there. "And there I was sitting under a desk, texting my parents and telling them I loved them," she said.
Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said the community is grieving the attack on the community paper. New York police sent counterterrorism teams to news organizations around the city in a move authorities said was a precaution, not prompted by any specific threat. Police could be seen outside The New York Times, ABC News and Fox News early in the evening.
The Associated Press Media Editors have promised to help Capital Gazette journalists as they recover. An APME statement called on newspapers nationwide to help the paper and its journalists so they can continue to cover their community and fight for freedom of the press. Information from the Associated Press used in this report.

The New York Police Department has dispatched officers to various media outlets in New York City in response to the shooting that took place earlier Thursday at the Capital-Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md.
A reporter for WABC TV in New York, a station owned by Disney’s ABC, posted a picture on Twitter showing a police car parked outside the outlet. Michael George, a reporter for New York’s WNBC said on Twitter that four officers had been stationed outside The New York Times., and showed a picture of the officers.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. --
Five people were killed Thursday in a shooting at a local newspaper building in Maryland, and two others were injured, officials in Annapolis said. A law enforcement official tells CBS News the suspect has been identified as Jarrod Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland.
The shooting at the Capital Gazette prompted a massive police response, with employees evacuated from the building with hands raised above their heads. The Capital Gazette is a local newspaper owned by The Baltimore Sun. William Krampf, acting chief of police for Anne Arundel County, said it was a planned attack and that Ramos used smoke grenades when he entered the building.
Two law enforcement sources tell CBS News that Ramos used a shotgun. The first shots were reported at 2:40 p.m. after the shooter entered the building, which also houses other businesses, CBS Baltimore reports.
Anne Arundel police spokesman Lt. Ryan Frashure said officers raced to the scene, arriving in 60 seconds. No gunfire was exchanged between Ramos and the officers before he was taken into custody.
Over 170 people were safely escorted out of the building. The Anne Arundel Medical Center, which is nearby the shooting scene, said staff there are treating two people with minor injuries, neither from a gunshot. Police released the victims' identities during a late Thursday press briefing.
They were all employees at Capital Gazette including four journalists and a sales assistant: Wendi Winters, John McNamara, Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman and Robert Hiaasen. Winters was the special publications editor.
McNamara was a writer. Fischman was editorial page editor.
Smith was a sales assistant. Hiassen was an assistant editor and columnist.
Phil Davis, a Gazette reporter, tweeted that he was in the building when the shooting happened. Davis said via Twitter the gunman shot through the glass door to the office and opened fire on multiple employees.
He said he hid under his desk and employees heard the gunman reload. Davis told the paper he and others were still hiding under their desks when the shooter stopped firing.
"I don't know why. I don't know why he stopped," he said.
President Trump tweeted that he had been briefed on the shooting and said his "thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families." Officials from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and FBI were aiding in the law enforcement response.
The Capital Gazette's staff includes three people on the executive staff as well as seven editors, according to CapitalGazette.com. Eight staff writers cover topics including courts, entertainment and education.
A GoFundMe account has been set up in wake of Thursday's shooting. The account was created by a fellow journalist, Bloomberg Government reporter Madi Alexander.
The original $30,000 goal was eclipsed in a matter of hours and has since been increased to $70,000. At last check early Friday morning, more than $54,000 has been raised. The GoFundMe page posting urged people to give what they can to help the newspaper's journalists pay for medical bills, funeral costs, newsroom repairs and other expenses.
Editor's note: The initial version of this story published Thursday evening reported that the suspect had "damaged" the tips of his fingers in an attempt to prevent identification, citing a law enforcement official. On Friday, Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said that there was a lag in identifying the suspect using fingerprints, and that facial recognition technology was used. But he said that "there was no alteration to his fingerprints." This story has been updated.

A gunman blasted his way into the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis with a shotgun Thursday afternoon, killing five people, authorities said.
Journalists dived under their desks and pleaded for help on social media. One reporter described the scene as a “war zone.” A photographer said he jumped over a dead colleague and fled for his life.
The victims were identified as Rob Hiaasen, 59, a former feature writer for The Baltimore Sun who joined the Capital Gazette in 2010 as an assistant editor and columnist; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who headed special publications; Gerald Fischman, 61, the editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a staff writer who had covered high school, college and professional sports for decades; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant hired in November. Two others were injured in the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis.
Police took a suspect into custody soon after the shootings. He was identified as Jarrod W. Ramos, a 38-year-old Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against the paper. Ramos was charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to online court records.
He did not have an attorney listed; a bail review hearing is scheduled for 10:30 a.m. Friday in Annapolis. Local, state and federal law enforcement officials cordoned off the Laurel apartment complex listed as the address for Ramos Thursday evening.
Ramos’ dispute with the Capital Gazette began in July 2011 when a columnist wrote about a criminal harassment case against him. He brought a defamation suit against the columnist and the organization’s editor and publisher.
A court ruled in the Capital Gazette’s favor, and an appeals court upheld the ruling. Neither the columnist, Eric Hartley, nor the editor and publisher, Thomas Marquardt, are still employed by the Capital Gazette. They were not present during the shootings. Police said the suspect used “smoke grenades” in the attack.
They said 170 people were inside at the time. The Capital Gazette is owned by The Baltimore Sun.
Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, said multiple people were shot as he and others hid under their desks. He said there was a single male gunman. Davis said he and others were hiding under their desks when the shooter stopped firing.
Then police arrived and surrounded the shooter. Photographer Paul Gillespie had finished editing photos from one assignment and was preparing for the next when he heard shots behind him and the newsroom’s glass doors shatter.
Gillespie said he heard one colleague scream “No!,” then a shot. Then another colleague’s voice, and another shot.
He could hear the gunman approaching his hiding place. “I kept thinking, ‘I can’t believe I’m going to die.
I can’t believe this.’ ” Gillespie said. But the gunman passed him, he said, and continued to shoot.
Eventually, there was a lull in the shots. Gillespie stood and ran for the exit, through the shattered glass, jumping over the body of a colleague he believed was dead as another shot rang out in his direction. He ran to a nearby bank and screamed for people to call the cops.
Authorities said police responded to the scene within a minute of the shooting. “If they were not there as quickly as they were, it could have been a lot worse," Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said.
Officials at the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore confirmed that the hospital was treating at least one victim. County Executive Steve Schuh said others were being treated at Anne Arundel Medical Center. Loren Farquhar, a medical center spokeswoman, said the hospital received two patients, both with minor injuries not from gunfire.
The injured employees were identified as Rachael Pacella, a reporter who covers education and the Naval Academy, and Janel Cooley, a sales representative who covers downtown Annapolis. Both were treated and released.
A spokeswoman for the Baltimore Sun Media Group said the company was “deeply saddened” by the shooting. President Donald Trump wrote on Twitter that he had been briefed on the shooting.
Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, started his day Thursday covering Induction Day at the Naval Academy at sunrise. He was driving home to celebrate his daughter’s birthday when Capital editor Rick Hutzell called.
“He said he’d heard there had been a shooting, and he couldn't get in touch with anyone in the newsroom,” McKerrow said. Then he heard sirens.
Police in SWAT gear carrying assault rifles cordoned off the area around the newsroom and closed Bestgate Road. Outside the police tape, McKerrow and reporter Chase Cook called and texted friends and co-workers in search of answers.
He praised his colleagues’ work. The Capital Gazette is one of 30 tenants in the building. Five others share the first floor with The Capital.
They include accountants, lawyers, financial and medical offices. The newspaper has been in the building since 2015, according to CoStar, a real estate information company.
They have 5,000 square feet of offices. Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office were on the fourth floor at the time of the shooting, but they didn't hear or see anything. They learned of the assault when a colleague texted Smith.
They flipped a desk over in front of the door to the office and stayed there until SWAT officers arrived. They then walked out of the building with their hands on their heads, like everyone else in the building, Fisher said.
Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC said a plainclothes officer entered her fourth-floor office suite and told the receptionist to lock the doors because there was an active shooter. She quickly gathered people together.
Some employees removed high heels to prepare to flee the building. Others hid.
One pulled two handguns out of his desk drawer for self-defense. More police arrived, and they all began filing out of the office. Foster said she and her employees tried to hold hands to comfort each other, but were told by police to keep their hands in the air.
“You see it on the news,” Foster said, “and you think, ‘These poor people.’ You wonder how they feel. Baltimore Sun reporters Scott Dance, Doug Donovan, Tim Prudente, Justin Fenton, Erin Cox, Jessica Anderson and Meredith Cohn and the Associated Press contributed to this article.

CHICAGO (CBS) -- Chicago police officers are haven been dispatched to local media outlets following the mass shooting at a newspaper in Maryland. There is no motive yet for the shooting at the Capital Gazette. At least four people were fatally shot and more were injured. Police say they have one suspect in custody.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) —
In a June 28 story about an attack at a newspaper in Annapolis, The Associated Press erroneously reported that the suspect arrested in the shooting had mutilated his fingers in an apparent attempt to make it harder for police to identify him. That report was based on initial information given to law enforcement authorities, which has since been corrected. While the suspect was identified using facial recognition technology, his fingers were not mutilated.
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) — A man armed with smoke grenades and a shotgun attacked a newspaper in Maryland’s capital Thursday, killing four journalists and a staffer before police quickly stormed the building and arrested him, police and witnesses said. The shooting came amid months of verbal and online attacks on the “fake news media” from politicians and others from President Donald Trump on down. It prompted New York City police to immediately tighten security at news organizations in the nation’s media capital.
Police in Annapolis said a white man in his late 30s was in custody after the rampage at The Capital Gazette. A law enforcement official said the suspect was identified as Jarrod W. Ramos.
The official wasn’t authorized to discuss the ongoing investigation and spoke on condition of anonymity. “This person was prepared today to come in, this person was prepared to shoot people,” Krampf said.
The dead included Rob Hiaasen, 59, assistant managing editor and brother of novelist Carl Hiaasen. Carl Hiaasen said he was “devastated and heartsick” at losing his brother, “one of the most gentle and funny people I’ve ever known.”
Also slain were Gerald Fischman, editorial page editor; features reporter Wendi Winters; reporter John McNamara, and sales assistant Rebecca Smith. Police said two others had minor injuries, and the newspaper later reported both were employees later released from a hospital with non-life-threatening injuries.
Krampf said the gunman was a Maryland resident, but didn’t name him. Phil Davis, a reporter who covers courts and crime for the paper, tweeted that the gunman shot out the glass door to the office and fired into the newsroom, sending people scrambling under desks. “There is nothing more terrifying than hearing multiple people get shot while you’re under your desk and then hear the gunman reload,” he wrote.
Meanwhile, investigators said they would seek to learn more of the gunman’s motives. “The shooter has not been very forthcoming, so we don’t have any information yet on motive,” Anne Arundel County Executive Steve Schuh said.
In 2012, Ramos filed a defamation lawsuit against the paper, alleging he was harmed by an article about his conviction in a criminal harassment case a year earlier. The suit was dismissed by a judge who wrote Ramos hadn’t shown “anything that was published about you is, in fact, false.”
An appeals court later upheld the dismissal. In an interview appearing on The Capital Gazette’s online site, Davis said it “was like a war zone” inside the newspaper’s offices.
Reporter Selene San Felice told CNN she ran after hearing shots but found a back door locked, then watched as a colleague was shot. “I heard footsteps a couple of times ... I was breathing really loud and was trying not to, but I couldn’t be quiet,” she added. Police spokesman Lt. Ryan Frashure said officers arrived within about 60 seconds and took the gunman into custody without an exchange of gunfire.
About 170 people were evacuated, many leaving with their hands up as police and other emergency vehicles arrived. Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said the community was grieving the attack on its paper. The newspaper is part of Capital Gazette Communications, which also publishes the Maryland Gazette and CapitalGazette.com.
It is owned by The Baltimore Sun. The Associated Press Media Editors have promised to help Capital Gazette journalists as they recover.
An APME statement called on newspapers nationwide to help the paper and its journalists so they can continue to cover their community and fight for freedom of the press. Ramos was identified with the help of facial recognition technology because of what Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said was a “lag” in getting results from the computer system used to analyze fingerprints.
Police denied news reports that Ramos had mutilated his fingertips to thwart his identification. Two officials told The Associated Press on Thursday night, based on preliminary information, that the gunman may have deliberately damaged his fingers. One of those officials later said that initial information had proven to be erroneous. Associated Press writers Eric Tucker in Washington and Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles contributed to this story. This story has been corrected to show that the White House spokeswoman’s last name is Walters, not Walter.

Editor's note: The initial version of this story published Thursday evening reported that the suspect had "damaged" the tips of his fingers in an attempt to prevent identification, citing a law enforcement official.
On Friday, Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said that there was a lag in identifying the suspect using fingerprints, and that facial recognition technology was used. But he said that "there was no alteration to his fingerprints." This story has been updated.
A law enforcement official tells CBS News the suspect accused of killing five people in at a Maryland newspaper has been identified as Jarrod Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland. Police say Ramos opened fire Thursday afternoon at the offices of the Capital Gazette in Annapolis, killing five and injuring others.
"This was a targeted attack on The Capital Gazette," Anne Arundel County acting police chief Bill Krampf said at a Thursday night press briefing. Ramos was scheduled to appear in court Friday morning on five counts of first degree murder.
The suspect was taken into custody at the scene, but was not cooperating with investigators, police said. CBS News' Jeff Pegues reports that Ramos was caught hiding under a desk. Ramos did not have identification on his person at the time he was taken into custody.
He's described as having long hair. A law enforcement source says authorities used other means of identifying him, including facial recognition technology to search databases of passports and driver's licenses.
A law enforcement source said he carried smoke bombs or flash bangs in his backpack. Police said he used a "long gun" in the shooting, which a source said was a shotgun.
CBS News has also learned the gunman opened fire through the glass door into the newsroom. Eyewitness told authorities the shots sent reporters and other employees under desks and other hiding places.
Pegues reports that investigators will be trying determine the suspect's motive. They will try to recover any of Ramos' electronic devices and see if he has any social media accounts.
Police said Thursday night that Ramos did make threats through social media. In addition, investigators will try to determine if the suspect had been in to the newspaper office before. A source familiar with investigations like the one Thursday says the speed of the shooting suggest there was some familiarity.
They will look into how he was able to get into the building. Investigators have secured the suspect's home and are in the process of preparing search warrants.

Binghui Huang, a former staff writer at the Capital Gazette, recalled on Friday how her former colleagues touched her life when she worked there. Huang remembered how nervous she was about telling victim Rob Hiaasen, an editor for the paper, that she was moving on from the newspaper. "The paper meant a lot to me, it gave me a chance," she said. She recalled Gerald Fischman's sharp eye for editing their "sometimes convoluted" stories.

After a fatal shooting gripped the Capital Gazette office in Annapolis, Maryland, Gov. Larry Hogan, President Trump and other officials took to social media to respond Thursday afternoon.
WASHINGTON — Across Maryland and the U.S., officials shared their grief, sympathy and horror on social media over the news of Thursday afternoon’s Capital Gazette shooting in Annapolis.
Five were reported dead; the suspected shooter is in custody. As the news broke, Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan tweeted that he was “absolutely devastated” by the attack. And, during a news conference near the crime scene later, Hogan credited first responders for arriving quickly. “I want to praise the local officials who responded so well and perhaps saved other people’s lives by getting there while the thing was taking place and apprehending the suspect,” Hogan said.
President Donald Trump, too, thanked first responders and offered his thoughts and prayers. Sen. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., tweeted encouraging words to Capital Gazette reporter Phil Davis’s haunting account of the attack, after sharing his own words of sympathy.
Rep. John Sarbanes, a Democrat who represents Maryland’s 3rd District in the U.S. Congress, was “deeply saddened” by reports. Other lawmakers, from U.S. senators on Capitol Hill to Maryland state senators, also shared their reactions. Ben Jealous, who will face Hogan in the 2018 race for Maryland governor, expressed his sympathies as well.
The U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis also tweeted their condolences. WTOP’s
Sarah Beth Hensley contributed to this report. Like WTOP on Facebook and follow @WTOP on Twitter to engage in conversation about this article and others. © 2018 WTOP. All Rights Reserved.

The suspect in Thursday's shooting at a Maryland newspaper was identified as Jarrod Ramos, born Dec. 21, 1979, according to three senior law enforcement officials. At least five were killed and several others "gravely injured" during a shooting at the offices of the Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Maryland, law enforcement officials said.
Ramos was charged with five counts of first-degree murder in the shooting, NBC News reported. The suspect's bail review is scheduled to be held at 10:30 a.m. ET Friday.
In 2012, Ramos brought a defamation lawsuit against Eric Hartley, formerly a staff writer and columnist with publication The Capital, and Thomas Marquardt, then editor and publisher of The Capital, according to a court filing. In 2015, Maryland's second-highest court upheld a ruling in favor of the Capital Gazette and a former reporter who were accused by Ramos of defamation. According to a legal document, the article contended that Ramos had harassed a woman on Facebook and that he had pleaded guilty to criminal harassment. The court agreed that the contents of the article were accurate and based on public records, the document showed.

The suspect in the deadly shooting at a Maryland newspaper building has been identified as 38-year-old Jarrod Ramos of Laurel, Maryland, law enforcement sources tell CBS News.
Ramos is suspected of opening fire Thursday at the offices of Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland, and fatally shooting five people while injuring others. He allegedly used a shotgun and was carrying smoke grenades or flash-bang grenades when he was apprehended, police said.
Ramos was taken into custody at the scene and refused to cooperate with authorities. He carried no identification, sources said.
Authorities resorted to using facial recognition software and comparing his face to databases of passports and driver's license photos. He was scheduled to appear in court Friday morning on five counts of first degree murder.
A Twitter account matching Ramos' name with a location of Laurel, Maryland, includes years of tweets railing against Capital Gazette and includes details of a yearslong legal dispute with the company. According to an unreported 2015 opinion filed in the Maryland Court of Special Appeals, Ramos pleaded guilty to criminal harassment in July 2011. Five days later, an article about the case appeared in The Capital, one of Capital Gazette's publications.
The story detailed accusations by a woman who said Ramos harassed her online and off for months, calling her employer and trying to get her fired. The woman eventually went to the police and Ramos pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of harassment in 2011.
The Twitter account that matches Ramos' name began tweeting about Capital Gazette several months after the conviction. In July 2012, Ramos filed suit against Capital Gazette for defamation, according to the 2015 court filing.
The complaint was just four paragraphs long, but Ramos filed a longer 22-page claim several months later. Editor's note: The initial version of this story published Thursday evening reported that the suspect had "damaged" the tips of his fingers in an attempt to prevent identification, citing a law enforcement official.
On Friday, Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said that there was a lag in identifying the suspect using fingerprints, and that facial recognition technology was used. But he said that "there was no alteration to his fingerprints." This story has been updated.

The gunman looked for his victims as he walked through the building. The shooting at a Maryland newsroom that killed five people was a targeted attack, according to local police.
Anne Arundel Police Department Bill Krampf said that the assailant, armed with a shotgun, looked for victims in the newsroom of the Capital Gazette, a daily newspaper in Annapolis, which is located in the first floor of a multi-office building. "He looked for his victims as he walked through the lower level," Krampf said in a news conference Thursday evening.
Two people suffered superficial injuries, possibly from glass or the shotgun blast. The deceased were identified by police as Wendi Winters, Rebecca Smith, Rob Hiaasen, Gerald Fischman and John McNamara, all employees of the newspaper.
It is unclear if the gunman knew employees at the paper or if he was just targeting the business "in general," Krampf said. Investigators are that he "had a history with the newspaper," but that has not yet been confirmed, Krampf said.
The gunman was engaged by responding officers within about one minute and taken into custody, officials from Anne Arundel County Government said. There was no gunfire exchanged between the suspect and officers, officials said during an afternoon news briefing. The suspected shooter wasn't carrying a wallet or identification and is not cooperating with authorities, officials told ABC News.
He is a white male in his late 30s, Krampf said, adding that investigators are now securing his Maryland residence. The police department did not release his identity, but law enforcement sources identified the alleged shooter to ABC News as Laurel, Maryland, resident Jarrod Ramos.
Authorities identified the gunman by using facial recognition, a law enforcement source told ABC News. It is unclear whether the facial recognition was from a photograph or witness, the source said.
He was not able to be identified using his fingerprints due to a problem with a machine, law enforcement officials told ABC News. A law enforcement source initially told ABC News that the gunman had mutilated his fingers in an apparent attempt to avoid being identified but later clarified that statement.
Tom Marquardt, the former Editor of the Capital Gazette for 35 years, told ABC News that newspaper staff had dealt with threats in the past and have always been concerned about security. Marquardt personally got threats, as did others, but they were mostly anonymous, he said.
More than four years ago, he said he had called the Anne Arundel Police Department to alert them to threats from the alleged gunman, identified by law enforcement sources to ABC News as Laurel, Maryland, resident Jarrod Ramos. The police department has not released his identity.
Police had investigated the threats and visited Ramos at his home but did not have enough to charge him, Marquardt said. Ramos was the subject of a story about allegations that he stalked his ex-girlfriend and was in a long legal fight with the paper, Marquardt said, adding that the legal battle was tame compared to his taunts and threats on social media. Marquardt said he was not surprised to hear that Ramos was the suspected shooter and hypothesized that the alleged gunman was disappointed to not find him or the reporter who wrote the story inside the newsroom. "Because of that grudge, innocent people died," he said.
Phil Davis, a crime and courts reporter with the Capital Gazette, said the gunman shot through a glass door into the office. "There is nothing more terrifying than hearing multiple people get shot while you're under your desk and then hear the gunman reload," he tweeted.
Capital Gazette photojournalist Joshua McKerrow tweeted that he and his colleagues are continuing to cover the story, along with Baltimore Sun reporters. "There will be a Capital Friday," he said. After the shooting, about 170 people were safely evacuated from the building and no one else there is a threat, officials said.
Authorities recovered "what we thought may have been an explosive device," said Anne Arundel County Acting Police Chief William Kramph said. The device was actually canisters filled with smoke grenades that the gunman used when he entered the building, Kramph said.
Out of an abundance of caution, the New York Police Department is moving personnel to headquarters of major media outlets in New York, including ABC News. Tronc the parent company of the Capital Gazette, released a statement commending law enforcement officers who their quick response, adding that it is focused right now on providing support to employees and their families. ABC News' Erin Dooley, Pierre Thomas, Josh Margolin and Aaron Katersky contributed to this report.

T he suspected gunman in a shooting that left five people dead at a newspaper office in the US has been identified.
Jarrod Warren Ramos, 38, was arrested after the horrifying attack unfolded in the Capital Gazette office in Maryland, police have said. Ramos, a resident of Laurel, Maryland, sued the newspaper and one of its journalists alleging defamation in 2012, according to reports.
Police have said they believe the shooting was a targeted attack. Horrified witnesses described how a gunman shot through a glass door before he opened fire in the newsroom on Thursday afternoon. The attacker threw smoke grenades and fired a shotgun at his victims, according to Anne Arundel County acting police chief William Krampf.
The newspaper’s editor Rob Hiassen was among those killed in the horrifying scenes, according the Baltimore Sun, which owns the newspaper group. Four people died at office, and a fifth died after being rushed to the hospital, CNN reported. Emergency services descended on the Capital Gazette office amid reports of an "active" shooter.
One US official said the suspect was identified using facial recognition technology after he damaged his fingerprints in what police believe was an effort to prevent him being identified easily. No gunfire was exchanged between the suspect and police, officials said, adding that the weapon used was a “long gun”. A reporter at the newspaper earlier tweeted about the shooting, saying that a gunman "shot through the glass door to the office". "Can't say much more and don't want to declare anyone dead, but it's bad," said Phil Davis, the crime and courts reporter.

Hours after a gunman targeted the newsroom of the Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland, killing five people, its editors made true on their vow to publish the Friday issue of the newspaper.
In the aftermath of the shooting, the Gazette’s reporters were back out covering the tragedy that had been inflicted on their own colleagues. By late on Thursday evening, the newspaper posted its front page on social media as it went to press – “5 shot dead at The Capital” and “Laurel man, the suspected gunman, in custody”, read the headline and subhead. As evidence grew that the gun rampage had been committed by an individual who specifically targeted the newspaper and its editing team, the response of the surviving journalists on the title was one of resolute defiance.
Within a couple of hours of the shooting, the Capital Gazette reporter Chase Cook, who normally covers the Maryland general assembly, was filing social media reports from the scene. “I can tell you this: WE are putting out a damn paper tomorrow,” he said in a tweet.
The five victims have been identified and the Gazette published stories on each of their “bright, wonderful lives”. They were named as Rob Hiaasen, assistant news editor; Gerald Fischman, editorial page editor; Wendi Winters, special publications editor; Rebecca Smith, sales assistant; and John McNamara, staff writer.
“The loss is unimaginable,” said Joshua McKerrow, a photojournalist at the newspaper. The paper’s community news editor, Jimmy DeButts, also struck a note of resistance against the shooter’s violent hatred.
“Reporters & editors give all they have every day. There are no 40-hour weeks, no big paydays – just a passion for telling stories from our community,” he said.
Another Capital Gazette reporter, Pat Furgurson, reported from the evening press briefing on the tragedy at his own workplace. Furgurson briefly talked to his fellow reporters after the briefing ended. Visibly shaken, he said the victims were “just trying to do their job for the public.
Something like this might happen in Afghanistan or Iraq or something like that but you don’t expect it in a sleepy office across the street from a local mall.”
However, he said “we’re still putting out a newspaper” and that the Capital Gazette would be out on Friday. As the evening progressed, details emerged of how the newspaper had been deliberately targeted. Journalists who survived the gun rampage gave first-hand accounts of how the shooter had entered the newsroom and apparently sought out editors of the paper as his victims.
Phil Davis, a crime reporter for the Capital Gazette, told CNN he noticed the path the gunman took. “I know that two of the editors he went after were in the same position as other reporters who were at their desks,” he said. The suspect has not been named by police, but several news outlets have identified him as Jarrod Ramos, a 38-year-old man who had previously sued the newspaper for defamation in 2012.
He was taken into custody and police were investigating his home. They said they would provide an update later on Friday. In an echo of the anger that quickly exploded from the student survivors of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school shooting in February, Capital Gazette journalists expressed disgust at the lack of action coming from Washington over the latest gun outrage.
A fundraiser to help the Capital Gazette newsroom and staff hit $50,000 in eight hours. Started by Bloomberg reporter Madi Alexander, the money will go towards medical bills, funeral costs and repairs.

Jarrod Ramos, the man who allegedly killed five staff members of the Annapolis Capital-Gazette, is sadly, terrifyingly typical, at least to anyone who ever worked at a newspaper of any size.
Court records available online paint a picture of an angry misogynist of the classic type, the angry reader of the classic type, and the angry online presence of the newly classic type. Then, he picked up his shotgun and went for a ride.
The run-up was sad. The denouement is terrifying. The whole thing is typical.
"If you're on Facebook, you've probably gotten a friend request or message from an old high school classmate you didn't quite remember. "For one woman, that experience turned into a yearlong nightmare.
"Out of the blue, Jarrod Ramos wrote and thanked her for being the only person ever to say hello or be nice to him in school. "She didn't remember him, so he sent pictures. She Googled him, found a yearbook picture and realized they apparently did go to Arundel High together. "He was having some problems, so she wrote back and tried to help, suggesting a counseling center. "'I just thought I was being friendly,' she said.
"That sparked months of emails in which Ramos alternately asked for help, called her vulgar names and told her to kill herself. He emailed her company and tried to get her fired.
"She stopped writing back and told him to stop, but he continued. When she blocked him from seeing her Facebook page, he found things she wrote on other people's pages and taunted her with it, attaching screenshots of the postings to some of his emails. "She called police, and for months he stopped. But then he started again, nastier than ever.
"All this without having seen her in person since high school. They never met until they came to court a couple of months ago.
"Last week, Ramos, a 31-year-old federal employee, pleaded guilty in District Court to a misdemeanor harassment charge. "Judge Jonas Legum, who called his behavior 'rather bizarre,' suspended a 90- day jail sentence and placed him on probation, ordering him to continue in therapy and not contact the victim or her family in any way.
"The case is extreme. But it provides a frightening look at the false intimacy the Internet can offer and the venom that can hide behind a computer screen. "The victim, who asked that her name not be printed, said she lived in fear for her safety for months.
"His messages rambled, calling her 'a bipolar drunkard leading a double life' and saying 'Expletive you, leave me alone' though she hadn't written him in months. He told her she was afraid to let a man get close to her and discussed her family, friends, job and Rotary Club involvement–all information gleaned from the Internet. "In January, the victim went to court to get a peace order and file charges.
Finally, he stopped for good. Ramos, a tall, thin man with long hair he wears in a ponytail, did not speak at the hearing and did not return a call for comment left with his attorney. "He has a degree in computer engineering and has worked for the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics for six years, Drewniak said. He had no previous criminal record.
This kind of thing is the meat on which local newspapers feed. There are always stories to be found in the local courthouse, and Hartley was sharp enough to notice that there were larger issues to be explored in Ramos’s case.
It’s one you put in your notebook, and then you put it in the paper, and feel good about how you did your job that day. Anyone who’s ever worked at a newspaper in any department has a Jarrod Ramos story to tell. Except for the fact that Jarrod Ramos was one of those readers who can’t let anything go. Anyone who has worked on a daily newspaper in any era is familiar with them, and the smaller the newspaper, the more intense the confrontation.
Ramos sued the newspaper and Hartley, personally, for defamation. He represented himself pro se, which is rarely a good idea, as a variety of judges in the Maryland courts made clear to him. THE COURT:
All right. Mr. Ramos, I'm going to grant the defendant's motion to dismiss this case. And it will be dismissed with prejudice. And I'm going to grant it for the following reasons: You are required in your complaint to state a claim with sufficient specificity.
THE COURT: I'm talking now.
MR. RAMOS: Yes, I'm sorry. THE COURT:
And dismissal is proper only if the facts and inferences, even if proven, would not entitle the plaintiff to relief. And that is what I am finding in your case, that you do not lay out a prima facie case for defamation or for invasion of privacy, or being placed in the false light. And the reason I'm finding that is that there is absolutely not one piece of evidence, or an assertion by you that the statement was false.
The one statement you refer to concerning the rambling and referring to messages that you answered when there had been no contact comes directly from the statement of charges, where she writes, most of his messages are just pages of ramblings regarding my friends, family, job, Rotary Club involvement. And it goes on to say that you tell her to leave you alone, and you haven't responded for months.
That comes right out of a public document…Correct, both that the article was simply not defamatory, that it was based on public record, that you haven't alleged that it was false, and that the article appears to be substantially accurate, and it would fall into the privilege which would make any complaint unsustainable, because they reported a criminal case. They reported a matter of public interest. Judge Charles Moylan, Jr. of the Maryland Court of Public Appeals read these transcripts with interest and proceeded respectfully to pile on.
A discussion of defamation law would be an exercise in futility, because the appellant fails to come close to alleging a case of defamation. In his five-page brief, the appellant devotes two and one-half pages to legal argument. He never alleges that any basic fact contained in the article about his guilty plea is actually false.
He claims only that "Hartley's column fails the test of fairness because he editorialized on the story's meaning." There is no allegation of any specific harm that he suffered as a result of the article. He simply described the harm as "incalculable, unforeseen, and potentially unknowable."
That does not do it. The appellant is pro se. A lawyer would almost certainly have told him not to proceed with this case.
It reveals a fundamental failure to understand what defamation law is and, more particularly, what defamation law is not. The appellant is aggrieved because the newspaper story about his guilty plea assumed that he was guilty and that the guilty plea was, therefore, properly accepted.
He is aggrieved because the story was sympathetic toward the harassment victim and was not equally understanding of the harassment perpetrator. The appellant wanted equal coverage of his side of the story. He wanted a chance to put the victim in a bad light, in order to justify and explain why he did what he did. That, however, is not the function of defamation law.
Ramos apparently then took to the electric Twitter machine to rage against his victim, Hartley, the newspaper, and Judge Moylan for a few months. Then he allegedly loaded his shotgun and went downtown.
The story of a shooter with a grudge against a newspaper is getting a lot of run, and it’s easy to see why. Anyone who’s ever worked at a newspaper in any department has a Jarrod Ramos story to tell—the ringing phone you don’t want to pick up, the letters with the alarming spelling, and, now, the many platforms of social media.
Most of those people never pick up a gun. Jarrod Ramos did. However, it’s essential, I believe, to take this story back to its origins—an angry misogynist who engaged in a vicious campaign of slander and harassment of a woman who just tried to be nice to him.
Misogyny is the one thing that’s part of too many of these stories. Well, that and the guns.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. --
The grieving and the reporting jumbled together for staffers at The Capital Gazette after a fatal shooting at the newspaper, but they were determined to put out the next day's edition. While the front page described the mass shooting in horrific detail, the opinion page offered a starker approach.
Those killed included Rob Hiaasen, 59, the paper's assistant managing editor and brother of novelist Carl Hiaasen. Carl Hiaasen said he was "devastated and heartsick" at losing his brother, "one of the most gentle and funny people I've ever known." Also slain were Gerald Fischman, editorial page editor; features reporter Wendi Winters; reporter John McNamara, and sales assistant Rebecca Smith.
The newspaper said two other employees had non-life threatening injuries and were later released from a hospital. "Tomorrow this Capital page will return to its steady purpose of offering readers informed opinion about the world around them, that they might be better citizens," the editors wrote.
Journalists with the Annapolis-based daily huddled under a covered parking deck of the Annapolis Mall, not far from where scores of other media outlets were clumped together Thursday awaiting further details of the shooting that left five people dead, including colleagues, and others injured. Editor Rick Hutzell called a few of his journalists over to talk, a discussion punctuated with hugs and staggered expressions. "We're trying to do our job and deal with five people" who lost their lives, said reporter Pat Furgurson, whose wife and adult son were with him at the mall.
"You think something like this might happen in Afghanistan, not in a newsroom a block away from the mall," he said, reflecting on what appeared to be one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history. Police later said the gunman explicitly targeted the newspaper.
The Capital is an institution in Maryland's capital and was one of the last dailies to switch from publishing in the afternoon to mornings. Its sister publication, the Maryland Gazette, was founded in 1727 and is one of the oldest papers in America. In 1767, it became the first paper in America to be published by a woman, Anne Catherine Green, who led opposition to the stamp tax in the years leading up to the American Revolution.
For many years The Capital was published by diplomat Philip Merrill, who died in 2006. It was sold in 2014 to the Baltimore Sun Media Group.
Reporters brushed aside any logistical difficulties putting out a newspaper when the newsroom is an off-limits crime scene. High school sports editor Bob Hough told The Associated Press he and a colleague were working on the sports section from his home Thursday evening.
"I don't know that there was ever any thought to not putting something together," said Hough, who wasn't at the office when the shooting broke out. Hough said they were doing a full five-page section in collaboration with the design team based at the Baltimore Sun that always lays out the pages. He noted that some of his colleagues were out reporting on the shooting story as it continued to unfold late Thursday and said he expected the next day's paper would include that coverage and whatever else would be in a typical Friday paper.
By 10:30 p.m. Thursday, the Capital's website had in-depth stories on the shootings, a yearslong feud the suspect had with the paper and a photo and profile of each of the journalists' slain co-workers. Photographer Josh McKerrow edited photos on a laptop in the garage deck.

Every local journalist, in every local newsroom, has experienced that moment of fear, when the crank who has been tormenting their inbox or Twitter feed or voicemail shows up to complain in person. It happened to me a few years ago, at a hyper-local weekly I was editing in Manhattan.
One of our reporters had been working on a story about a neighborhood eccentric, basically a hoarder whose home had become an eyesore and who, locals say, threatened them as they walked down the sidewalk. Neighbors had complained, the police had been called, and we set out to learn more about the woman who lived inside. In a phone call with our reporter, the woman railed against her family and her neighbors, and threatened us if we wrote unflatteringly about her or her house. Then, a few days later, before the story ran, she showed up unannounced at our office, angry and incoherent and demanding to speak to our reporter. The reporter and I were able to calm her down and let her speak her mind, before convincing her to leave. The story ran and we never heard from her again.
Incidents like this happen every day in newsrooms everywhere. But this week’s shooting at the Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland—where a man who had been fighting with the newspaper for years over a story he didn’t like, ending in the shooting death of five Gazette journalists—should force us to rethink the threat to journalism in Trump’s America: While the president rails against CNN, The New York Times, The Washington Post, and others, it is reporters at the local level, across America, who may well sit on the front lines of the new war against the press in this country. Yes, national reporters are routinely threatened and harassed, and they continue to do their jobs with courage and commitment. Given the size and reach of their audience, the venom aimed at them, especially online, can be intimidating. And when people do come in contact with national reporters—the press pens at Trump rallies spring to mind—the results can be scary.
Local newsrooms are accessible for a reason—it’s part of what makes them integral to the life of their communities. Local newsrooms are accessible for a reason—it’s part of what makes them integral to the life of their communities. People come in to buy ads.
Readers bring in photos of their kids’ sports teams. Tipsters drop by with gossip.
It is heartbreaking, but necessary, to recognize that the openness that defines local news likely carries too high a risk; local newsrooms, at least for now, may have no choice but to fortify themselves. Since Donald Trump chose, in the very earliest days of his presidential campaign, to make attacks on a free press in the United States one of his signature themes, many of us have thought it inevitable that his dangerous rhetoric would one day be a trigger for tragedy. Our focus this long two years has been on the big, high-profile news organizations that most occupy Trump’s obsessions and his Twitter feed. They are what we think about when we worry about threats to the press, and they have become stand-ins for those, inside the government and out, who rail against fake news. But what we missed is that for most Americans, the media is not some big-city skyscraper or national TV network with layers of security, where everybody needs a badge to get in. It’s our local newsroom down the street, staffed by professionals reporting on what matters most to people where they live. We’re reminded this week that in the war against the press, they may well be the journalists in America who are most at risk. Kyle Pope is the editor in chief and publisher of the Columbia Journalism Review.

Controversial conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos said he wasn't being serious when he texted reporters he couldn't wait "for the vigilante squads to start gunning journalists down on sight," statements made just days before a gunman killed five at a Maryland newspaper.
Five people were killed Thursday when a gunman, identified by police as Jarrod Ramos, opened fire at The Capital Gazette in Annapolis, Maryland. Police said Ramos had a long-standing feud with the newspaper. Yiannopoulos, a former Breitbart editor, a made the comments to at least two news outlets, including the New York Observer, which wrote about the incident earlier this week.
When pressed, Yiannopoulos said the statement was his "standard response to a request for comment." Yiannopoulos sent a similar message to Will Sommer, a reporter for the Daily Beast.
In later posts, Yiannopoulos asked when the media would apologize to him. "When will the media, including many on the right, apologize to me? Over a hundred thousand tweets today accused me of being responsible for these deaths.
How do I even decide who to sue first?" he wrote. Yiannopoulos resigned as senior editor of Breitbart News in 2017 after comments he made seemed to promote pedophilia.
Yiannopoulos later said he regretted the "imprecise language" he used when discussing the issue. He has also made a series of controversial appearances at college campuses.

Conservative commentator Milo Yiannopoulos denied that his recent language was at all to blame for the shooting that took place at the Capital Gazette offices in Annapolis, Maryland, Thursday because he was just joking. Two days after the Observer published the article, a gunman entered the offices of the Capital Gazette and began to open fire.
In anticipation of the blame that would be placed on his shoulders, Yiannopoulos posted on Facebook that not only is he not responsible, but if his rhetoric incited anything, it's the news outlets who reported his comments that are to blame. "Amazed they were pretending to take my joke as a 'threat,' I reposted these stories on Instagram to mock them — and to make it clear that I wasn't being serious," he wrote. "If there turns out to be any dimension to this crime related to my private, misreported remarks, the responsibility for that lies squarely and wholly with the Beast and the Observer for drumming up fake hysteria about a private joke, and with the verified liberals who pretended they thought I was serious," he wrote in the Facebook post.
Officials confirmed during a press conference that five people were killed during the shooting at the Capital Gazette offices and others were injured. Officers engaged the suspect, who was taken into custody. Newsweek reached out to Yiannopoulos for comment but did not hear back in time for publication.

After years of repeatedly calling journalists “the enemy of the people,” President Trump on Friday struck a markedly different tone towards the media, saying in the aftermath of a deadly shooting at the Capital Gazette’s newsroom that journalists should be “free from the fear” of violence while doing their jobs.
Five employees of the The Capital newspaper—Robert Hiaasen, Wendi Winters, John McNamara, Rebecca Smith, and Gerald Fischman—were killed after alleged gunman Jarrod Ramos attacked the Annapolis newsroom with a shotgun. Ramos previously sued and threatened the newspaper for reporting on his guilty plea on a 2011 harassment case.
A week later, while speaking at the 2017 Conservative Political Action Conference, Trump repeated the “enemy of the people” line multiple times to rapturous applause. Beyond that, President Trump has also occasionally shared violent memes about outlets he views as “opposing” his presidency.
Last year, for example, he infamously shared a GIF meme depicting himself body-slamming CNN in a wrestling ring. And at another point in 2017, Trump retweeted and then deleted a cartoon meme depicting the “Trump Train” barreling through a person labeled as CNN.

Ramos, 38, had unsuccessfully sued The Capital Gazette in Annapolis for defamation in 2012.
The lawsuit stemmed from the newspaper reporting that he had pleaded guilty to harassing a woman who was a former high school classmate. Ramos has been charged with murder in the first degree after police say he killed five people at the Gazette's offices. In a separate interview on "CBS This Morning," Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare told O'Donnell that Ramos had purchased the pump-action shotgun used in the shooting within the past 18 months.
CBS News has learned that Ramos had damaged his fingertips and wasn't carrying any identification when he was arrested. Law enforcement sources told CBS News that the gunman was hiding under a desk.

Mourners holding candles lined the streets of Annapolis to honor those who died when a gunman entered the building of their hometown newspaper.
WASHINGTON — Mourners holding candles lined the streets of Annapolis on Friday to honor those who died when a gunman entered the building of their hometown newspaper. Surrounded by his colleagues, Capital Gazette reporter Phil Davis read the names of his co-workers Rebecca Smith, Gerald Fischman, John McNamara, Wendi Winters and Robert Hiaasen. They were killed when Jarrod W. Ramos entered the newspaper’s office on Thursday and shot them with a long gun.
Mourners walk during a vigil in response to a shooting at The Capital Gazette newspaper office, Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. The suspect, Jarrod W. Ramos, is charged with five counts of first-degree murder in one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history.
(AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People stand in silence during a vigil in response to a shooting in the Capital Gazette newsroom Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. Prosecutors say Jarrod W. Ramos opened fire Thursday in the newsroom. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People gather for a vigil in response to a shooting at the Capital Gazette newsroom, Friday, June 29, 2018, in front of the Maryland State House in Annapolis, Md.
Prosecutors say Jarrod W. Ramos opened fire Thursday in the newsroom. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People hug as they gather for a vigil in response to a shooting in the Capital Gazette newsroom, Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md.
Prosecutors say Jarrod W. Ramos opened fire Thursday in the newsroom. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky Photos of five journalists adorn candles during a vigil across the street from where they were slain in their newsroom in Annapolis, Md., Friday, June 29, 2018.
Prosecutors say Jarrod W. Ramos opened fire Thursday in the Capital Gazette newsroom. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana People gather for a candlelight vigil across the street from where five journalists were slain in their newsroom in Annapolis, Md., Friday, June 29, 2018.
Prosecutors say Jarrod W. Ramos opened fire Thursday in the Capital Gazette newsroom. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Mourners stand in silence during a vigil in response to a shooting at the Capital Gazette newsroom, Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. Prosecutors say 38-year-old Jarrod W. Ramos opened fire Thursday in the newsroom.
(AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People walk in silence during a vigil in response to a shooting in the Capital Gazette newsroom, Friday, June 29, 2018, in Annapolis, Md. Prosecutors say Jarrod W. Ramos opened fire Thursday in the newsroom.
(AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP Photo/Patrick Semansky People hug during a candlelight vigil across the street from where five journalists were slain in their newsroom in Annapolis, Md., Friday, June 29, 2018. Prosecutors say Jarrod W. Ramos opened fire Thursday in the Capital Gazette newsroom.
(AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana) AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Hundreds of people lined the streets during a candlelight vigil on Friday. (WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo Mourners walk during a vigil after the shooting at the Capital Gazette.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo Mourners holding candles on the streets of Annapolis, Maryland, on Friday to honor those who were killed in a shooting at the Capital Gazette.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo Mourners gather in Annapolis on Friday, June 29, for the victims of the Capital Gazette shooting.
(Courtesy Kara McGuirk-Allison) Courtesy Kara McGuirk-Allison People leave messages of grief and support during a vigil on Friday, June 29, 2018, for the victims of the Capital Gazette shooting.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo A sign stands near the Capital Gazette building where a shooting took place Thursday that killed five people.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo Kathy Korin, of Annapolis, joins the vigil on Friday, June 29, 2018, for the victims of the Capital Gazette shooting.
(WTOP/Mike Murillo) WTOP/Mike Murillo ( 1 /16) Share This Gallery: Share on Facebook.
Share on Twitter. Share via email. Print.
“We’re not going to forget them, and we don’t want people to forget them,” Davis said. Kathy Korin, of Annapolis, came to the vigil with sign that featured the newspaper obituaries of the five people who were killed. “Annapolis is our city, and we feel like it is under attack,” Korin said.
Ramos, 38, of Laurel, Maryland, had his first court appearance in Anne Arundel District Court Friday. He appeared by video from the county detention center and was told he is charged with five counts of first-degree murder and could face life in prison.
He is held without bond. Ramos filed a lawsuit against the Capital Gazette over a 2011 article about him.
The lawsuit was thrown out and the courts ruled against him in a following appeal. Two Capital Gazette employees, Janel Cooley and Rachael Pacella, were injured in the attack but have since been released from the hospital.
WTOP’s Mike Murillo contributed to this report. Like WTOP on Facebook and follow @WTOP on Twitter to engage in conversation about this article and others.
© 2018 WTOP. All Rights Reserved. This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area.

Thank you.
Thank you for the outpouring of sympathy for the terrible tragedy that took place Thursday in our Annapolis office. We will never forget Rob Hiaasen, Gerald Fischman, Wendi Winters, John McNamara or Rebecca Smith, our five co-workers who were gunned down in a senseless attack.
But we also will always remember the bells of St. Anne’s ringing as members of our staff — past and present — walked down Main Street surrounded by thousands who turned out to support us in a march to City Dock. We always will remember the singing on a grassy knoll across from our office in a second vigil, little more than a day after five acts of murderous rage changed our lives forever.
Thank you for the cards, the letters, the emails and the flowers. Thank you for the food, the text messages and the signs.
The words of appreciation for our work and its importance to Annapolis and Anne Arundel County is a balm to our wounds. More than 800 people subscribed to our digital edition Friday as a show of support after the terror on Thursday afternoon.
Thank you. Here’s what else we won’t forget: Death threats and emails from people we don’t know celebrating our loss, or the people who called for one of our reporters to get fired because she got angry and cursed on national television after witnessing her friends getting shot.
We won’t forget being called an enemy of the people. No, we won’t forget that.
Because exposing evil, shining light on wrongs and fighting injustice is what we do. We are The Capital.
We are the Maryland Gazette. We are the Bowie Blade-News and Crofton West County Gazette.
We are more than just our questions and our writing and our headlines. We are journalists. Yes, we bring values and beliefs to our work.
We believe in truth. We believe in speaking for those who don’t have the power to speak for themselves.
We believe in questioning authority. We believe in reporting the news.
Our community has rallied around us to show they understand who we are, and that we are not the enemy of the people. We are your neighbors, your friends. We are you.
You might not always like what we write, or the photos we shoot or the videos we produce. You may not agree with our definition of what a story is or is not.
Most days we suspect most of you will. But every day, the staff of this news organization will report on the news of Annapolis and Anne Arundel County.
We will never be the same as we were, now that Rebecca, Wendi, John, Gerald and Rob are gone. Some day we hope to be as good again. That’s all we can do.
Until then, keep reading. We’ve only just begun.

The letter from Jarrod Ramos, 38, written in the style of a legal filing and obtained by CNN, is addressed to the paper’s former attorney and a Maryland Court of Special Appeals judge who upheld a lower court ruling throwing out his 2012 defamation case against the newspaper. The letter is dated Thursday, June 28, the same day prosecutors say Ramos, stormed into the paper’s Annapolis newsroom with a shotgun, killing five employees and leaving two others wounded a few years after his unsuccessful defamation suit.
“I further certify I then did proceed to the office of respondent Capital-Gazette Communications … with the objective of killing every person present,” said the letter, which was first reported by The Baltimore Sun. Former Capital editor and publisher Tom Marquardt said he learned of the letter during an urgent call he received on his way to a memorial for slain Capital assistant editor Rob Hiaasen.
“We thought the chapter had closed and his is the story that keeps on giving. In a very chilling way,” Marquardt said.
Copies of the letter were mailed to the Baltimore Circuit Court house, the state court of special appeals and the law firm, according to Ann Arundel County Police, who are investigating the mailings. Ramos was arrested shortly after the shooting spree when responding officers found him hiding under a desk, according to police. He has been charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to court records.
A portrait has emerged of Ramos as an unhinged loner consumed by a years-long vendetta against the newspaper, a man whose history of menacing behavior ended with him, in the words of a prosecutor, “systematically hunting and killing” staffers in the Annapolis newsroom. Ramos’ conflict with the newspaper stems from a complaint a former high school classmate he barely knew filed against him in 2011. She alleged he began cyberstallking her years earlier – repeatedly sending her aggressive private messages, harassing her therapist for information and contacting her employer to tell them she was “a bipolar drunkard leading a double life,” which she said cost her her job.
When Ramos in 2011 pleaded guilty to harassing the woman – whom CNN is not identifying – a column about the case by former Capital writer Eric Hartley apparently left Ramos in a seething rage that lasted all the way up to last week’s massacre. He sued Hartley, Marquardt and Capital Gazette Communications for defamation in 2012, and then, after a judge threw out the case, appealed.
In 2015, the court of special appeals judge upheld the ruling. “The people who were involved in that story had left the paper,” Marquardt said. The other shooting victims were Gerald Fischman, 61, editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a staff writer; Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant; and Wendi Winters, 65, who worked in special publications. Marquardt said police advised him to watch his surroundings.

Craig “Woody” Leydig conducted an interview with The Capital around 2 p.m. last Thursday afternoon. Leydig, the assistant equipment manager for the Washington Capitals, did the phone interview from the team’s headquarters – Kettler Iceplex, located in Arlington, Virginia.
Shortly after hanging up the phone, Leydig walked into the laundry room and saw breaking news on television announcing the shooting incident at the Capital Gazette offices in Annapolis. Leydig immediately called back that reporter to make sure he was OK and was greatly relieved. However, the Annapolis resident was devastated upon learning that five other employees of Capital Gazette had been killed in the horrific incident at 888 Bestgate Road.
Every coach, player, trainer and equipment manager with the Washington Capitals is allowed to spend one day with the Stanley Cup. Leydig took possession of the silver chalice on Tuesday and Capital Gazette was foremost in his thoughts. Leydig’s third stop with the Stanley Cup – after first taking a motorboat ride on the Chesapeake Bay then visiting by the Naval Academy – was the makeshift office of Capital Gazette. Leydig and his entourage brought the Stanley Cup to the temporary Capital Gazette office in Annapolis around 8:30 on Tuesday morning.
Staff members, including five reporters that survived last Thursday’s attack, spent about 45 minutes taking photos with the legendary piece of hardware. “My heart goes out to the families of those who were lost and to all the employees of Capital Gazette that have to find a way to move on from this terrible tragedy,” Leydig said. After departing the Capital Gazette office, Leydig took the Stanley Cup to Maryland Veterans Cemetery Crownsville. His parents are laid to rest at the cemetery.
Stunned customers at the Wawa convenience store in Gambrills took photos with the cup. The cup was then taken to Heroes Pub in Annapolis where first responders had their photos taken with hockey’s top prize.
From there, Leydig’s crew stopped by a barber shop in the Eastport Shopping Center. The cup was then taken to Davis’ pub for photos and lunch with patrons.
The Stanley Cup was then shuttled via boat to City Dock where hundreds of Capitals fans lined the boardwalk along Ego Alley waiting for a chance to touch the cup. Anne Arundel Medical Center was the next destination for the cup and Leydig had a party planned for family and friends to conclude his day. Several members of the Capital Gazette newsroom are longtime fans of the Washington Capitals, who captured the Stanley Cup for the first time in their 44-year history last month.
Phil Davis, police reporter for The Capital, is an unabashed and diehard fan of the New Jersey Devils. Davis, whose Twitter posts from inside the Capital Gazette office last Thursday were chilling, turned the Stanley Cup so the inscriptions for the Devils years of winning were displayed for photo purposes.

As gunshots rang out and glass shattered all around, staffers at the Capital Gazette cowered under desks, fearing for their lives.
Except Wendi Winters. A witness said she stood up, grabbed a trash can and a recycling bin, and charged the gunman. For her heroism, the 65-year-old woman paid with her life. But several staffers at the Annapolis, Maryland, newspaper say she saved theirs.
Survivors of last month’s attack shared the account of that day in a story the Capital ran over the weekend. Eleven employees were in the office that day.
Six made it out alive. And those who did are thanking Winters. When a gunman barged into the Capital Gazette newsroom on June 28, he shattered the newsroom’s glass door with a shotgun.
Reporters Rachael Pacella and Phil Davis and intern Anthony Messenger were at their desks toward the back of the newsroom when the shooting started. Pacella hid under a desk. Davis went for the floor. Messenger headed for the back door, which was barricaded, trapping them all inside.
The shots kept coming. The bangs kept coming. Then, they stopped.
In the moment, employees didn’t know why. But it gave them just enough time to get up and take refuge between filing cabinets until the shooting was over.
Photojournalist Paul Gillespie remembers hearing Winters yell “No!” during the rampage. Pacella and Davis didn’t see Winters move toward the attacker. They only saw her body in the walkway.
But Davis said that key pause could have been Winters confronting the shooter, buying them the precious moments they needed to get to safety. Winters, an editor and community reporter and a mother of four, was one of five employees slain in the attack. Editor Rob Hiaasen, editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, editor and sports writer John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith also lost their lives in the shooting.
Jarrod Ramos, 38, who allegedly plotted the strike because of a long-held grudge against the newspaper, is charged with their deaths. Winters spent her days writing about local events or interviewing teens who deserved recognition for good deeds. Weeks after she took an active-shooter training class at her church, she made the ultimate sacrifice, said her son, Phoenix Geimer. But it sounds exactly like her, he said. “In an act of extraordinary courage, she gave her heart, and she gave her last breath, and she gave her final eight pints of blood to the defense of the free press and in defense of her family at the Capital,” Geimer said in an account by the Washington Post.
“She died fighting for what she believed in. My mom is an American hero, and we all have so much to live up to,” he said. In an editorial published Tuesday, the Capital Gazette staff said Winters should be nominated for the Presidential Medal of Freedom – the nation’s highest civilian honor – for her heroism. “Wendi died protecting her friends, but also in defense of her newsroom from a murderous assault.

The city of Annapolis will hold a benefit concert featuring Maryland-based rockers Good Charlotte to honor the five Capital Gazette employees killed in an attack in their newsroom. Mayor Gavin Buckley said Wednesday (July 11)
the event dubbed “Annapolis Rising: A Benefit for The Capital Gazette and Free Press” will take place July 28 and will include performances, as well as guest speakers from the journalism community.
Information on tickets will be available at a later date. Proceeds will benefit a fund established for the victims and survivors, as well as journalism scholarships.
Police say gunman Jarrod Ramos, who had a grudge against the newspaper, blasted his way into the Annapolis newsroom on June 28, killing John McNamara, Wendi Winters, Rob Hiaasen, Rebecca Smith and Gerald Fischman. Ramos remains jailed on five counts of first-degree murder.
Good Charlotte, which includes twin brothers Joel and Benji Madden, said in an interview they are proud to return to their roots to pay tribute to the community. “I feel everything starts at home, it starts in your community and this is the place in Maryland that we come from.
This is the place we go back to. We feel very, very deeply connected to Annapolis and it’s a very important place to us. It’s very important for us to show up for the city,” Joel Madden told The Associated Press.
“If we can help support an event that will be uplifting for the families of the victims and the tragedy as a whole, it feels really important to be a part of that,” Benji Madden added. The punk-pop performers say they remember going to Annapolis at 18 to pursue their music careers. “It feels really special to us.
It’s rare to find that kind of community,” he added. The benefit concert will take place from a stage on College Avenue with the Maryland State House in the background.
“Sadly, our country’s attention will soon shift from this event that has forever changed our city. We will not stand by and allow the memory of these slain journalists to be forgotten. We also stand up for our journalists and our freedom of the press and this concert is just one step in that direction,” he said in a statement.

The man charged with gunning down five people at the Capital Gazette last week allegedly mailed three threatening letters before carrying out the attack, authorities said Monday. Sgt.
Jacklyn Davis, a spokeswoman with Anne Arundel County Police, said authorities believe Jarrod Ramos, 38, sent the letters to three locations — Baltimore City Court, Maryland Court of Special Appeals and a law office that asked to remain anonymous. Ramos had an unsuccessful history suing the Gazette: In a 2012 suit, he claimed the newspaper defamed him after a columnist wrote about his 2011 guilty plea to criminal harassment.
The suit was dismissed, and an appeals court affirmed the decision. Davis declined to provide details of the letters, but the Baltimore Sun, which first reported the documents, published a copy of one allegedly sent to the law office of the Capital Gazette's former attorney.
NBC News has independently confirmed the authenticity of the document. The two-page letter is dated June 28 — the day of the shooting — and is written in the style of a court document.
"'That' is how your judiciary operates, you were too cowardly to confront those lies, and this is your receipt," the document continues. The main part of the letter ends with, "I told you so," before a signature that is purportedly Ramos'.

About 30 minutes before last week’s shooting, Wagner wrapped up a phone interview with Leydig, who has worked for the Capitals since 1983.
Upon returning to the laundry room at Kettler Capitals Iceplex, Leydig saw the news of the shooting on TV, and he immediately worried that Wagner was in the building. “My heart went out to everybody,” Leydig said.
Wagner wasn’t in the Capital Gazette’s Annapolis office when the shooting occurred, but five reporters who were, including Phil Davis, were among the Capital Gazette staff members who spent about 45 minutes taking photos with the Stanley Cup during Tuesday’s visit. First, thanks to @Capitals for bringing the Stanley Cup to The Capital Office.
But... “My heart goes out to the families of those who were lost and to all the employees of Capital Gazette that have to find a way to move on from this terrible tragedy,” Leydig told Wagner. Before visiting the Capital Gazette’s temporary office, Leydig brought the Cup to the Naval Academy. Later in the afternoon, Leydig brought the Cup, via boat, to Annapolis’s City Dock, where fans started lining up before 7 a.m. for a chance to snap a photo with the trophy.

Yesterday's "targeted attack" on the Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Md., left five people dead and two others injured.
The shooter was arrested and charged with five counts of first-degree murder. He was identified via facial recognition software as 38-year-old Jarrod W. Ramos. Dear reader:
I created this page to defend myself. Now I'm suing the s— out of half of AA County and making corpses of corrupt careers and corporate entities.
Hannity later denied that these comments were meant to link Waters' rhetoric to the shooting. You're about to see a raft of news stories claiming that I am responsible for inspiring the deaths of journalists. The bodies are barely cold and left-wing journalists are already exploiting these deaths to score political points against me.
It's disgusting. … I made a private, offhand troll to two hostile reporters, who breathlessly publicized it and like vermin their fellow journalists swarmed to remind the world how much they hate Milo.
Conservatives perceive more social media censorship. A new poll from the Pew Research Center found 70 percent of Americans think popular social media platforms are actively censoring certain political views. Republicans and conservatives are more likely than liberal-leaning counterparts to believe they're being censored.
Around 575 people, mostly women, were arrested yesterday at a Washington, D.C., sit-in protesting President Trump's immigration policies. The Senate has passed a farm bill that does not include the controversial food stamp provisions passed by the House. ICE agents call for the abolition of ICE.

A cardinal rule of journalism is that conclusions should not precede the facts.
Unfortunately, that principle was ignored by commentators on both sides of America’s growing political divide in the wake of the fatal shooting at a Maryland newspaper, further undermining the very profession they claim to value while adding to the incendiary rhetoric they supposedly abhor. Except, as it turned out, the shooting had nothing to do with Trump or his ongoing battle with the press. The man who allegedly killed five people and wounded others, Jarrod Ramos, reportedly had been feuding with the newspaper since 2011, when it reported he had plead guilty to charges of threatening a former high school classmate. Nor was Cox alone.
At Fox News, conservative commentator Sean Hannity appeared to lay at least some of the blame for the Maryland incident at the feet of Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Cal., who last week encouraged opponents to physically “get in the face” of Trump administration officials. “I’ve been saying now for days that something horrible was going to happen because of the rhetoric. Really, Maxine?” said Hannity, who later disputed claims he intended to link Waters to the shooting.
It was Chicago mayor Rahm Emanuel who once advised, “Never let a serious crisis go to waste. And what I mean by that it’s an opportunity to do things you think you could not do before.” In this case, the crisis in Maryland allowed people to criticize political opponents who had nothing to do with the actual events.
But even though Cox’s specific conclusion was wrong, his underlying concern was more than justified. “Fair enough to call me out for jumping to a conclusion about the motives here,” Cox tweeted later.
“(But) vilifying any category of people — journalists, migrants, conservatives, liberals, etc. — can incite violence.” His attempt at belated self-justification does not invalidate the larger point about the danger of reckless words producing tragic consequences. There have, after all, been plenty of examples of politically motivated violence, from Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh on the right to James Hodgkinson on the left, who last year targeted Republican members of Congress as they practiced for a baseball game. As Cox implied, vilifying entire groups for the sins of specific individuals displays an unwillingness or inability to make intelligent distinctions or arguments.
Trump didn’t start that trend but he has exploited and exacerbated it, and should take the lead in reversing it. He won’t, of course, and neither will zealots on the left.
In a discussion of the need for civility following the expulsion of White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders from a restaurant, former Bernie Sanders spokeswoman Symone Sanders suggested “the folks calling for ‘civility’ may need to check their privilege . . . If we were waiting for non-confrontational and civility, (blacks) might still be sitting at segregated lunch counters.”
In other words, those who perceive themselves as aggrieved or victimized should not be held to the same standards of behavior expected of others. But that sentiment of course represents just another form of condescension and bigotry.
If civil debate cannot be expected of all Americans, regardless of their politics, the toxic rhetoric will only continue to escalate. There is, clearly, no shortage of people willing to take advantage of the possible consequences; far fewer with the maturity, wisdom and courage to expect civility from themselves and their allies as vehemently as they demand it from their opponents. The fact is, such a double standard is a recipe for cultural chaos — and worse.

Suspected Capital Gazette shooter Jarrod Ramos legally bought his pump-action shotgun within the past 18 months, police said, despite a history of threatening behavior, including warnings against the Annapolis newspaper at the center of the deadly attack. Ramos allegedly stormed the Capital Gazette newsroom before 3 p.m. and opened fire with the recently purchased long gun, killing five people and injuring several more.
The 38-year-old, from Laurel, Md., was charged with a count of first-degree murder for each victim killed and was ordered to be held without bond on Friday. The shotgun used in the attack would have been easier for Ramos to obtain than other types of guns.
But even with a more strenuous background check process, experts say, Ramos’ criminal past and patterns of harassment wouldn’t have stopped him from owning a shotgun. “There’s a real gap in Maryland law in that it treats semi-automatic rifles and handguns fairly comprehensively, but not shotguns,” said David Chipman, a former ATF agent who is now a senior policy adviser for Gifford’s Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.
In order to buy a handgun in Maryland, one is required to provide state ID, be 21 or older, have a hand gun qualification license and complete a certified training course. Meanwhile, those looking to buy a long gun like the one Ramos allegedly used are required to provide state ID and be 18 or older.
If Ramos purchased his firearm through a private party, there would have been no waiting period nor background check, Chipman added. While a background check would’ve flagged someone who committed a felony – no one convicted on a felony charge is allowed to own a firearm under federal law – Ramos had only faced a misdemeanor conviction in 2011 for harassment, something that wouldn’t have prevented him from making the purchase, even if he had completed a background check.
Jarrod Ramos had a long-running dispute with the newspaper. Ramos appeared to harbor a deep resentment for the Capital Gazette’s coverage of his brush with the legal system and filed a lawsuit against former columnist Eric Hartley and then-editor Thomas Marquardt in 2012. The suit was eventually dismissed, but Ramos’ social media war against the paper dragged on. The former Gazette editor said he went to police at the time, but was told nothing could be done.
A Twitter account believed to be Ramos’ — which boasted an avatar with Hartley’s photo before being removed — regularly commented on Anne Arundel County news and often referenced the 2015 shooting at the French newspaper, Charlie Hebdo. While his ongoing menacing behavior toward the newspaper and staff was enough to cause concern, it still would not have been enough to prevent him from legally buying a weapon, Chipman said. And while he was at one point exceedingly outspoken about his feelings toward the Capital Gazette on Twitter, Ramos was far less forthcoming with law enforcement officers.
Altomare said he was not cooperating with the investigation. Chipman said there is always “something to learn with each of these horrific actions.” He encouraged lawmakers to continue to “make it difficult” for all those looking to purchase any type of firearm.

Anne Arundel County prosecutors filed an indictment Friday charging Capital Gazette shooting suspect Jarrod Ramos with 23 counts in last month’s rampage at the Annapolis newsroom. Ramos, 38, is now accused of attempted murder, assault and weapons offenses in addition to five counts of first-degree murder. If convicted of any of the murder charges, he could be sentenced to life in prison.
Ramos is accused of blasting his way into the Capital Gazette offices on June 28 with a shotgun and shooting five staff members to death. Police say they found him hiding under a desk in the newsroom after the attack.
Beyond the new charges, the indictment provided no new details about the allegations against Ramos or any evidence prosecutors have gathered. The filing of an indictment is a largely procedural step that moves the case to Circuit Court, where Ramos could stand trial.
His first court date was set for July 30. Ramos’ public defender, William Davis, declined to comment.
The Capital Gazette is owned by the Baltimore Sun Media Group. Spokeswoman Renee Mutchnik said the group’s is focused on the well being of its staff and the families of the victims.
Ramos is charged with five counts of first-degree murder in the deaths of Rob Hiaasen, 59, an assistant editor and columnist for the Capital Gazette; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who headed special publications; Gerald Fischman, 61, the editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a longtime sports writer; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant. Prosecutors say Ramos attempted to murder Capital Gazette photographer Paul W. Gillespie. Gillespie told The Baltimore Sun this week that he believes Ramos shot at him as he fled the newsroom. Ramos is also charged with assaulting Gillespie and other survivors of the attack: reporters Selene San Felice, Phil Davis and Rachael Pacella, sales consultant Janel Cooley and intern Anthony Messenger. Ramos is charged with using a firearm in commission of a crime of violence against all 11 victims.
State’s attorney Wes Adams will prosecute the case with assistants Jason Knight and Aaron L. Meyers, his office said. Ramos has been held without bail at the Jennifer Road Detention Center since his arrest.
The shootings three weeks ago shattered the routine at the Annapolis newspaper. But since then, staff have continued to produce a print edition and online updates every day, with the help of journalists from The Baltimore Sun, The New York Times, The Chicago Tribune, NPR and other news organizations.
The aid is expected to continue until September at least. A pair of funds created in honor of the victims have received donations totaling about $685,000.
Ramos lived in Laurel and worked for a time as a government IT contractor. He nurtured a grudge against The Capital since at least 2011, when a columnist wrote of his guilty plea for harassing a former high school classmate. Ramos unsuccessfully brought a defamation suit against the columnist, the newspaper’s publisher and its then-owner. He taunted its reporters and editors on Twitter.
The former classmate obtained a series of peace orders against Ramos and ultimately fled Maryland. Neither the orders nor his guilty plea prevented him from legally buying the shotgun that police say he used in the attack.
After a final ruling by the state’s top court ended the defamation case in 2016, Ramos’ public taunts and threats ceased. On the day of the shooting, police say, he filed new papers in the court case and mailed out fresh threats.
A judge sealed the legal filing at the request of prosecutors so they could use it as part of their investigation. They said it shows evidence of his involvement in the attack and his mental state at the time. As the gunfire began, survivors say, Winters confronted the attacker — an act Pacella says saved her life. Gillespie said he hid under the desk next to his, coming within a few feet of the intruder. He waited for a lull in the shooting and ran.

The man who police say killed four journalists and a staffer at The Capital Gazette barricaded the exit door so employees couldn't escape, a prosecutor said Friday.
Jarrod Ramos, 38, allegedly opened fire inside the newspaper office Thursday, killing five and injuring two others. He had a long, acrimonious history with the newspaper, including a lawsuit and years of harassment of its journalists. Ramos, a former information-technology worker for the federal government, is charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to court documents.
Ramos appeared in an Annapolis courtroom via video feed Friday. He appeared to watch attentively during the hearing but never spoke.
Ramos was ordered held without bail after Judge Thomas J. Pryal determined that Ramos remains a flight risk and a danger to the community given the severity of his actions. It was not immediately clear whether Ramos has an attorney.
Ramos has been put on suicide watch. Pryal was told about the watch during the hearing.
Pryal also was given details about the suspect. The 5-foot-10 Ramos is single, with no children.
He has lived in Maryland most of his life, including for the past 17 years in an apartment in Laurel, Maryland. Police searched his apartment late Thursday night.
"We did find evidence at the residence. I can't go into a whole bunch of details about it, but I will tell you that it's evidence showing the origination of planning, things like that," Police Chief Timothy Altomare said during a news conference Friday morning.
Ramos, armed with a pump-action shotgun, shot out the doors to The Capital Gazette and shot the victims as he encountered them, charging documents say. Anne Arundel County State’s Attorney Wes Adams said Ramos had an escape plan and possibly barricaded the back door of the newsroom to prevent victims from escaping. Responding officers found him under a desk, where he was attempting to hide, authorities say.
The front page of The Capital. "The fella was there to kill as many people as he could kill," Altomare said.
Altomare said the weapon Ramos used in the shooting was legally purchased about a year ago. Police say Ramos hid under a desk after the shooting and willingly went into custody, but has not cooperated with investigators.
"Generally active shooters are wanting to go out in a blaze of glory. I just can't get in his head.
I can't do it. I wish I could today, truly," Altomare said. Altomare said Friday that there had been a "lag" on getting finger print results.
Authorities were able to identify him using facial recognition software and "a couple other techniques," he said. Ramos had a well-documented history of harassing the paper's journalists, a feud that apparently began over a column about Ramos pleading guilty to harassing a woman.
In 2012, he filed a defamation lawsuit against the newspaper, alleging he was harmed by an article about his conviction. The suit was dismissed by a judge who wrote Ramos hadn't shown "anything that was published about you is, in fact, false." An appeals court later upheld the dismissal.
Ramos often railed against its staff members in profanity-laced tweets. Altomare said detectives spoke with legal counsel for The Capital and several members of the staff about the threats, but the newspaper did not wish to pursue criminal charges, as they feared it would exacerbate the situation.
According to a police report written in 2013, a detective didn't believe Ramos was a threat to The Capital. "I'm angry that this guy was still walking around and making all these tweets."
former Capital Editor Tom Marquardt told the News4 I-Team. "This person was prepared today to come in, this person was prepared to shoot people," Krampf said. Journalists crawled under desks and sought other hiding places in what they described as minutes of terror as they heard the gunman's footsteps and the repeated blasts of the shotgun as he moved about the newsroom.
"It was unfortunate to see such good-hearted people ultimately suffer such untimely, senseless death," shooting survivor and Capital Gazette intern Anthony Messenger told the "Today" show Friday. While Thursday's attack on The Capital Gazette in Annapolis came amid months of verbal and online attacks on the "fake news media" from politicians and others from President Donald Trump on down, there was no immediate indication the shooting was connected to that rhetoric.
The shooting prompted New York City police to tighten security at news organizations in the nation's media capital out of an abundance of caution. "Journalists, like all Americans, should be free of the fear of being violently attacked while doing their jobs," he said at the White House during an event to mark the six-month anniversary of his tax reform law. Also slain were Gerald Fischman, editorial page editor; features reporter Wendi Winters; reporter John McNamara, and sales assistant Rebecca Smith. Two other employees, identified by police as Rachael Pacella and Janet Cooley, had non-life threatening injuries and were later released from a hospital.
Hundreds of people gathered for a candlelight march Friday night at the Maryland State House in honor of the victims. Phil Davis, a courts and crime reporter for the paper, tweeted that the gunman shot out the glass door to the office and fired into the newsroom, sending people scrambling under desks.
Reporter Selene San Felice told CNN she was at her desk but ran after hearing shots, only to find a back door locked. She then watched as a colleague was shot, adding she didn't glimpse the gunman.
Survivors said the shooting — though it seemed agonizingly long — lasted mere minutes. And police said their response was swift.
Police spokesman Lt. Ryan Frashure said officers arrived within about 60 seconds and took the gunman into custody without an exchange of gunfire. Ramos attempted to hide under a desk until police found him, according to a charging document. About 170 people were then evacuated from the building, which houses other offices.
Many left with their hands up as police and other emergency vehicles arrived. Investigators remained on the cordoned-off site early Friday as they sought clues to the gunman's motives. "The shooter has not been very forthcoming, so we don't have any information yet on motive," Anne Arundel County Executive Steve Schuh said.
Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said the community was grieving the attack on its paper. "We can't keep accepting this," he said.
Buckley added that he thought there would be "some traction" after the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, and the students' March for Our Lives campaign. However, he expressed disappointment at the lack of change that has taken place since that Feb. 14 massacre.
"We shouldn't be mad all the time. ... We need to take a deep breath ... We got to stop hating one another," Buckley said.
In April, Maryland’s governor signed a “red-flag” bill into law that will allow family members or police officers to ask a judge to order someone’s firearms be removed temporarily. The law applies to all guns and goes into effect in October.
The Capital Gazette newspaper is part of Capital Gazette Communications, which also publishes the Maryland Gazette and CapitalGazette.com. It is owned by The Baltimore Sun. Late Thursday night, the paper unveiled its front page, featuring the photos of their five colleagues who had been killed just hours earlier.
The opinion page, which was left nearly blank intentionally, also featured a tribute to the victims. "Today, we are speechless. This page is intentionally left blank today to commemorate the victims of Thursday's shooting at our office," the page read.
The Associated Press Media Editors promised to help Capital Gazette journalists as they recover. An APME statement called on newspapers nationwide to help the paper continue its community coverage and fight for freedom of the press. The Associated Press contributed to this report.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. (WBFF) -
The man charged with a shooting spree that left five members of the Capital Gazette newspaper dead will stand trial Jan. 15. Jarrod Ramos of Laurel made his first appearance in Anne Arundel County Circuit Court Monday during a brief hearing.
County State's Attorney Wes Adams says he intends to seek a sentence of life without parole. Ramos has pleaded not guilty to multiple charges, including five counts of first degree murder. But his attorneys have until Oct. 24 to consider whether to enter a revised plea of not criminally responsible.
Colin Starger, a law professor at the University of Baltimore, is not connected to the case. But he says any decision on whether a defendant pleads not criminally responsible is based on a simple premise.
"Do you understand what's happening to you? Do you understand the nature of the charges against you, and can you help your lawyers?
If you can't do that, you're incompetent to stand trial. The way to prove that is to show that you suffer from a serious mental disorder, that you are insane or schizophrenic," explained Starger. Legal experts say that would usually require testimony confirming such a diagnosis from a team of psychiatrists. A motions hearing in the Ramos case is scheduled for mid-December.

A gunman blasted his way into the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis with a shotgun Thursday afternoon, killing five people, authorities said.
Journalists dived under their desks and pleaded for help on social media. One reporter described the scene as a “war zone.” A photographer said he jumped over a dead colleague and fled for his life.
The victims were identified as Rob Hiaasen, 59, a former feature writer for The Baltimore Sun who joined the Capital Gazette in 2010 as an assistant editor and columnist; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who headed special publications; Gerald Fischman, 61, the editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a staff writer who had covered high school, college and professional sports for decades; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant hired in November. Two others were injured in the attack that began about 2:40 p.m. at the Capital Gazette offices at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis.
Police took a suspect into custody soon after the shootings. He was identified as Jarrod W. Ramos, a 38-year-old Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against the paper. Ramos was charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to online court records.
He did not have an attorney listed; a bail review hearing is scheduled for 10:30 a.m. Friday in Annapolis. Local, state and federal law enforcement officials cordoned off the Laurel apartment complex listed as the address for Ramos Thursday evening.
Ramos’ dispute with the Capital Gazette began in July 2011 when a columnist wrote about a criminal harassment case against him. He brought a defamation suit against the columnist and the organization’s editor and publisher.
A court ruled in the Capital Gazette’s favor, and an appeals court upheld the ruling. Neither the columnist, Eric Hartley, nor the editor and publisher, Thomas Marquardt, are still employed by the Capital Gazette. They were not present during the shootings. Police said the suspect used “smoke grenades” in the attack.
They said 170 people were inside at the time. The Capital Gazette is owned by The Baltimore Sun.
Phil Davis, a Capital crime reporter who was in the building at the time of the shooting, said multiple people were shot as he and others hid under their desks. He said there was a single male gunman. Davis said he and others were hiding under their desks when the shooter stopped firing.
Then police arrived and surrounded the shooter. Photographer Paul Gillespie had finished editing photos from one assignment and was preparing for the next when he heard shots behind him and the newsroom’s glass doors shatter.
Gillespie said he heard one colleague scream “No!,” then a shot. Then another colleague’s voice, and another shot.
He could hear the gunman approaching his hiding place. “I kept thinking, ‘I can’t believe I’m going to die.
I can’t believe this.’ ” Gillespie said. But the gunman passed him, he said, and continued to shoot.
Eventually, there was a lull in the shots. Gillespie stood and ran for the exit, through the shattered glass, jumping over the body of a colleague he believed was dead as another shot rang out in his direction. He ran to a nearby bank and screamed for people to call the cops.
Authorities said police responded to the scene within a minute of the shooting. “If they were not there as quickly as they were, it could have been a lot worse," Annapolis Mayor Gavin Buckley said.
Officials at the Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore confirmed that the hospital was treating at least one victim. County Executive Steve Schuh said others were being treated at Anne Arundel Medical Center. Loren Farquhar, a medical center spokeswoman, said the hospital received two patients, both with minor injuries not from gunfire.
The injured employees were identified as Rachael Pacella, a reporter who covers education and the Naval Academy, and Janel Cooley, a sales representative who covers downtown Annapolis. Both were treated and released.
A spokeswoman for the Baltimore Sun Media Group said the company was “deeply saddened” by the shooting. President Donald Trump wrote on Twitter that he had been briefed on the shooting.
Josh McKerrow, a Capital Gazette photographer for 14 years, started his day Thursday covering Induction Day at the Naval Academy at sunrise. He was driving home to celebrate his daughter’s birthday when Capital editor Rick Hutzell called.
“He said he’d heard there had been a shooting, and he couldn't get in touch with anyone in the newsroom,” McKerrow said. Then he heard sirens.
Police in SWAT gear carrying assault rifles cordoned off the area around the newsroom and closed Bestgate Road. Outside the police tape, McKerrow and reporter Chase Cook called and texted friends and co-workers in search of answers.
He praised his colleagues’ work. The Capital Gazette is one of 30 tenants in the building. Five others share the first floor with The Capital.
They include accountants, lawyers, financial and medical offices. The newspaper has been in the building since 2015, according to CoStar, a real estate information company.
They have 5,000 square feet of offices. Aaron Smith and Randall Fisher of the Fisher Law Office were on the fourth floor at the time of the shooting, but they didn't hear or see anything. They learned of the assault when a colleague texted Smith.
They flipped a desk over in front of the door to the office and stayed there until SWAT officers arrived. They then walked out of the building with their hands on their heads, like everyone else in the building, Fisher said.
Rayne Foster of Frost and Associates LLC said a plainclothes officer entered her fourth-floor office suite and told the receptionist to lock the doors because there was an active shooter. She quickly gathered people together.
Some employees removed high heels to prepare to flee the building. Others hid.
One pulled two handguns out of his desk drawer for self-defense. More police arrived, and they all began filing out of the office. Foster said she and her employees tried to hold hands to comfort each other, but were told by police to keep their hands in the air.
“You see it on the news,” Foster said, “and you think, ‘These poor people.’ You wonder how they feel. Baltimore Sun reporters Scott Dance, Doug Donovan, Tim Prudente, Justin Fenton, Erin Cox, Jessica Anderson and Meredith Cohn and the Associated Press contributed to this article.

ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) — The man accused of killing five people at a Maryland newspaper was investigated five years ago for a barrage of menacing tweets against staff members, but a detective concluded he was no threat, and the paper didn’t want to press charges for fear of inflaming the situation, according to a police report released Friday.
The 2013 police report added to the picture emerging of Jarrod W. Ramos, 38, as the former information-technology employee with a longtime grudge against The Capital of Annapolis was charged with five counts of first-degree murder in one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history. Authorities said Ramos barricaded the rear exit of the office to prevent anyone from escaping and methodically blasted his way through the newsroom Thursday with a 12-gauge pump-action shotgun, gunning down one victim trying to slip out the back. Three editors, a reporter and a sales assistant were killed.
“The fellow was there to kill as many people as he could,” Anne Arundel County Police Chief Timothy Altomare said. Ramos, clean-shaven with long hair past his shoulders, was denied bail in a brief court appearance he attended by video, watching attentively but saying nothing. Authorities said he was “uncooperative” with interrogators. He was placed on a suicide watch in jail. His public defenders had no comment.
The charges carry a maximum penalty of life without parole. Maryland has no death penalty.
The bloodshed initially stirred fears that the recent surge of political attacks on the “fake news media” had exploded into violence. But by all accounts, Ramos had a specific, longstanding grievance against the paper. Ramos had filed a defamation lawsuit against the paper in 2012 after it ran an article about him pleading guilty to harassing a woman. A judge later threw it out as groundless.
Ramos had repeatedly targeted staffers with angry, profanity-laced tweets. “There’s clearly a history there,” the police chief said. Ramos launched so many social media attacks that retired publisher Tom Marquardt called police in 2013. Altomare disclosed Friday that a detective investigated those concerns, holding a conference call with an attorney for the publishing company, a former correspondent and the paper’s publisher. Marquardt, the former publisher, said he talked with the newspaper’s attorneys about seeking a restraining order but didn’t because he and others thought it could provoke Ramos into something worse. “We decided to take the course of laying low,” he said Friday.
Then Ramos “went silent” for more than two years, Marquardt said. The police chief said some new posts went up just before the killings but authorities didn’t know about them until afterward.
Few details were released on Ramos, other than that he is single, has no children and lives in an apartment in Laurel, Maryland. He was employed by an IT contractor for the U.S. Labor Department’s Bureau of Labor Statistics from 2007 to 2014, a department spokesman said. The rampage began with a shotgun blast that shattered the glass entrance to the open newsroom. Ramos carefully planned the attack, using “a tactical approach in hunting down and shooting the innocent people,” prosecutor Wes Adams said. He said the gunman had an escape plan, too, but would not elaborate.
Journalists crawled under desks and sought other hiding places, describing agonizing minutes of terror as they heard the gunman’s footsteps and the repeated blasts. “I was curled up, trying not to breathe, trying not to make a sound, and he shot people all around me,” photographer Paul Gillespie, who dove beneath a desk, told The Baltimore Sun, owner of the Annapolis paper. Gillespie said he heard a colleague scream, “No!”
A gunshot blast followed. He heard another co-worker’s voice, then another shot.
Some 300 officers arrived and began to corner Ramos within two minutes, a rapid response that “without question” saved lives, Altomare said. Ramos was hiding under a desk and did not exchange fire with police. Ramos was identified with the help of facial recognition technology because of what the police chief said was a “lag” in getting results from the computer system used to analyze fingerprints.
Police denied news reports that Ramos had mutilated his fingertips to thwart his identification. Two officials told The Associated Press on Thursday night, based on preliminary information, that the gunman may have deliberately damaged his fingers. The chief said Ramos’ shotgun was legally purchased about a year ago despite his guilty plea in the harassment case.
He also carried smoke grenades, authorities said. Investigators are reviewing Ramos’ social media postings and searched his apartment, where Altomare said they found evidence of the planning of the attack. The chief would not give details.
Those killed included Rob Hiaasen, 59, the paper’s assistant managing editor and brother of novelist Carl Hiaasen. Also slain were editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, special projects editor Wendi Winters, reporter John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith.
The city of Annapolis announced a vigil for the victims Friday night at a public square near the State House. Associated Press writers Eric Tucker in Washington; Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles; Michael Kunzelman in Annapolis; and Sarah Rankin and Denise Lavoie in Richmond, Va., contributed to this story, as did the AP News Research Center in New York.

When a man with a shotgun shattered the glass door of the Capital Gazette newspaper office and began to shoot, Wendi Winters stood up. Weeks before the June 28 attack in Annapolis, Winters had taken active shooter training at her church, where a police officer presented the options: Run if you can run.
Hide if you can hide. Fight only if you must.
Winters fought. Janel Cooley, a survivor of the shooting that killed Winters and four others, spoke about her experience for the first time in an interview with The Capital. She said she watched from under her desk as the 20-year newspaper veteran rose to meet her attacker. Winters charged forward holding a trash can and recycling bin, said Cooley, a sales consultant.
Winters shouted something like, “No! You stop that!” or “You get out of here!” like she was warding off an unwanted dog.
Winters’ colleagues agree she saved their lives. Of the 11 employees in the office during the attack, six survived. But the training shouldn’t get all the credit — not according to those who knew Winters. Winters once gave fellow reporter Rachael Pacella the shirt off her back when Pacella spilled gasoline on her clothes before an important interview.
She checked in on photojournalist Paul W. Gillespie incessantly after his brother died. Intern Anthony Messenger, who started at The Capital weeks before the attack, said Winters always tried to make him feel comfortable. “She’s got four kids — she’s not going to take it from anyone,” he said. When Cooley heard the wall-shaking bang that began the attack, she was the only sales representative in the office. She was about to leave for a meeting in Baltimore, wrapping up a call with a client.
Most of the sales staff had already left for their meetings. She saw an intruder with a gun and dropped to the floor, where she heard Winters confront the shooter and heard the weapon fire. After the attacker passed her, Cooley was able to run from her hiding spot and out of the building. Gillespie heard Winters yell a defiant “No!” from his hiding place a few steps away. Reporters Phil Davis and Pacella didn’t see Winters charge, but they saw her body in the newsroom walkway, not at her usual seat. Messenger saw the same.
The gunman killed Winters and four others — editor Rob Hiaasen, editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, editor and sports writer John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith. Jarrod Ramos, a man with a longtime grudge against the paper, has been charged in their deaths. Anne Arundel County Police Lt. Ryan Frashure declined to comment on Winters’ actions during shooting, citing the ongoing investigation. Cpl. Jim Shiloh told trainees at the Unitarian Universalist session Winters attended that creating a distraction could buy time for others.
Police use the “run, hide, fight” training nationwide, said Frashure, a police spokesman. The Anne Arundel County Police Department began sharing active shooter training on Facebook after the San Bernardino shooting on Dec. 2, 2015. If a threat is imminent and people are dying, Frashure said, anything — a fire extinguisher, a stapler, a trash can — can be used as a deterrent. Winters bought time for Pacella, Davis and Messenger, they said, who were at their desks toward the back of the newsroom when the shooting started.
Pacella hid under her desk. Messenger grabbed his keys and headed for the back door, which was barricaded, and then hid. Davis looked toward the crashing glass, then hit the floor. Davis has a snapshot in his mind of everyone where they were when the gunman blasted in, he said.
Winters was originally at her desk. Messenger said he remembers seeing Winters there with a puzzled look on her face as the attack began. As Pacella and Davis hid, they heard the same shots Cooley did. Then there was a pause.
They thought it was over. The pause, Davis said, could have been Winters intervening. It gave Pacella time to get up from under her desk, run for the back door and then hide between filing cabinets.

This website stores data such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as marketing, personalization, and analytics. By remaining on this website, you indicate your consent.

The first time Gerald Fischman applied for a job at The Capital, the editor passed him over.
Fischman’s personality was so quiet and withdrawn that it hid the brilliant mind, wry wit and “wicked pen” that his colleagues would treasure. For more than 25 years, Fischman was the conscience and voice of the Annapolis news organization, writing scathing, insightful and always exacting editorials about the community. He was the guardian against libel, the arbiter of taste and a peculiar and endearing figure in a newsroom full of characters. “He had ability that, I thought, deserved a higher calling than The Capital,” longtime editor and publisher Tom Marquardt said. Fischman, 61, had worked at the paper since 1992.
His quirky, low-key demeanor belied a biting sense of humor that charmed his colleagues. He’d huddle at his desk behind piles of books in a buttoned down V-neck cardigan that he wore regardless of the season. Reporters, seeing Fischman’s name scrawled on the security log for a midnight to 5 a.m. shift, marveled at the hours he’d keep for no obvious deadline reason.
They would arrive the next morning to find printouts on their desks with post-it notes saying that they were editorials he had written and asking them to check his facts. Former Capital Gazette reporter Joshua Stewart said he kept every post-it note Fischman left on his desk. At the end of Stewart’s five years at the paper, his stack of Fischman’s identical post-its was three-quarters of an inch high.
Fischman married late in life. He announced to the newsroom that he had met an opera singer from Mongolia online.
A conversation with Fischman could turn in unexpected directions as he drew on a peculiarly curated knowledge of the world. “He had an encyclopedia knowledge of everything from the philosophy to who knows what,” said Brian Henley, a retired editor. Anne Arundel County and Annapolis politicians were impressed and intrigued by Fischman. He also could set local politicians on edge. “Gerald was a phenomenally smart man,” former two-term Anne Arundel County Councilman Jamie Benoit said.
Former features editor Kathy Flynn said Fischman used a hand-held crowd counter to count the number of words he’d written in an editorial. Colleagues would affectionately toy with Fischman’s penchant for precision.
And in his workmanlike approach to the job, Fischman never joined in the traditional newsroom grousing about the hours, the conditions, the deterioration of the news business, management, or even having to write an editorial about Christmas every year, even though he was Jewish. Fischman, a 1979 graduate of the University of Maryland’s journalism school, was honored annually with regional writing awards. At an awards event shortly after Fischman’s marriage, Stewart and another reporter asked him how he met his wife.
“I typed ‘Mongolian opera singer’ into a dating site,” he deadpanned. And then he had nothing more to say about it.

But he was wrong.
His wryly observant writing style and his generous mentoring of young journalists assured him of roles in several newsrooms, from The Baltimore Sun to, most recently, the Capital Gazette in Annapolis, where he was one of five staff members shot to death Thursday. Hiaasen, 59, celebrated his 33rd wedding anniversary last week with Maria Hiaasen, a former journalist who teaches English at Dulaney High School. Thursday was her 58th birthday. The couple married after a whirlwind courtship five months after their first date.
The Timonium man became known as “Big Rob” during the high school years of their children, Ben, 29, an attorney in Towson; Samantha, 27, an assistant manager of the Barnes & Noble at the Inner Harbor; and Hannah, 26, an artist who works at a furnishings store in New York, Maria Hiaasen said. A native of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Hiaasen joined The Baltimore Sun as a features writer in 1993. He joined the Capital as an assistant editor in 2010 and wrote a column on Sundays.
As a writer, he was drawn to quirky stories, and had a unique way of telling them, with wry asides and internal and imagined dialogues. The list included “Fire and Rain,” of course.
Hiaasen was known for his love of James Taylor. He would tell a story about nearly hyperventilating during an interview with the singer-songwriter. But he had a serious side as well, and earlier this year the Maryland, Delaware, District of Columbia Press Association awarded him first place in a feature column category for a piece about realizing only as a grownup that the Fort Lauderdale beach at which he spent many a happy childhood day was segregated.
“Is there a statute of limitations on childhood naivete? On adult un-education?”
Hiaasen asked. He went on to detail “wade-in” protests staged by the NAACP and, in other towns, the firebombing of the home of civil rights activists, lynching and other violence — none of which he knew about as he was growing up. “Little did I know,” he concluded, sadly.
Current and former co-workers remembered him as a lanky, endearingly goofy storyteller, committed to both the reporting and narrative writing ends of his profession. “He could be deadly serious about doing investigative reporting, but he also had a soft side,” said Tom Marquardt, former editor and publisher of the Capital Gazette. “He had a special insight into people’s lives and their character.
Marquardt said Hiaasen was hired to add a more human dimension to news coverage, and indeed he became known for stories about people and community life. As someone who lived a “multi-faceted life,” Hiaasen was particularly helpful to less experienced journalists. “He was a great mentor to younger reporters,” he said.
Tina Reed, a former Capital reporter, was one of those reporters. Reed, who now works at FierceHealthcare, an industry publication, remembers how Hiaasen shepherded “Saving Melissa,” a narrative series she wrote in 2013 about a young cancer patient who became paralyzed and fought to regain mobility. As with many reporters on small newspapers, she didn’t think she had the time to spend on such an ambitious project, but Hiaasen pressed and encouraged her.
It was a sensibility he brought to his own writing. Even when he wrote humorously, it was with gentleness more than snark. He connected with his subjects, especially the downtrodden, and told their stories with immense empathy.
He wrote extensively about Kirk Bloodworth, the Eastern Shore man who was wrongly convicted of murdering a 9-year-old girl and became the first death row inmate in the United States to be exonerated by DNA evidence. “Life after the death penalty has been traumatic for Bloodsworth, who will turn 40 on Halloween,” Hiaasen wrote in July 2000.
“His seven years of freedom have been streaked with bouts of drinking, job failures and humiliations, romantic disappointments, depression and festering self-doubt. “It's a long way back from the place he was and who he was: a dead man walking.
He loved to prowl Fells Point in search of oddball stories, such as the “privy hunter” who scoured the waterfront for 19th-century artifacts, or the saga of a shipwrecked houseboat that was finally towed away after two unsightly years, only for another equally disabled boat to mysteriously turn up on a nearby piling. He wrote about the passing of a homeless man in the neighborhood.
The man would rant incoherently and scare the tourists, but after his death, residents and business owners made sure he had a proper burial. Friends were surprised that someone who loved to write as much as Hiaasen turned to editing.
But it turned out he had a gift of working with new reporters and drawing them into the profession he loved. “He was so happy working with young journalists,” Reimer said.
“He wanted to create a newsroom where everyone was growing. Hiaasen taught a newswriting class in the spring at the University of Maryland’s
Philip Merrill College of Journalism. Hiaasen was a Knight Journalism Fellow at Stanford University. He graduated from the University of Florida and worked at The Palm Beach Post, where the American Association of Sunday and Features Editors awarded him first place in general feature writing for a 1992 story about the death of a boy.
He also worked at radio stations throughout the South. In addition to his wife and three children, Hiaasen is survived by three older siblings, Carl, the novelist and Miami Herald columnist, Judy and Barb.
Rob Hiaasen was always proud of his famous brother, his wife said. He once wrote a story for The Sun in which he spoke to and about other brothers of the famous, including Billy Ripken, Cal’s brother.

John McNamara was toiling as a news copy editor at the Capital Gazette when he left to pursue his dream: sports reporting.
He honed his skills at the Prince George’s Journal, a competitor to the Annapolis news organization. Within a few years, the Capital Gazette hired him back.
He would work there for nearly 24 years. McNamara, 56, was one of five staff members who was shot to death at the Capital Gazette on Thursday.
McNamara, who went by “Mac,” was remembered by his colleagues for his flexibility, concise writing and extensive knowledge of regional sports. He had a razor wit that came in bursts like a social media post, one fellow reporter said.
Jeff Barker, a Baltimore Sun reporter, covered University of Maryland sports at the same time as McNamara. He was known for one-liners about sports or politics, Barker said.
He was appropriately skeptical of the coaches and other authority figures he covered. He loved covering sports.
During the 2010 NCAA basketball tournament, he took a long walk around Spokane, Wash., with Gary Williams, the University of Maryland coach. It was just John and Gary, and John remarked later how great a job he had to be able to spend one-on-one time with a future Hall of Fame coach.
McNamara enjoyed playing sports as much as he enjoyed writing about them, Jackson said. He was one of a group who played basketball on Thursdays at the Annapolis Recreation Center.
“He had this sneaky left-handed shot,” said Jackson, now an editor at The Baltimore Sun. McNamara also worked at The Herald-Mail in Hagerstown. The University of Maryland graduate wrote two books about athletics at his alma mater.
“The University of Maryland Football Vault: The History Of The Terrapins,” tracked Maryland football from its first game in 1892 through the 2008 season. “Cole Classics!
Maryland Basketball's Leading Men and Moments” told the story of Terrapin basketball. He was working on a book about great basketball players raised in the Washington area when he died, Barker said.
David Elfin co-wrote Cole Classics. He met McNamara when they were both part-time sports reporters at The Washington Post. They once found themselves bunking together in a hotel room in Thomas Circle, then the “center of prostitution” in Washington, said Elfin.
They were covering a massive blizzard that swept through the region and canceled every game in the region — and they bonded. “He was an old-school journalist, bulldog, a great reporter and relentless,” Elfin said.
He loved rock and folk music and once joked that he wasn’t embarrassed to be one of the only men at an Indigo Girls concert, Barker said. You could often catch McNamara at the movies. In a recent Facebook post, he gave thumbs-up reviews on documentaries about Mr. Rogers and Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg.
He was married to Andrea Chamblee, whom he met while attending the University of Maryland. They met at a bar after he covered a football game. McNamara was one of seven children who grew up in a Catholic family in Bethesda, but he and his wife did not have children. They were devoted to each other.
McNamara recently returned to covering news as an editor and reporter at the Bowie Blade-News and the Crofton-West County Gazette. He wrote features and community news.
But his social media sites show that sports was still his first true love. He recently interviewed former Washington Bullets general manager Bob Ferry for the Bowie-Blade News. Baltimore Sun reporter Lauren Lumpkin contributed to this article.

Rebecca Smith, a sales assistant at The Capital Gazette, was one of the victims when an active shooter targeted the newsroom this afternoon in Annapolis, Md.
Rebecca Smith was a recent hire at the Capital Gazette but had already proved herself a valuable asset. Smith, 34, a sales assistant, worked in the news organization’s office in Annapolis.
She was one of the five people who were shot and killed Thursday afternoon. Her boss, Capital Gazette advertising director Marty Padden, said she made sure the sales office ran smoothly. Padden said Smith joined the Capital Gazette after working in marketing for a health care organization.
She grew up in the Baltimore area and once told Padden she was a “first-class” field hockey player in high school. She lived in eastern Baltimore County with her fiance. She posted dozen of photos — one showing the smiling couple in formal wear at a wedding, one making silly faces in Ravens gear, another smiling with friends on the lawn at Merriweather Post Pavilion.
“I woke up like this,” she quipped. In many pictures, Smith posed with pictures with her fiance’s daughter.
Kelli Peleska, who played softball with Smith’s fiance, said she always attended games and traveled to tournaments with the team. “She was the absolute most beautiful person.

Wendi Winters spent a dozen years writing her way into the Capital Gazette newsroom. After a career in fashion and public relations in New York City, the 65-year-old mother of four moved to Maryland 20 years ago and began stringing for the Annapolis news organization.
She soon built a reputation as a prolific freelance reporter and well-known community resource. The Edgewater woman was one of five Capital Gazette staff members killed in the shootings Thursday. Her daughter Winters Geimer said the family was gathering late Thursday.
Leslie Hunt, a former Capital Gazette community news editor, said Winters had a talent for connecting with the community and documenting people’s achievements and important local events. Winters covered all sorts of local news at the Capital Gazette, Hunt said, and wrote columns for the Home of the Week, Teen of the Week and Around Broadneck features.
She joined the staff full-time in May 2013 after more than a decade writing articles for hire. Born in a Naval hospital in Coronado, Calif., Winters always called New York home, her daughter said.
Winters studied fashion design at Virginia Commonwealth University, she wrote in her Facebook profile. She highlighted her experience in fashion retail, marketing, advertising and design. For seven years, she ran her own boutique company in New York that she described online as specializing in runway shows and other fashion events.
Winters was a prolific and dependable writer, Flynn said. People in the community came to know her, and pitched her news stories about their lives and accomplishments.
Among friends, Winters was known for her detailed Christmas letters. The letters — which she often delivered with a baked treat — would chronicle her previous year in a month-by-month breakdown of her family’s experiences.
“You would be completely updated about every aspect of her life,” Flynn said, and laughed. Friends said Winters came from a strong, pro-military family.
She helped the Naval Academy class of 1940 organize and stay connected over recent years. She compiled information from surveys of graduates in Anne Arundel County.
Winters also wrote for news services and a weekly newspaper in Manhattan. She organized the annual P.R. Bazaar, at which public relations professionals could meet reporters and learn how to pitch stories.
She said in a LinkedIn profile that she wrote more than 250 articles each year. Her work earned her journalism and public relations awards.
In her last tweet to her 1,073 followers on Sunday, she promoted a Capital Gazette video about a community mural project. “Spreading beauty one artwork at a time today ...” she wrote. “That would be Wendi,” Flynn said. Baltimore Sun reporter Pamela Wood contributed to this article.

Thursday’s shooting at the Capital Gazette newsroom in Annapolis was a rare fatal attack against journalists in the U.S. — all the more shocking for the number of victims involved. The only other incident since 1992 in which more than one journalist has been killed happened in 2015, when two television journalists were fatally shot during a live broadcast, according to data compiled by the Committee to Protect Journalists. Five people were killed and several others were injured in the shooting at the Capital, police said.
Sources identified the gunman as Jarrod Ramos, a Laurel man in a long-standing feud with the newspaper. Violence against reporters and editors is rare in the United States — especially compared with other nations — but press freedom groups have been warning in recent years of mounting hostility and threats to journalists. In the 2015 incident, a TV reporter and a photographer were fatally shot on air by a former colleague. Adam Ward and Alison Parker of WDBJ7 were reporting live from a mall in Virginia when the gunman approached them and opened fire. In 2007, a newspaper reporter was killed in Oakland over his reporting on the financial ties of a bakery that was a hub for community activism. Chauncey Bailey was the editor of several weekly newspapers.
In 2001, Robert Stevens, a photo editor at the tabloid newspaper The Sun in Boca Raton, Fla., was killed by anthrax. It was the same strain that the FBI believes researcher Bruce Ivins sent through the mail.
William Biggart, a free-lance photographer, was killed after dashing to the scene of the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center in New York. In 1993, Dona St. Plite, a Haitian-born reporter at WKAT in Miami, was killed at a benefit for the family of another reporter who had been murdered. In 1992, Manuel de Dios Unanue, a Cuban-American editor, was killed as part of what police believe was a conspiracy to silence his reporting on drug dealing and money laundering. The Committee to Protect Journalists found that between 1976 and 1993, 12 reporters had been killed in the United States — most immigrants working in languages other than English. Local media outlets in Baltimore have also been the scenes of violence in recent years.
In 2014, a man claiming to be God drove a stolen truck in the offices of the WMAR television station in Baltimore. The man barricaded himself inside the building, shutting the station down, and was eventually taken into custody. In 2016, a man wearing an animal costume and what appeared to be an explosive belt, but was actually chocolate bars, got into a standoff at the newsroom of Fox45. He was shot by police but survived.

A Laurel man with a long-standing grudge against The Capital is being held as the suspect in the deadly shooting Thursday at the Annapolis newspaper, according to law enforcement sources. Jarrod W. Ramos, 38, was charged with five counts of first-degree murder, according to online court records. He did not have an attorney listed; a bail review hearing is scheduled for 10:30 a.m. Friday in Annapolis.
Police and federal agents gathered late Thursday outside Ramos’ address. Rich McLaughlin, chief of the Laurel police department, said his officers were there as part of the investigation into the shooting at the newspaper, and other sources identified Ramos as the suspect.
In 2012, Ramos filed a defamation lawsuit against the paper and a columnist over a July 2011 article that covered a criminal harassment charge against him. He brought the suit against then-columnist Eric Hartley, naming Capital Gazette Communications and Thomas Marquardt, the paper’s former editor and publisher, as defendants. A Twitter page in Ramos’ name on Thursday featured Hartley’s picture as its avatar, and a banner image included photographs of Marquardt and The Capital’s former owner, Philip Merrill. The account regularly commented on Anne Arundel County news and referred to a deadly shooting at the French newspaper Charlie Hebdo in 2015.
Marquardt said he wasn’t surprised to hear Ramos identified as the alleged gunman, saying he started harassing the paper and its staff shortly after the 2011 article. The harassment escalated for years with online threats, Marquardt said.
Marquardt said he called the Anne Arundel County police about Ramos in 2013, but nothing came of it. He consulted the paper's lawyers about filing a restraining order, but decided against it. “I remember telling our attorneys, 'This is a guy who is going to come in and shoot us,’ ” he said.
Ramos’ aunt Vielka Ramos, 59, said she couldn’t believe he was the suspected gunman. She said her nephew had a good childhood, growing up in Severn, and attended Arundel High School. “He was very intelligent.
He would try to communicate with people but he was a loner,” she said. After his grandmother died several years ago, she said, he stopped attending family gatherings. She had not talked to him in several years, the aunt said.
“He was distant from the family. He just wasn’t close to anybody,” she said.
In the 2011 column about the harassment charge, Hartley identified Jarrod Ramos as a U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics employee with no previous criminal record and a degree in computer engineering. The harassment case centered on an online relationship Ramos tried to kindle with a former high school classmate. Hartley’s column said Ramos sent a friend request on Facebook to the woman, and the experience turned into a “yearlong nightmare.”
Ramos allegedly wrote the woman and said she was the only person who ever said hello to him or was nice to him in school. Ramos then allegedly called her vulgar names and told her to kill herself, Hartley wrote. He allegedly emailed the bank where she worked to get her fired.
Ramos pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor harassment charge, receiving probation from a judge who called his behavior “rather bizarre,” the column said. Ramos’ subsequent defamation suit against The Capital worked its way through the Maryland courts until 2015, when the state’s second-highest court upheld a ruling in favor of the newspaper. Baltimore Sun reporters Jessica Anderson, Erin Cox and Yvonne Wenger contributed to this article.

The 1997 senior yearbook for Arundel High School is titled “After All is Said and Done.” In it, smiling high school students attend drama club or pose for photos.
“You know it and I know it — this class, this school, this whole damn place is full of s(---). Anyways, only a few more hours till it’s out of our lives forever.
I hope life gets better once we’re gone. I’m sure it will,” Jarrod Ramos purportedly wrote in the back of the 1997 yearbook. He graduated from Arundel High in 1997. The signature is similar to one on a document formatted like a court record sent 21 years later to The Capital’s former lawyer, expressing the “objective of killing every person present” at 888 Bestgate Road in Annapolis.
For Ramos, after all was said and done, five people would be dead and he would be charged with five counts of first-degree murder. Police found and arrested Ramos, a Laurel resident, in the aftermath of a mass shooting that killed five staff members of The Capital. Jarrod Warren Ramos was denied bail in his first appearance in court since being charged with first-degree murder.
Staff members John McNamara, 56; Gerald Fischman, 61; Wendi Winters, 65; Rebecca Smith, 34; and Rob Hiaasen, 59, died June 28 after a gunman attacked the newsroom with a pump-action shotgun. Winters charged him.
Others tried the back door, but it was barricaded in a targeted attack, police said. Six of 11 people present in the room survived.
Ramos’ note in the yearbook seems to show a man already fed up with the world around him. Based on his own words, conversations with people who knew him, people who could barely remember him, his social media accounts, court records and the people he scared, Ramos was a calculated and manipulative loner who became angry when things didn’t go his way. Those afflicted by him were convinced he would one day hurt someone.
Ramos wasn’t well-known in high school, according to some of his classmates. In a private Facebook group full of 1997 alumni, former classmates went back and forth trying to remember his presence. One student, who wished to remain anonymous but gave The Capital his yearbook, said he would sit with Ramos during lunch while they were in 10th grade.
They sat together for about a semester. And, like many interactions with Ramos, it was relatively nondescript. The student didn’t talk with Ramos after high school.
They didn’t exchange phone numbers. He didn’t think about Ramos until his name flashed across news reports: Five dead.
Jarrod Ramos apprehended. Ramos’ picture only appears in the 1997 senior yearbook once.
On page 128, Ramos is smiling while wearing an overlaid tuxedo — the kind that is draped over someone during a school photo shoot. He is bespectacled with long hair parted down the middle.
He has a slight mustache and goatee. Contrast this with his booking photo: long, unkempt hair, red splotches on his nose and a dead stare. During his bail bond hearing, he didn’t speak, choosing to stare straight ahead.
Blinking. Ramos’ attorney declined a request to speak with him.
Jenny Johnson, who was a year ahead of Ramos, remembers students making fun of his glasses. Another time someone threw chewing gum into his long hair, she said. “People treated him like dirt,” Johnson said.
Rachel Carey — another 1997 Arundel High School graduate — said she didn’t speak to Ramos, and it was similar for many of the other students. She helps run the class Facebook page, and many of the contributors there were shocked about the events and struggled to even remember Ramos.
They are looking for ways to contribute and help those harmed by Ramos’ actions, Carey said. The school’s former principal, William Myers, also doesn’t remember Ramos.
Myers started as principal in 1997. He took over for Midgie Sledge, who could not be reached for comment.
Teachers reached by The Capital couldn’t remember him or didn’t have him in their classrooms. Even in 1997, there were some tools to intervene with students who were troubled or in distress, Myers said. Not much is known about Ramos after high school.
Through a 2011 story about his harassment case, Ramos was a U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics employee with no previous criminal record and a degree in computer engineering. During high school, he earned an internship with the National Security Agency, a position that would have required a top secret security clearance, NSA spokesman Christopher Augustine said. Most recently Ramos was hired in 2013 to a government contract job that also required a clearance, according to court records.
In 1997, he enrolled at Capitol College, a small school in Laurel focused on information technology. He graduated in 2006 with a Bachelor of Science degree in computer engineering.
He played chess competitively from 1999 until 2003, according to the U.S. Chess Federation. In 2003, he finished third in his division at the Maryland Open.
His U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics job began in 2007 and he maintained contracted IT jobs until 2014. It isn’t clear if Ramos worked since 2014.
In court filings, he complained his legal troubles cost him a job opportunity. A Bureau of Labor Statistics official emailed the contractor who oversaw Ramos in 2014, asking that he be removed from his post over “suitability concerns.” Like many other people who crossed paths with him, Ramos took the company to court.
He won the case and was repaid a signing bonus, but the company told Ramos it had no other opportunities for him. He lost his job.
Much has been made about Ramos’ harassment of a former high school student. In an extended phone interview with The Capital, she detailed how Ramos was calculating and manipulative. She spoke on the condition that The Capital not use her name, which has been changed since high school.
According to emails reviewed by The Capital, Ramos was trying to convince his former classmate it was her fault he was mad and angry. He would bounce between seeking help and complaining she wasn’t opening herself up to him. Ramos used his old Capitol College email address.
He would twist the nature of the conversation to make himself look like the victim, she said. Eventually, the woman would tell Ramos to stop contacting her. He did not like that.
She ultimately sought peace orders against Ramos, who eventually plead guilty to a harassment charge. After the peace order was awarded, Ramos fought to have his criminal record expunged. And while the peace orders were active, she said he would look for ways to antagonize her without contacting her directly, such as mentioning her on Twitter but not tagging her in the message.
Attorney Jack Hyatt said peace orders are tools used to prevent contact between people. He said Ramos’ case — which ended in the death of five people — was unusual.
He advises his clients to stay away when a peace order is granted and most of the time they oblige. But it also doesn’t deprive someone of free speech.
An example he gave is someone pointing a gun at a person and saying, “I’m going to kill you.” That could violate the order and be a threat.
A writer for The Capital heard about the case in 2011 and wrote a column. This angered Ramos, who filed a defamation case against the paper. The 2011 column in The Capital detailed Ramos’ criminal harassment of his classmate. In 2012, he sued the paper for defamation, losing the case in court.
Maryland’s second-highest court upheld the ruling in the newspaper’s favor. Ramos waited until there was a week left in the statute of limitations before filing the suit, according to court records. Ramos performed poorly in the court, losing both his defamation case and an appeal.
He represented himself and didn’t argue that the charges were false, but that they were unfair. Judge Charles Moylan didn’t mince words in his ruling.
“The appellant was charged with a criminal act. The appellant perpetrated a criminal act. The appellant plead guilty to having perpetrated a criminal act. The appellant was punished for his criminal act.
He is not entitled to equal sympathy with his victim and may not blithely dismiss her as a ‘bipolar drunkard.’ He does not appear to have learned his lesson,” Moylan wrote in the 2015 opinion.
These decisions enraged Ramos, who created social media accounts using the reporter’s and judge’s names related to those cases. Ramos continued attacking The Capital for years.
Reddit.com users on the President Donald Trump subreddit, The_Donald, unearthed a blog believed to belong to Ramos. The blog detailed Ramos’ fight with the newspaper. The blog’s web address includes “jwramos79,” which is in sync with his first and last name and birth year. His Twitter account used photos of former Capital writer Eric Hartley and former editor Tom Marquardt.
On their heads is a brand shaped like two diamonds with a line drawn down the middle. That symbol is called the “Brand of Sacrifice” and appears in the Japanese anime “Berserk” used in ritual killings within the show.
Ramos tweeted about “journalist hell.” He tweeted about “forthcoming rape and murder.” He sent racist messages to a Capital reporter who is Chinese. On his blog, he wrote an ominous message about his mission.

For half a decade, Jarrod Ramos’ anger poured out in court papers, tweets and email messages.
He saw enemies. He wrote that he’d like to kill one of them. He suggested another kill herself.
He created online images marking others out for sacrifice. Then, in 2016, it all stopped.
Until late last month, police say, when his anger exploded in shotgun blasts in the Annapolis newsroom of The Capital. “That’s the mystery for all of us,” Thomas Marquardt said.
Marquardt was editor and publisher of The Capital in 2011 when a columnist wrote about a months-long campaign of harassment Ramos carried out online against a former high school classmate. Ramos, 38, pleaded guilty to harassment, but continued to pursue the woman — and the newspaper — in the courts and on social media. Ramos is now charged with five counts of first-degree murder in the deaths of Capital staff members Rob Hiaasen, 59, an assistant editor and columnist; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who headed special publications; Gerald Fischman, 61, the editorial page editor; John McNamara, 56, a longtime sports writer; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a sales assistant hired in November. The Capital is owned by the Baltimore Sun Media Group.
The court papers Ramos authored, other records and interviews suggest an intelligent but isolated man who was willing to pursue a vendetta for years. Neither Ramos’ parents, who divorced in 2003, nor his sister responded to requests for comment. Other relatives said they had not had contact with him for several years.
William Davis, Ramos’ public defender, declined to comment. Anne Arundel County police say Ramos has declined to be interviewed by detectives.
Ramos was born in Silver Spring, he wrote on one job application, and grew up in Anne Arundel County. In 1994, his parents bought a house in a new development in Odenton. It was about 2 miles from Arundel High School in Gambrills, from which Ramos graduated in 1997.
Johnson said Ramos participated frequently in the one class they shared, but was arrogant. She said he had a low voice and wore a black trench coat.
Johnson recalls other students making fun of Ramos’ glasses. Once, she said, someone threw chewing gum into his long hair.
“People treated him like dirt,” Johnson said. Ramos disputed this in a court filing, saying he told the woman she used to throw food at him.
While in high school, Ramos landed an internship with the National Security Agency, a spokesman for the spy agency confirmed. The position, which typically runs for a year, would have required him to obtain a top secret security clearance, NSA spokesman Christopher Augustine said. Court documents show Ramos was hired as recently as 2013 to a government contracting job that required a clearance.
In 1997, Ramos enrolled at what was then called Capitol College, a small school in Laurel focused on information technology. He graduated in 2006 with a bachelor of science degree in computer engineering. Ramos played chess competitively from 1999 until 2003, according to the U.S. Chess Federation.
He attended Friday night sessions at a club that met at Fort Meade until security was tightened after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Other members of the club said they couldn’t recall Ramos. In 2003 he finished third in his division at the Maryland Open.
Ramos began working at the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics in 2007. He held IT contracting jobs for the federal agency until 2014, according to court records.
In 2004, Ramos moved to his current address — a basement apartment next to a laundry room in a small building in Laurel. Neighbors said they rarely saw him come and go, and he never had visitors. Cusumano said he sees other residents of the complex regularly, but in the two years he’s lived there he ran into Ramos only twice.
Cusumano said he did hear Ramos. In 2011, then-Capital columnist Eric Hartley described Ramos’ outreach to the former high school classmate who became a harassment victim. “If you’re on Facebook, you’ve probably gotten a friend request or message from an old high school classmate you didn’t quite remember,” he wrote.
But Ramos’ messages to the woman soon became vulgar and menacing. “Have another drink and go hang yourself, you cowardly little lush,” Ramos wrote. He told the woman’s employer she was a “bipolar drunkard, " Ramos wrote in a court filing. She eventually lost her job.
The woman sought and was granted a peace order and brought harassment charges against Ramos. He pleaded guilty in July 2011 and was placed on 18 months’ probation.
But the harassment didn’t stop, McCarthy said. Ramos tried to obtain emails that were part of the classmate’s health records from a counseling center in Annapolis they had both attended, the woman alleged in a court filing.
A judge issued that order but it was overturned on appeal; a third order was granted later. A Twitter account in Ramos’ name created in November 2011 bore images of Hartley and Marquardt marked with “Brands of Sacrifice” from Berserk, a dark fantasy comic series set in Medieval Europe.
The Japanese manga series explores the best and worst of human nature, with themes of isolation, evilness and humanity appearing throughout. “The lives of those who bear the Brand, from the last drop of blood, to the last moment of your agonizing death, will feed life to the new Child of Darkness,” one character says in the series. “Comes now a savage force of nature, endowed with sentience, tempered by reason, prepared for total war,” Ramos wrote.
A Prince George’s county judge held a hearing on the case in March 2013 and ruled that Ramos had failed to properly allege defamation. Ramos appealed that ruling in 2014, and filed a new case against his former classmate and her attorney.
He alleged that the woman had encouraged The Capital to invade his privacy and had brought a civil case against him improperly. McCarthy, the classmate’s lawyer, said Ramos was adept at using the legal system to suggest a sense of legitimacy to what was really an extension of his stalker-like behavior.
“He’s not stupid,” McCarthy said. The classmate, who asked that her name not be used, said Ramos would look for ways to antagonize her without contacting her directly, such as mentioning her on Twitter but not tagging her in the message. Ramos expressed concern that his legal problems could affect his job.
A Bureau of Labor Statistics official emailed the contractor who oversaw Ramos in 2014 asking that he be removed from his post over “suitability concerns.” Ramos’ former employer used the email as an exhibit in a lawsuit he filed against the company.
The company told Ramos it had no other opportunities for him, and he lost his job. A spokesman for the Department of Labor didn’t respond to questions about those concerns.
Ramos’ employer said in a court filing that the concerns were the result of an inspector general investigation, but the company didn’t know what was found. It’s not clear whether Ramos has worked since 2014.
After the harassment victim lost her job, she wrote in an affidavit that she had been unable to find work, and had fled Maryland to be free of Ramos. “I am physically afraid of Mr. Ramos, and that he may cause me serious physical injury and/or death,” she wrote.
An appeals court tossed out Ramos’ defamation case in 2015 in scathing terms. Judge Charles E. Moylan Jr. wrote that Ramos had displayed a “fundamental failure” to grasp how defamation law worked.
Ramos appealed to the state’s highest court. The panel declined to take the case.
Ramos vented on Twitter for a few days. On Jan. 21, 2016, he posted a final, cryptic tweet.
Then, silence. No more tweets.
No more lawsuits. No more court filings.
At some point in 2017, Ramos legally bought the pump-action shotgun he’s accused of using in the killings. Neither the threats nor the harassment conviction were a barrier to purchasing the weapon.
The next trace of Ramos came the weekend before the shootings. He paid $1,500 to buy a lifetime membership in the U.S. Chess Federation, a spokesman for the organization said.
Then on Thursday, June 28, police say, he sent letters to three people who had been involved in his defamation lawsuit. Later that day, police say, Ramos went to the newspaper’s offices at 888 Bestgate Road.
Police say he barricaded a back door and blasted his way through the front. The letters didn’t arrive until Monday — after the shootings, after Ramos was taken into custody, after he was charged with murder.
A packet received by The Capital’s former attorney included a document formatted in the style of a legal motion to the court that refused to hear Ramos’ appeal in the defamation case. The packet included a letter addressed to Moylan, the judge who dismissed Ramos’ appeal. Baltimore Sun reporters Luke Broadwater, Andrea McDaniels and Catherine Rentz, Capital reporter Chase Cook and Chicago Tribune reporters Stacy St. Clair and William Lee contributed to this story.

The alleged gunman in Thursday’s killings at The Capital sent three threatening letters before the shooting rampage at the Annapolis newspaper, Anne Arundel County police said Monday.
The document is dated June 28, the day of the shootings, and signed Jarrod W. Ramos. Ramos is charged with five counts of first-degree murder in Thursday’s mass shooting. It included instructions to share a copy with Marquardt, who provided it to The Baltimore Sun.
Anne Arundel County police said investigators believe Ramos mailed three letters in total, including one to Maryland’s Court of Special Appeals and one to a Baltimore City judge. A police spokesman, Marc Limansky, declined to describe the content of the letters, but said they were threatening and bore Ramos’ name and return address. He said police believe they were sent before the attack, and detectives are now investigating.
The document received by The Capital’s former attorney was written to look like a court filing, but it was not clear Monday whether it was actually filed. It is styled a “Motion for Reconsideration” by Maryland’s top court, which in 2016 refused to hear a defamation case Ramos, now 38, had filed against the newspaper. The writer says a copy was being sent to the newspaper’s lawyer.
“I further certify I then did proceed to the office of respondent Capital-Gazette Communications … with the objective of killing every person present,” the document says. A letter attached to the filing is addressed to retired Judge Charles Moylan Jr. Moylan wrote a scathing opinion against Ramos as part of the defamation case. Neither Moylan nor The Capital’s former lawyer could be reached for comment.
Police say Ramos used a shotgun to blast through the doors of The Capital newsroom Thursday afternoon. He is charged in the killings of editor and columnist Rob Hiaasen, 59; Wendi Winters, 65, a community correspondent who led special publications; editorial page editor Gerald Fischman, 61; editor and sports writer John McNamara, 56; and Rebecca Smith, 34, a recently hired sales assistant.
Ramos is being held without bail. Capital editor Rick Hutzell told staff members Monday morning that a threatening letter had been sent by Ramos. He told his reporters not to open their own mail from now on.
“We’re going to filter it first,” he said. A spokeswoman for the Maryland judiciary declined to comment.
Ramos held a long-standing grudge against the The Capital. It began with an article in the newspaper in 2011 that detailed a criminal harassment charge that a woman filed against Ramos, a former high school classmate of hers.
The woman alleged a campaign of harassment that began on Facebook and continued for months. It eventually seemed to have ended once Ramos pleaded guilty and was put on probation for 18 months.
But the publication of the article set off years of court cases in which Ramos represented himself. In 2012 he brought a defamation case against the author of the article, as well as Marquardt and the company that published the Capital.
A Prince George’s County judge threw the case out, but Ramos appealed to the Court of Special Appeals. In 2015, Moylan, a retired judge who continued to hear cases, upheld the lower court’s ruling in an opinion that quoted The Capital article in its entirety.
As the courts pushed back against Ramos, the number of people he sued or assailed online grew to include the lawyers and judges he believed had wronged him. Moylan became a particular target of Ramos’ online ranting.

