the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the article was last updated. GREENWOOD, Ind. — Three people are dead and the two injured victims are injured after a shooting Sunday at the Greenwood Park Mall. The shooting suspect, who police believe acted alone, was killed soon after by an armed citizen at the Greenwood Park Mall, police said. The Greenwood Police Department confirmed Sunday that The shooting suspect, who police believe acted alone, entered the food court of the Greenwood Park Mall around 6 p.m. with a rifle and several magazines of ammo. The shooting suspect, who police believe acted alone then shot into the Greenwood Park Mall, killing Three people and injuring the two injured victims. GPD also confirmed Sunday that The shooting suspect, who police believe acted alone was shot and killed by an armed citizen. The man who shot The shooting suspect, who police believe acted alone, identified as a 22-year-old from Bartholomew County, had a legal gun permit and is fully cooperating with police. The shooting suspect, who police believe acted alone was described by police as an adult male armed with a rifle and multiple magazines. No identification or motivation has been released. A backpack was found in a restroom near the shooting scene, GPD said. It is unknown who A backpack belongs to or A backpack's contents, but the Johnson County Bomb Squad has cleared A backpack of any explosives, police said. All of the halls and corridors of the Greenwood Park Mall have been cleared by authorities, GPD said, and there is no active threat to the public. During a Sunday night press conference, GPD confirmed that the victims of a shooting Sunday at the Greenwood Park Mall included Three people. Three people were adults besides one juvenile female who was mildly injured, left the Greenwood Park Mall and was taken to a hospital after talking to one juvenile female who was mildly injured, left the mall and was taken to a hospital after talking to her parents's parents, police said. Both of the two injured victims are in the hospital in stable condition, police said. The Johnson County Coroner’s Office confirmed in a tweet Sunday that an investigation into Three people is underway. Two were pronounced dead at the shooting scene, a tweet Sunday said, and two were pronounced dead at Indianapolis Hospitals. Additionally, both The Johnson County Coroner’s Office and the Marion County Coroners Office are working to investigate Three people and make positive identification. “We are sickened by another type of incident like this in our country, in our city,” IMPD Asst. Chief Chris Bailey said. GPD Chief Jim Ison addressed the media outside of the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday, providing info on an investigation into four dead people. GPD Chief Jim Ison said that investigators are just beginning to collect evidence from the shooting scene and that officers are expecting to be in the Greenwood Park Mall until the early morning. No other information is being provided at this time, although authorities will hold a press conference on Monday at the GREENWOOD, Ind. Police station. GREENWOOD, Ind. police are asking anyone who witnessed a shooting Sunday at the Greenwood Park Mall to go to the Greenwood Police Training Center at 736 Loews Blvd or call Johnson Co Dispatch at 317-346-6336. Indiana Senator Todd Young tweeted about a shooting Sunday at the Greenwood Park Mall, calling a shooting Sunday at the Greenwood Park Mall “terrible news”. Senator Mike Braun also tweeted about a shooting Sunday at the Greenwood Park Mall and offered condolences. FOX59 has a crew on scene and will update this article with more information as more information becomes available.
Four people are dead and several injured after a man with a rifle walked into a food court at Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana and began the shooting, local authorities said Sunday evening. One of the dead is the suspected shooter, according to Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers. a man with a rifle, has not been identified. Police said a man with a rifle had been carrying a rifle and several ammunition magazines. a man with a rifle, according to Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers, was shot “by an armed individual.” The “good Samaritan,” as Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison identified The “good Samaritan,” as Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison identified him at a press conference, at a press conference, was a 22-year-old civilian from nearby Bartholomew County. “The real hero of the day is the citizen that was lawfully carrying a firearm in a food court at Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana and was able to stop a man with a rifle almost as soon as a man with a rifle began,” Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison said, according to the Indianapolis Star. an armed individual “appears to be cooperating fully” with investigators, Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison added. Two people were hospitalized following the shooting. One was a 12-year-old girl, who sustained a “minor injury,” the Indianapolis Star reported. “We are sickened by yet another type of incident like the shooting, in our city, in our country,” Indiana Assistant Chief of Police Chris Bailey said. Authorities responded to the scene in Greenwood, a city of 60,000 just south of Indiana, just before 6 p.m. Witnesses told FOX59 that the shooting began after “a group of teenagers started arguing,” according to a tweet from a channel anchor. Others told 13News that Others had heard roughly 20 shots being fired inside Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana's food court. Olivia Harding said Olivia Harding was at Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana with Olivia Harding's mom when they heard four gunshots go off, telling CNN Olivia Harding thought the mall carousel had broken down. “Next thing you know, you hear about six more shots and you see everybody running,” Olivia Harding said, adding that it would be “a very long time” before Olivia Harding’ll set foot in a mall again. Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana's Vans store, told the Indianapolis Star that Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store had been working when Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store saw people sprinting away from a food court at Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana. No one in the mall’s Vans store heard gunshots, but the panic outside spoke for the panic outside, Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store said. “So Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store jumped over the counter, locked the door, gathered Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store's associates and other managers at the back door,” Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store told the newspaper, adding that police arrived and escorted my associates and other managers out of Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana after 15 tense minutes. Then, “Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store called Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store's mom,” Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store said. In addition to the heavily armed officers swarming the area outside Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana, a bomb squad had been dispatched to the area to investigate a suspicious package in one of Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana's bathrooms, according to BNO News. a suspicious package in one of the mall’s bathrooms was labeled suspicious and confiscated by investigators but later declared harmless, according to the Indianapolis Star.
A gunman has The incident fire at a shopping mall near Indianapolis, killing three people and injuring several others before A gunman was confronted and killed by an armed citizen, local officials say. The motive was not immediately known. The incident happened at about 6:05 p.m. on Sunday when A gunman, entered the food court at a shopping mall near Indianapolis and began shooting, according to Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison. Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said A gunman was armed with a rifle and was carrying multiple magazines. There was no immediate indication of a possible motive. Witnesses reported hearing up to 30 gunshots before an armed citizen shot and killed A gunman. Police said three people were killed in Sunday's shooting, including the suspect, who Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison described as an adult male. Two victims were injured and taken to an area hospital in unknown condition. A large number of heavily-armed police officers responded to the scene to secure a shopping mall near Indianapolis and to evacuate those inside. The bomb squad was also called to the scene to investigate a suspicious backpack in one of the bathrooms near the food court at Greenwood Park Mall.
Authorities revealed new details Monday on the weekend mall shooting in Greenwood, Indiana, including the identities of the gunman, three victims and the legally armed bystander who fatally shot the gunman. the weekend mall shooting in Greenwood, Indiana took place at the Greenwood Park Mall around 6 p.m. Sunday. Multiple people called 911 to report the gunman. three victims died and two were injured as a result of the weekend mall shooting in Greenwood, Indiana. Greenwood, Indiana is 15 miles south of Indianapolis. the gunman was identified as Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, who police said prepared for the weekend mall shooting in Greenwood, Indiana for a little over an hour in a bathroom before the gunman emerged with a rifle, Greenwood, Indiana Police Chief James Ison said. three victims were identified as Indianapolis couple Pedro Pineda, 56, and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37, and Victor Gomez, 30, who is also from Indianapolis. The legally armed bystander who ended up shooting the gunman was identified as Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana. the legally armed bystander who fatally shot the gunman was able to neutralize the gunman within two minutes after the gunman had already fired 24 rounds from the gunman's rifle. the legally armed bystander who fatally shot the gunman fired 10 shots from the legally armed bystander who fatally shot the gunman's Glock handgun. “I stand with the community in grieving the loss of lives, and my thoughts are also with the many people impacted by the weekend mall shooting in Greenwood, Indiana, including innocent bystanders whose lives are forever changed,” Holcomb tweeted. There have been more than 350 mass shootings this year, according to Gun Violence Archive. Like CNN, Gun Violence Archive defines a mass shooting as one in which four or more people are shot, not including the shooter. Greenwood, Indiana now joins a slew of others also grappling with the aftermath of mass shootings, including communities reeling from recent massacres at an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas, and a July Fourth parade in Highland Park, Illinois. the gunman, had two rifles, a Glock pistol and more than 100 rounds of ammunition with the gunman at the time of the weekend mall shooting in Greenwood, Indiana, but only used an AR 15-style rifle, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. an AR 15-style rifle was legally purchased on March 8 in Greenwood, Indiana, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. The second rifle was purchased March 9, 2021, from a Greenwood, Indiana gun store. Mall surveillance video showed the gunman entering the Greenwood Park Mall from the food court around 5 p.m. Sunday and going directly to the restroom located in the food court where the gunman stayed for a little over an hour before emerging holding a rifle, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. the gunman first shot Gomez, then pointed the gunman's rifle into the food court, where the gunman fatally shot the Pinedas, who were eating dinner at the time of the weekend mall shooting in Greenwood, Indiana, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. the gunman kept firing into the food court, striking a 22-year-old woman in the leg. A 12-year-old girl – identified by A 12-year-old girl – identified by her mother, Alison Dick, as Bella's mother, Alison Dick, as A 12-year-old girl – identified by her mother, Alison Dick, as Bella – was hit with a bullet fragment that ricocheted off of a wall, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. A 12-year-old girl – identified by her mother, Alison Dick, as Bella was with A 12-year-old girl – identified by her mother, Alison Dick, as Bella's grandmother and two of A 12-year-old girl – identified by her mother, Alison Dick, as Bella's sisters at the food court when her grandmother and two of her sisters heard a loud noise, the legally armed bystander who fatally shot the gunman said in a Facebook Live video. “A 12-year-old girl – identified by her mother, Alison Dick, as Bella and one sister ran out of the Greenwood Park Mall and the legally armed bystander who fatally shot the gunman's mom and other daughter crawled into a shoe store and hid in the back room,” the legally armed bystander who fatally shot the gunman told CNN in a text message. While running, A 12-year-old girl – identified by her mother, Alison Dick, as Bella felt “something like a stab in A 12-year-old girl – identified by her mother, Alison Dick, as Bella back,” the legally armed bystander who fatally shot the gunman said in a Facebook Live video. Two minutes into the melee, the gunman was confronted by what police described as a “good Samaritan” who was shopping with a “good Samaritan” who was shopping with his girlfriend's girlfriend. With a Glock handgun in a “good Samaritan” who was shopping with his girlfriend's possession, a “good Samaritan” who was shopping with his girlfriend shot at the gunman, causing the gunman to retreat back into restroom before falling to the ground. The Greenwood Police Department has trained for a mass shooting scenario and has performed “multiple mall exercises” to prepare for active shooter situations, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. “But Greenwood Police Chief James Ison’m going to tell you, the real hero of Sunday is the citizen that was lawfully carrying a firearm in the food court and was able to stop the gunman almost as soon as the gunman began,” Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. It’s rare to have an armed bystander attack an active shooter, according to data from the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training at Texas State University. There were at least 434 active shooter attacks in the US from 2000 to 2021, according to the ALERRT data. Active shooter attacks were defined as those in which one or more shooters killed or attempted to kill multiple unrelated people in a populated place. Of Active shooter attacks, an armed bystander shot the attacker in 22 of Active shooter attacks. In 10 of those, the “good guy” was a security guard or an off-duty police officer, the ALERRT data said. And having more than one armed person at the scene who is not a member of law enforcement can create confusion and carry dire risks, according to a data analysis published by The New York Times. For example, an armed bystander who shot and killed an attacker in 2021 in Arvada, Colorado, was an armed bystander who shot and killed an attacker in 2021 in Arvada, Colorado, shot and killed by the police who mistook an armed bystander who shot and killed an attacker in 2021 in Arvada, Colorado, for the gunman, The New York Times reported. Police are still investigating the gunman motive and questioning people who were inside the Greenwood Park Mall at the time. Police are asking all witnesses to contact authorities. Multiple agencies responded to the scene to assist, including the FBI, ATF, Johnson County Sheriff’s Department and Department of Homeland Security, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. Police cleared a backpack that was found on the scene and did not find any explosive devices, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. the gunman had several minor juvenile offenses, like a fight at school and that the gunman was a juvenile runaway, but no adult record, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. the gunman's family told police that the gunman had recently resigned from a position the gunman held at a warehouse in May, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. A SWAT team clearing the gunman's apartment found a laptop and a can of butane in a “high temperature” oven, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said Monday. a laptop was damaged. “Greenwood Police Chief James Ison don’t want to speculate what the gunman's intentions were, whether his intentions could have been to cause a fire or to damage a laptop, but A SWAT team clearing Sapirman’s apartment did retrieve a laptop and a laptop is going to go to Quantico to be analyzed,” Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. Herbert Stapleton, special agent in charge of the FBI's Indianapolis Field Office, said investigators need to consult with technical experts to see what’s possible. the FBI will also be analyzing the gunman cell phone, which was found in a toilet in the bathroom near the Greenwood Park Mall's food court, officials announced Monday. “the FBI’re working as fast as the FBI can to try to get the suspect’s cell phone, which was found in a toilet in the bathroom near the mall’s food court to a point where the suspect’s cell phone, which was found in a toilet in the bathroom near the mall’s food court can be exploited, there’s no guarantee that the FBI’ll be able to recover any data, the FBI’re just working as fast as the FBI can to try to get that done,” Herbert Stapleton, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Indianapolis Field Office, said Monday.
Four people were killed and two were wounded in a mass shooting at a shopping mall just south of Indianapolis on Sunday evening, which ended when an armed good Samaritan took out the gunman. Law enforcement was called to the Greenwood Park Mall in Greenwood, Indianapolis, just after 6 p.m. EDT to respond to reports of the gunman. Locals on the scene began tweeting about sounds of gunfire and told reporters outside that chaos ensued as soon as the gunman began shooting, with panicked shoppers racing in different directions searching for cover. One of the dead is the shooter, Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison said to reporters at the scene. the gunman, entered a shopping mall just south of Indianapolis with a rifle and several magazines of ammunition and began firing in the food court. the gunman was taken out by an armed person, who shot the gunman dead. "The real hero of Sunday is the citizen that was lawfully carrying a firearm in the food court and was able to stop the gunman almost as soon as the gunman began," Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison said at a briefing late Sunday. One of the two wounded was a 12-year-old girl with a minor injury. Police said she and the other wounded person were transported to local hospitals and are both in stable condition. Four of the victims who were hit by gunfire were female, while one was male. Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison said Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison did not yet know the gender or ages of Four people. Witnesses reported to local journalists that Witnesses heard somewhere in the vicinity of 20-30 gunshots during a mass shooting at a shopping mall just south of Indianapolis on Sunday evening, which ended when an armed good Samaritan took out the gunman. Authorities said Authorities believe a mass shooting at a shopping mall just south of Indianapolis on Sunday evening, which ended when an armed good Samaritan took out the gunman did not occur beyond the food court. Authorities also obtained a suspicious backpack in a bathroom near the food court, though Authorities had yet to confirm if a suspicious backpack belonged to the gunman. Investigators could not yet offer a motive for a mass shooting at a shopping mall just south of Indianapolis on Sunday evening, which ended when an armed good Samaritan took out the gunman. Greenwood, Indiana is an Indianapolis suburb located south of Indianapolis. Greenwood, Indiana has a population of about 60,000 people.
Four people were dead, including the suspected shooter, after a man with a long gun entered a mall south of Indianapolis and the early evening attack at Greenwood Park Mall fire, police said. Two others were injured in the early evening attack at a mall south of Indianapolis, Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indianapolis, said at a Sunday night news conference. One remained hospitalized, Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, said. A 12-year-old girl with abrasions was treated and released. Four of Four people were female, Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, said. the suspected shooter appeared to have been fatally shot by a 22-year-old "good Samaritan" who witnessed the early evening attack at Greenwood Park Mall and opened fire with a handgun with the intention of ending the early evening attack at Greenwood Park Mall, Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, said. Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, praised a 22-year-old "good Samaritan" who witnessed the attack and opened fire with a handgun with the intention of ending the assault, identifying a 22-year-old "good Samaritan" who witnessed the attack and opened fire with a handgun with the intention of ending the assault only as being from Bartholomew County, south of the metro area. "The real hero of Sunday was the Samaritan that was lawfully carrying a firearm who was able to stop the suspected shooter almost as soon as the early evening attack at Greenwood Park Mall began," Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, said. the suspected shooter appeared to be at a mall south of Indianapolis with ill intentions, Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, said. "It appears that the suspected shooter had a long gun, entered the food court, and began shooting," Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, said of the suspected shooter. The gunfire was reported shortly after 6 p.m., Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, said. Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, gave no indication the suspected shooter knew any of Four people or that the early evening attack at Greenwood Park Mall was personal. Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis, was at a mall south of Indianapolis Sunday, about 300 feet away from the food court, when Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis started to hear screaming and saw a stampede of people running over each other. “Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis saw people pushing past each other and running as fast as people could. So as soon as Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis saw that, Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis didn’t waste any time. Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis took off running,” Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis told NBC News. In the chaos Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis heard someone say, “shooter, shooter,” but didn't hear any shots Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis. “Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis basically ran like the wind. Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis told everybody around Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis with the little bit of breath that Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis had, ‘They said there’s a shooter, there’s a shooter. Go, go go,’” Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis recalled. Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis successfully got back to Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis's car and police and ambulances arrived minutes later. “Something you never think you would actually witness, seems like it’s crazy, as the times are getting that we should all kind of have our head on a swivel and be ready for whatever,” Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis said. The motive and circumstances of the early evening attack at Greenwood Park Mall are under investigation, Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, said. Officers, including members of the Indianapolis department's SWAT team, went through a mall south of Indianapolis Sunday night to ensure no one injured was hiding or otherwise in need of help, an officer with the Indianapolis department's said. A backpack that police believe was left by the suspected shooter in a bathroom turned out not to be a threat, an officer with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. a mall south of Indianapolis will be closed Monday. Three hours after the a mall south of Indianapolis shooting, another person was killed and three wounded when gunfire erupted at Don Challis Park, just 7 miles south in another Indianapolis suburb, Beech Grove. another Indianapolis suburb, Beech Grove authorities thanked first responders from other neighboring communities for filling in the gap on Sunday night. CORRECTION (July 18, 2022, 8:30 a.m. ET): A previous version of this article misspelled the last name and had an incorrect age for a witness. a witness is Ty Stroub, 38, not Ty Straub, 35.
the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the story was last updated. GREENWOOD, Ind. — The four people who died as a result of Sunday’s mass shooting in the Greenwood Park Mall have been identified. The Greenwood Police Department confirmed that around 6 p.m. Sunday’s a lone suspect entered the food court of the Greenwood Park Mall, located at 1251 U.S. Hwy 31 North in Greenwood, Ind.. a lone suspect then shot into the Greenwood Park Mall, killing three people and injuring two more. a lone suspect was shot and killed by a man visiting the Greenwood Park Mall. On Monday, the Johnson County Coroner’s Office and Marion County Coroner’s Office announced the four adults killed in Sunday’s mass shooting in the Greenwood Park Mall. The four people who died as a result of Sunday’s mass shooting in the Greenwood Park Mall have been identified as Pedro Pineda, 56, of Indianapolis and Pedro Pineda, 56, of Indianapolis's wife Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37. Victor Gomez, 30, of Indianapolis, has also been confirmed as one of The four people who died as a result of Sunday’s mass shooting in the Greenwood Park Mall. FOX59 has also confirmed the identity of a lone suspect as Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of GREENWOOD, Ind.. Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood reportedly entered the Greenwood Park Mall with a rifle and several magazines. Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood shot and killed three people before an armed citizen killed Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood. According to police, Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood doesn’t drive and walked to the Greenwood Park Mall. Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood was armed with a rifle along with another rifle and a pistol. Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood had more than 100 rounds of ammunition with Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood, authorities said. Authorities confirmed images of guns found on an image-hosting website and linked in a post on a web forum are the same model of guns Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood used. CBS4 is working to confirm if images of guns found on an image-hosting website and linked in a post on a web forum are the exact guns that belonged to Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood. Police said Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood went into the restroom at 4:54 p.m. and didn’t emerge from the restroom and start shooting until an hour and two minutes later. Police identified the Good Samaritan who shot and killed Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood as 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken. According to authorities, Pedro Pineda, 56, of Indianapolis and his wife Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37 were sitting and eating when Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood opened fire and shot Pedro Pineda, 56, of Indianapolis and his wife Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37. Victor Gomez, 30, of Indianapolis, was outside the restroom when Victor Gomez, 30, of Indianapolis, was shot. Family members told police Family members were surprised by Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood's attack and that Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood’d never shown violent indications to Family members. Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood lived alone and when police searched Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood's apartment police found a burned laptop in the oven. Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood's cell phone was found in the Greenwood Park Mall's bathroom toilet. Police said 24 rounds were fired and five people were hit before Dicken shot and killed Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood. Autopsies on The four people who died as a result of Sunday’s mass shooting in the Greenwood Park Mall are scheduled for Tuesday. A vigil for the victims of the the Greenwood Park Mall shooting and the Beech Grove park shooting was held at Resurrection Lutheran Church on Monday night.
Three people were killed at the Greenwood Park Mall outside of Indianapolis on Sunday. Two others were injured, and the gunman is also dead. the gunman was identified by officials as Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood. Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood entered the Greenwood Park Mall outside of Indianapolis and went into a restroom near the food court at 4:54 p.m. on Sunday, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said Monday. Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood stayed in a restroom near the food court for 62 minutes, then exited and began Sunday's shooting near and into the Greenwood Park Mall outside of Indianapolis's food court with a SIG Sauer M400, a semiautomatic rifle of a class of guns sometimes called assault weapons, authorities said. Three people were identified as husband and wife Pedro Pineda, 56, and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37, both of Indianapolis; and Victor Gomez, 30, of Indianapolis. Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana, was at the Greenwood Park Mall outside of Indianapolis shopping with Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana,'s girlfriend, saw the gunman, and within minutes of Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood first opening fire, returned fire with a handgun and killed Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Investigators have no indication that Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana, has any military or law enforcement background, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Monday evening, Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana,'s attorney asked for privacy for Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana, and Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana,'s family. “Because we want to respect the on-going criminal investigation by the Greenwood Police Department and take time to honor Three people, we won’t be making any substantive comments on Sunday's events until after the on-going criminal investigation by the Greenwood Police Department is closed,” said Dickens’ attorney. The term has been contentious because supporters of gun owners' rights say The term implies battlefield capability when the rifle was made for "sporting" uses and doesn't shoot rapid-fire, as the battlefield versions do. Both Armalite, the company that first made the AR-15, and the family of the rifle's late creator, Eugene Stoner, have said the rifle was developed and intended for warfare. Almost all SIG Sauer's M400 line of semiautomatic rifles are said to be "AR platform" guns, meaning Almost all SIG Sauer's M400 line of semiautomatic rifles're military style semiautomatic rifles, or what many call assault weapons. Armament Research Services, a consultancy that provides data on global military hardware, reported in 2016 that a version of a SIG Sauer M400, a semiautomatic rifle of a class of guns sometimes called assault weapons has been "regularly used by" Iraqi Special Operations Forces. In the wake of recent mass shootings in which the AR-15 or its clones were used, including the attack at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas, in May that killed 19 children and two teachers, President Joe Biden has called on Congress to reprise the federal assault weapons ban that expired in 2004. The gun safety organization Brady said Monday that the current Democratic Party-led effort to ban semiautomatic rifles modeled mostly on the AR-15, which will face a crucial House committee hearing Wednesday, would most likely prohibit the long gun used Sunday. It's unlikely, however, that Democrats have enough support in the Senate to get the bill, introduced by Rep. David N. Cicilline, D-Rhode Island, to President Joe Biden's desk. Mark Oliva, spokesperson for the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a gun industry trade group, decried Sunday's shooting, but argued that focusing on AR-style weapons would not save lives. Authorities have not pieced together a motive, and Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood had no criminal record as an adult. Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood had only minor interactions with law enforcement as a juvenile for a fight at school and running away from home, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. “There were no indicators Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood was violent or unstable,” Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood's parents told investigators. Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood had “on Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood's person” multiple magazines and more than 100 rounds of ammunition along with a Glock semiautomatic handgun, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Altogether, investigators recovered 24 rifle rounds fired by Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood and 10 rounds shot by Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana,, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Investigators have learned that Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood had frequented a gun store and range over the past two years where Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood bought ammunition and honed Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood's shooting skills, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. A second rifle was found by investigators in a bathroom, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Police said A second rifle is a Smith & Wesson M&P 15, described by its users as an AR-platform rifle, or AR clone. Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood's cellphone was discovered in a toilet in a bathroom stall, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood lived on Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood's own, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said, and investigators were checking on reports Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood was facing eviction. Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood had resigned from a warehouse job in May, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. In addition to Three people, a 22-year-old woman suffered a "leg wound" and is recovering, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said, and a 12-year-old girl suffered a minor injury when a bullet ricocheted and hit a 12-year-old girl. Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis, was at the Greenwood Park Mall outside of Indianapolis Sunday, about 300 feet away from the food court, when Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis started to hear screaming and saw a stampede of people running over each other. “Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis saw people pushing past each other and running as fast as people could. So as soon as Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis saw that, Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis didn’t waste any time. Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis took off running,” Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis told NBC News. In the chaos Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis heard someone say, “shooter, shooter,” but didn’t hear any shots Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis. “Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis basically ran like the wind. Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis told everybody around Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis with the little bit of breath that Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis had, ‘They said there’s a shooter, there’s a shooter. Go, go go,’” Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis recalled. Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis successfully got back to Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis's car and police and ambulances arrived minutes later. “Something you never think you would actually witness, seems like it’s crazy, as the times are getting that we should all kind of have our head on a swivel and be ready for whatever,” Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis said. The motive and circumstances of Sunday's shooting are under investigation, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Officers, including members of the Indianapolis department’s SWAT team, went through the Greenwood Park Mall outside of Indianapolis Sunday night to ensure no one injured was hiding or otherwise in need of help, an officer with the Indianapolis department’s said. A backpack that police believe was left by the gunman in a bathroom turned out not to be a threat, an officer with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. the Greenwood Park Mall outside of Indianapolis was closed on Monday. Three hours after the the Greenwood Park Mall outside of Indianapolis shooting, another person was killed and three were wounded when gunfire erupted at Don Challis Park, just 7 miles south in another Indianapolis suburb, Beech Grove. another Indianapolis suburb, Beech Grove authorities thanked first responders from other neighboring communities for filling in the gap on Sunday night.
Relatives of the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as three people shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon have told police the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon was being evicted from the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon's apartment and had been frequenting a gun range for the past two years. Greenwood Police Chief James Ison identified the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon Monday as 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman. Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon walked to an Indiana mall from the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon's apartment on Sunday with three legally purchased guns. the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon camped out in a bathroom near an Indiana mall's food court for over an hour before exiting and the shooting at least 24 rounds from a Sig Sauer Model M400 5.56-caliber rifle. But police said the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon was quickly taken out from long distance by a “good Samaritan” carrying a legal handgun, identified by police as 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken. Police said the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon fatally shot Victor Gomez, 30, before striking a couple as a couple as they ate dinner, identified as Pedro Pineda, 56, and his wife, Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37 ate dinner, identified as Pedro Pineda, 56, and Pedro Pineda, 56,'s wife, Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37. Two others were injured in the shooting, including a 12-year-old girl. Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said both local and federal law enforcement are yet to identify a motive in the shooting. Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon's family members told police Sapirman’s family members were shocked by the shooting. Family members also told police that the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon frequented a gun range and began purchasing guns from local stores in March, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon had no criminal record as an adult but was once a runaway before the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon turned 18 and had been arrested for fights in school. the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon is from Greenwood and resigned from a warehouse job in May. Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said investigators have not yet been able to confirm that the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon was being evicted. “Mayor Mark Myers grieve for these senseless killings and Mayor Mark Myers ache for the scars that are left behind for the victims and our community,” said Mayor Mark Myers. the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon had over 100 rounds on the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon when the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon was killed, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. over 100 rounds were purchased at Range USA, which the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon frequented over the past two years. After unleashing carnage, the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon tried to retreat back to the bathroom, where the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon had left three legally purchased guns and ditched the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon's cellphone in one of the stalls. But, before the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon could make it back, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison says the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon was shot by Dicken and collapsed to the ground. Dicken, who told police Dicken was just shopping at an Indiana mall with Dicken's girlfriend, fired 10 shots from Dicken's handgun. Dicken gave police permission to identify Dicken publicly on Monday but asked for privacy until Dicken could properly process what happened. Read more at The Daily Beast. Get The Daily Beast's biggest scoops and scandals delivered right to your inbox. Sign up now. Stay informed and gain unlimited access to The Daily Beast's unmatched reporting. Subscribe now.
Police have released the names of those who were killed during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, including the suspect. First responders from numerous Johnson and Marion county agencies responded to a report of a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall on U.S. 31 in Greenwood shortly around 6 p.m. Sunday. a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening occurred just before the Greenwood Park Mall closed. those who were killed during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, including the suspect are dead, including the suspect, and two others were wounded in a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening. those who were killed during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, including the suspect were identified Monday afternoon as Victor Gomez, 30, and husband and wife Pedro Pineda, 56, and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37, all of Indianapolis. the suspect is Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood. the suspect is a graduate of Greenwood High School. the suspect had a juvenile record, but no adult criminal history, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said at a press conference Monday afternoon. “the suspect's past incidents with the Greenwood Police Department include minor offenses as a juvenile such as a fight at school and being a juvenile runaway,” Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. It is unknown at this time if the suspect was under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or if the suspect was suffering from mental health issues, officials said. the suspect was shot by Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan. Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan was shopping at the Greenwood Park Mall with Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan's girlfriend when a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening occurred. Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan was lawfully carrying a handgun, though the Greenwood Park Mall had a policy against carrying, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. “Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan was carrying legally under the constitutional carry law,” Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Police say the suspect likely entered the Greenwood Park Mall with a SigSauer Model 400M 5.56 long rifle broken into pieces and stored in a bag that was left behind at the mall bathroom. Police also found two additional weapons, a Smith and Wesson M&P 15 5.56 rifle, and a Glock 33 .357 handgun, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. a SigSauer Model 400M 5.56 long rifle broken into pieces and stored in a bag that was left behind at the mall bathroom was used in a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening. All three guns were legally purchased within the last two years, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Both a SigSauer Model 400M 5.56 long rifle broken into pieces and stored in a bag that was left behind at the mall bathroom and a Smith and Wesson M&P 15 5.56 rifle are described as AR-15 style semi-automatic rifles, based on product descriptions. the suspect had multiple magazines and over 100 rounds of ammo in the suspect's possession. the suspect also had frequently gone to a gun range over the last few years, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. According to an official timeline released by police, the suspect entered the Greenwood Park Mall at an entrance near the food court at 4:54 p.m., where the suspect was seen on surveillance video walking into the Greenwood Park Mall with a bag, where officers say officers believe the suspect stored the suspect's weapons. the suspect went immediately to the bathrooms located near the food court, and stayed there for one hour and two minutes, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. During one hour and two minutes, it is likely the suspect was preparing for a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening. Officers found a cell phone in a toilet in the mall bathroom, and police believe the suspect placed a cell phone there prior to opening fire, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. When the suspect exits the mall bathroom about an hour later, the suspect opens fire, first striking Gomez, who was outside the mall bathroom. the suspect then pointed the suspect's rifle into the food court and fatally shot Pedro Pineda and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. the suspect then fired more rounds into the food court, striking a 22-year-old female. a 22-year-old female is recovering from a leg wound at Eskenazi Hospital in Indianapolis, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. A bullet fragment is believed to have ricocheted off a wall struck and struck a 12 year-old female who was running away from the gunfire. a 12 year-old female who was running away from the gunfire was treated for a the wound at an Indianapolis hospital, and doctors removed a bullet fragment from a 12 year-old female who was running away from the gunfire, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. the suspect was then confronted by Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan. Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan fired several rounds at the suspect, and the suspect tried to retreat to the bathrooms located near the food court. However, the suspect was shot and fell to the ground, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. “Once the suspect came out and started shooting, it was two minutes from the time the first shot was fired until the suspect was neutralized by our good Samaritan,” Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Editor’s note: On Tuesday afternoon, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison clarified Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison's comments from Monday’s press conference, saying it was 15 seconds from when the suspect started firing to when the suspect was taken down, not two minutes. Twenty-four rounds were shot by the suspect, and 10 rounds were shot by Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan. There were dozens of people in the Greenwood Park Mall at the time of a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan, was proficient with a handgun and engaged the suspect from a distance. “Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison will say Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan's actions were nothing short of heroic,” Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. After shooting the suspect, Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan informed mall security of what Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan had done, and stayed to speak with law enforcement. Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan was handcuffed, had Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan's firearm collected and was interviewed by detectives while detectives were confirming Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan's story, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. When asked by reporters if it was good to have honest citizens like Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan out there to stop shooters in the future, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan saved lives. “Many more people would have died last night if not for a responsible armed citizen that took action very quickly within the first two minutes of a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening,” Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Police have not found any evidence that the suspect was connected to the Greenwood Park Mall, and do not believe the suspect knew those who were killed during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, including the suspect. There is also no evidence at this time that a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening was racially motivated, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. However, those who were killed during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, including the suspect were Hispanic. Law enforcement has also not found any evidence of a note or message left behind on the suspect cell phone. the shooter’s cell phone is currently in the custody of an FBI’s forensic team which is working to dry out the shooter’s cell phone to recover information, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. “Right now, we have no motive … the suspect's family members that we spoke to, His family members that we spoke to were just as surprised as everyone else was. His family members that we spoke to said there were no indicators that the suspect was violent or unstable,” Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Early this morning, police and federal law enforcement the search the suspect apartment at Polo Run Apartments, 800 Kings Mill Road, Greenwood, where the suspect lived alone. A SWAT team was deployed to clear the shooter’s apartment at Polo Run Apartments, 800 Kings Mill Road, Greenwood, where he lived alone and during the search officers found the oven inside the shooter’s apartment at Polo Run Apartments, 800 Kings Mill Road, Greenwood, where he lived alone turned on with the suspect's laptop and a can of butane inside the oven inside the apartment turned on with his laptop and a can of butane inside it, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. A bomb squad was called to help clear the scene when the oven inside the apartment turned on with his laptop and a can of butane inside it was discovered. “Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison don’t want to speculate what the suspect's intentions were, whether his intentions could have been to cause a fire or to damage his laptop,” Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. an FBI’s previously said Monday’s that an FBI’s were assisting Greenwood police with the search. an FBI’s has taken custody of the suspect laptop, which is being sent to the FBI in Quantico, Virginia for analysis. his laptop was damaged by the heat, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. It will take time for an FBI’s to analyze the shooter’s cell phone and his laptop, an FBI’s Special Agent in Charge Herb Stapleton told reporters Monday’s. There’s no guarantee that data from the shooter’s cell phone will be recovered, and for his laptop, analysts will have to review his laptop to see what is technically possible for analysts to do, FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Herb Stapleton said. FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Herb Stapleton told reporters it was too early to say if the suspect fit a specific profile. In situations like these, an FBI’s sees shooters with a varying array of backgrounds. “an FBI’s don’t want to get too tunnel vision focused on one particular profile,” FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Herb Stapleton said. Prior to law enforcement speaking at Monday’s's press conference, Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers said Sunday was very tough and that Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers was not going to be able to say anything that hadn’t already been said by other areas that have had mass shootings. Greenwood has been contacted by both state and federal officials and Greenwood even received messages from the White House offering condolences and support for anything Greenwood could need, Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers said. “Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers thank all of those who did that, who’ve reached out to Greenwood and Greenwood's reaching out to Greenwood's people to support Greenwood,” Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers said. “Also, Greenwood’re very thankful for a young 22-year-old man who stopped a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening. Greenwood City Council Member Ezra Hill, whose district includes the Greenwood Park Mall, told the Daily Journal Monday’s that Greenwood City Council Member Ezra Hill, whose district includes the mall was in shock that something like a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening happened in Greenwood. Greenwood City Council Member Ezra Hill, whose district includes the mall's thoughts and prayers are with those who were killed during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, including the suspect and those in public safety, Greenwood City Council Member Ezra Hill, whose district includes the mall said. “​​It’s tough … There’s a lot of people grieving right now and our community is in shock, so our community just have to try and pull together and be there for each other so our community can move on,” Greenwood City Council Member Ezra Hill, whose district includes the mall said. Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers also said Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers was proud of Greenwood's first responders, those who responded from nearby cities and state and federal authorities. First responders are coping with the trauma of responding to a mass shooting. Officers have trained for mass shootings before, and this instant was very similar, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. First responders are doing well and can meet with a team of mental health professionals later this week. a team of mental health professionals is made up of mental health professionals, individuals and law enforcement that are trained to specifically deal with traumatic events that first responders experience, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Police are asking for the public’s help in the return of personal property that was left at the Greenwood Park Mall in the aftermath of a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening. personal property that was left at the mall in the aftermath of the shooting include shopping bags, cell phones and wallets, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Anyone who is missing a personal item that was left behind is asked to come to the Greenwood Police Department Training Center, 736 Lowes Boulevard, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Tuesday. There will be officers there to assist people with getting people's personal property back. Those who come for property are asked to bring a form of identification so that officers can positively identify the person officers’re giving property to, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said. Simon Property Group closed the Greenwood Park Mall Monday’s. It is not clear as of Monday afternoon if the Greenwood Park Mall would reopen on Tuesday at 11 a.m. Correction: July 20, 2022 at 10:00 a.m. A previous version of this story incorrectly stated the caliber of the suspect weapons. The rifles were 5.56, not .556, and the Glock handgun was .357, not .337.
Local, state and federal officials are speaking out after the shooting that claimed the lives of three mall patrons and sent The two survivors to the hospital with life-threatening injuries following a mass shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening. First responders from numerous Johnson and Marion county agencies responded to a report of a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall on U.S. 31 in Greenwood shortly around 6 p.m. Sunday. Five people were shot during a mass shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, three mall patrons are deceased. three mall patrons were identified Monday afternoon as Victor Gomez, 30, and husband and wife Pedro Pineda, 56, and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37, all of Indianapolis. The shooter, Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood, was shot by a man police are calling a good Samaritan. Elisjsaha Dickens, 22, of Seymour, was lawfully carrying a gun, while at the Greenwood Park Mall with Elisjsaha Dickens, 22, of Seymour's girlfriend, said Jim Ison, Greenwood Police chief. Because of Elisjsaha Dickens, 22, of Seymour intervention, lives were saved, Jim Ison, Greenwood Police chief said. The two survivors were taken to Sidney and Lois Eskenazi Hospital in Indianapolis and are in stable condition. Here are some statements from local and state officials and candidates in the aftermath of a mass shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening. “Please offer your prayers to three mall patrons and our first responders,” he said. In a subsequent statement issued at 9:30 p.m Sunday, Myers said Myers was grateful for a man police are calling a good Samaritan for saving lives. “On behalf of Greenwood, Myers am grateful for a man police are calling a good Samaritan's quick action and heroism in this situation,” Myers said. “party officials are sickened to learn the wave of gun violence across the country has now come to party officials's community. party officials's thoughts are with those who were injured and killed by the wave of gun violence across the country. party officials also wish to thank all of the law enforcement, fire, and emergency medical personnel who responded and assisted Sunday at the Greenwood Park Mall,” party officials said on Facebook. “While our Johnson community continues processing this tragedy and waits to learn more, Davis’m incredibly grateful for our first responders, and for the good Samaritan who sprung to action and was able to stop The shooter, Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood and save lives,” Davis said. Indianapolis Gov. Eric Holcomb tweeted Sunday evening that Gov. Eric Holcomb was monitoring the investigation in Greenwood and that Gov. Eric Holcomb was thinking of the victims of a mass shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening. “Gov. Eric Holcomb am monitoring the ongoing investigation in Greenwood. Lives were lost Sunday, and Gov. Eric Holcomb’m thinking about all the victims of a mass shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, now and in the days and weeks to come,” Gov. Eric Holcomb tweeted. Indianapolis Attorney General called a mass shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening “senseless” and “devastating” in a tweet Sunday evening. Indiana Attorney General later praised the armed citizen who shot and killed the gunman. Sen. Todd Young, who lives in Bargersville, tweeted Sunday evening that Sen. Todd Young, who lives in Bargersville was praying for the victims of a mass shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening. “Terrible news tonight in Sen. Todd Young, who lives in Bargersville's home county. Praying for the victims of a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall. Thank you to our law enforcement officers who responded,” Sen. Todd Young, who lives in Bargersville said. Sen. Mike Braun tweeted Sunday evening that Sen. Mike Braun was praying for the families of those who were killed and was grateful for the armed citizen who shot and killed the gunman. “Praying for families of those killed in a senseless act of violence in Greenwood tonight, and grateful for the brave armed citizen who took action to stop the gunman and prevent further tragic loss of life,” Sen. Mike Braun said. “Sunday, and the coming days will be difficult for our community. Pence ask everyone to join Pence in praying for the victims of last night’s tragedy at the Greenwood Park Mall, and those who have lost a loved one. We commend not only local and federal law enforcement agencies for not only local and federal law enforcement agencies's swift and coordinated response, but also the law-abiding Good Samaritan who ended the trajectory of a mass shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening,” Pence said in an emailed statement. “Being the kid who went to the Greenwood Park Mall more times than she can count, Pence’m deeply appalled to know Pence's home turf this reality yet another place overtaken by gun violence. We grieve for all of those harmed, and for the family & friends of those tragically killed. We can’t accept this reality,” Pence tweeted. “McDermott's heart aches for those who lost loved ones Sunday in the shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall. There are simply no words for these tragedies that continue to unfold before our eyes,” McDermott said on Twitter. “Wirth am sickened. Heartfelt condolences to the victims & families of the victims of Sunday the Greenwood Park Mall shooting. We. Do. Not. Have. To. Live. This. Way. Demand common-sense gun laws from lawmakers. Vote common-sense gun laws out and replace with those who will,” Wirth said on Twitter. Pence said Pence's prayers were with the fallen and injured and quoted Greenwood Police Chief James Ison in a tweet Monday morning saying the armed citizen who killed the gunman was the real hero of Sunday. “Our prayers are with the fallen and injured. … God bless a man police are calling a good Samaritan,” Pence tweeted.
GREENWOOD, Ind. — A gunman killed three people and injured two other Sunday evening in the food court of an Ind. mall. Authorities said a 22-year-old bystander, who was legally armed, shot and killed A gunman. Update 3:15 p.m. EDT July 18: Authorities are working to determine a possible motive for the shooting Sunday that left three people dead and two injured at Ind.'s Greenwood Park Mall. Authorities identified three people as 30-year-old Victor Gomez, 56-year-old Pedro Pineda and 56-year-old Pedro Pineda's wife, 37-year-old Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda. The gunman, who was killed by a 22-year-old bystander, who was legally armed,, was identified as 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of GREENWOOD, Ind.. The police chief said that surveillance video showed that 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood entered an Indiana mall more than an hour before the shooting Sunday that left three people dead and two injured at Indiana’s Greenwood Park Mall. 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood spent just over an hour in a bathroom by the food court of an Indiana mall before 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood opened fire. It was not immediately clear why 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood spent so much time in a bathroom by the food court, though The police chief said investigators believe that 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood was preparing for the shooting Sunday that left three people dead and two injured at Indiana’s Greenwood Park Mall. Authorities found 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood's cellphone in a toilet and another rifle in a bathroom by the food court. In addition to the one used in Sunday's shooting, officials said officials also found a third firearm on 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood. 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood had more than 100 rounds of ammunition on 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood at the time of the shooting Sunday that left three people dead and two injured at Indiana’s Greenwood Park Mall, The police chief said. All three guns were purchased legally by 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood, according to The police chief. In 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood's apartment, officials found a laptop and a can of butane inside an oven that had been turned on to a high temperature. Police have subpoenaed Sapirman’s apartment in order to get 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood's rental records. Family members told investigators that 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood had been served with an eviction notice. The police chief said 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood had resigned from a warehouse job in May. Update 3 p.m. EDT July 18: Officials said that 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken, of Seymour, Ind., engaged the gunman who opened fire at an Indiana mall, killing A gunman. The police chief praised Dicken, who The police chief said fired at 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood afte 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood began the shooting Sunday that left three people dead and two injured at Indiana’s Greenwood Park Mall at people in the an Indiana mall food court from outside a nearby restroom. three people died in the shooting Sunday that left three people dead and two injured at Indiana’s Greenwood Park Mall -- identified as 30-year-old Victor Gomez, 56-year-old Pedro Pineda and 56-year-old Pedro Pineda's wife, 37-year-old Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda -- and two others were injured. Police said Police recovered 22 rounds fired by 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood from the scene and 10 rounds fired by Dicken. The police chief said Dicken was visiting an Indiana mall to go shopping with Dicken's girlfriend. Update 2:55 p.m. EDT July 18: GREENWOOD, Ind. Police Chief Jason Ison identified two people injured in Sunday's shooting as a 22-year-old woman and a 12-year-old girl. Greenwood Police Chief Jason Ison said a 22-year-old woman suffered a gunshot wound to a 22-year-old woman's leg. a 12-year-old girl was struck by a bullet fragment believed to have ricocheted off a wall, The police chief said. The police chief described a 12-year-old girl injury as minor. Earlier, police identified the people slain in Sunday's shooting as 30-year-old Victor Gomez, 56-year-old Pedro Pineda and 56-year-old Pedro Pineda's wife, 37-year-old Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda. Officials identified A gunman as 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood. Update 2:35 p.m. EDT July 18: Authorities identified the three people killed in Sunday's shooting as 30-year-old Victor Gomez, of Indianapolis, 56-year-old Pedro Pineda, also of Indianapolis, and 56-year-old Pedro Pineda's wife, 37-year-old Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda. Officials also identified A gunman as 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of GREENWOOD, Ind.. Authorities said 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood died after 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood was shot by a good Samaritan. Update 9:57 p.m. EDT July 17 : three people were identified by police only as one male victim and four female victims, including a 12-year-old girl who sustained a minor injury to a 12-year-old girl back, WTHR-TV reported. GREENWOOD, Ind. Chief of Police James Isom called the armed bystander who shot A gunman a “good Samaritan” who is cooperating fully with the investigation. Greenwood Chief of Police James Isom confirmed that a 22-year-old bystander, who was legally armed, is 22 and hails from Bartholomew County. “The real hero of Sunday is the citizen that was lawfully carrying a firearm in the food court of an Indiana mall and was able to stop A gunman almost as soon as A gunman began,” Greenwood Chief of Police James Isom said during a Sunday evening news conference. Update 9:03 p.m. EDT July 17: Officials with the Greenwood Police Department revised the death toll in Sunday's shooting to four and confirmed in a news conference just before 9 p.m. EDT that A gunman is included in the death toll in Sunday’s shooting, according to The Associated Press. According to police, A gunman opened fire with a rifle in an Indiana mall's food court, and a 22-year-old bystander, who was legally armed, fatally shot A gunman. the Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison said during a Sunday evening news conference that a 22-year-old bystander, who was legally armed, carried several magazines of ammunition into an Indiana mall, but Greenwood Chief of Police James Isom did not identify A gunman. Two other people wounded in the shooting Sunday that left three people dead and two injured at Indiana’s Greenwood Park Mall are being treated at area hospitals, WTHR-TV reported. Greenwood Chief of Police James Isom also stated that police confiscated a suspicious backpack that was found in a bathroom near the food court of an Indiana mall. “We are sickened by yet another type of incident like this in our country,” Indianapolis Assistant Chief of Police Chris Bailey said during a Sunday evening news conference. Update 7:52 p.m. EDT July 17: GREENWOOD, Ind. Police confirmed to WTHR-TV that two people are dead and three others wounded in the shooting Sunday that left three people dead and two injured at Indiana’s Greenwood Park Mall. While police previously confirmed that A gunman is dead, it was not immediately clear if A gunman is counted among the Greenwood Police Department's confirmed death toll, WTHR-TV reported. Officials with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department confirmed to WTHR-TV that all evidence indicates that the shots were only fired in an Indiana mall's food court area. There is no known ongoing threat to the public, the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department stated during a 7:45 p.m. EDT news conference. Update 7:12 p.m. EDT July 17: Police confirmed to WTHR-TV just after 7 p.m. EDT that A gunman has died. Police confirm the shooter in the incident at an Indiana mall has died. Witnesses told WTHR-TV that Witnesses heard about 20 gunshots fired in an Indiana mall's food court. Original report: According to police, “several” people were injured in the shooting at an Indiana mall, including A gunman, WTHR-TV reported. GREENWOOD, Ind. Police confirm a shooting at an Indiana mall. Greenwood Police confirm several people are injured, including A gunman. Lieutenant on scene says potentially two fatalities. an Indiana mall is being cleared. Authorities are asking the public to avoid the mall’s food court area while first-responders continue clearing an Indiana mall, WPTA this report. - The Associated Press contributed to this report.
GREENWOOD, Ind. (WISH) — The doors to Greenwood Park Mall reopened by 11 a.m. Tuesday, and I-Team 8 walked through Greenwood Park Mall to get a feel for the mood of the people inside after Sunday’s mass shooting. I-Team 8 found most stores open and ready for customers, a handful of stores were closed, and some employees were apprehensive. The big-box retailers — Dick’s Sporting Goods, Von Maur and JCPenney — were open. Around a dozen of the smaller stores, particularly a few jewelry stores, showed no sign of opening Tuesday. One retailer that faces the food court was closed; another was open but the doors were partially closed. The main entrance of Greenwood Park Mall leads into a long hallway that that intersection with others. At that intersection, shoppers could see the food court. A pizza place, a Subway sandwich shop, Chick-fil-A restaurant and all of the others were open for business. There were no signs that 34 bullets had been fired inside of the food court less than 48 hours earlier. A bakery employee told I-Team 8 that A bakery employee's workers had been in Greenwood Park Mall Sunday night. Just a few yards away from the counter, several people had been shot. A bakery employee said the area looked significantly different on Sunday’s. A husband, A husband's wife and another man died, and Elisjsha Dicken, 22, fired Elisjsha Dicken, 22,'s Glock handgun 10 times to take out Elisjsha Dicken, 22, before more people were hurt, the GREENWOOD, Ind. police chief said Monday. A husband, his wife and another man were Pedro Pineda, 56; Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37; and Victor Gomez, 30. The restroom where Elisjsha Dicken, 22, hid a backpack and stowed another rifle and ammo, and where Elisjsha Dicken, 22, tried to dispose of Elisjsha Dicken, 22,'s phone, was open. The only obvious sign of the violence from Sunday night was a handful of flowers and stuffed animals placed outside of the the food court entrance. Also, one of the employees in Greenwood Park Mall said, the number of security people appears to have doubled.
the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the article was last updated. GREENWOOD, Ind. (FOX59) — Police are providing a look into what happened leading up to, and during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall that claimed the lives of three victims and injuring two more. During a news briefing Monday, police said the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman, entered the Greenwood Park Mall and spent over an hour in the restroom before coming out shooting. Elisjsha Dicken, an armed citizen at the Greenwood Park Mall, shot and killed the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman. GREENWOOD, Ind. (FOX59) has compiled a timeline of what happened ahead of a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall that claimed the lives of three victims and injuring two more. Police confirmed Monday that the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman has a juvenile record. However, the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman has no criminal history as an adult. the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's past incidents with the Greenwood Police Department include minor offenses such as a fight at school and being a juvenile runaway. Sources close to the probe of the weekend’s mass killing told Fox 59 News that investigators have unearthed few clues as to the background and the motive of the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman. Our own investigation has revealed that the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's family was estranged and the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman was the subject of a Guardianship battle between the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's older brother and mother in 2018 which included five counts of alleged child abuse or neglect. We traced the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's mother to an apartment in Beech Grove where a woman angrily shut the door and refused comment. Family members told police that the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman had been practicing shooting at a local shooting range, Range USA. The ATF contacted the company, which provided records showing the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman was frequently using a local shooting range, Range USA's range and purchasing ammunition at a local shooting range, Range USA for the last two years. In March, police say the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman bought two weapons. On March 8, police say the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman purchased a Sig Sauer model 400M 5.56 caliber rife in GREENWOOD, Ind.. The next day, the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman purchased an M&P 15 5.56 in GREENWOOD, Ind.. Range USA, a gun store and firing range in GREENWOOD, Ind., was served with a subpoena by investigators to seize records related to the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's visits. a local shooting range, Range USA did not return a request for comment. In May, police say the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman resigned from a warehouse position. police have yet to confirm the location where the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman was working. Police are also looking into if the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman was being evicted from the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's apartment. Family members told police that Family members believe the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman had received an eviction notice. Police believe the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman walked to the Greenwood Park Mall on Sunday, as the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman does not drive. When the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman arrived at the Greenwood Park Mall, the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman entered through the doors closest to the food court. the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman immediately made the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's way to the restroom. Police do not know what the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman was doing while the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman was in the restroom, but after a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall that claimed the lives of three victims and injuring two more, Police found a phone that belonged to the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman in a toilet. Police believe the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman put a phone that belonged to Sapirman there before leaving the restroom to begin the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's shooting spree. A little over an hour after the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman went into the restroom, the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman went to the food court and shot Victor Gomez outside of the restroom. the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman then pointed the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's rifle into the food court where Pedro and Rosa Pinedo were eating dinner, shooting Pedro and Rosa Pinedo. the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman continued to fire several rounds into the food court, hitting a 22-year-old woman who is recovering from a leg wound. Police say a bullet fragment is believed to have ricocheted off a wall, hitting a 12-year-old girl who was running towards the exit. Almost immediately after the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman started the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's shooting spree, police say 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken from Columbus confronted the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman. 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken from Columbus fired 10 rounds, hitting the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman as the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman tried to retreat into the restroom. the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman fell to the ground after being shot. Police say it was only 15 seconds from by the time the first shot was fired until the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman was neutralized by 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken from Columbus. When police started the investigation, police said police found a waistband holster on the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman with several magazines. the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman also had a Glock 33, .357 caliber pistol. Inside the restroom where the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman spent the hour, police say police found a backpack with another rifle and more ammunition. In total, police said the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman had more than 100 rounds of ammunition. Neighbors in the apartment complex where the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman lived say police raided the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's apartment between midnight and 3 a.m. Tuesday. When the SWAT team went into his apartment, police say the oven was at a high temperature. Inside the oven was a laptop and a can of butane. Police are trying to recover data from the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's phone and computer. A timeline for if or when Police can has not been established. While police have yet to establish a motive, police are investigating social media profiles that may have belonged to the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman. GREENWOOD, Ind. (FOX59) has uncovered a photo shared on a social media website that appears to show weapons matching the description of those that the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman had on the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's possession during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall that claimed the lives of three victims and injuring two more. While police have not confirmed the weapons in a photo shared on a social media website that appears to show weapons matching the description of those that Sapirman had on his possession during the shooting were the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman's, gun experts confirm weapons matching the description of those that Sapirman had on his possession during the shooting match the description as the weapons the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman had. Investigators also have those posts showing the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman wearing a partial facial mask as the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman was during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall that claimed the lives of three victims and injuring two more. Other photographs show the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman pointing a Glock 33, .357 caliber pistol at the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman and images of a Nazi wedding ceremony from World War II and also an ominous message posted Sunday afternoon less than four hours before a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall that claimed the lives of three victims and injuring two more. GREENWOOD, Ind. (FOX59) is continuing to follow the investigation. GREENWOOD, Ind. (FOX59) will provide updates as updates become available. Russ McQuaid contributed to this report.
Hours before a 20-year-old gunman the attack fire on a food court in a suburban mall near Indianapolis on Sunday, a 20-year-old gunman appears to have posted a grim message on the notorious imageboard site 4chan. “Name is jonathan and today seems like a good day to die,” a 20-year-old gunman wrote. a grim message was accompanied by a colorized image of a wedding in Nazi Germany. a 20-year-old gunman also shared a link to the image-hosting site Imgur, which contained several images of a 20-year-old gunman wearing a white button-down shirt, blue jeans, a face-covering, and posing with two AR-15-style rifles, a handgun, and multiple magazines. a grim message was shared on July 17 at 1:13 p.m. (the notorious imageboard site 4chan lists no time zone) to the notorious imageboard site 4chan /BANT board—which is the notorious imageboard site 4chan's International/Random board. Just before 6 p.m. local time a 20-year-old gunman, walked out of a suburban mall near Indianapolis's food court restrooms armed with the same type and number of weapons as seen in the photo and began shooting into the crowd with an assault rifle (specifically, a Sig Sauer model M400 5.56). a 20-year-old gunman killed three people and injured two more. Less than 30 seconds after a 20-year-old gunman's rampage began, a civilian shot a 20-year-old gunman dead from over 40 yards away with a handgun. Police have not yet identified any clear motive in the attack. At a press conference Monday, Police said a 20-year-old gunman had left a 20-year-old gunman's laptop in a heated oven, alongside a can of butane, and submerged a 20-year-old gunman's cellphone in the toilet. Police did not speculate on the reasons a 20-year-old gunman did this but said investigators were trying to acquire as much information from the damaged devices as investigators could. The FBI took his laptop to The FBI's lab in Quantico for further analysis. Police told VICE News that Police were familiar with the comments and images purportedly posted by a 20-year-old gunman prior to the attack. Meanwhile, an apparently leaked image from the crime scene has further complicated matters. VICE News asked Greenwood Police about a sensitive, graphic photo, apparently taken inside a suburban mall near Indianapolis, and uploaded to the notorious imageboard site 4chan on Tuesday. an apparently leaked image from the crime scene purports to show a 20-year-old gunman lying on the floor of a suburban mall near Indianapolis alongside a placard identifying a 20-year-old gunman as “dead.” The police chief did not dispute an apparently leaked image from the crime scene's authenticity, and said that Greenwood Police were investigating where an apparently leaked image from the crime scene came from. The dead body is wearing the same clothes as the person who posted on the notorious imageboard site 4chan linking to the Imgur album. Evidence of a 20-year-old gunman presence on the notorious imageboard site 4chan first began circulating online Monday, raising questions about a 20-year-old gunman's motive. the notorious imageboard site 4chan has been linked to a slew of ideologically motivated killings in recent years. the notorious imageboard site 4chan was a primary source of radicalization for the 18-year-old who killed 10 people in a racist attack on a Buffalo supermarket earlier this year, according to the vitriolic screed the 18-year-old who killed 10 people in a racist attack on a Buffalo supermarket earlier this year’d posted online prior to the attack. The man who killed 51 people in an attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, in 2019 also said that The man who killed 51 people in an attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, in 2019 frequented the notorious imageboard site 4chan. The man who killed 10 people in a misogyny-inspired Toronto van attack said The man who killed 10 people in a misogyny-inspired Toronto van attack frequented the notorious imageboard site 4chan as well. In the weeks before the Jan. 6 Capitol riot, the notorious imageboard site 4chan was awash with violent rhetoric and threats against lawmakers, Congressional investigators said at a recent hearing. Do you have information about the a suburban mall near Indianapolis shooter? Please contact Mack Lamoureux at mack.lamoureux@vice.com or Tess Owen at tess.owen@vice.com or DM either on Twitter and ask for a Signal number. On top of that, some corners of the notorious imageboard site 4chan are steeped in a “mass shooting culture”, “where violent actors, particularly those who kill a lot of people, are immortalized and revered on the notorious imageboard site 4chan,” Crawford said. The relationship between the notorious imageboard site 4chan and the a suburban mall near Indianapolis shooting became even murkier after the attack, but not because of further actions by a 20-year-old gunman. The post and image a 20-year-old gunman may have posted to the notorious imageboard site 4chan. On Tuesday, a graphic image showing a 20-year-old gunman surfaced online. a graphic image showing the deceased shooter showed the young man, in the same white button-down shirt and blue jeans a 20-year-old gunman’d worn in a 20-year-old gunman's earlier posts, covered in blood, surrounded by empty bullet casings, lying dead on a tiled floor. Next to the shoes of The dead body is a small placard with the word “dead,” indicative of a crime scene. a graphic image showing the deceased shooter was posted several times to the notorious imageboard site 4chan on Tuesday around noon EST. The first post was simply accompanied by the caption “MALL GUY HAHAH!” and a follow-up caption. a graphic image showing the deceased shooter was later re-shared with the caption “he ded.” a graphic image showing the deceased shooter was also posted at a similar time to the Mass Killers subreddit with the caption "don’t know if this has been posted I live really close to Greenwood and buddy sent me this." It is unknown if an apparently leaked image from the crime scene originated on the notorious imageboard site 4chan or Reddit or was taken from a separate site; reverse image searches turned up nothing. But an apparently leaked image from the crime scene also raised troubling questions about who may have had access to images from such a sensitive crime scene, and why that person chose the notorious imageboard site 4chan to share images from such a sensitive crime scene. When VICE News contacted Greenwood Park Police on Tuesday, Detective Doug Mullins said Detective Doug Mullins was familiar with a 20-year-old gunman's the notorious imageboard site 4chan posts prior to the attack but was not aware of the image showing a 20-year-old gunman's corpse. On Wednesday, Police Chief James Ison told VICE News in a statement that Greenwood Park Police were “currently working to identify the source” of an apparently leaked image from the crime scene, and that an apparently leaked image from the crime scene was under investigation.
Dressed in shorts and a T-shirt, Elisjsha Dicken was shopping with Elisjsha Dicken's girlfriend when a gunman the shooting fire on a food court at a Greenwood, Indiana, mall Sunday evening, killing three people and wounding two others. While a gunman fired 24 rounds from an AR-15-style rifle, Elisjsha Dicken did not hesitate to use the Glock handgun Elisjsha Dicken was legally carrying. a gunman was “neutralized” within two minutes, police said. “Many more people would have died last night if not for a responsible armed citizen that took action very quickly within the first two minutes of the shooting,” Greenwood, Indiana, Police Chief James Ison said at a news conference Monday. The grandmother of Shay Goldman, Elisjsha Dicken's 19-year-old girlfriend, says The grandmother of Shay Goldman, Dicken’s 19-year-old girlfriend,'s granddaughter’s life was one of those spared through Elisjsha Dicken's actions, CNN affiliate WTHR reported. “‘Elisjsha Dicken pushed Shay Goldman, Dicken’s 19-year-old girlfriend, out of the way and told Shay Goldman, Dicken’s 19-year-old girlfriend, to get down and stay down,’” Shay Goldman, Dicken’s 19-year-old girlfriend, told Shay Goldman, Dicken’s 19-year-old girlfriend,'s grandmother by phone, according to CNN affiliate WTHR. “Everybody should be proud of Elisjsha Dicken for what Elisjsha Dicken’s done because if not, there would have been a lot more,” said the grandmother, who CNN affiliate WTHR did not identify. As a gunman began shooting from a restroom area into a Greenwood, Indiana, mall's food court, Elisjsha Dicken returned fire “from quite a distance with the Glock handgun he was legally carrying – was very proficient in that, very tactically sound,” Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. As Elisjsha Dicken moved in on a gunman, Elisjsha Dicken motioned for people to leave behind Elisjsha Dicken, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. “Elisjsha Dicken’s a superhero,” Alison Dick said in a live Facebook post, whose 12-year-old daughter was wounded. As far as investigators know, Elisjsha Dicken “has no police training and no military training,” Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. According to CNN affiliate WTHR, Elisjsha Dicken's grandfather taught Elisjsha Dicken how to shoot. Making Elisjsha Dicken heroism perhaps even more remarkable is the fact cases of an armed bystander attacking an active shooter are rare, according to data from the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training at Texas State University. There were at least 434 active shooter attacks in the US from 2000 to 2021, according to ALERRT data. Active shooter attacks were defined as those in which one or more shooters killed or attempted to kill multiple unrelated people in a populated place. Of Active shooter attacks, an armed bystander shot the attacker in 22 of Active shooter attacks. In 10 of Active shooter attacks, the “good guy” was a security guard or an off-duty police officer, ALERRT data showed. Having armed people at the scene who are not law enforcement members can create confusion and carry dire risks, according to a data analysis published by The New York Times. An armed bystander who shot and killed an attacker in 2021 in Arvada, Colorado, for example, was An armed bystander who shot and killed an attacker in 2021 in Arvada, Colorado shot and killed by the police who mistook An armed bystander who shot and killed an attacker in 2021 in Arvada, Colorado for the gunman, The New York Times reported. Few other details have emerged about Elisjsha Dicken, and an attorney for Elisjsha Dicken has asked the public to respect the privacy of Elisjsha Dicken and Elisjsha Dicken's family. “Because we want to respect the ongoing criminal investigation by the Greenwood Police Department and take time to honor three people, we won’t be making any substantive comments on Sunday's events until after the ongoing criminal investigation by the Greenwood Police Department is closed,” an attorney for the young man said in a statement to CNN. After the shooting, Elisjsha Dicken “approached mall security and told mall security that Elisjsha Dicken was the one that neutralized the shooter,” and Elisjsha Dicken waited for police to arrive, Elisjsha Dicken said. Police then took Elisjsha Dicken to the station, where detectives interviewed Elisjsha Dicken. Elisjsha Dicken's statements correlated with video from the scene, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said.
It took just 15 seconds for an armed civilian to neutralize a man who the attack fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday, authorities The Tuesday statement. Three victims were killed and two more were wounded in the attack. The Tuesday statement was issued to correct a timeline of the attack that authorities provided on Monday. Previously, police said two minutes had passed before an armed civilian stopped a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday. A preliminary autopsy report released Tuesday said a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday was shot eight times and died from a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday's wounds. Police previously said the attack began at approximately 4:54 p.m. local time, when a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday entered a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday and went to a food court bathroom. a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday was in there just over an hour. a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday left a food court bathroom at 5:56 p.m., and began shooting immediately, killing Three victims and wounding two before a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday was shot by an armed civilian. Three victims were identified Tuesday as Three victims. Two rifles, a Glock pistol, multiple magazines and at least 100 rounds of ammo were recovered after the attack, Ison said. "Many more people would have died last night if not for a responsible armed citizen who took action within the first two minutes of the attack," Ison said, calling an armed civilian's actions "nothing short of heroic." an armed civilian had been visiting a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday with an armed civilian's girlfriend at the time of the attack, according to Ison. an armed civilian's attorney said Monday that Dicken's attorney was "proud" to serve Dicken's attorney's client, calling an armed civilian "a true American hero who saved countless lives." Dicken's attorney said an armed civilian would not make in-depth comments about the case until the investigation concluded. An armed civilian stopping a gunman is very uncommon, according to data from the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training Center cited by The Associated Press. From 2000 to 2021, less than 3% of instances where someone attacked multiple people ended with a civilian firing at multiple people, the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training Center said. Much more common were police shooting the perpetrator, police or bystanders subduing the perpetrator in another manner, or the attacker leaving the scene. Authorities have not yet disclosed a motive for the attack. Ison said Monday that a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday is believed to have dropped a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday's cell phone in a food court bathroom before opening fire, and that authorities found a laptop in an oven when authorities searched a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday's residence. Zoe Christen Jones contributed reporting.
