This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
GREENWOOD, Ind. — Three people are dead and two more are injured after a shooting Sunday at the Greenwood Park Mall. The shooting suspect, who police believe acted alone, was killed soon after by an armed citizen at the mall, police said.
The Greenwood Police Department confirmed Sunday that a lone shooter, believed to be an adult male, entered the food court of the mall around 6 p.m. with a rifle and several magazines of ammo. The suspect then shot into the mall, killing three people and injuring two more.
GPD also confirmed Sunday that the shooter was shot and killed by a Good Samaritan who was armed with a handgun. The man who shot the suspect, identified as a 22-year-old from Bartholomew County, had a legal gun permit and is fully cooperating with police. The suspect was described by police as an adult male armed with a rifle and multiple magazines.
No identification or motivation has been released. A backpack was found in a restroom near the shooting scene, GPD said. It is unknown who the backpack belongs to or its contents, but the Johnson County Bomb Squad has cleared it of any explosives, police said. All of the halls and corridors of the mall have been cleared by authorities, GPD said, and there is no active threat to the public.
During a Sunday night press conference, GPD confirmed that the victims of the shooting included one male and four females. All of the victims were adults besides one juvenile female who was mildly injured, left the mall and was taken to a hospital after talking to her parents, police said. Both of the two injured victims are in the hospital in stable condition, police said.
The Johnson County Coroner’s Office confirmed in a tweet Sunday that an investigation into four dead people is underway. Two were pronounced dead at the scene, the tweet said, and two were pronounced dead at Indianapolis Hospitals.
Additionally, both The Johnson County Coroners Office and the Marion County Coroners Office are working to investigate the deaths and make positive identification. “We are sickened by another type of incident like this in our country, in our city,” IMPD Asst.
Chief Chris Bailey said. GPD Chief Jim Ison addressed the media outside of the mall Sunday, providing info on the investigation. Ison said that investigators are just beginning to collect evidence from the scene and that officers are expecting to be in the mall until the early morning.
No other information is being provided at this time, although authorities will hold a press conference on Monday at the Greenwood Police station. Greenwood police are asking anyone who witnessed the shooting to go to the Greenwood Police Training Center at 736 Loews Blvd or call Johnson Co Dispatch at 317-346-6336.
Indiana Senator Todd Young tweeted about the incident, calling it “terrible news”. Senator Mike Braun also tweeted about the shooting and offered condolences. FOX59 has a crew on scene and will update this article with more information as it becomes available.

Four people are dead and several injured after a man with a rifle walked into a food court at Greenwood Park Mall in Indiana and began shooting, local authorities said Sunday evening. One of the dead is the suspected shooter, according to Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers.
The gunman, an adult male, has not been identified. Police said he had been carrying a long rifle and several ammunition magazines.
The gunman, according to Myers, was shot “by an armed individual.” The “good Samaritan,” as Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison identified him at a press conference, was a 22-year-old civilian from nearby Bartholomew County. “The real hero of the day is the citizen that was lawfully carrying a firearm in that food court and was able to stop the shooter almost as soon as he began,” Ison said, according to the Indianapolis Star. The armed bystander “appears to be cooperating fully” with investigators, Ison added.
Two people were hospitalized following the shooting. One was a 12-year-old girl, who sustained a “minor injury,” the Star reported. “We are sickened by yet another type of incident like this, in our city, in our country,” Indianapolis Assistant Chief of Police Chris Bailey said. Authorities responded to the scene in Greenwood, a city of 60,000 just south of Indianapolis, just before 6 p.m. Witnesses told FOX59 that the shooting began after “a group of teenagers started arguing,” according to a tweet from a channel anchor. Others told 13News that they had heard roughly 20 shots being fired inside the mall’s food court. Olivia Harding said she was at the mall with her mom when they heard four gunshots go off, telling CNN she thought the mall carousel had broken down. “Next thing you know, you hear about six more shots and you see everybody running,” Harding said, adding that it would be “a very long time” before she’ll set foot in a mall again.
Chris Roy, a 30-year-old assistant manager at the mall’s Vans store, told the Star that he had been working when he saw people sprinting away from the food court. No one in the store heard gunshots, but the panic outside spoke for itself, he said. “So I jumped over the counter, locked the door, gathered my associates and other managers at the back door,” he told the newspaper, adding that police arrived and escorted them out of the building after 15 tense minutes. Then, “I called my mom,” he said. In addition to the heavily armed officers swarming the area outside the mall, a bomb squad had been dispatched to the area to investigate a suspicious package in one of the mall’s bathrooms, according to BNO News. The backpack was labeled suspicious and confiscated by investigators but later declared harmless, according to the Star.

A gunman has opened fire at a shopping mall near Indianapolis, killing three people and injuring several others before he was confronted and killed by an armed citizen, local officials say. The motive was not immediately known.
The incident happened at about 6:05 p.m. on Sunday when the suspect, whose identity has not yet been released, entered the food court at Greenwood Park Mall and began shooting, according to Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison. Ison said the gunman was armed with a rifle and was carrying multiple magazines. There was no immediate indication of a possible motive.
Witnesses reported hearing up to 30 gunshots before an armed citizen shot and killed the suspect. Police said four people were killed in Sunday’s shooting, including the suspect, who Ison described as an adult male.
Two victims were injured and taken to an area hospital in unknown condition. A large number of heavily-armed police officers responded to the scene to secure the mall and to evacuate those inside. The bomb squad was also called to the scene to investigate a suspicious backpack in one of the bathrooms near the food court.

Authorities revealed new details Monday on the weekend mall shooting in Greenwood, Indiana, including the identities of the gunman, three victims and the legally armed bystander who fatally shot the gunman. The shooting rampage took place at the Greenwood Park Mall around 6 p.m. Sunday.
Multiple people called 911 to report an active shooter. Three people died and two were injured as a result of the shooting. Greenwood is 15 miles south of Indianapolis.
The gunman was identified as Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, who police said prepared for the shooting for a little over an hour in a bathroom before he emerged with a rifle, Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said. The victims were identified as Indianapolis couple Pedro Pineda, 56, and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37, and Victor Gomez, 30, who is also from Indianapolis.
The legally armed bystander who ended up shooting the gunman was identified as Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana. Dicken was able to neutralize the gunman within two minutes after the gunman had already fired 24 rounds from his rifle. Dicken fired 10 shots from his Glock handgun. “I stand with the community in grieving the loss of lives, and my thoughts are also with the many people impacted by this traumatic incident, including innocent bystanders whose lives are forever changed,” Holcomb tweeted.
There have been more than 350 mass shootings this year, according to Gun Violence Archive. Like CNN, the archive defines a mass shooting as one in which four or more people are shot, not including the shooter.
Greenwood now joins a slew of others also grappling with the aftermath of mass shootings, including communities reeling from recent massacres at an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas, and a July Fourth parade in Highland Park, Illinois. Sapirman, the gunman, had two rifles, a Glock pistol and more than 100 rounds of ammunition with him at the time of the shooting, but only used an AR 15-style rifle, Ison said.
The AR 15-style rifle was legally purchased on March 8 in Greenwood, the police chief said. The second rifle was purchased March 9, 2021, from a Greenwood gun store.
Mall surveillance video showed Sapirman entering the mall from the food court around 5 p.m. Sunday and going directly to the restroom located in the food court where he stayed for a little over an hour before emerging holding a rifle, Ison said. Sapirman first shot Gomez, then pointed his rifle into the food court, where he fatally shot the Pinedas, who were eating dinner at the time of the shooting, Ison said. The shooter kept firing into the food court, striking a 22-year-old woman in the leg.
A 12-year-old girl – identified by her mother, Alison Dick, as Bella – was hit with a bullet fragment that ricocheted off of a wall, Ison said. Bella was with her grandmother and two of her sisters at the food court when they heard a loud noise, Dick said in a Facebook Live video.
“Bella and one sister ran out of the mall and my mom and other daughter crawled into a shoe store and hid in the back room,” Dick told CNN in a text message. While running, Bella felt “something like a stab in her back,” Dick said in the Facebook Live video.
Two minutes into the melee, the shooter was confronted by what police described as a “good Samaritan” who was shopping with his girlfriend. With a Glock handgun in his possession, Dicken shot at the gunman, causing him to retreat back into restroom before falling to the ground.
The Greenwood Police Department has trained for a mass shooting scenario and has performed “multiple mall exercises” to prepare for active shooter situations, the police chief said. “But I’m going to tell you, the real hero of the day is the citizen that was lawfully carrying a firearm in that food court and was able to stop this shooter almost as soon as he began,” Ison said.
It’s rare to have an armed bystander attack an active shooter, according to data from the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training at Texas State University. There were at least 434 active shooter attacks in the US from 2000 to 2021, according to the ALERRT data.
Active shooter attacks were defined as those in which one or more shooters killed or attempted to kill multiple unrelated people in a populated place. Of those 434 active shooter cases, an armed bystander shot the attacker in 22 of the incidents.
In 10 of those, the “good guy” was a security guard or an off-duty police officer, the ALERRT data said. And having more than one armed person at the scene who is not a member of law enforcement can create confusion and carry dire risks, according to a data analysis published by The New York Times. For example, an armed bystander who shot and killed an attacker in 2021 in Arvada, Colorado, was himself shot and killed by the police who mistook him for the gunman, the Times reported. Police are still investigating the shooter’s motive and questioning people who were inside the mall at the time.
Police are asking all witnesses to contact authorities. Multiple agencies responded to the scene to assist, including the FBI, ATF, Johnson County Sheriff’s Department and Department of Homeland Security, Ison said.
Police cleared a backpack that was found on the scene and did not find any explosive devices, Ison said. The suspect had several minor juvenile offenses, like a fight at school and that he was a juvenile runaway, but no adult record, Ison said.
Sapirman’s family told police that he had recently resigned from a position he held at a warehouse in May, Ison said. A SWAT team clearing Sapirman’s apartment found a laptop and a can of butane in a “high temperature” oven, Ison said Monday.
The laptop was damaged. “I don’t want to speculate what his intentions were, whether it could have been to cause a fire or to damage the laptop, but we did retrieve the laptop and that is going to go to Quantico to be analyzed,” Ison said.
Herbert Stapleton, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Indianapolis Field Office, said investigators need to consult with technical experts to see what’s possible. The FBI will also be analyzing the suspect’s cell phone, which was found in a toilet in the bathroom near the mall’s food court, officials announced Monday. “We’re working as fast as we can to try to get the phone to a point where it can be exploited, there’s no guarantee that we’ll be able to recover any data, we’re just working as fast as we can to try to get that done,” Stapleton said Monday.

Four people were killed and two were wounded in a mass shooting at a shopping mall just south of Indianapolis on Sunday evening, which ended when an armed good Samaritan took out the gunman. Law enforcement was called to the Greenwood Park Mall in Greenwood, Indiana, just after 6 p.m. EDT to respond to reports of an active shooter.
Locals on the scene began tweeting about sounds of gunfire and told reporters outside that chaos ensued as soon as the suspect began shooting, with panicked shoppers racing in different directions searching for cover. One of the dead is the shooter, Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison said to reporters at the scene.
The shooter, identified only as an adult male, entered the mall with a rifle and several magazines of ammunition and began firing in the food court. He was taken out by an armed person, who shot the man dead. "The real hero of the day is the citizen that was lawfully carrying a firearm in that food court and was able to stop the shooter almost as soon as he began," Ison said at a briefing late Sunday.
One of the two wounded was a 12-year-old girl with a minor injury. Police said she and the other wounded person were transported to local hospitals and are both in stable condition.
Four of the victims who were hit by gunfire were female, while one was male. Ison said he did not yet know the gender or ages of those who were killed.
Witnesses reported to local journalists that they heard somewhere in the vicinity of 20-30 gunshots during the shooting. Authorities said they believe the shooting did not occur beyond the food court.
They also obtained a suspicious backpack in a bathroom near the food court, though they had yet to confirm if it belonged to the shooter. Investigators could not yet offer a motive for the shooting.
Greenwood is an Indiana suburb located south of Indianapolis. It has a population of about 60,000 people.

Four people were dead, including the suspected shooter, after a man with a long gun entered a mall south of Indianapolis and opened fire, police said.
Two others were injured in the early evening attack at Greenwood Park Mall, Jim Ison, the police chief of Greenwood, Indiana, said at a Sunday night news conference. One remained hospitalized, he said. A 12-year-old girl with abrasions was treated and released.
Four of six people who were injured or killed were female, Ison said. The shooter appeared to have been fatally shot by a 22-year-old "good Samaritan" who witnessed the attack and opened fire with a handgun with the intention of ending the assault, Ison said. He praised the young man, identifying him only as being from Bartholomew County, south of the metro area. "The real hero of the day was the Samaritan that was lawfully carrying a firearm who was able to stop the shooter almost as soon as it began," Ison said.
The shooter appeared to be at the mall with ill intentions, Ison said. "It appears that he had a rifle with several magazines of ammunition, entered the food court, and began shooting," the chief said of the suspected gunman.
The gunfire was reported shortly after 6 p.m., Ison said. The chief gave no indication the shooter knew any of the victims or that the attack was personal.
Ty Stroub, 38, of Indianapolis, was at the mall Sunday, about 300 feet away from the food court, when he started to hear screaming and saw a stampede of people running over each other. “I saw people pushing past each other and running as fast as they could.
So as soon as I saw that, I didn’t waste any time. I took off running,” he told NBC News.
In the chaos he heard someone say, “shooter, shooter,” but didn't hear any shots himself. “I basically ran like the wind. I told everybody around me with the little bit of breath that I had, ‘They said there’s a shooter, there’s a shooter.
Go, go go,’” he recalled. He successfully got back to his car and police and ambulances arrived minutes later. “Something you never think you would actually witness, seems like it’s crazy, as the times are getting that we should all kind of have our head on a swivel and be ready for whatever,” Stroub said. The motive and circumstances of the shooting are under investigation, Ison said.
Officers, including members of the Indianapolis department's SWAT team, went through the mall Sunday night to ensure no one injured was hiding or otherwise in need of help, an officer with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. A backpack that police believe was left by the gunman in a bathroom turned out not to be a threat, he said. The mall will be closed Monday.
Three hours after the Greenwood Park Mall shooting, another person was killed and three wounded when gunfire erupted at Don Challis Park, just 7 miles south in another Indianapolis suburb, Beech Grove. Beech Grove authorities thanked first responders from other neighboring communities for filling in the gap on Sunday night.
CORRECTION (July 18, 2022, 8:30 a.m. ET): A previous version of this article misspelled the last name and had an incorrect age for a witness. He is Ty Stroub, 38, not Ty Straub, 35.

This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
GREENWOOD, Ind. — The four people who died as a result of Sunday’s mass shooting in the Greenwood Park Mall have been identified. The Greenwood Police Department confirmed that around 6 p.m. Sunday a lone suspect entered the food court of the Greenwood Park Mall, located at 1251 U.S.
Hwy 31 North in Greenwood, Indiana. The suspect then shot into the mall, killing three people and injuring two more.
The shooter was shot and killed by a man visiting the mall. On Monday, the Johnson County Coroner’s Office and Marion County Coroner’s Office announced the four adults killed in the shooting. The deceased have been identified as Pedro Pineda, 56, of Indianapolis and his wife Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37.
Victor Gomez, 30, of Indianapolis, has also been confirmed as one of the victims. FOX59 has also confirmed the identity of the gunman as Johnathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood. Sapirman reportedly entered the mall with a rifle and several magazines.
He shot and killed three people before an armed citizen killed Sapirman. According to police, Sapirman doesn’t drive and walked to the mall.
Sapirman was armed with a Sig Sauer M400 semi-automatic rifle along with another rifle and a pistol. He had more than 100 rounds of ammunition with him, authorities said.
Authorities confirmed images of guns found on an image-hosting website and linked in a post on a web forum are the same model of guns Sapirman used. CBS4 is working to confirm if they are the exact guns that belonged to Sapirman.
Police said Sapirman went into the restroom at 4:54 p.m. and didn’t emerge from the restroom and start shooting until an hour and two minutes later. Police identified the Good Samaritan who shot and killed Sapirman as 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken.
According to authorities, Pedro and Rosa were sitting and eating when Sapirman opened fire and shot them. Gomez was outside the restroom when he was shot. Family members told police they were surprised by Sapirman’s attack and that he’d never shown violent indications to them. Sapirman lived alone and when police searched his apartment they found a burned laptop in the oven.
His cell phone was found in the mall’s bathroom toilet. Police said 24 rounds were fired and five people were hit before Dicken shot and killed Sapirman.

Three people were killed at the Greenwood Park Mall outside of Indianapolis on Sunday.
Two others were injured, and the gunman is also dead. The suspected shooter was identified by officials as Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood.
Sapirman entered the Greenwood Park Mall and went into a restroom near the food court at 4:54 p.m. on Sunday, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said Monday. Sapirman stayed in the bathroom for 62 minutes, then exited and began firing near and into the mall's food court with a SIG Sauer M400, a semiautomatic rifle of a class of guns sometimes called assault weapons, authorities said. The victims were identified as husband and wife Pedro Pineda, 56, and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37, both of Indianapolis; and Victor Gomez, 30, of Indianapolis.
Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, Indiana, was at the mall shopping with his girlfriend, saw the shooter, and within minutes of Sapirman first opening fire, returned fire with a handgun and killed Sapirman, Ison said. Investigators have no indication that Dicken has any military or law enforcement background, Ison said. Monday evening, Dickens’ attorney asked for privacy for Dickens and his family. “Because we want to respect the on-going criminal investigation by the Greenwood Police Department and take time to honor the three innocent lives lost, we won’t be making any substantive comments on Sunday’s events until after the authorities’ investigation is closed,” said the attorney, Guy Relford.
The term has been contentious because supporters of gun owners' rights say it implies battlefield capability when the rifle was made for "sporting" uses and doesn't shoot rapid-fire, as the battlefield versions do. Both Armalite, the company that first made the AR-15, and the family of its late creator, Eugene Stoner, have said the weapon was developed and intended for warfare. Almost all SIG Sauer's M400 line of semiautomatic rifles are said to be "AR platform" guns, meaning they're military style semiautomatic rifles, or what many call assault weapons. Armament Research Services, a consultancy that provides data on global military hardware, reported in 2016 that a version of the M400 has been "regularly used by" Iraqi Special Operations Forces.
In the wake of recent mass shootings in which the AR-15 or its clones were used, including the attack at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas, in May that killed 19 children and two teachers, President Joe Biden has called on Congress to reprise the federal assault weapons ban that expired in 2004. The gun safety organization Brady said Monday that the current Democratic Party-led effort to ban semiautomatic rifles modeled mostly on the AR-15, which will face a crucial House committee hearing Wednesday, would most likely prohibit the long gun used Sunday. It's unlikely, however, that Democrats have enough support in the Senate to get the bill, introduced by Rep. David N. Cicilline, D-Rhode Island, to Biden's desk. Mark Oliva, spokesperson for the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a gun industry trade group, decried Sunday's shooting, but argued that focusing on AR-style weapons would not save lives.
Authorities have not pieced together a motive, and Sapirman had no criminal record as an adult. He had only minor interactions with law enforcement as a juvenile for a fight at school and running away from home, Ison said. “There were no indicators he was violent or unstable,” he said Sapirman’s parents told investigators.
Sapirman had “on his person” multiple magazines and more than 100 rounds of ammunition along with a Glock semiautomatic handgun, Ison said. Altogether, investigators recovered 24 rifle rounds fired by Sapirman and 10 rounds shot by Dicken, Ison said. Investigators have learned that Sapirman had frequented a gun store and range over the past two years where he bought ammunition and honed his shooting skills, Ison said.
A second rifle was found by investigators in a bathroom, Ison said. Police said the gun is a Smith & Wesson M&P 15, described by its users as an AR-platform rifle, or AR clone.
The suspect's cellphone was discovered in a toilet in a bathroom stall, he said. Sapirman lived on his own, Ison said, and investigators were checking on reports he was facing eviction. Sapirman had resigned from a warehouse job in May, Ison said. In addition to those killed, a 22-year-old woman suffered a "leg wound" and is recovering, Ison said, and a 12-year-old girl suffered a minor injury when a bullet ricocheted and hit her.
Ty Straub, 35, of Indianapolis, was at the mall Sunday, about 300 feet away from the food court, when he started to hear screaming and saw a stampede of people running over each other. “I saw people pushing past each other and running as fast as they could. So as soon as I saw that, I didn’t waste any time. I took off running,” he told NBC News.
In the chaos he heard someone say, “shooter, shooter,” but didn’t hear any shots himself. “I basically ran like the wind. I told everybody around me with the little bit of breath that I had, ‘They said there’s a shooter, there’s a shooter.
Go, go go,’” he recalled. He successfully got back to his car and police and ambulances arrived minutes later. “Something you never think you would actually witness, seems like it’s crazy, as the times are getting that we should all kind of have our head on a swivel and be ready for whatever,” Straub said. The motive and circumstances of the shooting are under investigation, Ison said.
Officers, including members of the Indianapolis department’s SWAT team, went through the mall Sunday night to ensure no one injured was hiding or otherwise in need of help, an officer with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said. A backpack that police believe was left by the gunman in a bathroom turned out not to be a threat, he said. The mall was closed on Monday.
Three hours after the Greenwood Park Mall shooting, another person was killed and three were wounded when gunfire erupted at Don Challis Park, just 7 miles south in another Indianapolis suburb, Beech Grove. Beech Grove authorities thanked first responders from other neighboring communities for filling in the gap on Sunday night.

Relatives of the 20-year-old man who gunned down three people as they shopped in an Indiana mall on Sunday afternoon have told police he was being evicted from his apartment and had been frequenting a gun range for the past two years.
Greenwood Police Chief James Ison identified the suspect Monday as 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman. Ison said Sapirman walked to Greenwood Park Mall from his apartment on Sunday with three legally purchased guns.
He camped out in a bathroom near the mall’s food court for over an hour before exiting and firing at least 24 rounds from a Sig Sauer Model M400 5.56-caliber rifle. But police said he was quickly taken out from long distance by a “good Samaritan” carrying a legal handgun, identified by police as 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken.
Police said Sapirman fatally shot Victor Gomez, 30, before striking a couple as they ate dinner, identified as Pedro Pineda, 56, and his wife, Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37. Two others were injured in the shooting, including a 12-year-old girl.
Ison said both local and federal law enforcement are yet to identify a motive in the shooting. He said Sapirman’s family members told police they were shocked by the shooting. Family members also told police that Sapirman frequented a local gun range and began purchasing guns from local stores in March, Ison said.
Ison said Sapirman had no criminal record as an adult but was once a runaway before he turned 18 and had been arrested for fights in school. He is from Greenwood and resigned from a warehouse job in May.
Ison said investigators have not yet been able to confirm that he was being evicted. “I grieve for these senseless killings and I ache for the scars that are left behind for the victims and our community,” said Mayor Mark Myers.
Sapirman had over 100 rounds on him when he was killed, Ison said. The bullets were purchased at Range USA, which Sapirman frequented over the past two years.
After unleashing carnage, Sapirman tried to retreat back to the bathroom, where he had left two guns and ditched his cellphone in one of the stalls. But, before he could make it back, Ison says Sapirman was shot by Dicken and collapsed to the ground.
Dicken, who told police he was just shopping at the mall with his girlfriend, fired 10 shots from his handgun. He gave police permission to identify him publicly on Monday but asked for privacy until he could properly process what happened.
Read more at The Daily Beast. Get the Daily Beast's biggest scoops and scandals delivered right to your inbox.
Sign up now. Stay informed and gain unlimited access to the Daily Beast's unmatched reporting. Subscribe now.

Police have released the names of those who were killed during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening, including the suspect.
First responders from numerous Johnson and Marion county agencies responded to a report of a shooting at Greenwood Park Mall on U.S. 31 in Greenwood shortly around 6 p.m. Sunday. The shooting occurred just before the mall closed. Four people are dead, including the shooter, and two others were wounded in the shooting.
The victims were identified Monday afternoon as Victor Gomez, 30, and husband and wife Pedro Pineda, 56, and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37, all of Indianapolis. The shooting suspect is Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood. He is a graduate of Greenwood High School.
He had a juvenile record, but no adult criminal history, Greenwood Police Chief Jim Ison said at a press conference Monday afternoon. “His past incidents with the Greenwood Police Department include minor offenses as a juvenile such as a fight at school and being a juvenile runaway,” he said. It is unknown at this time if he was under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or if he was suffering from mental health issues, officials said.
The shooter was shot by Elisjsha Dicken, 22, of Seymour, who police are calling a good Samaritan. Dicken was shopping at the mall with his girlfriend when the shooting occurred.
He was lawfully carrying a handgun, though the mall had a policy against carrying, Ison said. “He was carrying legally under the constitutional carry law,” Ison said.
Police say the shooter likely entered the mall with a SigSauer Model 400M 5.56 long rifle broken into pieces and stored in a bag that was left behind at the mall bathroom. Police also found two additional weapons, a Smith and Wesson M&P 15 5.56 rifle, and a Glock 33 .357 handgun, Ison said. Only the SigSauer rifle was used in the shooting.
All three guns were legally purchased within the last two years, Ison said. Both the Model 400M and the M&P are described as AR-15 style semi-automatic rifles, based on product descriptions.
The shooter had multiple magazines and over 100 rounds of ammo in his possession. He also had frequently gone to a gun range over the last few years, Ison said.
According to an official timeline released by police, the shooter entered the mall at an entrance near the food court at 4:54 p.m., where he was seen on surveillance video walking into the mall with a bag, where officers say they believe he stored his weapons. The shooter went immediately to the bathrooms located near the food court, and stayed there for one hour and two minutes, Ison said. During this time, it is likely he was preparing for the shooting.
Officers found a cell phone in a toilet in the bathroom, and police believe the shooter placed it there prior to opening fire, he said. When the shooter exits the bathroom about an hour later, he opens fire, first striking Gomez, who was outside the restroom.
He then pointed his rifle into the food court and fatally shot Pedro Pineda and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, Ison said. He then fired more rounds into the food court, striking a 22-year-old female.
The woman is recovering from a leg wound at Eskenazi Hospital in Indianapolis, Ison said. A bullet fragment is believed to have ricocheted off a wall struck and struck a 12 year-old female who was running away from the gunfire. She was treated for a the wound at an Indianapolis hospital, and doctors removed a bullet fragment from the victim, he said.
Sapirman was then confronted by Dicken, the armed civilian. Dicken fired several rounds at Sapirman, and he tried to retreat to the restrooms.
However, he was shot and fell to the ground, Ison said. “Once he came out and started shooting, it was two minutes from the time the first shot was fired until he was neutralized by our good Samaritan,” he said. Editor’s note: On Tuesday afternoon, Ison clarified his comments from Monday’s press conference, saying it was 15 seconds from when the shooter started firing to when he was taken down, not two minutes.
Twenty-four rounds were shot by the shooter, and 10 rounds were shot by Dicken. There were dozens of people in the mall at the time of the shooting, Ison said.
Dicken, who police believe had no police training or military background, was proficient with the handgun and engaged the gunman from a distance. “I will say his actions were nothing short of heroic,” Ison said.
After shooting the shooter, Dicken informed mall security of what he had done, and stayed to speak with law enforcement. Dicken was handcuffed, had his firearm collected and was interviewed by detectives while they were confirming his story, Ison said. When asked by reporters if it was good to have honest citizens like the good Samaritan out there to stop shooters in the future, Ison said Dicken saved lives. “Many more people would have died last night if not for a responsible armed citizen that took action very quickly within the first two minutes of the shooting,” he said.
Police have not found any evidence that Sapirman was connected to the Greenwood Park Mall, and do not believe he knew the victims. There is also no evidence at this time that the shooting was racially motivated, Ison said. However, the people who were killed were Hispanic.
Law enforcement has also not found any evidence of a note or message left behind on the shooter’s cell phone. The phone is currently in the custody of an FBI’s forensic team which is working to dry out the phone to recover information, Ison said.
“Right now, we have no motive … His family members that we spoke to, they were just as surprised as everyone else was. They said there were no indicators that he was violent or unstable,” Ison said.
Early this morning, police and federal law enforcement searched the shooter’s apartment at Polo Run Apartments, 800 Kings Mill Road, Greenwood, where he lived alone. A SWAT team was deployed to clear the apartment and during the search officers found the oven inside the apartment turned on with his laptop and a can of butane inside it, Ison said.
A bomb squad was called to help clear the scene when that was discovered. “I don’t want to speculate what his intentions were, whether it could have been to cause a fire or to damage the laptop,” he said.
The FBI previously said Monday that they were assisting Greenwood police with a search. The agency has taken custody of the shooter’s laptop, which is being sent to the FBI in Quantico, Virginia for analysis.
The laptop was damaged by the heat, Ison said. It will take time for the agency to analyze the phone and the laptop, FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Herb Stapleton told reporters Monday.
There’s no guarantee that data from the phone will be recovered, and for the laptop, analysts will have to review it to see what is technically possible for them to do, he said. He told reporters it was too early to say if the shooter fit a specific profile. In situations like these, the FBI sees shooters with a varying array of backgrounds.
“We don’t want to get too tunnel vision focused on one particular profile,” Stapleton said. Prior to law enforcement speaking at Monday’s press conference, Greenwood Mayor Mark Myers said Sunday was very tough and that he was not going to be able to say anything that hadn’t already been said by other areas that have had mass shootings. The city has been contacted by both state and federal officials and the city even received messages from the White House offering condolences and support for anything the city could need, Myers said.
“I thank all of those who did that, who’ve reached out to us and our reaching out to our people to support us,” Myers said. “Also, we’re very thankful for a young 22-year-old man who stopped this violent act. Greenwood City Council Member Ezra Hill, whose district includes the mall, told the Daily Journal Monday that he was in shock that something like this happened in Greenwood.
Hill’s thoughts and prayers are with the victims and those in public safety, he said. “​​It’s tough … There’s a lot of people grieving right now and our community is in shock, so we just have to try and pull together and be there for each other so we can move on,” Hill said.
Myers also said he was proud of the city’s first responders, those who responded from nearby cities and state and federal authorities. First responders are coping with the trauma of responding to a mass shooting.
Officers have trained for mass shootings before, and this instant was very similar, Ison said. First responders are doing well and can meet with a team of mental health professionals later this week.
The team is made up of mental health professionals, individuals and law enforcement that are trained to specifically deal with traumatic events that first responders experience, Ison said. Police are asking for the public’s help in the return of personal property that was left at the mall in the aftermath of the shooting.
These items include shopping bags, cell phones and wallets, Ison said. Anyone who is missing a personal item that was left behind is asked to come to the Greenwood Police Department Training Center, 736 Lowes Boulevard, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Tuesday. There will be officers there to assist people with getting their personal property back.
Those who come for property are asked to bring a form of identification so that officers can positively identify the person they’re giving the property to, Ison said. Simon Property Group closed the mall Monday.
It is not clear as of Monday afternoon if the mall would reopen on Tuesday at 11 a.m. Correction: July 20, 2022 at 10:00 a.m. A previous version of this story incorrectly stated the caliber of the shooter’s weapons.

Local, state and federal officials are speaking out after the shooting that claimed the lives of three mall patrons and sent two to the hospital with life-threatening injuries following a mass shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall Sunday evening.
First responders from numerous Johnson and Marion county agencies responded to a report of a shooting at Greenwood Park Mall on U.S. 31 in Greenwood shortly around 6 p.m. Sunday. Five people were shot during the shooting, three of which are deceased.
The victims were identified Monday afternoon as Victor Gomez, 30, and husband and wife Pedro Pineda, 56, and Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37, all of Indianapolis. The shooter, Jonathan Douglas Sapirman, 20, of Greenwood, was shot by a man police are calling a good Samaritan. Elisjsaha Dickens, 22, of Seymour, was lawfully carrying a gun, while at the mall with his girlfriend, said Jim Ison, Greenwood Police chief.
Because of Dickens intervention, lives were saved, Ison said. The two survivors were taken to Sidney and Lois Eskenazi Hospital in Indianapolis and are in stable condition.
Here are some statements from local and state officials and candidates in the aftermath of the shooting. “Please offer your prayers to the victims and our first responders,” he said.
In a subsequent statement issued at 9:30 p.m Sunday, Myers said he was grateful for the armed citizen who police are calling a good Samaritan for saving lives. “On behalf of the city of Greenwood, I am grateful for his quick action and heroism in this situation,” Myers said.
“We are sickened to learn the wave of gun violence across the country has now come to our community. Our thoughts are with those who were injured and killed by this violence.
We also wish to thank all of the law enforcement, fire, and emergency medical personnel who responded and assisted today at Greenwood Park Mall,” party officials said on Facebook. “While our Johnson County community continues processing this tragedy and waits to learn more, I’m incredibly grateful for the first responders who were on the scene, and for the good Samaritan who sprung to action and was able to stop the shooter and save lives,” Davis said.
Indiana Gov. Eric Holcomb tweeted Sunday night that he was monitoring the investigation in Greenwood and that he was thinking of the victims of this incident. “I am monitoring the ongoing investigation in Greenwood, where Indiana State Police are assisting local authorities.
Lives were lost today, and I’m thinking about all the victims of this horrible incident, now and in the days and weeks to come,” Holcomb tweeted. Indiana Attorney General called the shooting “senseless” and “devastating” in a tweet Sunday night.
He later praised the armed citizen who shot and killed the gunman. Sen. Todd Young, who lives in Bargersville, tweeted Sunday night that he was praying for the victims of the shooting.
“Terrible news tonight in my home county. Praying for the victims of a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall. Thank you to our law enforcement officers who responded,” Young said.
Sen. Mike Braun tweeted Sunday night that he was praying for the families of those who were killed and was grateful for the armed citizen who shot and killed the gunman. “Praying for families of those killed in a senseless act of violence in Greenwood tonight, and grateful for the brave armed citizen who took action to stop the perpetrator and prevent further tragic loss of life,” he said.
“Yesterday, and the coming days will be difficult for the community of Greenwood. I ask everyone to join me in praying for the victims of last night’s tragedy at Greenwood Park Mall, and those who have lost a loved one.
We commend not only local and federal law enforcement agencies for their swift and coordinated response, but also the law-abiding Good Samaritan who ended the trajectory of this incident,” Pence said in an emailed statement. “Being the kid who went to Greenwood Mall more times than she can count, I’m deeply appalled to know my home turf is yet another place overtaken by gun violence.
We grieve for all of those harmed, and for the family & friends of those tragically killed. We can’t accept this reality,” Wells tweeted.
“My heart aches for those who lost loved ones today in the shooting at Greenwood Park Mall. There are simply no words for these tragedies that continue to unfold before our eyes,” McDermott said on Twitter.
“I am sickened. Heartfelt condolences to the victims & families of the victims of today’s
Greenwood Park Mall shooting. We. Do.
Not. Have. To.
Live. This.
Way. Demand common-sense gun laws from lawmakers.
Vote them out and replace with those who will,” Wirth said on Twitter. Former Vice President and Indiana Gov. Mike Pence said his prayers were with the fallen and injured and quoted Greenwood Police Chief James Ison in a tweet Monday morning saying the armed citizen who killed the gunman was the real hero of the day. “Our prayers are with the fallen and injured. …

GREENWOOD, Ind. — A gunman killed three people and injured two other Sunday evening in the food court of an Indiana mall.
Authorities said a 22-year-old bystander, who was legally armed, shot and killed the assailant. Update 3:15 p.m. EDT July 18: Authorities are working to determine a possible motive for the shooting Sunday that left three people dead and two injured at Indiana’s Greenwood Park Mall. Authorities identified the slain victims as 30-year-old Victor Gomez, 56-year-old Pedro Pineda and Pineda’s wife, 37-year-old Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda.
The gunman, who was killed by a bystander, was identified as 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood. The police chief said that surveillance video showed that Sapirman entered the mall more than an hour before the shooting. He spent just over an hour in a bathroom by the food court before he opened fire. It was not immediately clear why Sapirman spent so much time in the bathroom, though the chief said investigators believe that he was preparing for the shooting.
Authorities found the gunman’s cellphone in a toilet and another rifle in the bathroom. In addition to the one used in Sunday’s shooting, officials said they also found a third firearm on Sapirman. The 20-year-old had more than 100 rounds of ammunition on him at the time of the shooting, Ison said.
All three guns were purchased legally by Sapirman, according to the police chief. In Sapirman’s apartment, officials found a laptop and a can of butane inside an oven that had been turned on to a high temperature.
Police have subpoenaed the apartment complex in order to get Sapirman’s rental records. Family members told investigators that Sapirman had been served with an eviction notice.
Ison said the 20-year-old had resigned from a warehouse job in May. Update 3 p.m. EDT July 18: Officials said that 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken, of Seymour, Indiana, engaged the gunman who opened fire at Greenwood Park Mall, killing him.
Police Chief Jason Ison praised Dicken, who he said fired at 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman afte the younger man began shooting at people in the mall food court from outside a nearby restroom. Three people died in the shooting -- identified as 30-year-old Victor Gomez, 56-year-old Pedro Pineda and Pineda’s wife, 37-year-old Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda -- and two others were injured. Police said they recovered 22 rounds fired by Sapirman from the scene and 10 rounds fired by Dicken.
Ison said Dicken was visiting the mall to go shopping with his girlfriend. Update 2:55 p.m. EDT July 18: Greenwood Police Chief Jason Ison identified two people injured in Sunday’s shooting as a 22-year-old woman and a 12-year-old girl.
Ison said the injured woman suffered a gunshot wound to her leg. The girl was struck by a bullet fragment believed to have ricocheted off a wall, the chief said.
He described the girl’s injury as minor. Earlier, police identified the people slain in Sunday’s shooting as 30-year-old Victor Gomez, 56-year-old Pedro Pineda and Pineda’s wife, 37-year-old Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda.
Officials identified the gunman, who was shot by an armed bystander, as 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman. Update 2:35 p.m. EDT July 18: Authorities identified the three people killed in Sunday’s shooting as 30-year-old Victor Gomez, of Indianapolis, 56-year-old Pedro Pineda, also of Indianapolis, and Pineda’s wife, 37-year-old Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda.
Officials also identified the shooter, who was killed by a bystander, as 20-year-old Jonathan Douglas Sapirman of Greenwood. Authorities said Sapirman died after he was shot by a good Samaritan. Update 9:57 p.m. EDT July 17 : The victims shot were identified by police only as one male victim and four female victims, including a 12-year-old girl who sustained a minor injury to her back, WTHR-TV reported.
Greenwood Chief of Police James Isom called the armed bystander who shot the gunman a “good Samaritan” who is cooperating fully with the investigation. He confirmed that the bystander is 22 and hails from Bartholomew County. “The real hero of the day is the citizen that was lawfully carrying a firearm in that food court and was able to stop the shooter almost as soon as he began,” Ison said during a Sunday evening news conference.
Update 9:03 p.m. EDT July 17: Officials with the Greenwood Police Department revised the death toll in Sunday’s shooting to four and confirmed in a news conference just before 9 p.m. EDT that the gunman is included in that figure, according to The Associated Press. According to police, the gunman opened fire with a rifle in the mall’s food court, and an armed civilian fatally shot him. Greenwood Police Department Chief Jim Ison said during a news conference that the man carried several magazines of ammunition into the mall, but he did not identify the shooter. Two other people wounded in the shooting are being treated at area hospitals, WTHR reported.
Ison also stated that police confiscated a suspicious backpack that was found in a bathroom near the food court. “We are sickened by yet another type of incident like this in our country,” Indianapolis Assistant Chief of Police Chris Bailey said during the news conference.
Update 7:52 p.m. EDT July 17: Greenwood Police confirmed to WTHR that two people are dead and three others wounded in the shooting. While police previously confirmed that the suspected shooter is dead, it was not immediately clear if the gunman is counted among the police department’s confirmed death toll, the TV station reported. Officials with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department confirmed to WTHR that all evidence indicates that the shots were only fired in the mall’s food court area.
There is no known ongoing threat to the public, the department stated during a 7:45 p.m. EDT news conference. Update 7:12 p.m. EDT July 17: Police confirmed to WTHR just after 7 p.m. EDT that the suspected gunman has died.
Police confirm the shooter in the incident at Greenwood Park Mall has died. Witnesses told the TV station that they heard about 20 gunshots fired in the mall’s food court. Original report:
According to police, “several” people were injured in the shooting at Greenwood Park Mall, including the suspected gunman, WTHR-TV reported. Greenwood Police confirm a shooting at Greenwood Park Mall. They confirm several people are injured, including the shooter. Lieutenant on scene says potentially two fatalities.
Mall is being cleared. Authorities are asking the public to avoid the area while first-responders continue clearing the mall, WPTA reported. - The Associated Press contributed to this report.

GREENWOOD, Ind. (WISH) — The doors to Greenwood Park Mall reopened by 11 a.m. Tuesday, and I-Team 8 walked through the shopping center to get a feel for the mood of the people inside after Sunday’s mass shooting.
I-Team 8 found most stores open and ready for customers, a handful of stores were closed, and some employees were apprehensive. The big-box retailers — Dick’s Sporting Goods, Von Maur and JCPenney — were open. Around a dozen of the smaller stores, particularly a few jewelry stores, showed no sign of opening Tuesday.
One retailer that faces the food court was closed; another was open but the doors were partially closed. The main entrance of the mall leads into a long hallway that intersects with others.
At that intersection, shoppers could see the food court to the right. A pizza place, a Subway sandwich shop, Chick-fil-A restaurant and all of the others were open for business.
There were no signs that 34 bullets had been fired inside of the food court less than 48 hours earlier. A bakery employee told I-Team 8 that its workers had been in the mall Sunday night. Just a few yards away from the counter, several people had been shot. The employee said the area looked significantly different on Sunday.
A husband, his wife and another man died, and Elisjsha Dicken, 22, fired his Glock handgun 10 times to take out the 20-year-old shooter before more people were hurt, the Greenwood police chief said Monday. The three Indianapolis residents who died were Pedro Pineda, 56; Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37; and Victor Gomez, 30.
The restroom where the 20-year-old shooter hid a backpack and stowed another rifle and ammo, and where he tried to dispose of his phone, was open. The only obvious sign of the violence from Sunday night was a handful of flowers and stuffed animals placed outside of the food court entrance. Also, one of the employees in the mall said, the number of security people appears to have doubled.

This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
GREENWOOD, Ind. (FOX59) — Police are providing a look into what happened leading up to, and during a shooting at the Greenwood Park Mall that claimed the lives of three victims and injuring two more. During a news briefing Monday, police said the shooting suspect, 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman, entered the mall and spent over an hour in the restroom before coming out shooting. Elisjsha Dicken, an armed citizen at the mall, shot and killed Sapirman. FOX59 has compiled a timeline of what happened ahead of the shooting.
Police confirmed Monday that Sapirman has a juvenile record. However, he has no criminal history as an adult. Sapirman’s past incidents with the Greenwood Police Department include minor offenses such as a fight at school and being a juvenile runaway.
Sources close to the probe of the weekend’s mass killing told Fox 59 News that investigators have unearthed few clues as to the background and the motive of the gunman. Our own investigation has revealed that Sapirman’s family was estranged and he was the subject of a Guardianship battle between his older brother and mother in 2018 which included five counts of alleged child abuse or neglect.
We traced Sapirman’s mother to an apartment in Beech Grove where a woman angrily shut the door and refused comment. Family members told police that Sapirman had been practicing shooting at a local shooting range, Range USA. The ATF contacted the company, which provided records showing he was frequently using their range and purchasing ammunition at the location for the last two years.
In March, police say Sapirman bought two weapons. On March 8, police say Sapirman purchased a Sig Sauer model 400M 5.56 caliber rife in Greenwood.
The next day, he purchased an M&P 15 5.56 in Greenwood. Range USA, a gun store and firing range in Greenwood, was served with a subpoena by investigators to seize records related to Sapirman’s visits.
The company did not return a request for comment. In May, police say Sapirman resigned from a warehouse position.
They have yet to confirm the location where he was working. Police are also looking into if Sapirman was being evicted from his apartment.
Family members told police that they believe he had received an eviction notice. Police believe Sapirman walked to the mall on Sunday, as he does not drive.
When he arrived at the Greenwood Park Mall, Sapirman entered through the doors closest to the food court. He immediately made his way to the restroom. Police do not know what Sapirman was doing while he was in the restroom, but after the shooting, they found a phone that belonged to Sapirman in a toilet. Police believe he put it there before leaving the restroom to begin his shooting spree.
A little over an hour after Sapirman went into the restroom, he went to the food court and shot Victor Gomez outside of the restroom. He then pointed his rifle into the food court where Pedro and Rosa Pinedo were eating dinner, shooting both.
Sapirman continued to fire several rounds into the food court, hitting a 22-year-old woman who is recovering from a leg wound. Police say a bullet fragment is believed to have ricocheted off a wall, hitting a 12-year-old girl who was running towards the exit. Almost immediately after Sapirman started his shooting spree, police say 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken from Columbus confronted the shooter.
Dicken fired 10 rounds, hitting Sapirman as he tried to retreat into the restroom. Sapirman fell to the ground after being shot.
Police say it was only 15 seconds from by the time the first shot was fired until he was neutralized by Dicken. When police started the investigation, they said they found a waistband holster on Sapirman with several magazines.
He also had a Glock 33, .357 caliber pistol. Inside the restroom where Sapirmen spent the hour, police say they found a backpack with another rifle and more ammunition. In total, police said he had more than 100 rounds of ammunition.
Neighbors in the apartment complex where Sapirman lived say police raided his apartment between midnight and 3 a.m. Tuesday. When the SWAT team went into the apartment, police say the oven was at a high temperature.
Inside the oven was a laptop and a can of butane. Police are trying to recover data from Sapirman’s phone and computer. A timeline for if or when they can has not been established.
While police have yet to establish a motive, they are investigating social media profiles that may have belonged to Sapirman. FOX59 has uncovered a photo shared on a social media website that appears to show weapons matching the description of those that Sapirman had on his possession during the shooting.
While police have not confirmed the weapons in the photo were Sapirman’s, gun experts confirm they match the description as the weapons Sapirman had. Investigators also have those posts showing Sapirman wearing a partial facial mask as he was during the attack.
Other photographs show Sapirman pointing the gun at himself and images of a Nazi wedding ceremony from World War II and also an ominous message posted Sunday afternoon less than four hours before the killings. FOX59 is continuing to follow the investigation. We will provide updates as they become available.

Hours before a 20-year-old gunman opened fire on a food court in a suburban mall near Indianapolis on Sunday, he appears to have posted a grim message on the notorious imageboard site 4chan.
“Name is jonathan and today seems like a good day to die,” he wrote. The post was accompanied by a colorized image of a wedding in Nazi Germany.
He also shared a link to the image-hosting site Imgur, which contained several images of himself wearing a white button-down shirt, blue jeans, a face-covering, and posing with two AR-15-style rifles, a handgun, and multiple magazines. That post was shared on July 17 at 1:13 p.m. (the site lists no time zone) to the website’s /BANT board—which is its International/Random board. Just before 6 p.m. local time the gunman, identified as Jonathan Sapirman, walked out of the Greenwood Park Mall’s food court restrooms armed with the same type and number of weapons as seen in the photo and began shooting into the crowd with an assault rifle (specifically, a Sig Sauer model M400 5.56).
He killed three people and injured two more. Less than 30 seconds after his rampage began, a civilian shot him dead from over 40 yards away with a handgun. Police have not yet identified any clear motive in the attack.
At a press conference Monday, they said the shooter had left his laptop in a heated oven, alongside a can of butane, and submerged his cellphone in the toilet. Police did not speculate on the reasons the shooter did this but said investigators were trying to acquire as much information from the damaged devices as they could.
The FBI took the damaged laptop to their lab in Quantico for further analysis. Police told VICE News that they were familiar with the comments and images purportedly posted by the gunman prior to the attack.
Meanwhile, an apparently leaked image from the crime scene has further complicated matters. VICE News asked Greenwood Police about a sensitive, graphic photo, apparently taken inside the mall, and uploaded to 4chan on Tuesday.
The picture purports to show the deceased gunman lying on the floor of the mall alongside a placard identifying him as “dead.” The police chief did not dispute the image’s authenticity, and said that they were investigating where it came from. The dead body is wearing the same clothes as the person who posted on 4chan linking to the Imgur album.
Evidence of the shooter’s presence on 4chan first began circulating online Monday, raising questions about his motive. The infamous anonymous imageboard site has been linked to a slew of ideologically motivated killings in recent years.
The imageboard site was a primary source of radicalization for the 18-year-old who killed 10 people in a racist attack on a Buffalo supermarket earlier this year, according to the vitriolic screed he’d posted online prior to the shooting. The man who killed 51 people in an attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, in 2019 also said that he frequented 4chan.
The man who killed 10 people in a misogyny-inspired Toronto van attack said he frequented the site as well. In the weeks before the Jan. 6 Capitol riot, 4chan was awash with violent rhetoric and threats against lawmakers, Congressional investigators said at a recent hearing. Do you have information about the Greenwood Mall shooter?
Please contact Mack Lamoureux at mack.lamoureux@vice.com or Tess Owen at tess.owen@vice.com or DM either on Twitter and ask for a Signal number. On top of that, some corners of the site are steeped in a “mass shooting culture”, “where violent actors, particularly those who kill a lot of people, are immortalized and revered on the site,” Crawford said.
The relationship between 4chan and the Greenwood Park Mall shooting became even murkier after the attack, but not because of further actions by the shooter. The post and image the shooter may have posted to 4Chan. On Tuesday, a graphic image showing the deceased shooter surfaced online.
The photo showed the young man, in the same white button-down shirt and blue jeans he’d worn in his earlier posts, covered in blood, surrounded by empty bullet casings, lying dead on a tiled floor. Next to the shoes of the corpse is a small placard with the word “dead,” indicative of a crime scene.
The photo was posted several times to 4chan on Tuesday around noon EST. The first post was simply accompanied by the caption “MALL GUY HAHAH!”
and a follow-up caption. It was later re-shared with the caption “he ded.”
It was also posted at a similar time to the Mass Killers subreddit with the caption "don’t know if this has been posted I live really close to greenwood and buddy sent me this." It is unknown if the image originated on 4chan or Reddit or was taken from a separate site; reverse image searches turned up nothing.
But the image also raised troubling questions about who may have had access to images from such a sensitive crime scene, and why that person chose 4chan to share them. When VICE News contacted Greenwood Park Police on Tuesday, Detective Doug Mullins said he was familiar with the gunman’s 4chan posts prior to the shooting but was not aware of the image showing his corpse. On Wednesday, Police Chief James Ison told VICE News in a statement that they were “currently working to identify the source” of the image, and that it was under investigation.

Dressed in shorts and a T-shirt, Elisjsha Dicken was shopping with his girlfriend when a gunman opened fire on a food court at a Greenwood, Indiana, mall Sunday evening, killing three people and wounding two others. While the shooter, 20-year-old Douglas Sapirman, fired 24 rounds from an AR-15-style rifle, Dicken did not hesitate to use the Glock handgun he was legally carrying. Sapirman was “neutralized” within two minutes, police said.
“Many more people would have died last night if not for a responsible armed citizen that took action very quickly within the first two minutes of the shooting,” Greenwood Police Chief James Ison said at a news conference Monday. The grandmother of Shay Goldman, Dicken’s 19-year-old girlfriend, says her granddaughter’s life was one of those spared through the young man’s actions, CNN affiliate WTHR reported. “‘Eli pushed me out of the way and told me to get down and stay down,’” Goldman told her grandmother by phone, according to WTHR. “Everybody should be proud of him for what he’s done because if not, there would have been a lot more,” said the grandmother, who the affiliate did not identify.
As Sapirman began shooting from a restroom area into the mall’s food court, Dicken returned fire “from quite a distance with a handgun – was very proficient in that, very tactically sound,” Ison said. As he moved in on the gunman, Dicken motioned for people to leave behind him, the chief said.
“He’s a superhero,” Alison Dick said in a live Facebook post, whose 12-year-old daughter was wounded. As far as investigators know, Dicken “has no police training and no military training,” Ison said. According to WTHR, Dicken’s grandfather taught him how to shoot. Making Dicken’s heroism perhaps even more remarkable is the fact cases of an armed bystander attacking an active shooter are rare, according to data from the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training at Texas State University.
There were at least 434 active shooter attacks in the US from 2000 to 2021, according to ALERRT data. Active shooter attacks were defined as those in which one or more shooters killed or attempted to kill multiple unrelated people in a populated place. Of those 434 active shooter cases, an armed bystander shot the attacker in 22 of the incidents.
In 10 of those, the “good guy” was a security guard or an off-duty police officer, ALERRT data showed. Having armed people at the scene who are not law enforcement members can create confusion and carry dire risks, according to a data analysis published by The New York Times. An armed bystander who shot and killed an attacker in 2021 in Arvada, Colorado, for example, was himself shot and killed by the police who mistook him for the gunman, the Times reported.
Few other details have emerged about Dicken, and an attorney for the young man has asked the public to respect the privacy of Dicken and his family. “Because we want to respect the ongoing criminal investigation by the Greenwood Police Department and take time to honor the three innocent lives lost, we won’t be making any substantive comments on Sunday’s events until after the authorities’ investigation is closed,” attorney Guy A. Relford said in a statement to CNN. After the shooting, Dicken “approached mall security and told them that he was the one that neutralized the shooter,” and he waited for police to arrive, Ison said.
Police then took Dicken to the station, where detectives interviewed him. His statements correlated with video from the scene, the chief said.

It took just 15 seconds for an armed civilian to neutralize a man who opened fire in a mall food court in Indiana on Sunday, authorities said.
Three victims were killed and two more were wounded in the attack. The Tuesday statement was issued to correct a timeline of the shooting that authorities provided on Monday.
Previously, police said two minutes had passed before 22-year-old Elisjsha Dicken stopped the shooter, who police identified as 20-year-old Jonathan Sapirman. A preliminary autopsy report released Tuesday said Sapirman was shot eight times and died from his wounds.
Police previously said the incident began at approximately 4:54 p.m. local time, when the shooter entered the mall and went to a food court bathroom. He was in there just over an hour. He left the bathroom at 5:56 p.m., and began shooting immediately, killing three people and wounding two before he was shot by Dicken.
The victims were identified Tuesday as Pedro Pineda, 56; Rosa Mirian Rivera de Pineda, 37; and Victor Gomez, 30. Two rifles, a Glock pistol, multiple magazines and at least 100 rounds of ammo were recovered after the shooting, Ison said.
"Many more people would have died last night if not for a responsible armed citizen who took action within the first two minutes of this shooting," Ison said, calling his actions "nothing short of heroic." Dicken had been visiting the mall with his girlfriend at the time of the shooting, according to Ison.
Dicken's attorney said Monday that he was "proud" to serve his client, calling him "a true American hero who saved countless lives." The attorney said Dicken would not make in-depth comments about the case until the investigation concluded. An armed civilian stopping a gunman is very uncommon, according to data from the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training Center cited by The Associated Press.
From 2000 to 2021, less than 3% of instances where someone attacked multiple people ended with a civilian firing at them, the AP said. Much more common were police shooting the perpetrator, police or bystanders subduing them in another manner, or the attacker leaving the scene.
Authorities have not yet disclosed a motive for the shooting. Ison said Monday that the alleged shooter is believed to have dropped his cell phone in the mall bathroom toilet before opening fire, and that authorities found a laptop in an oven when they searched his residence. Zoe Christen Jones contributed reporting.

