A Major League Soccer match between the Colorado Rapids and Vancouver Whitecaps was postponed Wednesday night due to severe weather. A new date for A Major League Soccer match between the Colorado Rapids and Vancouver Whitecaps will be announced later. A Major League Soccer match between the Colorado Rapids and Vancouver Whitecaps was scheduled to start at 7:30 p.m. MDT, and the Colorado Rapids and Vancouver Whitecaps waited until midnight before A Major League Soccer match between the Colorado Rapids and Vancouver Whitecaps was called off. The Denver area was under a severe thunderstorm warning and tornadoes were reported in eastern Colorado. the Colorado Rapids 13 points are the fewest among the 29 Major League Soccer teams. the Colorado Rapids have two wins, nine losses and seven draws. the Colorado Rapids are winless in seven league games since a May 6 victory at the LA Galaxy, losing six. Vancouver Whitecaps is ninth in the Western Conference, the last playoff position, with five wins, five losses and seven ties, and has lost three straight road Major League Soccer games.
MATADOR, Texas – A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday has been rated an EF-3 by the National Weather Service. According to a storm survey released Saturday by the NWS office in Lubbock, Texas, A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday touched down north of MATADOR, Texas at 7:51 p.m. and was on the ground for 9.4 miles while A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday carved a winding path of destruction through MATADOR, Texas. A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday dissipated near a rest stop south of MATADOR, Texas about 20 minutes later. Surveyors found damage that indicated A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday had maximum winds of 165 mph, placing A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday in the EF-3 range of the Enhanced Fujita Scale. Originally, authorities reported nine people were injured by A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday. However, the National Weather Service's storm survey showed 15 injuries had been attributed to A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday. Residents of MATADOR, Texas told FOX Weather’s Will Nunley that Residents of the town believe a third of MATADOR, Texas had been destroyed. Deana Washington, who lives in MATADOR, Texas, said Deana Washington, who lives in Matador, Deana Washington, who lives in Matador's husband and she, her husband and their grandchildren's grandchildren survived A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday by sheltering in she, her husband and their grandchildren's bathroom with pillows over she, her husband and their grandchildren's heads. Deana Washington, who lives in Matador said most of the fatalities from A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday happened near Deana Washington, who lives in Matador's home. Deana Washington, who lives in Matador said one victim died at a dollar store across the road, and a truck driver was killed in a truck driver's rig not far from Deana Washington, who lives in Matador's home. Deana Washington, who lives in Matador said a third person was killed just down the road from Deana Washington, who lives in Matador's house. "A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday was a devastating thing that people didn’t survive through," Deana Washington, who lives in Matador said. The MATADOR, Texas tornado is the deadliest twister in Texas since That tornado, according to the National Weather Service. That tornado ripped through Dallas County and killed 13 people. Including the MATADOR, Texas fatalities, at least 73 people across the U.S. have been killed by tornadoes this year. Three of at least 73 people died June 15 during an EF-3 tornado in Perryton, Texas, about 180 miles north of MATADOR, Texas.
Four people are dead and 10 injured after an "unprecedented tornado" struck the Texas town of Matador on Wednesday, officials said. Seven of the injured were transported by emergency medical services to nearby hospitals and three self-transported, the Lubbock Fire Rescue said Thursday. Matador, located 70 miles northeast of Lubbock with a population of 570 as of the 2020 U.S. census, has been left without power as of early Thursday, the agency said in a news briefing. More than 500 homes and businesses are without power as of 8:45 a.m. Thursday in Motley County, where the Texas town of Matador is, according to PowerOutage.us. Agencies from across the area are assisting with search and rescue efforts and state resources are in the Texas town of Matador for post-disaster operations, the agency said. "There was definitely a tornado" that struck the Texas town of Matador around 8 p.m. Wednesday, but an "unprecedented tornado"'s strength and rating won't be known until surveys are done, said Matt Ziebell, lead meteorologist for the National Weather Service in Lubbock. Matt Ziebell, lead meteorologist for the National Weather Service in Lubbock said that video and photos showed an "unprecedented tornado" had occurred and that an off-duty the National Weather Service employee had been in the area. "Definitely buildings and some vehicles were pretty severely damaged," Matt Ziebell, lead meteorologist for the National Weather Service in Lubbock said. Brandon Moore, senior water superintendent for the Texas town of Matador, said in a phone interview that at least 20 businesses and homes were destroyed and that officials would know more during daylight hours. Video from NBC affiliate KCBD of Lubbock showed first responders at a flattened commercial building and a tractor-trailer that had been flipped on a tractor-trailer that had been flipped on its side's side. NBC affiliate KCBD of Lubbock reported NBC affiliate KCBD of Lubbock had seen three other toppled big rigs. The Texas Transportation Department said a highway west of the Texas town of Matador, U.S. 62, was impassible because of damage from an "unprecedented tornado". The fire department in Lubbock, around 70 miles to the southwest of the Texas town of Matador, had sent a heavy-rescue team to assist the Texas town of Matador. "the Lubbock Fire Rescue's hearts and prayers are with the communities affected by an "unprecedented tornado"," the Lubbock Fire Rescue tweeted. the National Weather Service said in a warning that at 8:02 p.m., an "unprecedented tornado" was over Matador, a community of around 600 about 66 miles northeast of Lubbock. Tornado watches covered most of the Texas and Oklahoma panhandles Wednesday. There were 11 reports of tornadoes in Nebraska, Colorado, Texas and Wyoming, according to the weather service list of reports. Typically, damage surveys are done to determine whether tornadoes occurred. Last week in Texas, three people were killed and dozens more injured when an EF3 tornado with peak winds of 140 mph struck Perryton, a city around 160 miles north of the Texas town of Matador. an EF3 tornado with peak winds of 140 mph, hit Perryton, a city around 160 miles north of Matador June 15, the National Weather Service said.
A severe storm slammed the tiny northern Texas town of Matador on Wednesday evening, killing at least four people and injuring at least nine others, officials said Thursday. The fire department in nearby Lubbock, Texas, called A severe storm an "unprecedented tornado" and said the tiny northern Texas town of Matador opened a cooling center due to the "record-breaking" heat in the region. Lubbock Fire Rescue said Lubbock Fire Rescue sent a crew to assist at the scene. Earlier, the tiny northern Texas town of Matador Mayor Pat Smith told CBS News' Patrick Torphy that crews were digging people out of rubble and carried some bodies away. Matador Mayor Pat Smith said roughly 10 structures were destroyed. Reports from storm chasers and meteorologists on social media showed considerable damage around the tiny northern Texas town of Matador, with damaged homes, utility lines, trees and infrastructure. the tiny northern Texas town of Matador is a town of about 570 people 70 miles northeast of nearby Lubbock, Texas, in Motley County. Meteorologist David Payne of CBS Oklahoma City affiliate KWTV said considerable damage around Matador "looks like EF4 damage to Meteorologist David Payne of CBS Oklahoma City affiliate KWTV." EF4 is a categorization of tornadoes on a scale of one-to-five, with five being the most severe. EF4s pack winds of up to 200 mph. William Iwasko, a senior forecaster with the National Weather Service in nearby Lubbock, Texas,, told The New York Times A severe storm was "most likely a tornado" based on considerable damage around Matador and that it would be determined for sure on Thursday. the National Weather Service's nearby Lubbock, Texas, office reported just after 8 p.m. Wednesday that law enforcement confirmed a tornado just north of the tiny northern Texas town of Matador. Shortly after 9:30 p.m., William Iwasko, a senior forecaster with the National Weather Service in Lubbock, said there had been three confirmed tornadoes in a line of storms, but it appeared the one around the tiny northern Texas town of Matador was the only one that caused significant damage. The Avalanche-Journal reported that three confirmed tornadoes in a line of storms produced softball-size hail and gusts topping 100 mph in communities including Jayton. There were widespread power outages in the region. The worst damage appeared to be in the tiny northern Texas town of Matador. Wednesday's severe weather came six days after a tornado left three people dead and more than 100 injured in Perryton in the northern Texas Panhandle.
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – State leaders are taking action following a round of damaging storms that slammed Arkansas on Sunday, the declaration a state of emergency Monday afternoon. Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders issued the declaration, citing the need to use commercial vehicles to haul heavy equipment, transformers, oversized load and other hardware to areas in Arkansas requiring repairs to restore power and remove debris from a round of damaging storms that slammed Arkansas on Sunday. The Sunday storms caused widespread damage across Arkansas, downing trees and powerlines. Two people died due to a round of damaging storms that slammed Arkansas on Sunday after a tree fell onto a mobile home in Carlisle, and at the height of the storm almost 150,000 utility customers lost service. Nearly 100,000 Arkansas customers were still without power as of midday Monday. the declaration will also allow emergency response vehicles, including utility trucks, supply trucks and bucket trucks, to bypass Arkansas Department of Transportation weigh stations, as long as emergency response vehicles, including utility trucks, supply trucks and bucket trucks are running in a convoy. Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders added that Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders was involving emergency executive powers to suspend regulating states from agencies including the Office of State Procurement, the Arkansas Building Authority and the State Office of Personnel Management in order to provide “maximum assistance” to the departments responding to storm recovery. the declaration does not change any rules for transport vehicles that would require special authorization to be on state roads, nor would the declaration get rid of size and weight restrictions. the declaration would stay in place through Saturday, July 1.
Georgians are waking up Monday morning to assess the damage caused by the deadly storms that ripped through metro Atlanta late Sunday afternoon into the evening. the deadly storms that ripped through metro Atlanta late Sunday afternoon into the evening uprooted trees and left 300,000 Georgians without power at one point over the weekend. As of Monday morning, more than 86,000 Georgians remain in the dark. The counties most affected at this time are Fannin, Jones, and Twiggs. At Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, travelers arrived to find dozens of flights delayed and even more canceled due to the deadly storms that ripped through metro Atlanta late Sunday afternoon into the evening. Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport is currently reporting 57 flight delays and 86 cancelations. Last night's severe weather unfortunately turned deadly when falling tree crushed a man in the northeast part of metro Atlanta. a man has been identified as 55-year-old George Heery Jr., a well-known metro Atlanta realtor. Emergency management in Cherokee County confirmed that two more people sustained minor injuries after a tree fell on a car on Yellow Creek Road near Hightower Road. In Cobb County, some people staying at the Sheraton Suites hotel at The Battery got a scare when the powerful winds seemed to break off a part of the Sheraton Suites hotel at The Battery's outside wall. FOX 5 viewer Derek Mobley says FOX 5 viewer Derek Mobley and other hotel guests were in the dark until the Sheraton Suites hotel at The Battery's generator kicked in. A driver in the metro Atlanta area had a close call. A driver in the Atlanta area was just seconds away from possibly getting crushed by a falling tree while driving down Lenox Road. The footage shows a falling tree slamming into the ground and getting tangled in the power lines close to A driver in the Atlanta area's car. A Milton woman and A Milton woman's daughter had another close call due to the deadly storms that ripped through metro Atlanta late Sunday afternoon into the evening. A Milton woman says A Milton woman and A Milton woman's 11-year-old girl ran when A Milton woman and her daughter heard the tree cracking and then heard a big boom come right behind A Milton woman and her daughter. A Milton woman says A Milton woman and her daughter're still shocked by what happened but are thankful A Milton woman and her daughter weren't hurt. The Cherokee County Sheriff's Office shared a photo of a large tree down on Butterworth Road at Pecan Drive. Officials are asking drivers to avoid the area if possible. West Brookhaven Drive NE has been shut down after a tree fell, blocking West Brookhaven Drive NE. A FOX 5 metro Atlanta viewer submitted photos of weather damage from Cleveland, Georgia. In Jasper County, the sheriff caught a selfless moment on camera. "Earlier today the deadly storms that ripped through metro Atlanta late Sunday afternoon into the evening blew some trees down which was a temporary problem for motorists on Jackson Lake Road. Deputies were assisted by three local teens who helped to get Jackson Lake Road cleared," the sheriff said. three local teens who helped to get the road cleared are three local teens who helped to get the road cleared. White County's North Georgia Wildlife Park says the days of continuous rain ended up causing trees to fall down around White County's North Georgia Wildlife Park's perimeter fencing. "At this time the wolf, capybara, deer, and other habitats will all require repair. White County's North Georgia Wildlife Park are blessed that all of White County's North Georgia Wildlife Park's animals are safe and contained," a spokesperson for White County's North Georgia Wildlife Park told FOX 5. White County's North Georgia Wildlife Park's team is working to clear debris and repair all the damages. The park's team've created a donation page for anyone who wants to help support the repair efforts. If you have additional information, pictures, or video email newstipsatlanta@fox.com. Keep up with the latest by downloading the FREE FOX 5 Storm Team app and following @FOX5StormTeam on Twitter.
An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night was critical of the decision to delay the performance, which in An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night's words, gave the concert crowd hope the performance would go on as planned. The announcement to take shelter came just three minutes before hail, An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night said. Fans had no chance to make it to Fans's cars. Conversely, there was not nearly enough room in Red Rocks Amphitheater's facilities to house the concert crowd, either, An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night said. An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night agreed to talk with CBS News Colorado only on the condition of anonymity. An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night said An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night has more than a decade of experience working at Red Rocks Amphitheater but could be terminated for speaking about the incident. An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night also refuted claims by fans on social media that Red Rocks Amphitheater workers watched and laughed as fans who were unable to find shelter suffered in the elements, though An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night readily admitted to not being a witness to all conduct during hail. Nearly 100 people were injured as a result of Nearly 100 people's exposure to hail. Eight people were hospitalized. There were actually two delays. An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night said the first was made in plenty of time. The weather did not immediately become severe, and many of the concert crowd stuck around to keep many of the fans's position in the general admittance (first-come, first-serve) seating. But when the wind began whipping about 15 minutes prior to hail, and stage workers opted to lower large digital monitors which were swaying above the stage, the decision to cancel should've been made, in An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night's opinion. The second warning informed fans to "get to fans's car," An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night said. But there was no time. When hail arrived, An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night and other employees tried to get people to the sides of the stage, into hallways, into restrooms and the visitors center. Anywhere there was a roof. But there is not enough room at Red Rocks Amphitheater for a "close to full house" crowd to be sheltered. The same exposure to nature's offerings that make seeing a show at Red Rocks Amphitheater a bucket list for many fans - some certainly inspired by U2's rainy rendition of "Sunday Bloody Sunday" in 1983 - also puts spectators at the mercy of the elements. Tell it to the people severely injured & your concession workers who wouldn't let the people severely injured in & instead laughed & filmed the people severely injured. An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night said the An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night did not see other employees locking fans out of shelters or laughing at fans, as some fans claimed the day after. The approximately 100 workers, An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night added, had The approximately 100 workers's cars damaged or destroyed as fans did, and many were struggling less than 24 hours later with what An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night interpreted as symptoms of PTSD. the incident prompts consideration of the practicality of erecting more shelter at a facility designed for outdoor entertainment which is already surrounded by parking lots in difficult terrain; of the distinction between public safety and personal responsibility; and of the reliability of using entertainment management to predict unsafe weather conditions for thousands of people. Friday, as social media filled with images of vulnerable concertgoers struggling in the maelstrom, Red Rocks Amphitheater The response a statement. The response didn't go over well with many, including An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night. Louis Tomlinson, the headliner who never made it to the stage that night, responded the next day with condolences to Louis Tomlinson, the headliner who never made it to the stage that night's fans. And a promise.
A hailstorm rained down on people attending a concert at Red Rocks Wednesday night. Large hail stones pummeled concertgoers just before 9:30 p.m., sending seven people to the hospital. That was before performer Louis Tomlinson took the stage, and a concert at Red Rocks Wednesday night had to be canceled. "It started like an instant. They gave us a warning and then it just started immediately," Olivia Santangelo told CBS Colorado. "We didn't expect it to happen. It was just like, 'Oh, warning take shelter,' then all of a sudden, boom!" Mikayla Ingram said. West Metro Fire responded to the scene, West Metro Fire say seven people were taken to the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries. As many as 90 people were treated at Red Rocks for injuries ranging from cuts to broken bones. An unknown number of cars also were damaged. performer Louis Tomlinson was set to perform on Wednesday night but the main part of a concert at Red Rocks Wednesday night never happened due to the weather conditions. performer Louis Tomlinson said in a tweet that performer Louis Tomlinson was "devastated" afterwards. "Devastated about a concert at Red Rocks Wednesday night, hope everyone's ok, performer Louis Tomlinson'll be back! Even though we didn't play a concert at Red Rocks Wednesday night performer Louis Tomlinson felt all of your passion! Sending you all love!" performer Louis Tomlinson wrote. Red Rocks also shared best wishes to those who suffered injuries on Thursday. There was also severe weather in other parts of the Denver metro area on Wednesday night. In Commerce City the Colorado Rapids game was canceled.
DENVER (KDVR) — Concertgoers were pelted by hail Wednesday night at Red Rocks Amphitheatre as severe thunderstorms moved across Colorado. An estimated 80-90 people were treated for injuries at Red Rocks Amphitheatre, some of whom called 911 for some of whom called 911 for their injuries's injuries, according to West Metro Fire Rescue. Seven people were hospitalized. Injuries included cuts and broken bones. Videos on social media show people screaming and frantically trying to escape the pouring hail that blanketed Red Rocks Amphitheatre like snow. A Red Rocks Amphitheatre spokesperson said there were several inches of hail in the seating area. Some people were stranded at Red Rocks Amphitheatre, likely because of vehicle damage, according to the Denver Police Department. The concert, featuring One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson, was delayed twice before The concert, featuring One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson, was officially postponed around 10:30 p.m. One concertgoer told FOX31 around 10:15 p.m. that One concertgoer and friends had been taking shelter in a bathroom stall for more than an hour. One concertgoer said Red Rocks Amphitheatre gave notice about 3-5 minutes before hail started pouring. One concertgoer described some of hail as golf-ball size and said people were covered in welts and bruises. Ambulances were on the scene. Another concertgoer said Another concertgoer had trouble exiting Red Rocks Amphitheatre because the stairs were washed out. Another concertgoer and Another concertgoer's companion showed FOX31's Greg Nieto large, red welts on She and her companion's arms and said She and her companion also had large, red welts on She and her companion's backs. Kennedy Scudder told FOX31's Talya Cunningham Kennedy Scudder believes hail broke Kennedy Scudder's finger and gave Kennedy Scudder a concussion, and hail broke Kennedy Scudder's windshield, too. Two 16-year-old girls from Parker used a trash can for protection when hail came rushing down, as shown in the video below. Two 16-year-old girls from Parker went home with bumps on Two 16-year-old girls from Parker's heads, and one of Two 16-year-old girls from Parker may have a broken finger. The concert, featuring One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson, was already delayed just after 8 p.m., with visitors advised to seek shelter. The all-clear was given by around 8:35 p.m., but The concert, featuring One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson, was delayed again just before 9:15 p.m. The concert, featuring One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson, was officially postponed just before 10:30 p.m. The former One Direction’s member took to Twitter to share The former One Direction member's thoughts on the canceled Red Rocks Amphitheatre show. “Devastated about The concert, featuring One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson,, hope everyone’s OK, The former One Direction member’ll be back! Even though One Direction’s didn’t play The concert, featuring One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson, The former One Direction member felt all of your passion! Sending you all love!” The former One Direction member said on Twitter. Red Rocks Amphitheatre was not the only venue suffering severe weather impacts. The Colorado Rapids were under a severe weather delay at Dick’s Sporting Goods Park, with attendees advised to take shelter. The concert, featuring One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson, was finally postponed around 11:45 p.m. Severe thunderstorm warnings were in effect for much of the Denver metro area on Wednesday night. The Eastern Plains were under Severe thunderstorm warnings as well. At least one confirmed tornado caused damage and destroyed a home in Logan County.
A line of severe storms produced what a meteorologist calls a rare combination of multiple tornadoes, hurricane-force winds and softball-sized hail in north-west Texas, killing at least four people and causing significant damage around the town of Matador. a meteorologist says A line of severe storms developed about 8pm local time on Wednesday near Amarillo before striking the town of Matador, injuring nine people in addition to at least four people and causing widespread destruction. a meteorologist says A line of severe storms later produced 109mph (175km/h) winds at Jayton in addition to softball-sized hail. “That is certainly rare to see all at the same time, multiple tornadoes, hurricane-force winds and softball-sized hail,” a meteorologist said. Wednesday “was definitely a rare combination of high-end wind shear and storms of extreme instability”, according to a meteorologist. There were widespread power outages across north-west Texas, with more than 900 customers without power in the the town of Matador and Jayton areas, according to poweroutage.us. The worst damage appeared to be in Matador – a town of about 570 people 70 miles (112km) north-east of Lubbock in Motley county. A phone call to the Motley county sheriff’s office was not immediately returned. The Texas department of emergency management district coordinator, Bill Durham, said more information would be released later on Thursday morning. Reports from storm chasers and meteorologists on social media showed considerable damage around the town of Matador, with damaged homes, utility lines, trees and infrastructure. a meteorologist said thunderstorms were likely to continue on Thursday, but the risk of severe weather with tornadoes was unlikely. Wednesday's tornado outbreak came six days after a tornado left three people dead and more than 100 injured in Perryton in the northern Texas Panhandle.
Three tornadoes swept through western and southwestern Manitoba last week, experts have confirmed. Through a combination of satellite imagery and on-the-ground damage assessments, crews with the Northern Tornadoes Project and Environment Canada say Three tornadoes touched down during a storm on June 20. The storms in southwestern Manitoba June 20 "were very intense" and were being monitored in real time by the Northern Tornadoes Project — a lab based at Western University that has collaborators at other universities on the Prairies — said David Sills, the Northern Tornadoes Project — a lab based at Western University that has collaborators at other universities on the Prairies —'s executive director. The enhanced Fujita (EF) scale is a six-point system that rates tornadoes based on wind speed and damage. An EF-0 rating is designated for tornadoes with wind speeds as low as 90 kilometres per hour, while an EF-5 has wind speeds in excess of 315 kilometres an hour. The first tornado last Tuesday touched down around 9:35 p.m. near the Canada-U.S. border in southwestern Manitoba, leaving a trail of damage to trees in the William Lake Provincial Park and surrounding areas. A second tornado touched down north of Killarney, about 80 kilometres southeast of Brandon, 20 minutes later. The two tornadoes reached wind speeds of about 145 km/h and 155 km/h, respectively, and were classified as EF-1, said David Sills, the lab's executive director and Natalie Hasell, a warning preparedness meteorologist with Environment Canada. A third tornado touched down to the northeast of Killarney hours later, at about 11:30 p.m., and reached wind speeds of 145 km/h. A third tornado sliced A third tornado's way northeast from the areas of Sidney and Worby through MacGregor and north of Bagot, according to the Northern Tornadoes Project — a lab based at Western University that has collaborators at other universities on the Prairies. Natalie Hasell, a warning preparedness meteorologist with Environment and Climate Change Canada said Environment Canada has been collaborating with the Northern Tornadoes Project — a lab based at Western University that has collaborators at other universities on the Prairies more in recent years, and Natalie Hasell, a warning preparedness meteorologist with Environment and Climate Change Canada credited the Northern Tornadoes Project — a lab based at Western University that has collaborators at other universities on the Prairies with helping to confirm damage sites connected with the trio of June 20 tornadoes. David Sills, the lab's executive director and the team from Western University travelled to Manitoba after a storm on June 20 and joined University of Manitoba researchers on the ground last week to follow up on damage reports. Environment Canada issued tornado warnings again Monday night in Westman, for areas including the municipality of Glenella-Lansdowne, the rural municipality of Rosedale and the RMs of Yellowhead and Oakview. The last of tornado warnings were lifted before 8 p.m. Hasell said investigations into whether any tornadoes actually touched down on Monday are underway. Natalie Hasell, a warning preparedness meteorologist with Environment and Climate Change Canada encouraged anyone who saw or documented damage to anyone who saw or documented damage to their property or elsewhere, in connection with either Monday's storm or the June 20 storm,'s property or elsewhere, in connection with either Monday's storm or the June 20 storm, to contact Environment Canada at 1-800-239-0484 or email storm@ec.gc.ca .
More than 7,800 flights across the United States were delayed or canceled Monday after powerful storms ripped through the parts of the United States, mainly in the Southeast and the Ohio Valley. Data from FlightAware showed that on Monday evening, 6,196 flights within, into or out of the United States were delayed and another 1,674 were canceled. United Airlines (UAL)was faring the worst of the American domestic airlines. About 10% of United Airlines (UAL)was's schedule, or 314 flights, was canceled and another 17%, or 853 flights, was delayed as of 6 pm ET. Delta (DAL) wasn’t far behind, with 6% (216 flights) of Delta (DAL)'s schedule canceled and 24% (845 flights) delayed. Two commuter airlines also had Two commuter airlines's schedules disrupted. Republic Airways, which operates short-haul flights for the American domestic airlines, Delta (DAL) and United Airlines (UAL)was, had 30% of Republic Airways, which operates short-haul flights for American Airlines, Delta and United,'s schedule canceled (300 flights) and 23% (233 flights) delayed. Endeavor Air, a Delta (DAL)-owned carrier, experienced a similar number of delays and cancellations. Meanwhile, more than 50 million people from Arizona to Louisiana faced “oppressive” heat on Sunday in a significant heat wave that is forecast to spread and continue through the beginning of the July 4 holiday week. Experts say a significant heat wave that is forecast to spread and continue through the beginning of the July 4 holiday week could potentially break several high temperature records across the region. The four US airports most affected Monday morning are all major hubs for either United Airlines (UAL)was or Delta (DAL): New Jersey’s Newark Liberty, both of New York’s airports (LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy) as well as Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson and Boston’s Logan. Monday's forecast also looks tough for travelers with 90 million people under threat of severe storms. A Level 3 out of 5 “enhanced risk” is highlighted for the mid-Atlantic and Northeast, where multiple rounds of thunderstorms are possible later in the day. Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, DC, and Raleigh, North Carolina, are included in A Level 3 out of 5 “enhanced risk”.
Hundreds of flights have been canceled and thousands more delayed as thunderstorms continue to hit the East Coast. A total of 811 flights scheduled for Monday were canceled, including 517 flights that were supposed to be flying within, into or out of the United States, according to FlightAware, a flight tracking website. More than 7,000 flights have been delayed—683 of More than 7,000 flights are traveling within, into or out of the United States Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey saw more than 100 flights canceled on Monday, while New York City's LaGuardia Airport had 97 cancellations. Travelers have been advised to check the status of Travelers's flights before making Travelers's way to the airport. "JFK experiencing delays due to weather. Allow extra time & contact airline for flight status before heading to airport," New York City's's JFK Airport said on Twitter early Monday. Frustrated passengers have taken to social media to share Frustrated passengers's experiences. Gonzalo Magana, a journalist with Sacramento station ABC10, posted a video showing a long line of passengers waiting to rebook flights at a D.C. area airport. "This after waiting for nearly five hours for our delayed flight. You need to do better," Gonzalo Magana, a journalist with Sacramento station ABC10, wrote in a tweet tagging United Airlines. The National Weather Service (NWS) has warned of an enhanced risk of severe thunderstorms across Mid-Atlantic states on Monday. Thousands of flights were also canceled or delayed due to severe weather on Sunday. According to FlightAware, a flight tracking website, 1,378 flights within, into and out of the United States were canceled on Sunday, and 9,231 were delayed. Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey saw 410 flights canceled on Sunday, while LaGuardia saw 182 flights canceled. United Airlines canceled 326 flights on Sunday, while Republican Airways canceled 174. Delta Air Lines canceled 171 of Delta Air Lines's flights for Sunday, while American canceled 116. Storms also forced a ground stop at several major airports on Sunday, including at Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey, JFK, LaGuardia and Atlanta, the Federal Aviation Administration said. Meanwhile, departures to airports in the Washington, D.C., area were briefly suspended on Sunday because of a problem at a major air traffic control facility. About an hour later, the Federal Aviation Administration said operations at Reagan and Dulles international airports had resumed.
Route 9 in Latham is now re-opened after a portion of Route 9 in Latham was The closure Monday evening after Route 9 in Latham was flooded by rain. The water has since receded. Route 9 in Latham was closed from the area of Watervliet Shaker Road to Kunker Avenue and under the Latham Circle Bridge, police said. The closure started around 7:20 p.m. Monday evening. There was no specific detour established.
PROWERS COUNTY, Colo. (KRDO) -- A tornado touched down Friday in PROWERS COUNTY, Colo.. According to the Prowers County Sheriff's Office, A tornado destroyed a home as well as multiple outbuildings and multiple vehicles. A tornado also killed eight cows, but there were no other injuries. The National Weather Service will be in the area on Saturday to assess the damage and determine a rating for A tornado.
