A Major League Soccer match between the Colorado Rapids and Vancouver Whitecaps was postponed Wednesday night due to severe weather. A new date for the match will be announced later. The game was scheduled to start at 7:30 p.m. MDT, and the teams waited until midnight before the match was called off. The Denver area was under a severe thunderstorm warning and tornadoes were reported in eastern Colorado. Colorado’s 13 points are the fewest among the 29 MLS teams. The Rapids have two wins, nine losses and seven draws. They are winless in seven league games since a May 6 victory at the LA Galaxy, losing six. Vancouver is ninth in the Western Conference, the last playoff position, with five wins, five losses and seven ties, and has lost three straight road MLS games.
MATADOR, Texas – A tornado that killed four people and injured 15 others when it ripped through Matador, Texas, on Wednesday has been rated an EF-3 by the National Weather Service. According to a storm survey released Saturday by the NWS office in Lubbock, Texas, the twister touched down north of Matador at 7:51 p.m. and was on the ground for 9.4 miles while it carved a winding path of destruction through the town. It dissipated near a rest stop south of town about 20 minutes later. Surveyors found damage that indicated the cyclone had maximum winds of 165 mph, placing it in the EF-3 range of the Enhanced Fujita Scale. Originally, authorities reported nine people were injured by the twister. However, the NWS' storm survey showed 15 injuries had been attributed to the tornado. Residents of the town told FOX Weather’s Will Nunley that they believe a third of the town of less than a thousand people had been destroyed. Deana Washington, who lives in Matador, said she, her husband and their grandchildren survived the terrifying twister by sheltering in their bathroom with pillows over their heads. Washington said most of the fatalities from the tornado happened near her home. She said one victim died at a dollar store across the road, and a truck driver was killed in his rig not far from her home. She said a third person was killed just down the road from her house. "It was a devastating thing that people didn’t survive through," Washington said. The Matador tornado is the deadliest twister in Texas since 2015, according to the National Weather Service. That tornado ripped through Dallas County and killed 13 people. Including the Matador fatalities, at least 73 people across the U.S. have been killed by tornadoes this year. Three of them died June 15 during an EF-3 tornado in Perryton, Texas, about 180 miles north of Matador.
Four people are dead and 10 injured after an "unprecedented tornado" struck the Texas town of Matador on Wednesday, officials said. Seven of the injured were transported by emergency medical services to nearby hospitals and three self-transported, the Lubbock Fire Rescue said Thursday. Matador, located 70 miles northeast of Lubbock with a population of 570 as of the 2020 U.S. census, has been left without power as of early Thursday, the agency said in a news briefing. More than 500 homes and businesses are without power as of 8:45 a.m. Thursday in Motley County, where Matador is, according to PowerOutage.us. Agencies from across the area are assisting with search and rescue efforts and state resources are in Matador for post-disaster operations, the agency said. "There was definitely a tornado" that struck Matador around 8 p.m. Wednesday, but its strength and rating won't be known until surveys are done, said Matt Ziebell, lead meteorologist for the National Weather Service in Lubbock. He said that video and photos showed a tornado had occurred and that an off-duty weather service employee had been in the area. "Definitely buildings and some vehicles were pretty severely damaged," Ziebell said. Brandon Moore, senior water superintendent for Matador, said in a phone interview that at least 20 businesses and homes were destroyed and that officials would know more during daylight hours. Video from NBC affiliate KCBD of Lubbock showed first responders at a flattened commercial building and a tractor-trailer that had been flipped on its side. The station reported it had seen three other toppled big rigs. The Texas Transportation Department said a highway west of town, U.S. 62, was impassible because of damage from the tornado. The fire department in Lubbock, around 70 miles to the southwest of Matador, had sent a heavy-rescue team to assist the town. "Our hearts and prayers are with the communities affected by this disaster," the fire department tweeted. The weather service said in a warning that at 8:02 p.m., a confirmed tornado was over Matador, a community of around 600 about 66 miles northeast of Lubbock. Tornado watches covered most of the Texas and Oklahoma panhandles Wednesday. There were 11 reports of tornadoes in Nebraska, Colorado, Texas and Wyoming, according to the weather service list of reports. Typically, damage surveys are done to determine whether tornadoes occurred. Last week in Texas, three people were killed and dozens more injured when an EF3 tornado with peak winds of 140 mph struck Perryton, a city around 160 miles north of Matador. That tornado, which had a path of more than 6 miles and a maximum width of 880 yards, hit the town June 15, the weather service said.
A severe storm slammed the tiny northern Texas town of Matador on Wednesday evening, killing at least four people and injuring at least nine others, officials said Thursday. The fire department in nearby Lubbock, Texas, called the storm an "unprecedented tornado" and said Matador opened a cooling center due to the "record-breaking" heat in the region. Lubbock Fire Rescue said it sent a crew to assist at the scene. Earlier, Matador Mayor Pat Smith told CBS News' Patrick Torphy that crews were digging people out of rubble and carried some bodies away. Smith said roughly 10 structures were destroyed. Reports from storm chasers and meteorologists on social media showed considerable damage around Matador, with damaged homes, utility lines, trees and infrastructure. Matador is a town of about 570 people 70 miles northeast of Lubbock in Motley County. Meteorologist David Payne of CBS Oklahoma City affiliate KWTV said the destruction "looks like EF4 damage to me." EF4 is a categorization of tornadoes on a scale of one-to-five, with five being the most severe. EF4s pack winds of up to 200 mph. William Iwasko, a senior forecaster with the National Weather Service in Lubbock, told The New York Times the storm was "most likely a tornado" based on the damage and that it would be determined for sure on Thursday. The weather service's Lubbock office reported just after 8 p.m. Wednesday that law enforcement confirmed a tornado just north of Matador. Shortly after 9:30 p.m., Iwasko said there had been three confirmed tornadoes in a line of storms, but it appeared the one around Matador was the only one that caused significant damage. The Avalanche-Journal reported that the storms produced softball-size hail and gusts topping 100 mph in communities including Jayton. There were widespread power outages in the region. The worst damage appeared to be in Matador. Wednesday's severe weather came six days after a tornado left three people dead and more than 100 injured in Perryton in the northern Texas Panhandle.
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – State leaders are taking action following a round of damaging storms that slammed Arkansas on Sunday, declaring a state of emergency Monday afternoon. Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders issued the declaration, citing the need to use commercial vehicles to haul heavy equipment, transformers, oversized load and other hardware to areas in the state requiring repairs to restore power and remove debris from the storms. The Sunday storms caused widespread damage across the state, downing trees and powerlines. Two people died due to the storms after a tree fell onto a mobile home in Carlisle, and at the height of the storm almost 150,000 utility customers lost service. Nearly 100,000 Arkansas customers were still without power as of midday Monday. The declaration will also allow emergency response vehicles, including utility trucks, supply trucks and bucket trucks, to bypass Arkansas Department of Transportation weigh stations, as long as the vehicles are running in a convoy. The governor added that she was involving emergency executive powers to suspend regulating states from agencies including the Office of State Procurement, the Arkansas Building Authority and the State Office of Personnel Management in order to provide “maximum assistance” to the departments responding to storm recovery. The declaration does not change any rules for transport vehicles that would require special authorization to be on state roads, nor would it get rid of size and weight restrictions. It would stay in place through Saturday, July 1.
Georgians are waking up Monday morning to assess the damage caused by the deadly storms that ripped through metro Atlanta late Sunday afternoon into the evening. The storm uprooted trees and left 300,000 Georgians without power at one point over the weekend. As of Monday morning, more than 86,000 Georgians remain in the dark. The counties most affected at this time are Fannin, Jones, and Twiggs. At Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, travelers arrived to find dozens of flights delayed and even more canceled due to the weather. The airport is currently reporting 57 flight delays and 86 cancelations. Last night's severe weather unfortunately turned deadly when falling tree crushed a man in the northeast part of Atlanta. The victim has been identified as 55-year-old George Heery Jr., a well-known Atlanta realtor. Emergency management in Cherokee County confirmed that two more people sustained minor injuries after a tree fell on a car on Yellow Creek Road near Hightower Road. In Cobb County, some people staying at the Sheraton Suites hotel at The Battery got a scare when the powerful winds seemed to break off a part of the building's outside wall. FOX 5 viewer Derek Mobley says he and other hotel guests were in the dark until the building's generator kicked in. A driver in the Atlanta area had a close call. He was just seconds away from possibly getting crushed by a falling tree while driving down Lenox Road. The footage shows the tree slamming into the ground and getting tangled in the power lines close to his car. A Milton woman and her daughter had another close call due to the storm. Susan Warner says she and her 11-year-old girl ran when they heard the tree cracking and then heard a big boom come right behind them. Warner says they're still shocked by what happened but are thankful they weren't hurt. The Cherokee County Sheriff's Office shared a photo of a large tree down on Butterworth Road at Pecan Drive. Officials are asking drivers to avoid the area if possible. West Brookhaven Drive NE has been shut down after a tree fell, blocking the roadway. A FOX 5 Atlanta viewer submitted photos of weather damage from Cleveland, Georgia. In Jasper County, the sheriff caught a selfless moment on camera. "Earlier today the passing storm blew some trees down which was a temporary problem for motorists on Jackson Lake Road. Deputies were assisted by three local teens who helped to get the road cleared," the sheriff said. Justin Berry, Tyler Ingle and Elijah Rachel are the three young men who volunteered. White County's North Georgia Wildlife Park says the days of continuous rain ended up causing trees to fall down around the park's perimeter fencing. "At this time the wolf, capybara, deer, and other habitats will all require repair. We are blessed that all of our animals are safe and contained," a spokesperson for the park told FOX 5. The park's team is working to clear debris and repair all the damages. They've created a donation page for anyone who wants to help support the repair efforts. If you have additional information, pictures, or video email newstipsatlanta@fox.com. Keep up with the latest by downloading the FREE FOX 5 Storm Team app and following @FOX5StormTeam on Twitter.
An employee working at Red Rocks Amphitheater when the concert crowd was viciously pelted with hail Wednesday night was critical of the decision to delay the performance, which in his words, gave the fans hope the show would go on as planned. The announcement to take shelter came just three minutes before the hailstorm, the employee said. Fans had no chance to make it to their cars. Conversely, there was not nearly enough room in the venue's facilities to house the large crowd in attendance, either, he said. The employee agreed to talk with CBS News Colorado only on the condition of anonymity. The employee said he has more than a decade of experience working at Red Rocks but could be terminated for speaking about the incident. He also refuted claims by fans on social media that Red Rocks workers watched and laughed as fans who were unable to find shelter suffered in the elements, though he readily admitted to not being a witness to all conduct during the storm. Nearly 100 people were injured as a result of their exposure to the storm. Eight people were hospitalized. There were actually two delays. The employee said the first was made in plenty of time. The weather did not immediately become severe, and many of the fans stuck around to keep their position in the general admittance (first-come, first-serve) seating. But when the wind began whipping about 15 minutes prior to the downpour, and stage workers opted to lower large digital monitors which were swaying above the stage, the decision to cancel should've been made, in his opinion. The second warning informed fans to "get to your car," he said. But there was no time. When the hail arrived, he and other employees tried to get people to the sides of the stage, into hallways, into restrooms and the visitors center. Anywhere there was a roof. But there is not enough room at the outdoor concert venue for a "close to full house" crowd to be sheltered. The same exposure to nature's offerings that make seeing a show at the iconic venue a bucket list for many fans - some certainly inspired by U2's rainy rendition of "Sunday Bloody Sunday" in 1983 - also puts spectators at the mercy of the elements. Tell it to the people severely injured & your concession workers who wouldn't let them in & instead laughed & filmed them. The anonymous employee said the he did not see other employees locking fans out of shelters or laughing at them, as some fans claimed the day after. The approximately 100 workers, he added, had their cars damaged or destroyed as the fans did, and many were struggling less than 24 hours later with what he interpreted as symptoms of PTSD. The incident prompts consideration of the practicality of erecting more shelter at a facility designed for outdoor entertainment which is already surrounded by parking lots in difficult terrain; of the distinction between public safety and personal responsibility; and of the reliability of using entertainment management to predict unsafe weather conditions for thousands of people. Friday, as social media filled with images of vulnerable concertgoers struggling in the maelstrom, the park issued a statement. The response didn't go over well with many, including the employee we spoke to. Louis Tomlinson, the headliner who never made it to the stage that night, responded the next day with condolences to his fans. And a promise.
A hailstorm rained down on people attending a concert at Red Rocks Wednesday night. Large hail stones pummeled concertgoers just before 9:30 p.m., sending seven people to the hospital. That was before performer Louis Tomlinson took the stage, and the concert had to be canceled. "It started like an instant. They gave us a warning and then it just started immediately," Olivia Santangelo told CBS Colorado. "We didn't expect it to happen. It was just like, 'Oh, warning take shelter,' then all of a sudden, boom!" Mikayla Ingram said. West Metro Fire responded to the scene, they say the seven people were taken to the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries. As many as 90 people were treated at Red Rocks for injuries ranging from cuts to broken bones. An unknown number of cars also were damaged. Singer/songwriter Louis Tomlinson was set to perform on Wednesday but the main part of the concert never happened due to the weather conditions. He said in a tweet that he was "devastated" afterwards. "Devastated about the show tonight, hope everyone's ok, I'll be back! Even though we didn't play the show I felt all of your passion! Sending you all love!" the former member of One Direction wrote. The venue also shared best wishes to those who suffered injuries on Thursday. There was also severe weather in other parts of the Denver metro area on Wednesday night. In Commerce City the Colorado Rapids game was canceled.
DENVER (KDVR) — Concertgoers were pelted by hail Wednesday night at Red Rocks Amphitheatre as severe thunderstorms moved across Colorado. An estimated 80-90 people were treated for injuries at the venue, some of whom called 911 for their injuries, according to West Metro Fire Rescue. Seven people were hospitalized. Injuries included cuts and broken bones. Videos on social media show people screaming and frantically trying to escape the pouring hail that blanketed the venue like snow. A Red Rocks spokesperson said there were several inches of hail in the seating area. Some people were stranded at the venue, likely because of vehicle damage, according to the Denver Police Department. The concert, featuring One Direction’s Louis Tomlinson, was delayed twice before it was officially postponed around 10:30 p.m. One concertgoer told FOX31 around 10:15 p.m. that she and friends had been taking shelter in a bathroom stall for more than an hour. She said Red Rocks gave notice about 3-5 minutes before the hail started pouring. She described some of the hail as golf-ball size and said people were covered in welts and bruises. Ambulances were on the scene. Another concertgoer said she had trouble exiting the venue because the stairs were washed out. She and her companion showed FOX31’s Greg Nieto large, red welts on their arms and said they also had them on their backs. Kennedy Scudder told FOX31’s Talya Cunningham she believes the hail broke her finger and gave her a concussion, and it broke her windshield, too. Two 16-year-old girls from Parker used a trash can for protection when the hail came rushing down, as shown in the video below. They went home with bumps on their heads, and one of them may have a broken finger. The concert was already delayed just after 8 p.m., with visitors advised to seek shelter. The all-clear was given by around 8:35 p.m., but the show was delayed again just before 9:15 p.m. The show was officially postponed just before 10:30 p.m. The former One Direction member took to Twitter to share his thoughts on the canceled Red Rocks show. “Devastated about the show tonight, hope everyone’s OK, I’ll be back! Even though we didn’t play the show I felt all of your passion! Sending you all love!” Tomlinson said on Twitter. Red Rocks was not the only venue suffering severe weather impacts. The Colorado Rapids were under a severe weather delay at Dick’s Sporting Goods Park, with attendees advised to take shelter. The game was finally postponed around 11:45 p.m. Severe thunderstorm warnings were in effect for much of the Denver metro area on Wednesday night. The Eastern Plains were under the warnings as well. At least one confirmed tornado caused damage and destroyed a home in Logan County.
A line of severe storms produced what a meteorologist calls a rare combination of multiple tornadoes, hurricane-force winds and softball-sized hail in north-west Texas, killing at least four people and causing significant damage around the town of Matador. National Weather Service meteorologist Matt Ziebell says the supercell developed about 8pm local time on Wednesday near Amarillo before striking Matador, injuring nine people in addition to the four killed and causing widespread destruction. Ziebell says the storm later produced 109mph (175km/h) winds at Jayton in addition to the four-inch or larger hail. “That is certainly rare to see all at the same time, killer tornadoes, hurricane-force winds and softball-sized hail,” Ziebell said. Wednesday “was definitely a rare combination of high-end wind shear and storms of extreme instability”, according to Ziebell. There were widespread power outages across the region, with more than 900 customers without power in the Matador and Jayton areas, according to poweroutage.us. The worst damage appeared to be in Matador – a town of about 570 people 70 miles (112km) north-east of Lubbock in Motley county. A phone call to the Motley county sheriff’s office was not immediately returned. The Texas department of emergency management district coordinator, Bill Durham, said more information would be released later on Thursday morning. Reports from storm chasers and meteorologists on social media showed considerable damage around Matador, with damaged homes, utility lines, trees and infrastructure. Ziebell said thunderstorms were likely to continue on Thursday, but the risk of severe weather with tornadoes was unlikely. Wednesday’s tornado outbreak came six days after a tornado left three people dead and more than 100 injured in Perryton in the northern Texas Panhandle.
Three tornadoes swept through western and southwestern Manitoba last week, experts have confirmed. Through a combination of satellite imagery and on-the-ground damage assessments, crews with the Northern Tornadoes Project and Environment Canada say the three EF-1 tornadoes touched down during a storm on June 20. The storms in southwestern Manitoba that day "were very intense" and were being monitored in real time by the Northern Tornadoes Project — a lab based at Western University that has collaborators at other universities on the Prairies — said David Sills, the lab's executive director. The enhanced Fujita (EF) scale is a six-point system that rates tornadoes based on wind speed and damage. An EF-0 rating is designated for tornadoes with wind speeds as low as 90 kilometres per hour, while an EF-5 has wind speeds in excess of 315 kilometres an hour. The first tornado last Tuesday touched down around 9:35 p.m. near the Canada-U.S. border in southwestern Manitoba, leaving a trail of damage to trees in the William Lake Provincial Park and surrounding areas. A second tornado touched down north of Killarney, about 80 kilometres southeast of Brandon, 20 minutes later. The two tornadoes reached wind speeds of about 145 km/h and 155 km/h, respectively, and were classified as EF-1, said Sills and Natalie Hasell, a warning preparedness meteorologist with Environment and Climate Change Canada. A third tornado touched down to the northeast of Killarney hours later, at about 11:30 p.m., and reached wind speeds of 145 km/h. It sliced its way northeast from the areas of Sidney and Worby through MacGregor and north of Bagot, according to the Northern Tornadoes Project. Hasell said Environment Canada has been collaborating with the Northern Tornadoes Project more in recent years, and she credited them with helping to confirm damage sites connected with the trio of June 20 tornadoes. Sills and the team from Western University travelled to Manitoba after the storm and joined University of Manitoba researchers on the ground last week to follow up on damage reports. Environment and Climate Change Canada issued tornado warnings again Monday night in Westman, for areas including the municipality of Glenella-Lansdowne, the rural municipality of Rosedale and the RMs of Yellowhead and Oakview. The last of those warnings were lifted before 8 p.m. Hasell said investigations into whether any tornadoes actually touched down on Monday are underway. She encouraged anyone who saw or documented damage to their property or elsewhere, in connection with either Monday's storm or the June 20 storm, to contact Environment and Climate Change Canada at 1-800-239-0484 or email storm@ec.gc.ca .
More than 7,800 flights across the United States were delayed or canceled Monday after powerful storms ripped through the parts of the country, mainly in the Southeast and the Ohio Valley. Data from FlightAware showed that on Monday evening, 6,196 flights within, into or out of the US were delayed and another 1,674 were canceled. United Airlines (UAL)was faring the worst of the American domestic airlines. About 10% of its schedule, or 314 flights, was canceled and another 17%, or 853 flights, was delayed as of 6 pm ET. Delta (DAL) wasn’t far behind, with 6% (216 flights) of its schedule canceled and 24% (845 flights) delayed. Two commuter airlines also had their schedules disrupted. Republic Airways, which operates short-haul flights for American Airlines, Delta and United, had 30% of its schedule canceled (300 flights) and 23% (233 flights) delayed. Endeavor Air, a Delta-owned carrier, experienced a similar number of delays and cancellations. Meanwhile, more than 50 million people from Arizona to Louisiana faced “oppressive” heat on Sunday in a significant heat wave that is forecast to spread and continue through the beginning of the July 4 holiday week. Experts say it could potentially break several high temperature records across the region. The four US airports most affected Monday morning are all major hubs for either United or Delta: New Jersey’s Newark Liberty, both of New York’s airports (LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy) as well as Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson and Boston’s Logan. Monday’s forecast also looks tough for travelers with 90 million people under threat of severe storms. A Level 3 out of 5 “enhanced risk” is highlighted for the mid-Atlantic and Northeast, where multiple rounds of thunderstorms are possible later in the day. Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, DC, and Raleigh, North Carolina, are included in the enhanced risk area.
Hundreds of flights have been canceled and thousands more delayed as thunderstorms continue to hit the East Coast. A total of 811 flights scheduled for Monday were canceled, including 517 flights that were supposed to be flying within, into or out of the United States, according to FlightAware, a flight tracking website. More than 7,000 flights have been delayed—683 of them are traveling within, into or out of the U.S. Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey saw more than 100 flights canceled on Monday, while New York City's LaGuardia Airport had 97 cancellations. Travelers have been advised to check the status of their flights before making their way to the airport. "JFK experiencing delays due to weather. Allow extra time & contact airline for flight status before heading to airport," New York's JFK Airport said on Twitter early Monday. Frustrated passengers have taken to social media to share their experiences. Gonzalo Magana, a journalist with Sacramento station ABC10, posted a video showing a long line of passengers waiting to rebook flights at a D.C. area airport. "This after waiting for nearly five hours for our delayed flight. You need to do better," Magana wrote in a tweet tagging United Airlines. The National Weather Service (NWS) has warned of an enhanced risk of severe thunderstorms across Mid-Atlantic states on Monday. Thousands of flights were also canceled or delayed due to severe weather on Sunday. According to FlightAware, 1,378 flights within, into and out of the U.S. were canceled on Sunday, and 9,231 were delayed. Liberty Airport saw 410 flights canceled on Sunday, while LaGuardia saw 182 flights canceled. United canceled 326 flights on Sunday, while Republican Airways canceled 174. Delta Air Lines canceled 171 of its flights for Sunday, while American canceled 116. Storms also forced a ground stop at several major airports on Sunday, including at Liberty, JFK, LaGuardia and Atlanta, the Federal Aviation Administration said. Meanwhile, departures to airports in the Washington, D.C., area were briefly suspended on Sunday because of a problem at a major air traffic control facility. About an hour later, the FAA said operations at Reagan and Dulles international airports had resumed.
Route 9 in Latham is now re-opened after a portion of the road was closed Monday evening after the roadway was flooded by rain. The water has since receded. Route 9 was closed from the area of Watervliet Shaker Road to Kunker Avenue and under the Latham Circle Bridge, police said. The closure started around 7:20 p.m. Monday evening. There was no specific detour established.
PROWERS COUNTY, Colo. (KRDO) -- A tornado touched down Friday in Prowers County in southeast Colorado. According to the Prowers County Sheriff's Office, the tornado destroyed a home as well as multiple outbuildings and multiple vehicles. It also killed eight cows, but there were no other injuries. The National Weather Service will be in the area on Saturday to assess the damage and determine a rating for the tornado.
