18 Nov 2019 20.25 EST Hong Kong Free Press reports that dozens of civilians, not those who have been camped out in Poly U, have been arrested in the street after asking police to lift the siege on the university and let protesters leave.
This follows reports of police chasing away civilians from the areas near the cordon around the university, pepper-spraying them, and threatening to shoot them. On Monday morning, dozens of unarmed civilians have been arrested in a Tsim Sha Tsui street after arriving to ask police to lift the siege of PolyU. 18 Nov 2019 20.16 EST Police said they had fired three live rounds in the early hours of Monday at a protest site near the university but that no one appeared to have been hit.
We believe this is in relation to the attempt of police to storm the university in the early hours of this morning and not in relation to police blocking protesters from leaving the university campus in the last hour. 18 Nov 2019 19.57 EST Summary – Tension ramp up as police block protesters from leaving university A large group of anti-government protesters try to find safe passage out of Hong Kong Polytechnic University and dodge police in Hung Hom district of Hong Kong on November 18, 2019 Photograph: Anthony Wallace/AFP via Getty Images In the last half hour, the situation has escalated at the Poly U, where protesters have been bunkered down for two days. Police attempted to storm Hong Kong’s Polytechnic University on Sunday night after a daylong battle with protesters which saw levels of violence between the two sides reach new heights on Sunday and officials threatened to use live rounds.
About 200 demonstrators remained inside the building at dawn on Monday morning when police in riot gear moved in. As they advanced, protesters set fire to one of the entrances to the university and explosions could be heard. However, later on Monday morning, things seemed calmer and the university’s president issued a video statement urging students to surrender to police and leave the university campus, saying he had negotiated a temporary suspension of the use of force with the police.
At about 8:30am local time, large numbers of protesters tried to leave the university campus, but were stopped from moving through the streets by police who fired “round after round” of tear gas at protesters. Explosions and gun fire could be heard in some videos showing the protesters attempting to leave the campus, which were posted online.

Hong Kong police fired tear gas at protesters as they tried to escape a besieged university on Monday while hundreds more pro-democracy activists stayed inside armed with petrol bombs and other weapons awaiting an expected operation to oust them. The bloody standoff between security forces and activists at Polytechnic University entered its second day after a night of mayhem in which a police van was set alight and a police officer was shot with an arrow.
Thirty eight people were injured overnight Sunday, the city's Hospital Authority said. Reuters witnesses saw some protesters suffer burns from chemicals in the jets fired from police water cannons.
"Remember you have life in your hands. Why do you need to push us to death?" one person shouted at police from a campus rooftop as protesters wearing gas masks and clutching umbrellas looked for ways to escape the university. Police arrested dozens of protesters near the university on Monday morning, public broadcaster RTHK reported.

Hong Kong police have fought running battles with protesters trying to break a security cordon around a university in the city, firing teargas both at activists trying to escape the besieged campus and at crowds trying to reach it from outside.
Police have said the demonstrators inside Polytechnic University had no option but to come out and surrender. The sprawling campus has been occupied by demonstrators since last week, and has become the focus of the most prolonged and tense confrontation between police and protesters in more than five months of unrest in the semi-autonomous city. Hundreds of protesters, including secondary school students, have been trapped inside for more than 24 hours, after clashes on Sunday during which protesters launched petrol bombs and shot arrows at police, who threatened to use live rounds.
Police said they had allowed Red Cross volunteers into the university to ferry out injured protesters but said the rest had no option but to give themselves up. “Other than coming out to surrender, I don’t see, at the moment, there is a viable option for them,” Cheuk Hau-yip, regional commander of Kowloon West district, told a press conference, adding that police had the ability and resolve to end the standoff peacefully so protesters should not try their luck. Parents of some of the activists trapped inside the university gathered in front of police cordons on Monday night with signs that read “Save Our Kids”, while hundreds of other supporters poured into the streets around the campus to try to break the police blockade. Police used teargas and water cannon to keep them at bay.
When a group of protesters tried to escape from the campus, police fired teargas and rubber bullets at exits, preventing them from leaving. When another group attempted to flee later on, hiding under umbrellas and shields made from scraps, officers fired further rounds of teargas and deployed a water cannon, engulfing the area in smoke.
Several protesters were arrested. The game of cat and mouse followed a night of mayhem in the Chinese-ruled city in which roads were blocked, a bridge was set on fire and a police officer was shot by a bow and arrow.
Some protesters abseiled off a footbridge to a road below, where they were met by motorbike riders helping them flee. It was unclear whether they got away safely.
People have been hiding in buildings throughout the campus, said Seze Li, a 26-year-old protester from inside the university. “It’s a disaster. Everyone is running around, looking for exits.
We heard the protesters [trying to break the siege] are coming. We are just waiting for them,” she said. Some people have escaped by climbing out of the building, she said, “but not everyone can do that”.
Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, posted a statement on her Facebook page about the crisis, her first remarks about it since it began almost 36 hours ago. Lam criticised the protesters for shooting arrows at police, as well as throwing bricks and petrol bombs. “Police have many times made appeals.
Those inside the campus should listen to police without delay,” she said. Earlier, the university’s president, Jin-Guang Teng, had urged protesters to leave, saying the police had agreed to a ceasefire on the condition that protesters stopped their attacks but police then fired on demonstrators who tried to leave. Journalists have not been allowed near the university.
The intensifying violence came as local media reported that district council elections may not be held this Sunday as scheduled because of the demonstrations. Cancelling or postponing polls is likely to worsen tensions: some protesters have been demanding that the government promise to hold the elections, seen as one of the last formal venues people have for expressing their views.
In another development, Hong Kong’s high court ruled that a ban on face masks implemented by the government was unconstitutional. The ban made wearing any facial coverings during public assembly punishable by prison time and fines.
Police had previously issued a statement ordering everyone inside the university to drop their weapons, remove their gas masks and leave. “The rioters are hereby warned to stop their unlawful acts,” the police said.
Representatives of the university’s student union posted a statement on Facebook saying police had blocked all exits since Sunday night. The union said several protesters were in need of medical help, including three people with eye injuries and about 40 experiencing hypothermia after being hit by water cannon.
Q&A Why have universities become a flashpoint in the Hong Kong protests? Show Hong Kong’s protest movement has evolved throughout the five months it has raged in the harbour city. Its latest phase is being played out on Hong Kong’s university campuses — traditionally sites of political activism — some of which have been transformed into makeshift fortresses by demonstrators in the past fortnight. The immediate trigger for the campus confrontations appears to have been the death on 8 November of a Hong Kong University of Science and Technology student.
Since then, several campuses have been barricaded by students, some of who are using footbridges or or near the campuses to block roads. At least three campuses are blockaded, including the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, close to the cross-harbour tunnel — a key artery for traffic in the city, and one that authorities will be determined to keep open. The campus protests have been desperate: activists are using petrol bombs, bamboo poles and other weapons including javelins and bows and arrows.
Observers have told the Guardian the shift to campuses represents a major escalation. Many of those occupying the campuses are students or alumni, and until recently, riot police have refrained from entering universities.
“The university is the home turf of the students,” Ho-Fung Hung, a professor in political economy at Johns Hopkins University, has told the Guardian. “There is this notion of academic freedom and the university as a bastion of free ideas, this notion of autonomy. To people, this should not be breached by authorities.”
Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.
“Because most of the emergency relief team and first-aiders have been arrested and taken away, there are insufficient resources and personnel within campus to treat the injured,” the statement said, calling the situation “a severe humanitarian crisis”. In other neighbourhoods, police fired teargas and water cannon at protesters and other supporters who had occupied streets and built barricades in an attempt to divert police resources overnight on Sunday. Dozens were seen being arrested when they returned on Monday. Volunteers with cars blocked roads to slow the police.
Hong Kong is experiencing its most serious political crisis in decades after the government attempted to push through a controversial extradition bill that would have allowed suspects to be sent to mainland China, seen by many as another move to extend Beijing’s control over the city, which Britain returned to its control in 1997. Protests over the now withdrawn bill pose a direct challenge to China, which governs Hong Kong under the “one country, two systems” framework. The US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, urged the city’s government to address the protestors’ concerns, calling on the Chinese Communist party to honour its commitment to uphold freedoms and liberties.
The European Union urged restraint on all sides, stressing that “any violence is unacceptable”. “It is crucial that all sides exercise restraint and engage constructively in de-escalation efforts,” the EU’s foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said in a statement. Earlier, the People’s Daily, the official mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist party, published an editorial on its front page saying there was no room for compromise: “What we are facing today is a struggle between safeguarding ‘one country, two systems’ and destroying it.

UPDATE:
Politicians overnight negotiated the release of scores of students from the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. Only a hardcore group of about one hundred protesters were left by Tuesday morning.
Earlier, several hundred students and protesters had been left with limited food and medical resources, inspiring Anson Chan Fang On-shan, former Hong Kong chief secretary, to complain that people there including teachers, students, medial staff, social workers and journalists, were suffering from a “humanitarian crisis” in the PolyU. Chan urged Chief Executive Carrie Lam to order the police to stop using lethal weapons against the people inside the campus and to provide the injured with medical services. Tens of thousands of people gathered in Tsim Sha Tsui on Monday to try to rescue the students who were surrounded by police in PolyU. Joseph Zen Ze-kiun, a retired Hong Kong Roman Catholic cardinal, said in a video that humanitarianism must be respected even in wartime.
He urged the government to offer medical services to those staying on the campus – or at least not to stop medical staff from entering PolyU. In a 4pm media briefing, police said they would let the injured people in PolyU go to hospitals and would follow up those people’s cases later.
They said they had allowed the Hong Kong Red Cross to enter the campus at about 2pm. Police also said they would wait for the people in the university to surrender, instead of using force to arrest people in the campus.
They said police would be in danger if they were attacked by “rioters” with weapons inside the university. Police added that all people who walked out from the surrounded campus would face rioting charges.
Netizens also called for humanitarian aid to be provided, including food and water, to those inside the campus. From noon, several hundred people started to throw bamboo sticks and debris on Nathan Road.
Police arrived around 12:40pm and cleared the road for several police cars to pass through. After they left, protesters re-occupied Nathan Road, demanding the release of the students and protesters from the Polytechnic University.
At around 1:30pm, more people arrived and had a standoff against the riot police on Chatham Road South. Police fired many rounds of tear gas canisters and pepper balls during the clashes. Protesters resisted by throwing bricks and glass bottles. Police arrested about 10 people in the district between 1pm and 3pm. On Sunday, thousands of protesters occupied the two footbridges connecting the Hung Hom MTR station and the Polytechnic University.
At 5:30pm, several armored vehicles and a water cannon truck were deployed while protesters threw petrol bombs. At around 7pm Sunday, protesters burned debris on one bridge and retreated into the university. People on another footbridge also retreated in the evening.
However, police surrounded the campus and patrolled at all its exits. The police announced that the university had become a crime site. Only journalists with media passes could leave while all others were to be arrested.
At 9pm, police said they would allow people to leave the campus in one exit before they escalated their actions. About 50 people walked out from the University but they were arrested by the police immediately.
Dozens of first aid providers and local residents were arrested on the streets in Tsim Sha Tsui. Reporters were forced by the police to stop recording.
Thousands of Hong Kong people had tried to get close to PolyU but were shot with tear gas canisters and pepper balls. A person who stayed overnight on the campus told Asia Times that there were several hundred protesters inside.
He said many of them felt depressed as there were only limited amounts of food and medical resources on the campus. Over a one day period, the number of arrested people in Hung Hom district reached nearly 600.
At 5:30am Monday, police entered the campus and arrested some people, including some medical staff. They later denied that they had entered the university. Shortly after the operation, Teng Jin-guang, vice chancellor of PolyU, in a video urged people inside the campus to peacefully walk out and surrender. Owan Li, a student representative on PolyU‘s university council, criticized Teng for doing nothing to rescue the people in the campus.
He said at least three people had been shot in their eyes with rubber bullets and bean bag rounds while about 40 people felt unwell after being shot with water cannon. Derek Liu Kin-kwan, President of the Student Union of PolyU, urged teachers and alumni to help rescue the 500-600 people who were trapped inside the campus.
He said about 60-70% of these people were PolyU students. Some protesters said in their videos that they had prepared to sacrifice their lives if police charged into the campus. Standoffs continued on the streets in Tsim Sha Tsui, Jordan and Hung Hom as of Monday afternoon.

Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) students have appealed to the public for help after police entered the school campus and made mass arrests in the early hours of Monday. “Today is a heartbreaking day to all PolyU students.
We saw a fiery blaze engulf the gates to our university. Several thousand have been trapped on campus after the police surrounded the school and blocked all exits at around 7:30pm on Sunday,” Oiwan Li, a student representative for PolyU’s governing council, said at a press conference on Monday morning. Photo:
Tam Ming Keung/United Social Press. “PolyU is now facing the biggest crisis since its establishment over 80 years ago. This incident is the most severe humanitarian crisis in the current democratic movement,” Li added.
Police entered the campus at around 5:30am on Monday, following intense, day-long clashes around the Hung Hom site the day before. Protesters had occupied PolyU campus and set up defence lines for a week, in keeping with a larger plan to mobilise a general strike.
Li said that demonstrators hurled Molotov cocktails at police in response to officers storming the campus and conducting mass arrests. Meanwhile, the force said that they did not “raid” PolyU but carried out a dispersal and arrest operation in response to protesters’ actions. Photo: Screenshot.
Multiple people had been injured and at least three people have been wounded in their eyes, according to Li. “Forty people have shown signs of hypothermia after being sprayed by water cannon.
But because police have arrested or taken away most first aiders and emergency relief personnel, there are not enough resources to attend to the injured,” he added. Li called on the public to offer support by surrounding the police stationed outside PolyU as well as participating in a citywide strike and class boycott. There were at least 500 people remaining on campus as of Monday morning – 70 to 100 of whom unsuccessfully attempted to leave after police fired tear gas towards them, PolyU Student Union Acting President Ken Woo Kwok-wang told RTHK. The Hospital Authority said on Monday that at least 38 had been injured and sent to the hospital – five in a serious condition.
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University at Hung Hom on November 17. Photo: Studio Incendo.
PolyU President Teng Jin-Guang said in a video broadcast early on Monday morning that police had granted those remaining on campus the permission to leave. “I will personally accompany you to the police station to ensure that your case will be fairly processed,” Teng added.
Describing the condition as “unacceptable,” Woo said that allowing people to leave on the condition they surrender to the police does not meet the demand for everyone to be permitted to leave safely. He said that Teng’s response came too late and that had he intervened earlier on, the situation would not have escalated into a police encirclement.
A protester outside PolyU. Photo: Benjamin Yuen/United Social Press. “We call for everyone who [is] committed to solidarity, peace and justice to support each other in their possible ways, and do not give up in face of this crisis,” the Front said.
Lord Alton of Liverpool, patron of NGO Hong Kong Watch and vice-chairman of Westminster Friends of Hong Kong, said on Monday that the city had reached a critical juncture. “I do not condone the violence on the part of some of the students, but equally it is important to understand that the disproportionate police brutality and cynical, manipulative, provocation by agents provocateurs is what has brought Hong Kong to this crisis point,” he said. Photo:
Tam Ming Keung/United Social Press. The Education Bureau announced on Monday that all schools in Hong Kong will remain suspended the next day, but primary schools, secondary schools and some special schools are expected to resume classes on Wednesday. On Monday, the Labour Department urged employers to make flexible work arrangements to ensure the safety of employees.
Hong Kong Free Press relies on direct reader support. Help safeguard independent journalism and press freedom as we invest more in freelancers, overtime, safety gear & insurance during this summer’s protests. 10 ways to support us.

An estimated 600 pro-democracy protesters are locked in a violent standoff with police at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University campus, according to the student body president. Protesters lost ground when police stormed the school; now some hope to escape, and others are asking supporters to come help.
Police have called on the protesters to surrender, saying they will be arrested for rioting. As clashes intensified, protesters shot arrows and hurled gasoline bombs at the authorities, and police used tear gas and water cannons. Police also warned that officers could begin using live ammunition rather than rubber bullets.
It's the second time the Hong Kong Police Force has stormed a university in the past week, in an apparent attempt to root out protesters from campuses that the police say have been transformed into weapons factories. "No one should underestimate China's will to safeguard its sovereignty and Hong Kong's stability," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said in Beijing, according to the BBC.
Protesters set several large fires in an attempt to keep police at bay, including a flyover bridge that connects the school to an adjacent transit station and a nearby footbridge. Just outside the police cordon around the university, Hong Kong Civic Party leader and legislator Alvin Yeung and other democracy supporters are calling on police not to use excessive force in arresting the demonstrators — some of whom are minors.
"Hong Kong people fear that we are going to repeat another June 4th massacre that might take place in Hong Kong," Yeung tells NPR's David Greene, referring to the date in 1989 when Beijing used brutal violence to put down student-led demonstrations in Tiananmen Square. The Chinese government has said hundreds of people died that day; other estimates have put the number of dead in the thousands.
"We are trying everything we can to avoid it from happening," Yeung says. Concerns in Hong Kong were heightened when soldiers from China's People's Liberation Army were spotted leaving their barracks — unarmed and wearing civilian clothing — to clean up debris on the streets over the weekend.
The soldiers said they had simply volunteered to clean up the streets. But for many, it was an ominous sign.
Noting the soldiers' public statements, Yeung says, "But this is a clear violation of the Basic Law [governing the territory's relationship with Beijing] and the spirit of one country, two systems. In roughly 24 hours extending back to Sunday night, police have arrested more than 400 protesters who were trying to leave the university, according to the South China Morning Post.
Citing a police spokesperson, the newspaper adds that since demonstrations started in June, 4,491 people have been arrested, with their ages ranging from 11 to 83. "Once again, we plead with all people on campus, including students and staff members, to leave immediately," the school's leaders say. In another new development, Hong Kong's supreme court has overturned the government's recent ban on protesters wearing face masks.
Thousands of demonstrators have been ignoring that ban, which was imposed in early October using emergency powers that date to the Chinese territory's British colonial era. The protests began as a response to Chief Executive Carrie Lam's proposal to enact a law allowing people in Hong Kong to be extradited to mainland China.
That idea was later retracted, but demonstrators are demanding more control over choosing Hong Kong's leaders. They also want an investigation into police officers' use of violent force during the months of protests.

Among these, the most poisonous would be zinc cyanide and sodium arsenite, according to Kenneth Kwong Si-san, a former lecturer from CUHK, who is now a star tutor at the Modern Education tutoring centre. Kwong said the two compounds were basically a variation of cyanide and arsenite, often stored in small amounts in laboratories and used as catalysts in chemical reactions.
Campuses citywide have become war zones in the past week as clashes between students and officers intensified. So far, three institutions – Chinese University (CUHK), Polytechnic University (PolyU) and City University (CityU) – have reported to police that chemicals were stolen from their laboratories.
Police on Monday even described university grounds as “powder kegs” with unthinkable risks as the chemicals – thought to be stolen by radicals – were toxic and corrosive. Dangerous chemicals missing from the laboratories of Hong Kong’s universities amid campus clashes between police and anti-government protesters could pose a threat to public safety, officials and experts have warned. While physical contact with the two substances, which exist in powder form, may not pose any major risk, they can be deadly if they enter a person’s eye or mouth.
Clinical toxicologist Jeffrey Fung Hin-tat said swallowing as little as tens of milligrams of cyanide could lead to death. The patient would find it difficult to breathe as the toxins destroyed the ability of cells to generate energy, according to the expert.
“One could die in minutes,” he said of serious cases. An intake of a little more than 230mg of arsenite could also prove fatal, Fung said, although it would take longer for the substance to take effect, with symptoms such as irregular heart rate and severe diarrhoea.
A source told the Post that around 20 types of chemicals were reported missing from PolyU, including: 2.5 litres of concentrated sulphuric acid; 1kg (2.2lbs) of sodium metal; a small amount of zinc cyanide; sodium arsenite; hydrochloric acid; and DDT. CUHK is said to have lost around 80 litres of concentrated nitric acid; 17.5 litres of concentrated sulphuric acid; and 2.5 litres of hexane.
Toxicologist Dr Lau Fei-lung said these type of toxins could be used to commit “homicide” if in the wrong hands. “It is far more dangerous than petrol bombs and arrows,” he said.
A law enforcement expert, who is specially trained to handle and dispose of dangerous materials, said that the concentrated acid could be used as corrosive bombs. He warned that sodium arsenite, a highly carcinogenic white powder, is the most fatal, as a tiny amount on skin was enough to cause acute health effects and death.
Lau said the powder could be absorbed through the skin, which could cause poisoning if in a long run. “It could cause difficulties in breathing or irritation.
A sufficient amount could kill,” he said, expressing concern for officers on the front line. He also added that sodium metal was highly dangerous as it could cause an explosion if it reacted with water.
The new chief of the Police Public Relations Branch, Kenneth Kwok Ka-chuen, made his first appearance on Monday and said police were investigating the loss of the chemicals, blaming mobs for the theft. “Among the stolen chemicals were highly volatile explosives.
We must warn that the university campus has become a powder keg where danger is far beyond what we can estimate,” Kwok said. A spokesman for CUHK said it made a police report on Sunday afternoon after the school discovered flammable materials at various locations on its campus.

HONG KONG (Reuters) -
The last band of anti-government protesters trapped inside a besieged Hong Kong university were weighing a narrowing range of options on Wednesday as police outside appeared ready to simply wait them out. -- 11.18 p.m. (1518 GMT): Chief Executive Carrie Lam, on Facebook, urges minors to leave the campus immediately to meet their waiting parents. -- 0.30 a.m. (1630 GMT):
The government says about 800 people had left the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University in a peaceful manner as of 11 p.m. on Tuesday, of which 300 are under 18 years old. -- 3.12 a.m. (1912 GMT): The UN human rights office calls on Hong Kong authorities to do all they can to de-escalate a standoff between police and anti-government protesters holed up in Polytechnic University, broadcaster RTHK reports.
-- 6.14 a.m. (2230 GMT): The Transport Department says Cross-Harbour Tunnel cannot be reopened quickly while the East Rail Line will be in service between Mong Kok East and Lo Wu/Lok Ma Chau stations at the border.
-- 7.01 a.m. (2301 GMT): The U.S. Senate, in a unanimous vote, passes legislation aimed at protecting human rights in Hong Kong. -- 9.21 a.m. (0121 GMT): China’s foreign ministry condemns U.S. Senate measure on Hong Kong, vowing to take steps necessary to safeguard its sovereignty and security. -- 9.33 a.m. (0133 GMT): Hong Kong government expresses deep regret over passage of the “Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act” and another act on Hong Kong by the U.S. Senate, saying the acts are unnecessary and unwarranted.
-- 10.36 a.m. (0236 GMT): Hong Kong’s Secretary for Security John Lee says 730 people were arrested on Tuesday, and nearly 900 people surrendered to the police, including 300 who are under 18. Lee says the government aims to resolve the situation in a peaceful and orderly manner.
-- 11.00 a.m. (0300 GMT) Primary and secondary schools opened after a week of class suspensions.
Public broadcaster RTHK said there was an armed police presence in some key areas due to reports of minor protests. -- 01.00 p.m. (0500 GMT)
Hundreds of office workers rallied in the Central business district during their lunch break, the latest in more than a week of demonstrations in the heart of the city, home to some of the world’s most expensive real estate. The protests were largely peaceful with riot police containing the crowds which have thinned over the past 8 days. -- 03.54 p.m. (0754 GMT)
Some anti-government protesters trapped inside a Hong Kong university tried to flee through the sewers, where one student said she saw snakes, an escape route firemen ruled out on Wednesday by blocking the main campus trapdoor into the system. -- 04.00 p.m. (0800 GMT)
British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab condemned China’s treatment of a former employee of Britain’s Hong Kong consulate who said Chinese secret police beat him as they sought information about pro-democracy protests in the former British colony. -- 03:44 pm (0744 GMT) Sophia Chan, the city’s Health Secretary, told lawmakers that police wanted to keep secret the manufacturing details and chemical composition of tear gas used at protests for operational reasons.
-- 04:17 pm (0817 GMT) Polytechnic University President Teng Jin-Guang told media that he or one of his staff would meet the remaining protesters outside the campus and escort them to the police station to make sure their case is handled fairly. -- 04:59 pm (0859 GMT) Edward Yau, the city’s Commerce and Economic Development secretary, said the protests had affected Hong Kong’s international image and caused many to raise concerns regarding their personal safety. -- 07:06 pm (1106 GMT) Carrie Lam said on her facebook page that she had met heads of special departments to require everyone to double their efforts to restore social order.
She also met senior officials to clarify rumours and explain the latest situation to the outside world. -- 08:38 pm (1238 GMT) Hong Kong’s justice secretary said she had no opinion on an accusation of torture made against China by a Hong Kong citizen who worked at the British consulate in the city. -- 08:50 pm (1250 GMT)
At least 10 demonstrators have left Polytechnic University’s campus, RTHK reported. Seven of them were accompanied by university staff to board an ambulance and some were covered in tin foil to keep them warm.

Owan won't say how he managed to escape Hong Kong's Polytechnic University or how long it took, but what he will say is that it wasn't easy. He is one of the lucky ones.
A last group of defiant protesters still remain trapped inside the university, surrounded by police, after more than two days of clashes in which more than 200 people have been injured. On Tuesday afternoon, police said 100 protesters had given themselves up after walking out of the university, accompanied by a former chairman of the city's Legislative Council and several secondary school principals.
But several remained holed up inside, with parents holding anxious vigil outside. One mother in her 50s said she was terrified that police would storm the campus with guns blazing and her 18-year-old son would be injured or even killed.
"I'm worried when the police go in to attack there will be heavy casualties, a Tiananmen 2.0," she said. She was referring to the 1989 quashing of pro-democracy protests in the Chinese capital that left hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people dead at the hands of the Chinese military.
A woman named Cheung said she had spent last night in a park near a police cordon as she waited for news of her adult son, who she said came to the campus as a first aider. "I was very, very worried, worried his life could be in danger. He's scared. He's scared about being arrested by the cops," she said.
Owan, who would not give his full name for fear of reprisals, managed to escape on Tuesday morning just before police blocked off the campus entrances. But he is worried about those he left behind.
"They [protesters] still have food and drink, but not sure how long they can last," he told the ABC. Police surrounded the university on Sunday and have been laying siege to it ever since, using tear gas and rubber bullets while themselves coming under fire from protesters armed with bricks, petrol bombs and even bows and arrows.
Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said on Tuesday she hoped the standoff between police and protesters could be resolved, telling media there were only 100 protesters trapped inside with 600 already having left. But, Owan alleges Carrie Lam wasn't telling the truth.
"Carrie Lam's information is not accurate, there are more than 200 people still inside the campus," he said. Hong Kong Polytechnic University has been at the centre of the standoff in the past week and has seen the most intense violence in five months of anti-government demonstrations.
Some of the protesters who escaped on Monday night did so by lowering themselves about 10 metres from a bridge they had occupied on the campus to a flyover below. A number of them appeared subsequently to have been arrested, a witness told Reuters. Exhausted, and feeling defeated, Owan spoke to the ABC about what it's like being trapped inside the campus.
"The people inside are struggling and facing challenges because they have no way to leave," he said. Owan said the protesters left inside were divided into two groups; those who wanted to leave without being caught by police, and those who were determined to stop police from invading the campus.
"In Hong Kong police brutality is very serious and there's a lot of conflict between police and students, it's a very serious problem," he said. Protests in Hong Kong are in their fifth month and show little sign of ending, as pro-democracy advocates continue to demand the resignation of Ms Lam and a review of police conduct.
The unrest began as a kickback against an attempt by the city's Beijing-backed government to hustle through a bill that would have allowed the extradition of accused criminals to mainland China. Protesters are angry about what they see as police brutality and meddling by Beijing in the freedoms guaranteed under the "one country, two systems" formula put in place when the territory returned to China from British rule in 1997. China denies interfering and has blamed Western countries, including Britain and the United States, for stirring up trouble.
In the recent days, the protests have been marred by violence with a 70-year-old street cleaner dying after being hit by a brick thrown by a "masked rioter". Earlier this month a student protester died after falling from a parking lot during demonstration. The police, who have called the protesters "terrorists" and "rioters" say 4,491 people, aged from 11 to 83, have been arrested since the unrest began.
Parents of some of the students holed up inside the university said their children dared not surrender because the government had labelled them as rioters even though some were merely entrapped by a police siege. Ms Lam has said those under 18 will not be immediately arrested, but could face charges later. A pastor, who only gave his name as Phua, said parents were appealing to the Government to be more compassionate in resolving the crisis without bloodshed.
He said the students were willing to face the law, but many were distrustful of police and were upset they were pronounced guilty of rioting by the Government even before they were charged. Owan agreed. "I think it is ridiculous and unacceptable to call us rioters," he said.

Dozens of protesters remain holed up at a university in Hong Kong surrounded by police as a days-long standoff appears to be coming to an end. Police said that by 11pm on Tuesday almost 800 people had left the Polytechnic University, the site of one of the most prolonged and tense confrontations since the demonstrations in the city began five months ago. Riot police have surrounded the red-brick campus since Sunday, firing teargas, rubber bullets and a water cannon at groups who tried to escape. Police urged the activists to surrender peacefully.
About 10 protesters tried to escape at about 10pm and were chased by police. Earlier, another group left with medics.
Six hundred activists surrendered late on Monday after two representatives negotiated with police. Three hundred of them were children and were not arrested but could be subject to further investigation, officials said.
Social workers who left the campus on Tuesday night said between 30 and 50 people remained. Most were searching for ways to escape and fewer than a dozen were determined to stay. Several were hiding in buildings around the site.
Morale among those left at the university was poor, according to Kevin Chiu, 34, a social worker who left the building at about 11pm. He described the mood as “hopeless”. He and his colleagues had been trying to persuade the group to leave.
“It’s not easy to talk to them. They think we are bad guys to ask them to leave,” he said. Police maintained a cordon around the campus in the early hours of Wednesday, and police vans and ambulances waited to take protesters away. A small group of bystanders waited just outside the cordon looking at the police.
Yan Ling, 50, was one of four people still waiting outside. She had been there since midday. “There aren’t many people left and we think [the police] may storm the campus.
If we aren’t here we don’t know where they will be taken. If people are here, maybe they will treat them better,” she said.
Yan also stayed to accompany a couple who believed their 20-year-old son may still be inside. They lost contact with him earlier that day and they planned to stay until daylight if necessary. “We have no other choice,” the father said, who asked not to give his name. Parents have been reluctant to say they are waiting for their children inside, out of concern that police will take down their information and use it against them.
“The last six months have been awful,” the woman said. “Everyone in Hong Kong is heartbroken,” said another woman, who had been waiting outside the university for the past two days but would not say whether she knew anyone inside.
Tens of thousands of people have taken to the streets over the past three days in an attempt to reach those in the university, prompting clashes with riot police. Police said they had arrested 1,100 people since Monday. Hong Kong’s Hospital Authority said it had received almost 300 injured people from the university, and it asked the public not to come to the accident and emergency departments unless absolutely necessary.
Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, in her first public remarks since the crisis began on Sunday, said the government had reached an understanding with the police to resolve the incident peacefully. She said she was shocked that campuses had been turned into “weapons factories”, and said police would have to take “necessary action” to deal with violent protesters.
Late on Monday, dozens of protesters were seen abseiling from a footbridge and being driven away on motorbikes. Police said they stopped 37 people from that group, including the drivers, who were arrested for “assisting offenders”.
Others tried to flee by crawling through manholes into sewers, before firefighters arrived on the scene to warn them it was unsafe. Beijing has issued increasingly severe warnings over the protests, prompting fears of intervention. After a Hong Kong court ruled that a ban on face masks was unconstitutional, China’s top legislature said only it had the power to rule on the constitutionality of legislation under the city’s basic law.
Q&A Why have universities become a flashpoint in the Hong Kong protests? Show Hong Kong’s protest movement has evolved throughout the five months it has raged in the harbour city.
Its latest phase is being played out on Hong Kong’s university campuses — traditionally sites of political activism — some of which have been transformed into makeshift fortresses by demonstrators in the past fortnight. The immediate trigger for the campus confrontations appears to have been the death on 8 November of a Hong Kong University of Science and Technology student.
Since then, several campuses have been barricaded by students, some of who are using footbridges or or near the campuses to block roads. At least three campuses are blockaded, including the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, close to the cross-harbour tunnel — a key artery for traffic in the city, and one that authorities will be determined to keep open.
The campus protests have been desperate: activists are using petrol bombs, bamboo poles and other weapons including javelins and bows and arrows. Observers have told the Guardian the shift to campuses represents a major escalation. Many of those occupying the campuses are students or alumni, and until recently, riot police have refrained from entering universities.
“The university is the home turf of the students,” Ho-Fung Hung, a professor in political economy at Johns Hopkins University, has told the Guardian. “There is this notion of academic freedom and the university as a bastion of free ideas, this notion of autonomy. To people, this should not be breached by authorities.”
Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.
Several trains connecting mainland China with Hong Kong have been suspended for Tuesday and Wednesday. Hong Kong’s new police chief, Chris Tang, took office on Tuesday with a warning that “fake news” was undermining the reputation of his 30,000-strong police force and called for the city’s citizens to help end the turmoil. Jasper Tsang, a pro-Beijing politician and former head of Hong Kong’s legislative council who helped mediate the surrender of students on Monday, told Reuters there could be bloodshed if the police entered the Polytechnic University campus by force, where they were likely to meet strong resistance. “This is something that we want to avoid,” he said.
Police said on Tuesday they had found about 3,900 molotov cocktails at another university taken over last week by protesters, which had since been evacuated. Police said there were probably more than that figure at Polytechnic University. Police said they had allowed Red Cross volunteers and first aiders as well as secondary school principals, teachers and social workers to enter the university. Parents and protesters held rallies on Tuesday afternoon calling for police to let the protesters leave without threat of arrest.
Eva Lau, 51, said she had not slept more than a few hours in the past two nights after she lost contact with her 22-year-old son on Sunday. At 3am on Monday she went to the university hoping to find him but police told her to leave. She said her son had been in touch and he had left the campus on Tuesday with paramedics and was in hospital, but Lau had not been able to reach him because of road blockades set up by police in response to the protests.
“Every day from morning until night, we didn’t know what is going to happen and we were very worried. Now it’s a little better

One tourist from mainland China is too scared to leave. He told BBC News Chinese that he was curious about what was going on at the university and had arrived on Sunday at the invitation of a friend who studies there.

One hedge fund manager has even been given a panic button app in case of an emergency and plans are in place with his work to evacuate him and his family to another major city "if we were in danger they have a team of people who would get us out".

About 600 protesters had left Hong Kong Polytechnic University "peacefully," including about 200 who were younger than 18, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said in a news conference. Those under 18 wouldn't immediately be arrested, but they could face charges later, she said, adding that the other 400 who had left had been arrested. The city's hospitals were dealing with nearly 200 injured people who had been removed from the campus, and they urged people to stay away from emergency rooms unless it was absolutely necessary.
A small clutch of family members and friends of those inside have been gathering outside the campus in hope of news. Tiffany Chan, 24, who was at the police cordon outside the university, said she was worried about her younger brother, who was trapped inside. Chan said the 18-year-old, who isn't a student at Polytechnic University, had been in contact with her but refused to come out, saying leaving the campus would be an act of surrender.
Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name, said his 16-year-old son had been trapped inside since Sunday. He also refuses to leave out of fear that police won't keep their word not to arrest those under age 18.
Asked whether he was proud of his son, the man broke down in tears and said he respected his son's decisions, as long as his actions were peaceful. "As a middle-aged person, I don't like to see violence, but I think the students have no choice.
Before the violence happened, the protests were peaceful. But the government is not hearing them," he said, his face covered with a mask. Increasingly, friends and relatives of protesters have been refusing to give their full names to the media, nervous about possible repercussions. Many obscure their faces, as well.
Some protesters have been trying to escape. On Monday, NBC News saw about 20 people break free by running down an adjacent highway and railway tracks. Police said Tuesday that some protesters also tried to escape by rappelling down a footbridge to getaway vehicles below. They said 37 people were intercepted, including the getaway drivers.
The standoff is the most dramatic escalation of the Hong Kong protest movement since it began in June. Universities became the latest battleground last week, as protesters occupied several campuses, including Polytechnic University. Violence has spiraled over six months of protests, and so has the rhetoric. On Monday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the United States was "gravely concerned" by the violence, including the standoff at Polytechnic University.
The standoff continued as the Chinese government slapped down Hong Kong's highest court, contending that it doesn't have the authority to strike down a law banning protesters from wearing masks. For more than five months, hundreds of thousands of demonstrators, many of them wearing masks to shield their identities, have taken to the streets, initially to protest a proposed law that would have allowed Hong Kong to extradite criminal suspects to mainland China. The measure was withdrawn in September, but the demonstrations have continued as a broader protest of China's control over the island. Jasmine Leung and Matt Bradley reported from Hong Kong and Yuliya Talmazan from London.

Earlier, the university said in a statement that 20 petrol bombs and several offensive weapons were found on the campus in the morning. It immediately alerted police and firefighters. Both the police and fire departments said the removal operation had to be suspended because of protests in the area on Sunday .
They planned to return to the campus on Monday to pick up the remaining weapons. Officers from the emergency services found 41 petrol bombs, 10 bottles of various chemicals and a gas canister. Police said they were alerted by PolyU at 1.30pm on Sunday to a small number of petrol bombs and dangerous chemicals still on the grounds after the initial clear-up. More than 40 petrol bombs and other weapons were found on the wrecked campus of Polytechnic University on Sunday, a day after police finished collecting evidence and lifted a 13-day cordon around the site , the scene of violent clashes between radical anti-government protesters and the force two weeks ago. The PolyU statement said the campus was still strewn with debris.
With the grounds dangerous for students and staff, management asked for their understanding that access could not be granted to the site on Monday and Tuesday. Bosses said the university had hired an environmental consultant to obtain samples for further analysis for dioxins and cyanide, and the results would be announced when they were available, they added.
More than 1,000 radical ­protesters and their supporters occupied the campus about a fortnight ago, and engaged in fierce battles with police on November 17. They blocked the roads near the university leading to the Cross-Harbour Tunnel and started fires on nearby bridges. The force responded with tear gas, sealed all campus exits and asked all those inside to leave.
About 1,100 people came out in the days that followed, although some escaped. Those aged 18 or above were arrested on suspicion of rioting, while about 300 minors were let go after recording their details – although police reserved the right to pursue criminal cases against them later. But an unknown number of holdouts refused to leave the campus, some saying they were afraid of being arrested and mistreated by police. When police locked down the campus, they adopted a medical-treatment-first policy and allowed every holdout to be treated as minors if they left the campus on their own.
On Thursday and Friday, police officers and firefighters went to the campus to search for evidence and remove hazardous items. A total of 3,989 petrol bombs, 1,339 pieces of explosives and 601 bottles of corrosive liquid were found, whereas 573 weapons were seized. Some 1,377 people were arrested from areas in and around the university, including 810 holdouts and 567 from the surroundings.

Hong Kong – The siege of a major university in Hong Kong is now in its seventh day.
Police on Saturday surrounded a small number of anti-government protesters holed up inside Hong Kong Polytechnic University, but say they won't try to storm the campus again, following violence last weekend. The standoff persists on the eve of local elections – the first public elections since the pro-democracy movement began, CBS News' Ramy Inocencio reports.
It's estimated only about 50 protesters are still barricaded inside Hong Kong Polytechnic University. About 1,000 protesters have been arrested or ID'd in the past week.
Hong Kong's police chief is now calling for a peaceful end, telling them to think of their families. At the start of the week, police fired nearly 1,500 tear gas canisters, and anti-government protesters responded with firebombs for offense and barricades for defense.
Now the university is a near ghost-town, with its undefended road blocks and unlit Molotov cocktails. Some said that despite desperation and depression, they're not leaving.
"So I will be here with my fellow protesters 'til the very last minute, 'til the very last minute," said one protester. The few people left are hiding in a maze of buildings and rooms across campus. With the protest movement now in its sixth month, U.S. university programs in Hong Kong have sent dozens of their students packing.
"I think what really scared me was when the protests started reaching university campuses," said 19-year old Anushka Srivastava, who got on a flight Saturday after her program linked to the University of Southern California canceled physical classes for online courses. She said her safety was a growing concern.
This past week, Georgetown and Syracuse University also canceled their programs in Hong Kong as the protest takes its toll on the city and its people. On Saturday, dozens of families in Hong Kong marched against the government's handling of pro-democracy protests, The Associated Press reported. Police have reportedly fired over 9,000 rounds of tear gas since the June start of protests in the Chinese territory.
On Sunday, people go to the polls in local elections. It'll be a referendum on both the government and the protest movement, and it's expected that democratic candidates will win in a landslide.

“They are starting to feel reluctant to see others,” a 20-year-old in a mask who identified himself as Ah Cheung said, confirming previous accounts by legislators, lawyers and social workers.
At least five left the campus on Sunday and into the early hours of Monday. Some of those still inside had reportedly resorted to self-harm.
The duo urged police to end their siege and for Polytechnic University to take more steps to help the estimated 30 people still remaining on campus, many of whom they said were showing mental health problems and an inability to speak. Two men inside a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes have lashed out at the force, accusing it of depriving them of their right to vote in the city’s district council elections. Cheung has not left the campus since November 17, the day police surrounded the institution and barred any frontline radicals from leaving after one of the most intense and fiery battles in more than five months of anti-government protests in Hong Kong.
The demonstrations were triggered by opposition to a shelved extradition bill that would have allowed the transfer of suspects to mainland China. It meant Cheung, and many others, were unable to cast their votes during Sunday’s district council elections, which had attracted a record turnout for any poll in Hong Kong’s history with five hours still to go before the polls closed. “For the dozens of us remaining here, we want to go out there and vote,” Cheung said. Police had forbidden anyone over 18 years of age to leave without facing arrest for suspected rioting offences, a move Cheung and those who remained regarded as an abuse of process.
For those under the age of 18, they could leave after having their details taken, although police reserved the right to take follow-up action. “We have the right to vote according to Article 26 of the Basic Law,” Cheung said, referring to the city’s mini-constitution. A student who appeared alongside Cheung and who gave his name only as Ron, said the district council elections on Sunday were important.
It was a de facto referendum to gauge public sentiment after months of protests that had divided the city into a pro-democracy bloc that wants to hold the authorities accountable and government supporters who would prefer the city to return to peace, he said. “We are angry and frustrated,” Cheung said. The two also revealed more details about the increasing cabin fever being felt by those still on campus.
They said many protesters had become reclusive and urged police to stop their “illegal detention” immediately, calling the situation “an international humanitarian crisis”. A police spokesman said they had insisted on “flexibility” and a “peaceful solution”. They urged “rioters … to leave in a peaceful manner”.
The police siege followed tense clashes between protesters and police earlier that week at the Chinese University in Sha Tin. The incidents turned universities into protester strongholds, with stockpiles of petrol bombs and their own kitchens, a change of tack from cat-and-mouse clashes on major roads and in shopping malls.
On Sunday, a team of two clinical psychologists from Hong Kong Red Cross took to the campus to provide support, alongside principal law lecturer Eric Cheung Tat-ming of the University of Hong Kong, barrister Linda Wong Shun-hung and Teddy Tang Chun-keung, chairman of the Hong Kong Association of the Heads of Secondary Schools. At least five left the campus on Sunday and early into Monday, with some taken away by police and others requiring immediate hospital treatment, including one brought out on a stretcher by paramedics.
A 20-year-old student who surrendered walked out with controversial businessman Lew Mon-hung, a former member of China’s top political advisory body, shortly after midnight on Sunday. Lew, commonly referred to by his nickname “Dream Bear”, said he entered the campus as “a concerned citizen” after securing police approval. He said he was with a team, including first aid workers, looking for people to bring out, but they could only locate the third-year student. The student was “distressed and muddled” and seemed to be a “lone wolf” who avoided others, said Lew, adding that might have worsened his emotional condition.
A tour around the campus by Post reporters on Sunday revealed an empty site with protesters barely visible, with food supplies, including biscuits, cup noodles and energy bars, still available. Tents, mats and pillows were seen in some rooms.
At least three more left the campus overnight on Sunday. At 11.30pm, a 23-year-old male protester agreed to end his stay on campus after many hours of encouragement from social workers and church-goers.
A teacher from PolyU said it took days of befriending him before he yielded. He was taken to Queen Elizabeth Hospital, escorted by two police officers and a retired medicine professor from Chinese University.
At about 3am on Monday, two more male protesters left the campus following a lengthy campaign of persuasion by a group of volunteers, who had earned their trust over the past few days. They came to encourage protesters to leave, especially those who had appeared self-destructive.
The pair were then taken to Queen Elizabeth Hospital with their personal data recorded by police without being arrested immediately. A volunteer said they were both students from the City University aged 21 and 22.
They appeared to be mentally and physically weak. “They were frightened
[when we found them] and had signs of post-traumatic stress disorder ... and were worrying what police might do next,” the volunteer said. The volunteers came to the campus on Monday to search for five more protesters who had contacted them online earlier.
They were told some in the group had engaged in self-harm by cutting themselves on their arms. Before the visit on Monday morning, the volunteers contacted about 20 protesters there but could not locate them. The departed City University students had told them they had seen about 10 other protesters on campus.

More than 10,000 petrol bombs had been seized from several universities across the city in the past few weeks, police said.
Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University spoke as a 13-day police siege of the campus came to an end. He revealed that of the more than 1,100 people who were arrested after leaving the site, only 46 were registered students at the university. Teng confirmed this included two members of staff but provided no further details.
A Hong Kong university caught in the crossfire between radical protesters and police will face a substantial bill and take almost half a year to repair, its president said on Friday, calling the institution the “biggest victim” of the current political storm. The school term was suspended and vast damage was inflicted on the university’s facilities and laboratories.
As soon as police left the campus they had besieged since November 17, nearby roads were reopened, while the campus was guarded by security personnel hired by the university. Only students, staff and authorised people were allowed to enter.
The police withdrawal came a day after they went in to search for evidence and remove hazardous items. A total of 3,989 petrol bombs, 1,339 pieces of explosives and 601 bottles of corrosive liquid had been found, alongside 573 items classified as weapons were seized, the force said. The weapons included hammers, air guns, 28 bows and about 200 arrows and 12 giant catapults used to launch bricks.
Police described an “assembly line” to make and transfer petrol bombs inside PolyU, while chemicals including strong alkali and acidic substances as well as raw materials which could be made into explosives found inside the campus were “worrying”. Chief Superintendent Kwok Ka-chuen, from the force’s public relations branch, said the possible damage by such a massive number of petrol bombs would have been huge. “Try to think about this.
If our officers had forcibly confronted these rioters with 10,000 petrol bombs, the damage done to Hong Kong society would be difficult to imagine,” he said. “We hope the PolyU incident can be a turning point of six months of violence that will let Hong Kong society return to peace and rationality,” he added.
After police’s departure, Teng joined his senior management team to inspect the campus, including the library, which had an overpowering stench, and the canteen, where food had been left to rot and become a breeding ground for maggots. “The kitchen has to be a priority,” Teng told his group, who included the chairman of the university’s governing council Lam Tai-fai, a former legislator.
Teng said the university became an unintended victim because it was “strategically close” to Hung Hom’s Cross Harbour Tunnel, which was targeted as part of the protesters’ plan to bring traffic to a standstill. He said it could be reflected in the low number of PolyU students recorded when they left the campus.
More than 1,000 radical ­protesters and their supporters occupied the campus a fortnight ago, and engaged in fierce battles with police on November 17. They blocked the roads leading to the Cross Harbour Tunnel and started fires on nearby bridges.
The force responded with tear gas, sealed all campus exits and asked all those inside to leave. Those who left the campus and were aged 18 or above were arrested on suspicion of rioting, while about 300 minors were released but had their details recorded, with police reserving the right to pursue criminal cases against them later.
Those who required medical treatments were later given the same treatment as the minors. Teng said he found various damage to different buildings which would take five to six months to fix.
But he expected the new semester would start as scheduled in January as the campus would be reopened in phases. The cost was as yet unknown, he said, as they needed to hire professionals to provide an estimate.
He urged society to show understanding and support when asked whether he was confident he could secure funding from the authorities. The government pulled about HK$2 billion in funding proposals to the Legislative Council to build medical and library facilities at three universities, including PolyU in November, after pro-establishment lawmakers expressed dismay that the varsity management failed to control their institutions, which had become battlefields in the protests.
Owan Li, student representative of the Polytechnic University Council suggested that the next semester should not resume until after the Lunar New Year holiday in next February, as students may not be mentally or emotionally prepared after the campus ordeal. Some students, he said, had also raised concerns over whether plain-clothes officers would be in or around the campus when the semester resumed.
After police lifted the cordon and before PolyU security guards imposed access control, outsiders rushed in to catch a glimpse. A 36-year-old alumni, who gave his surname as Or, was sentimental. He said he could not have imagined what those inside had been through after witnessing the “absolute chaos”.
“It is the same university, but the scene feels so different,” said the surveyor, who graduated from the university more than a decade ago. He said police had overreacted.

Hong Kong police have returned control over the Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus to the school management on Friday noon, ending a siege that has lasted 12 days.
The force issued a statement at 12:44pm saying that it had “removed all dangerous goods and handled scenes of crime” at the university grounds. Earlier, Assistant Commissioner of Police Chow Yat-ming told reporters that work on the Hung Hom campus has “entered its final stages,” and that the school would reopen after all offensive weapons and dangerous items had been safely removed.
Assistant Commissioner of Police Chow Yat-ming. “The force is happy to see that the process has been conducted peacefully, and I want to reiterate that we have always followed two main principles, ‘peaceful resolution’ and ‘flexibility,’”
Chow said. Hundreds of officers entered the campus on Thursday, saying that their main objectives were to handle offensive weapons and dangerous items, as well as gather evidence related to the extensive damage. Police said that over a two-day search, they found a total of 3,989 Molotov cocktails, 1,339 items of explosive, 601 bottles of corrosive liquids and 573 items of weapons.
On Thursday, police said they found 12 bows, 200 arrows and an air rifle. Protesters were also suspected to have damaged 44 vehicles inside the car park and drained petrol from their tanks.
Officers encountered no protesters during their two-day search and no arrests were made, Chow added. He also dismissed earlier allegations from PolyU hold-outs that some officers disguised themselves as volunteer medics to enter the campus at night. On Friday, a Fire Services Department (FSD) representative said their operation in PolyU had also concluded.
The FSD said the day before that it had found 550 litres of flammable liquid petrol, 20 litres of corrosive liquid and 80 litres of toxic substances in the campus. Over 1,100 have been arrested in relation to the siege at PolyU, which began on the evening of November 17 when riot police blocked all campus exits and announced that anyone leaving would be arrested for rioting. Prior to that, masked protesters in black had occupied the university in keeping with a larger plan to mobilise a citywide strike and class boycott.
Over 1,000 people gathered near the Tsim Sha Tsui Clock Tower on Thursday night to condemn the police for laying siege PolyU, and to express support for those holed up inside. While the event allowed participants to speak on stage, the crowd interrupted the speeches of three masked protesters when they started to divulge details of their stay in the campus.
Photo: Stand News. Some shouted, “We don’t want to know” and “Don’t speak about this” – implying that any public remarks on the siege may incriminate the speakers and those who remained inside. The demonstrators were eventually escorted away as some held umbrellas to block cameras.
Judge Albert Wong said that there was no substantial evidence to suggest that police broke the law when exercising their power during the events at PolyU. Hong Kong Free Press relies on direct reader support. Help safeguard independent journalism and press freedom as we invest more in freelancers, overtime, safety gear & insurance during this summer’s protests. 10 ways to support us.

Police said on Monday that they have arrested 51 people who “claimed to be medics or journalists,” amidst growing public concern of indiscriminate arrests at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU).
Michael Cheuk, regional commander of Kowloon West, said that 12 of purported medics had no first aid qualifications. Another three people wearing press vests were also unable to provide credentials, he said.
All of the suspects were arrested in relation to rioting. Police arrest medics outside PolyU on November 17. Photo: Telegram.
“We received concrete intelligence that some rioters arranged to change their outfits, wearing reflective vests to disguise themselves as journalists or medics,” he said at a press conference. Cheuk added that anyone who walked out of the PolyU campus in Hung Hom will be arrested for rioting. He said police hoped to come to a peaceful resolution and called on the protesters inside to give up their arms and surrender. Black-clad protesters have been locked in a standoff with riot police for over two days, with a few hundred people standing their ground within a heavily fortified campus.
Police had taken over all entry points to the university as of Sunday evening, leaving those inside trapped and running low on supplies. A widely circulated photo on Sunday night appeared to show more than 10 people – all of whom wore reflective vests identifying them as medical staff – sitting on the ground with their hands zip-tied behind their backs. Members of the pro-democracy medical support group Médecins Inspirés have also been reportedly arrested for rioting, though no formal charges have been confirmed by police yet.
Local and international journalists were also stopped and searched on their way out of PolyU. Some reporters were denied entry into the PolyU campus on Monday morning to relieve their colleagues, despite police allegedly promising that press could “swap” staff inside the cordoned area.
Cheuk said that police were not targeting specific occupations and that they will arrest suspicious persons first before conducting an in-depth investigation. At around 2:30pm, a team of 14 Red Cross paramedics were allowed to enter PolyU. Red Cross Secretary General Bonnie So said afterwards that the team came into contact with approximately 50 wounded, most of whom were suffering from fractures.
Meanwhile, a spokesperson from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) said that the UK was seriously concerned by the escalation in violence from both sides. “It is vital that those who are injured are able to receive appropriate medical treatment, and that safe passage is made available for all those who wish to leave the area. We need to see an end to the violence, and for all sides to engage in meaningful political dialogue ahead of the District Council elections on Sunday,” the FCO spokesperson said.
Protesters and police clash outside PolyU. Photo: Holmes Chan/HKFP. “It is the police’s responsibility to de-escalate this situation, but instead of assisting injured protesters trapped at the University they are unlawfully arresting the medics attempting to treat the wounded,” Tam said.
Tam also noted that the potential use of live ammunition warning by the police – issued late on Sunday – was an “aggressive move” that heightened the risk of tragedy. Police carrying rifles capable of firing live rounds in Jordan.
Photo: Benjamin Yuen/United Social Press. The local watchdog Human Rights Monitor also cautioned against the use of live rounds, saying that it was “a step closer to a humanitarian crisis,” which would inflict heavy costs on both Hong Kong and China. In a rare move, Hong Kong’s Buddhist, Catholic, Confucian, Islamic, Protestant and Taoist leaders have made a joint statement urging all sides to cease fire and allow people inside the PolyU campus to leave.
Hong Kong Free Press relies on direct reader support. Help safeguard independent journalism and press freedom as we invest more in freelancers, overtime, safety gear & insurance during this summer’s protests. 10 ways to support us.

Hong Kong, China – Last week, as police laid siege to the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, an image of volunteer medics in high-visibility vests, hands tied behind their backs spread rapidly through social media. Darren Mann, who has worked as a surgeon in Hong Kong for 25 years and volunteered to treat the injured at the besieged campus managed to leave the premises on 17 November.
But as the situation deteriorated, he later discovered that a group of first aid volunteers he had been working with had been detained by police as they attempted to depart. “What we appreciated in the medical community is that at the violent interface between protesters and police, there was obviously a very high potential for people to be injured,” Mann told Al Jazeera, adding that the role of medics was to provide care to all groups involved in conflict. In the wake of the detentions, Mann published an article in The Lancet – a respected medical journal – arguing the temporary detention of volunteer medics by police was a breach of international humanitarian norms. The network of first aid staff has played a crucial role in Hong Kong’s protest movement since June when opposition to the government’s plans for a proposed extradition bill to China kicked off.
As violence increased and roads were blocked, first responders provided on-the-spot treatment to those unable to get to medical facilities quickly. But the temporary detention of medics during the siege at the Polytechnic University – the most serious confrontation in nearly six months of unrest – has raised questions about the risks faced by volunteers operating in an increasingly fraught environment.
However, Noam Zamir, assistant professor of law at City University of Hong Kong said international humanitarian law did not apply in Hong Kong, because the situation was not an armed conflict between states or a civil war. “Hong Kong is one of the examples of good jurisdictions that incorporated many international human rights norms into their domestic legal system,” Zamir said, adding this right did not directly address the issue of the first aiders who helped the protesters, but applied to anyone who required first aid for potentially life-threatening injuries sustained in protest actions. “If there are wounded people, they are entitled to receive medical treatment,” Zamir said.
In a news conference last week, Hong Kong police said volunteer emergency staff were detained because they lacked medical credentials, citing 12 examples of people wearing first aid gear who were unable to produce medical ID when they were questioned. “We have no way to identify who is a first aider and how to qualify an individual as a first aider,” Cheuk Hau-yip, Kowloon West Regional Commander said.
But Mann, writing in the Lancet, cited five incidents where doctors were detained for more than 24 hours. “The arrest of these personnel is almost unheard of in civilised countries and is incompatible with the compact of humanitarianism,” he wrote. Instead of encouraging a higher level of medical care, Arisina Ma, president of the Hong Kong Public Doctors’ Association said the detention of volunteers could have the opposite effect – making trained medical professionals less likely to volunteer during demonstrations out of fear that their jobs or medical licences could be imperilled.
Ma said all healthcare workers who were held during the confrontations at Polytechnic University have been released on bail. Events at the campus called for a more comprehensive level of medical assistance said B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous.
She arrived at the university on 16 November and stayed until Wednesday last week. B and two others decided to remain on-site to provide care to the demonstrators even when her team of seven first aid workers heard police would classify the situation as a riot, potentially opening her team up to being charged for aiding the demonstrators. She said about 20 workers with varying skills levels – some full-time nurses and others with basic first aid training were on-site during that period.
The 30-year-old said the mood was sombre; she would get between two and three hours of sleep in designated “safe areas” on campus, usually in the library, huddled with other medics and students for protection. The injuries B saw were mostly minor, including dislocated body parts and glass cuts.
But she heard from others who had remained on campus, including a lone doctor, that some of the wounded had sustained more serious injuries and needed cardiopulmonary resuscitation or CPR. If she and other trained medical professionals had not decided to take the risk and remain at the university, those inside would not have received sufficient care. “What I don’t want to see as a nurse is for more people to get hurt,” she said.
When B attempted to leave the campus on Wednesday, she was told by officers that any medics, including those with professional qualifications, would be arrested and should surrender. She was eventually allowed to leave through an exit point with a group of journalists. She said the officer at that cordon saw she was wearing reflective gear labelling her as a nurse and told her not to come back.
On Monday night, a crowd gathered in front of a police line. A small number of protesters were still thought to be inside the university.
Alvin L, 28, who leads a group of 36 first responders, was in the crowd. He had spent time volunteering on the campuses of the Chinese University – the scene of violent confrontations the week before – and the Polytechnic University and said volunteers would provide help to whoever needed it – protester or police officer.
According to Hong Kong’s Hospital Authority on Monday, 280 people who were injured at the Polytechnic University had been sent to public hospitals. Since the protests began some 2,615 patients had been treated for injuries, the authority said, but the volunteer medics said some people did not want to seek treatment in public hospitals for fear of being pegged to the protest movement.
Police have also incurred injuries; a media liaison officer was taken to hospital after being shot in the leg by an arrow during the Polytechnic University standoff. At the Polytechnic University, tear gas, water cannon, and rubber-coated bullets were frequently used by the police, while protesters created their own makeshift weapons including petrol bombs, bows and arrows, and bricks.
By Wednesday, the siege appeared to be over. Mann said the role of front-line first aiders was crucial to ensure on-the-spot treatment for injuries in danger zones. Ma from the Hong Kong Public Doctors’ Association said the clashes at the university only reinforced the view that medical personnel were here to serve anyone in need of aid. “We are neutral, we treat anyone,” she said.

