18 Nov 2019 20.25 EST Hong Kong Free Press reports that dozens of civilians, not those who have been camped out in Poly U, have been arrested in the street after asking police to lift the siege on Poly U and let protesters leave. This follows reports of police chasing away civilians from the areas near the cordon around Poly U, pepper-spraying civilians, and threatening to shoot civilians. On Monday morning, dozens of unarmed civilians have been arrested in a Tsim Sha Tsui street after arriving to ask police to lift the siege of Poly U 18 Nov 2019 20.16 EST Police said Police had fired three live rounds in the early hours of Monday morning at a protest site near Poly U but that no one appeared to have been hit. We believe this is in relation to the attempt of police to storm Poly U in the early hours of Monday morning and not in relation to police blocking protesters from leaving the university campus in the last hour. 18 Nov 2019 19.57 EST Summary – Tension ramp up as police block protesters from leaving university A large group of anti-government protesters try to find safe passage out of Poly U and dodge police in Hung Hom district of Hong Kong on November 18, 2019 Photograph: Anthony Wallace/AFP via Getty Images In the last half hour, the situation has escalated at Poly U. Police attempted to storm Hong Kong's Polytechnic University on Sunday night after a daylong battle with protesters which saw levels of violence between the two sides reach new heights on Sunday and officials threatened to use live rounds. About 200 demonstrators remained inside Poly U at dawn on Monday morning when police in riot gear moved in. As police in riot gear advanced, protesters set fire to one of the entrances to Poly U and explosions could be heard. However, later on Monday morning, things seemed calmer and Poly U's president issued a video statement urging students to surrender to police and leave the university campus, saying the university’s president had negotiated a temporary suspension of the use of force with the police. At about 8:30am local time, large numbers of protesters tried to leave the university campus, but were stopped from moving through the streets by police who fired “round after round” of tear gas at protesters. Explosions and gun fire could be heard in some videos showing the protesters attempting to leave the university campus, which were posted online. Protesters were forced back into the university campus, raising fears that the police had no interest in deescalating the situation, but were aiming to trap protesters, so protesters could be arrested and punished for protesters's role in the siege on the university.
Hong Kong police fired tear gas at protesters as protesters tried to escape a besieged university on Monday while hundreds more pro-democracy activists stayed inside armed with petrol bombs and other weapons awaiting an expected operation to oust hundreds more pro-democracy activists. The bloody standoff between security forces and activists at a besieged university entered The bloody standoff between security forces and activists at Polytechnic University's second day after a night of mayhem in which a police van was set alight and a police officer was shot with an arrow. Thirty eight people were injured overnight Sunday, Hong Kong's Hospital Authority said. Reuters witnesses saw some protesters suffer burns from chemicals in the jets fired from police water cannons. "Remember police have life in police's hands. Why do police need to push protesters to death?" one person shouted at police from a campus rooftop as protesters wearing gas masks and clutching umbrellas looked for ways to escape a besieged university. Police arrested dozens of protesters near a besieged university on Monday morning, public broadcaster RTHK reported.
Hong Kong police have fought running battles with protesters trying to break a security cordon around a university in Hong Kong, firing teargas both at activists trying to escape a university in the city and at crowds trying to reach a university in the city from outside. Police have said the demonstrators inside a university in the city had no option but to come out and surrender. a university in the city has been occupied by demonstrators since last week, and has become the focus of the most prolonged and tense confrontation between police and protesters in more than five months of unrest in Hong Kong. Hundreds of protesters, including secondary school students, have been trapped inside for more than 24 hours, after clashes on Sunday during which protesters launched petrol bombs and shot arrows at police, who threatened to use live rounds. Police said Police had allowed Red Cross volunteers into a university in the city to ferry out injured protesters but said the demonstrators inside Polytechnic University had no option but to give the demonstrators inside Polytechnic University up. “Other than coming out to surrender, Cheuk Hau-yip, regional commander of Kowloon West district don’t see, at the moment, there is a viable option for the demonstrators inside Polytechnic University,” Cheuk Hau-yip, regional commander of Kowloon West district, told a press conference, adding that police had the ability and resolve to end the standoff peacefully so protesters should not try protesters's luck. Parents of some of the activists trapped inside a university in the city gathered in front of police cordons on Monday night with signs that read “Save Parents of some of the activists trapped inside the university's Kids”, while hundreds of other supporters poured into the streets around a university in the city to try to break the police blockade. Police used teargas and water cannon to keep hundreds of other supporters at bay. When a group of protesters tried to escape from a university in the city, police fired teargas and rubber bullets at exits, preventing a group of protesters from leaving. When another group attempted to flee later on, hiding under umbrellas and shields made from scraps, officers fired further rounds of teargas and deployed a water cannon, engulfing the area in smoke. Several protesters were arrested. The game of cat and mouse followed a night of mayhem in Hong Kong in which roads were blocked, a bridge was set on fire and a police officer was shot by a bow and arrow. Some protesters abseiled off a footbridge to a road below, where Some protesters were met by motorbike riders helping Some protesters flee. It was unclear whether Some protesters got away safely. People have been hiding in buildings throughout a university in the city, said Seze Li, a 26-year-old protester from inside a university in the city. “It’s a disaster. Everyone is running around, looking for exits. We heard the protesters [trying to break the siege] are coming. We are just waiting for the protesters [trying to break the siege,” she said. Some people have escaped by climbing out of a university in the city, she said, “but not everyone can do that”. Hong Kong's chief executive, Carrie Lam, posted a statement on Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam's Facebook page about the crisis, Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam's first remarks about the crisis since the crisis began almost 36 hours ago. Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam criticised the protesters for shooting arrows at police, as well as throwing bricks and petrol bombs. “Police have many times made appeals. Those inside a university in the city should listen to police without delay,” Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam said. Earlier, a university in the city's president, Jin-Guang Teng, had urged protesters to leave, saying the police had agreed to a ceasefire on the condition that protesters stopped protesters's attacks but police then fired on demonstrators who tried to leave. Journalists have not been allowed near a university in the city. The intensifying violence came as local media reported that district council elections may not be held this Sunday as scheduled because of the demonstrations. Cancelling or postponing polls is likely to worsen tensions: some protesters have been demanding that the government promise to hold the elections, seen as one of the last formal venues people have for expressing people's views. In another development, Hong Kong's high court ruled that a ban on face masks implemented by the government was unconstitutional. a ban on face masks implemented by the government made wearing any facial coverings during public assembly punishable by prison time and fines. Police had previously issued a statement ordering everyone inside a university in the city to drop everyone inside the university's weapons, remove everyone inside the university's gas masks and leave. “The rioters are hereby warned to stop The rioters's unlawful acts,” Police said. Representatives of a university in the city's student union posted a statement on Facebook saying police had blocked all exits since Monday night. the university’s student union said several protesters were in need of medical help, including three people with eye injuries and about 40 experiencing hypothermia after being hit by water cannon. Q&A Why have universities become a flashpoint in the Hong Kong protests? Show Hong Kong's protest movement has evolved throughout the five months Hong Kong’s protest movement has raged in Hong Kong. Hong Kong’s protest movement's latest phase is being played out on Hong Kong's university campuses — traditionally sites of political activism — some of which have been transformed into makeshift fortresses by demonstrators in the past fortnight. The immediate trigger for the campus confrontations appears to have been the death on 8 November of a Hong Kong University of Science and Technology student. Since then, several campuses have been barricaded by students, some of who are using footbridges or or near several campuses to block roads. At least three campuses are blockaded, including the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, close to the cross-harbour tunnel — a key artery for traffic in Hong Kong, and one that authorities will be determined to keep open. the Hong Kong protests have been desperate: activists are using petrol bombs, bamboo poles and other weapons including javelins and bows and arrows. Observers have told the Guardian the shift to campuses represents a major escalation. Many of those occupying several campuses are students or alumni, and until recently, riot police have refrained from entering universities. “a university in the city is the home turf of the students,” Ho-Fung Hung, a professor in political economy at Johns Hopkins University, has told the Guardian. “There is this notion of academic freedom and a university in the city as a bastion of free ideas, this notion of autonomy. To people, this notion of academic freedom and the university as a bastion of free ideas, this notion of autonomy should not be breached by authorities.” Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback. “Because most of the emergency relief team and first-aiders have been arrested and taken away, there are insufficient resources and personnel within campus to treat the injured,” the statement said, calling the situation “a severe humanitarian crisis”. In other neighbourhoods, police fired teargas and water cannon at protesters and other supporters who had occupied streets and built barricades in an attempt to divert police resources overnight on Sunday. Dozens were seen being arrested when Dozens returned on Monday. Volunteers with cars blocked roads to slow the police. Hong Kong is experiencing Hong Kong's most serious political crisis in decades after the government attempted to push through a controversial extradition bill that would have allowed suspects to be sent to mainland China, seen by many as another move to extend Beijing’s control over the city, which Britain returned to Britain's control in 1997. Protests over a controversial extradition bill that would have allowed suspects to be sent to mainland China pose a direct challenge to China, which governs Hong Kong under the “one country, two systems” framework. The US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, urged Hong Kong government to address the protestors’ concerns, calling on the Chinese Communist party to honour the Chinese Communist party's commitment to uphold freedoms and liberties. The European Union urged restraint on all sides, stressing that “any violence is unacceptable”. “It is crucial that all sides exercise restraint and engage constructively in de-escalation efforts,” The European Union's foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said in a statement. Earlier, the People’s Daily, the official mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist party, published an editorial on the People’s Daily, the official mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist party,'s front page saying there was no room for compromise: “What we are facing today is a struggle between safeguarding ‘one country, two systems’ and destroying one country, two systems.
UPDATE: Politicians overnight negotiated the release of scores of students from the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. Only a hardcore group of about one hundred protesters were left by Tuesday morning. Earlier, several hundred students and protesters had been left with limited food and medical resources, inspiring Anson Chan Fang On-shan, former Hong Kong chief secretary, to complain that people there including teachers, students, medial staff, social workers and journalists, were suffering from a “humanitarian crisis” in Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Anson Chan Fang On-shan, former Hong Kong chief secretary urged Chief Executive Carrie Lam to order the police to stop using lethal weapons against the people inside the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening and to provide the injured with medical services. Tens of thousands of people gathered in Tsim Sha Tsui on Monday to try to rescue the students who were surrounded by police in Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Joseph Zen Ze-kiun, a retired Hong Kong Roman Catholic cardinal, said in a video that humanitarianism must be respected even in wartime. Joseph Zen Ze-kiun, a retired Hong Kong Roman Catholic cardinal urged the government to offer medical services to those staying on the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening – or at least not to stop medical staff from entering Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) In a 4pm media briefing, police said police would let the injured people in Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) go to hospitals and would follow up the injured people in PolyU cases later. police said police had allowed the Hong Kong Red Cross to enter the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening at about 2pm. Police also said Police would wait for the people in the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening to surrender, instead of using force to arrest people in the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. Police said police would be in danger if police were attacked by “rioters” with weapons inside the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. Police added that all people who walked out from the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening would face rioting charges. Netizens also called for humanitarian aid to be provided, including food and water, to those inside the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. From noon, several hundred people started to throw bamboo sticks and debris on Nathan Road. Police arrived around 12:40pm and cleared Nathan Road for several police cars to pass through. After several police cars left, protesters re-occupied Nathan Road, demanding the release of the students and protesters from the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. At around 1:30pm, more people arrived and had a standoff against the riot police on Chatham Road South. Police fired many rounds of tear gas canisters and pepper balls during the clashes. Protesters resisted by throwing bricks and glass bottles. Police arrested about 10 people in the district between 1pm and 3pm. On Sunday, thousands of protesters occupied the two footbridges connecting the Hung Hom MTR station and the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. At 5:30pm, several armored vehicles and a water cannon truck were deployed while protesters threw petrol bombs. At around 7pm Sunday, protesters burned debris on one bridge and retreated into the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. People on another footbridge also retreated in the evening. However, police surrounded the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening and patrolled at all the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening's exits. police announced that the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening had become a crime site. Only journalists with media passes could leave while all others were to be arrested. At 9pm, police said police would allow people to leave the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening in one exit before police escalated police's actions. About 50 people walked out from the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening but About 50 people were arrested by police immediately. Dozens of first aid providers and local residents were arrested on the streets in Tsim Sha Tsui. Reporters were forced by police to stop recording. Thousands of Hong Kong people had tried to get close to Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) but were shot with tear gas canisters and pepper balls. A person who stayed overnight on the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening told Asia Times that there were several hundred protesters inside. A person who stayed overnight on the campus said many of several hundred protesters inside felt depressed as there were only limited amounts of food and medical resources on the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. Over a one day period, the number of arrested people in the district reached nearly 600. At 5:30am Monday, police entered the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening and arrested some people, including some medical staff. police later denied that police had entered the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. Shortly after the operation, Teng Jin-guang, vice chancellor of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), in a video urged people inside the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening to peacefully walk out and surrender. Owan Li, a student representative on PolyU‘s university council, criticized Teng Jin-guang, vice chancellor of PolyU for doing nothing to rescue the people in the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. Owan Li, a student representative on PolyU‘s university council said at least three people had been shot in at least three people's eyes with rubber bullets and bean bag rounds while about 40 people felt unwell after being shot with water cannon. Derek Liu Kin-kwan, President of the Student Union of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), urged teachers and alumni to help rescue the 500-600 people who were trapped inside the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. Derek Liu Kin-kwan, President of the Student Union of PolyU said about 60-70% of people inside the campus were Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) students. Some protesters said in Some protesters's videos that Some protesters had prepared to sacrifice Some protesters's lives if police charged into the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU), which has been surrounded by police from Sunday evening. Standoffs continued on the streets in Tsim Sha Tsui, Jordan and Hung Hom as of Monday afternoon.
Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) students have appealed to the public for help after police entered the school campus and made mass arrests in the early hours of Monday. “Monday is a heartbreaking day to all PolyU students. We saw a fiery blaze engulf the gates to Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). Several thousand have been trapped on the school campus after police surrounded Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) and blocked all exits at around 7:30pm on Sunday,” Oiwan Li, a student representative for PolyU's governing council, said at a press conference on Monday morning. Photo: Tam Ming Keung/United Social Press. “PolyU is now facing the biggest crisis since PolyU's establishment over 80 years ago. This incident is the most severe humanitarian crisis in the current democratic movement,” Oiwan Li, a student representative for PolyU’s governing council added. police entered the school campus at around 5:30am on Monday, following intense, day-long clashes around the Hung Hom site the day before. Protesters had occupied PolyU campus and set up defence lines for a week, in keeping with a larger plan to mobilise a general strike. Oiwan Li, a student representative for PolyU’s governing council said that demonstrators hurled Molotov cocktails at police in response to officers storming the school campus and conducting mass arrests. Meanwhile, police said that police did not “raid” PolyU but carried out a dispersal and arrest operation in response to protesters’ actions. Photo: Screenshot. Multiple people had been injured and at least three people have been wounded in at least three people's eyes, according to Oiwan Li, a student representative for PolyU’s governing council. “Forty people have shown signs of hypothermia after being sprayed by water cannon. But because police have arrested or taken away most first aiders and emergency relief personnel, there are not enough resources to attend to the injured,” Oiwan Li, a student representative for PolyU’s governing council added. Oiwan Li, a student representative for PolyU’s governing council called on the public to offer support by surrounding the police stationed outside PolyU as well as participating in a citywide strike and class boycott. There were at least 500 people remaining on the school campus as of Monday morning – 70 to 100 of whom unsuccessfully attempted to leave after police fired tear gas towards 70 to 100 of whom unsuccessfully attempted to leave after police fired tear gas towards them, PolyU Student Union Acting President Ken Woo Kwok-wang told RTHK. The Hospital Authority said on Monday that at least 38 had been injured and sent to the hospital – five in a serious condition. The Hong Kong Polytechnic University at Hung Hom on November 17. Photo: Studio Incendo. PolyU President Teng Jin-Guang said in a video broadcast early on Monday morning that police had granted those remaining on campus the permission to leave. “PolyU President Teng Jin-Guang will personally accompany those remaining on campus to the police station to ensure that those remaining on campus's case will be fairly processed,” PolyU President Teng Jin-Guang added. Describing the condition as “unacceptable,” Woo said that allowing people to leave on the condition people surrender to the police does not meet the demand for everyone to be permitted to leave safely. Woo said that PolyU President Teng Jin-Guang's response came too late and that had PolyU President Teng Jin-Guang intervened earlier on, the situation would not have escalated into a police encirclement. A protester outside PolyU Photo: Benjamin Yuen/United Social Press. “the Front call for everyone who [is] committed to solidarity, peace and justice to support each other in everyone who [is] committed to solidarity, peace and justice's possible ways, and do not give up in face of this crisis,” the Front said. Lord Alton of Liverpool, patron of NGO Hong Kong Watch and vice-chairman of Westminster Friends of Hong Kong, said on Monday that Hong Kong had reached a critical juncture. “Lord Alton of Liverpool, patron of NGO Hong Kong Watch and vice-chairman of Westminster Friends of Hong Kong do not condone the violence on the part of some of the students, but equally it is important to understand that the disproportionate police brutality and cynical, manipulative, provocation by agents provocateurs is what has brought Hong Kong to a critical juncture,” Lord Alton of Liverpool, patron of NGO Hong Kong Watch and vice-chairman of Westminster Friends of Hong Kong said. Photo: Tam Ming Keung/United Social Press. The Education Bureau announced on Monday that all schools in Hong Kong will remain suspended the next day, but primary schools, secondary schools and some special schools are expected to resume classes on Wednesday. On Monday, the Labour Department urged employers to make flexible work arrangements to ensure the safety of employees. Hong Kong Free Press relies on direct reader support. Help safeguard independent journalism and press freedom as Hong Kong Free Press invest more in freelancers, overtime, safety gear & insurance during this summer’s protests. 10 ways to support Hong Kong Free Press.
An estimated 600 pro-democracy protesters are locked in a violent standoff with police at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University campus, according to the student body president. Protesters lost ground when police stormed Hong Kong Polytechnic University; now some hope to escape, and others are asking supporters to come help. Police have called on An estimated 600 pro-democracy protesters to surrender, saying An estimated 600 pro-democracy protesters will be arrested for rioting. As clashes intensified, An estimated 600 pro-democracy protesters shot arrows and hurled gasoline bombs at the authorities, and police used tear gas and water cannons. Police also warned that officers could begin using live ammunition rather than rubber bullets. It's the second time the Hong Kong Police Force has stormed a university in the past week, in an apparent attempt to root out protesters from campuses that the Hong Kong Police Force say have been transformed into weapons factories. "No one should underestimate China's will to safeguard China's's sovereignty and Hong Kong's stability," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said in Beijing, according to the BBC. Protesters set several large fires in an attempt to keep police at bay, including a flyover bridge that connects Hong Kong Polytechnic University to an adjacent transit station and a nearby footbridge. Just outside the police cordon around Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong Civic Party leader and legislator Alvin Yeung and other democracy supporters are calling on police not to use excessive force in arresting An estimated 600 pro-democracy protesters. "Hong Kong people fear that we are going to repeat another June 4th massacre that might take place in Hong Kong," Hong Kong Civic Party leader and legislator Alvin Yeung tells NPR's David Greene, referring to the date in 1989 when Beijing used brutal violence to put down student-led demonstrations in Tiananmen Square. China's has said hundreds of people died June 4th; other estimates have put the number of dead in the thousands. "We are trying everything we can to avoid it from happening," Hong Kong Civic Party leader and legislator Alvin Yeung says. Concerns in Hong Kong were heightened when soldiers from China's's People's Liberation Army were spotted leaving soldiers from China's People's Liberation Army's barracks — unarmed and wearing civilian clothing — to clean up debris on the streets over the weekend. soldiers from China's People's Liberation Army said soldiers from China's People's Liberation Army had simply volunteered to clean up the streets. But for many, it was an ominous sign. Noting soldiers from China's People's Liberation Army's public statements, Hong Kong Civic Party leader and legislator Alvin Yeung says, "But this is a clear violation of the Basic Law [governing Hong Kong's relationship with Beijing] and the spirit of one country, two systems. In roughly 24 hours extending back to Sunday night, police have arrested more than 400 protesters who were trying to leave Hong Kong Polytechnic University, according to the South China Morning Post. Citing a police spokesperson, the South China Morning Post adds that since demonstrations started in June, 4,491 people have been arrested, with 4,491 people's ages ranging from 11 to 83. "Once again, Hong Kong Polytechnic University plead with all people on campus, including students and staff members, to leave immediately," Hong Kong Polytechnic University's leaders say. In another new development, Hong Kong's supreme court has overturned China's's recent ban on protesters wearing face masks. Thousands of demonstrators have been ignoring that ban, which was imposed in early October using emergency powers that date to Hong Kong's British colonial era. The protests began as a response to Chief Executive Carrie Lam's proposal to enact a law allowing people in Hong Kong to be extradited to Beijing. Chief Executive Carrie Lam's proposal to enact a law allowing people in Hong Kong to be extradited to mainland China was later retracted, but demonstrators are demanding more control over choosing Hong Kong's leaders. demonstrators also want an investigation into police officers' use of violent force during the months of The protests.
Among these, the most poisonous would be zinc cyanide and sodium arsenite, according to Kenneth Kwong Si-san, a former lecturer from CUHK, who is now a star tutor at the Modern Education tutoring centre. Kenneth Kwong Si-san, a former lecturer from CUHK, who is now a star tutor at the Modern Education tutoring centre said zinc cyanide and sodium arsenite were basically a variation of cyanide and arsenite, often stored in small amounts in laboratories and used as catalysts in chemical reactions. Campuses citywide have become war zones in the past week as clashes between students and officers intensified. So far, three institutions – Chinese University (CUHK), Polytechnic University (PolyU) and City University (CityU) – have reported to police that chemicals were stolen from three institutions – Chinese University (CUHK), Polytechnic University (PolyU) and City University (CityU)'s laboratories. Police on Monday even described university grounds as “powder kegs” with unthinkable risks as chemicals – were toxic and corrosive. Dangerous chemicals missing from their laboratories amid campus clashes between police and anti-government protesters could pose a threat to public safety, officials and experts have warned. While physical contact with zinc cyanide and sodium arsenite may not pose any major risk, zinc cyanide and sodium arsenite can be deadly if zinc cyanide and sodium arsenite enter a person’s eye or mouth. Clinical toxicologist Jeffrey Fung Hin-tat said swallowing as little as tens of milligrams of cyanide could lead to death. The patient would find it difficult to breathe as zinc cyanide and sodium arsenite destroyed the ability of cells to generate energy, according to Clinical toxicologist Jeffrey Fung Hin-tat. “One could die in minutes,” Clinical toxicologist Jeffrey Fung Hin-tat said of serious cases. An intake of a little more than 230mg of arsenite could also prove fatal, Clinical toxicologist Jeffrey Fung Hin-tat said, although it would take longer for arsenite to take effect, with symptoms such as irregular heart rate and severe diarrhoea. A source told the Post that around 20 types of chemicals were reported missing from Polytechnic University (PolyU), including: 2.5 litres of concentrated sulphuric acid; 1kg (2.2lbs) of sodium metal; a small amount of zinc cyanide; sodium arsenite; hydrochloric acid; and DDT. CUHK is said to have lost around 80 litres of concentrated nitric acid; 17.5 litres of concentrated sulphuric acid; and 2.5 litres of hexane. Toxicologist Dr Lau Fei-lung said these type of toxins could be used to commit “homicide” if in the wrong hands. “these type of toxins is far more dangerous than petrol bombs and arrows,” Toxicologist Dr Lau Fei-lung said. A law enforcement expert, who is specially trained to handle and dispose of dangerous materials, said that concentrated nitric acid could be used as corrosive bombs. A law enforcement expert, who is specially trained to handle and dispose of dangerous materials warned that sodium arsenite, a highly carcinogenic white powder, is the most fatal, as a tiny amount on skin was enough to cause acute health effects and death. Toxicologist Dr Lau Fei-lung said the powder could be absorbed through the skin, which could cause poisoning if in a long run. “the powder could cause difficulties in breathing or irritation. A sufficient amount could kill,” Toxicologist Dr Lau Fei-lung said, expressing concern for officers on the front line. Toxicologist Dr Lau Fei-lung also added that sodium metal was highly dangerous as sodium metal could cause an explosion if sodium metal reacted with water. The new chief of the Police Public Relations Branch, Kenneth Kwok Ka-chuen, made The new chief of the Police Public Relations Branch, Kenneth Kwok Ka-chuen's first appearance on Monday and said police were investigating the loss of the chemicals, blaming mobs for the loss of the chemicals. “Among the chemicals were highly volatile explosives. We must warn that the university campus has become a powder keg where danger is far beyond what we can estimate,” The new chief of the Police Public Relations Branch, Kenneth Kwok Ka-chuen said. A spokesman for CUHK said CUHK made a police report on Sunday afternoon after CUHK discovered flammable materials at various locations on CUHK's campus.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - The last band of anti-government protesters trapped inside a besieged Hong Kong university were weighing a narrowing range of options on Wednesday as police outside appeared ready to simply wait The last band of anti-government protesters trapped inside a besieged Hong Kong university out. -- 11.18 p.m. (1518 GMT): Chief Executive Carrie Lam, on Facebook, urges minors to leave a besieged Hong Kong university immediately to meet minors's waiting parents. -- 0.30 a.m. (1630 GMT): The government says about 800 people had left the campus of a besieged Hong Kong university in a peaceful manner as of 11 p.m. on Tuesday, of which 300 are under 18 years old. -- 3.12 a.m. (1912 GMT): The UN human rights office calls on HONG KONG authorities to do all Hong Kong authorities can to de-escalate a standoff between police and anti-government protesters holed up in a besieged Hong Kong university, broadcaster RTHK reports. -- 6.14 a.m. (2230 GMT): The Transport Department says Cross-Harbour Tunnel cannot be reopened quickly while the East Rail Line will be in service between Mong Kok East and Lo Wu/Lok Ma Chau stations at the border. -- 7.01 a.m. (2301 GMT): The U.S. Senate, in a unanimous vote, passes legislation aimed at protecting human rights in HONG KONG. -- 9.21 a.m. (0121 GMT): China’s foreign ministry condemns The U.S. Senate measure on HONG KONG, vowing to take steps necessary to safeguard China’s's sovereignty and security. -- 9.33 a.m. (0133 GMT): HONG KONG government expresses deep regret over passage of the “HONG KONG Human Rights and Democracy Act” and another act on HONG KONG by The U.S. Senate, saying passage of the “Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act” and another act on Hong Kong by the U.S. Senate are unnecessary and unwarranted. -- 10.36 a.m. (0236 GMT): HONG KONG's Secretary for Security John Lee says 730 people were arrested on Tuesday, and nearly 900 people surrendered to the police, including 300 who are under 18. Hong Kong’s Secretary for Security John Lee says The government aims to resolve the situation in a peaceful and orderly manner. -- 11.00 a.m. (0300 GMT) Primary and secondary schools opened after a week of class suspensions. broadcaster RTHK said there was an armed police presence in some key areas due to reports of minor protests. -- 01.00 p.m. (0500 GMT) Hundreds of office workers the latest in more than a week of demonstrations in the heart of the city, home to some of the world’s most expensive real estate in the Central business district during Hundreds of office workers's lunch break, the latest in more than a week of demonstrations in the heart of HONG KONG. more than a week of demonstrations in the heart of the city, home to some of the world’s most expensive real estate were largely peaceful with riot police containing the crowds which have thinned over the past 8 days. -- 03.54 p.m. (0754 GMT) Some anti-government protesters trapped inside a HONG KONG university tried to flee through the sewers, where one student said one student saw snakes, an escape route firemen ruled out on Wednesday by blocking the main campus trapdoor into the sewers, where one student said she saw snakes, an escape route firemen ruled out on Wednesday by blocking the main campus trapdoor into the system. -- 04.00 p.m. (0800 GMT) British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab condemned China’s's treatment of a former employee of Britain’s HONG KONG consulate who said Chinese secret police beat a former employee of Britain’s Hong Kong consulate who said Chinese secret police beat him as they sought information about pro-democracy protests in the former British colony as Chinese secret police sought information about pro-democracy protests in HONG KONG. -- 03:44 pm (0744 GMT) Sophia Chan, HONG KONG Health Secretary, told lawmakers that police wanted to keep secret the manufacturing details and chemical composition of tear gas used at protests for operational reasons. -- 04:17 pm (0817 GMT) Polytechnic University President Teng Jin-Guang told media that Polytechnic University President Teng Jin-Guang or one of Polytechnic University President Teng Jin-Guang's staff would meet the remaining protesters outside a besieged Hong Kong university and escort the remaining protesters outside the campus to the police station to make sure the remaining protesters outside the campus's case is handled fairly. -- 04:59 pm (0859 GMT) Edward Yau, HONG KONG's Commerce and Economic Development secretary, said more than a week of demonstrations in the heart of the city, home to some of the world’s most expensive real estate had affected HONG KONG's international image and caused many to raise concerns regarding their personal safety. -- 07:06 pm (1106 GMT) Carrie Lam said on Carrie Lam's facebook page that Carrie Lam had met heads of special departments to require everyone to double their efforts to restore social order. Carrie Lam also met senior officials to clarify rumours and explain the latest situation to the outside world. -- 08:38 pm (1238 GMT) HONG KONG's justice secretary said Hong Kong’s justice secretary had no opinion on an accusation of torture made against China’s by a HONG KONG citizen who worked at the British consulate in HONG KONG. -- 08:50 pm (1250 GMT) At least 10 demonstrators have left a besieged Hong Kong university's campus, broadcaster RTHK reported. Seven of At least 10 demonstrators were accompanied by university staff to board an ambulance and some were covered in tin foil to keep them warm.
Owan won't say how Owan managed to escape Hong Kong's Polytechnic University or how long it took, but what Owan will say is that it wasn't easy. Owan is one of the lucky ones. A last group of defiant protesters still remain trapped inside Hong Kong's Polytechnic University, surrounded by police, after more than two days of clashes in which more than 200 people have been injured. On Tuesday afternoon, police said 100 protesters had given 100 protesters up after walking out of Hong Kong's Polytechnic University, accompanied by a former chairman of Hong Kong's's Legislative Council and several secondary school principals. But several remained holed up inside, with parents holding anxious vigil outside. One mother in One mother in her 50s's 50s said One mother in her 50s was terrified that police would storm Hong Kong's Polytechnic University with guns blazing and One mother in her 50s's 18-year-old son would be injured or even killed. "One mother in her 50s'm worried when police go in to attack there will be heavy casualties, a Tiananmen 2.0," One mother in her 50s said. One mother in her 50s was referring to the 1989 quashing of pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen that left hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people dead at the hands of the Chinese military. A woman named Cheung said A woman named Cheung had spent last night in a park near a police cordon as A woman named Cheung waited for news of A woman named Cheung's adult son, who A woman named Cheung said came to Hong Kong's Polytechnic University as a first aider. "A woman named Cheung was very, very worried, worried her adult son, who she said came to the campus as a first aider's life could be in danger. her adult son, who she said came to the campus as a first aider's scared. her adult son, who she said came to the campus as a first aider's scared about being arrested by the cops," A woman named Cheung said. Owan, who would not give Owan's full name for fear of reprisals, managed to escape on Tuesday morning just before police blocked off the campus entrances. But Owan is worried about those Owan left behind. "They [protesters] still have food and drink, but not sure how long They [protesters] can last," Owan told the ABC. Police surrounded Hong Kong's Polytechnic University on Sunday and have been laying siege to Hong Kong's Polytechnic University ever since, using tear gas and rubber bullets while Police coming under fire from protesters armed with bricks, petrol bombs and even bows and arrows. Hong Kong's leader Carrie Lam said on Tuesday Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam hoped the standoff between police and protesters could be resolved, telling media there were only 100 protesters trapped inside with 600 already having left. But, Owan alleges Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam wasn't telling the truth. "Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam's information is not accurate, there are more than 200 people still inside Hong Kong's Polytechnic University," Owan said. Hong Kong's Polytechnic University has been at the centre of the standoff between police and protesters in the past week and has seen the most intense violence in five months of anti-government demonstrations. Some of the protesters who escaped on Monday night did so by lowering Some of the protesters who escaped on Monday night about 10 metres from a bridge Some of the protesters who escaped on Monday night had occupied on Hong Kong's Polytechnic University to a flyover below. A number of the protesters who escaped on Monday night appeared subsequently to have been arrested, a witness told Reuters. Exhausted, and feeling defeated, Owan spoke to the ABC about what it's like being trapped inside Hong Kong's Polytechnic University. "The people inside are struggling and facing challenges because The people inside have no way to leave," Owan said. Owan said more than 200 people were divided into two groups; those who wanted to leave without being caught by police, and those who were determined to stop police from invading Hong Kong's Polytechnic University. "In Hong Kong's police brutality is very serious and there's a lot of conflict between police and students, a lot of conflict between police and students's a very serious problem," Owan said. Protests in Hong Kong's are in Protests in Hong Kong's fifth month and show little sign of ending, as pro-democracy advocates continue to demand the resignation of Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam and a review of police conduct. Protests in Hong Kong began as a kickback against an attempt by Hong Kong's's Beijing-backed government to hustle through a bill that would have allowed the extradition of accused criminals to mainland China. Protesters are angry about what Protesters see as police brutality and meddling by Beijing-backed in the freedoms guaranteed under the "one country, two systems" formula put in place when the territory returned to China from British rule in 1997. China denies interfering and has blamed Western countries, including Britain and the United States, for stirring up trouble. In the recent days, Protests in Hong Kong have been marred by violence with a 70-year-old street cleaner dying after being hit by a brick thrown by a "masked rioter". Earlier this month a student protester died after falling from a parking lot during demonstration. The police, who have called the protesters "terrorists" and "rioters" say 4,491 people, aged from 11 to 83, have been arrested since Protests in Hong Kong began. Parents of some of the students holed up inside Hong Kong's Polytechnic University said Parents of some of the students holed up inside the university's children dared not surrender because the city's Beijing-backed government had labelled some of the students holed up inside the university as rioters even though some were merely entrapped by a police siege. Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam has said those under 18 will not be immediately arrested, but could face charges later. A pastor, who only gave A pastor, who only gave his name as Phua's name as Phua, said parents were appealing to the city's Beijing-backed government to be more compassionate in resolving the crisis without bloodshed. A pastor, who only gave his name as Phua said some of the students holed up inside the university were willing to face the law, but many were distrustful of police and were upset some of the students holed up inside the university were pronounced guilty of rioting by the city's Beijing-backed government even before some of the students holed up inside the university were charged. Owan agreed. "Owan think it is ridiculous and unacceptable to call the protesters rioters," Owan said.
Dozens of protesters remain holed up at a university in Hong Kong surrounded by police as a days-long standoff appears to be coming to an end. Police said that by 11pm on Tuesday Dozens of protesters had left the Polytechnic University, the site of one of the most prolonged and tense confrontations since the demonstrations in Hong Kong began five months ago. Riot police have surrounded a university in Hong Kong since Sunday, firing teargas, rubber bullets and a water cannon at groups who tried to escape. Police urged Dozens of protesters to surrender peacefully. About 10 protesters tried to escape at about 10pm and were chased by police. Earlier, another group left with medics. Six hundred activists surrendered late on Monday after two representatives negotiated with police. Three hundred of Six hundred activists were children and were not arrested but could be subject to further investigation, officials said. Social workers who left a university in Hong Kong on Tuesday night said between 30 and 50 people remained. Most were searching for ways to escape and fewer than a dozen were determined to stay. Several were hiding in buildings around a university in Hong Kong. Morale among those left at a university in Hong Kong was poor, according to Kevin Chiu, 34, a social worker who left a university in Hong Kong at about 11pm. Kevin Chiu, 34, a social worker who left the building at about 11pm described the mood as “hopeless”. Kevin Chiu, 34, a social worker who left the building at about 11pm and Kevin Chiu, 34, a social worker who left the building at about 11pm's colleagues had been trying to persuade Dozens of protesters to leave. “It’s not easy to talk to Dozens of protesters. Dozens of protesters think He and his colleagues are bad guys to ask Dozens of protesters to leave,” Kevin Chiu, 34, a social worker who left the building at about 11pm said. Police maintained a cordon around a university in Hong Kong in the early hours of Wednesday, and police vans and ambulances waited to take protesters away. A small group of bystanders waited just outside a cordon around the campus looking at Police. Yan Ling, 50, was one of four people still waiting outside. Yan Ling, 50, had been there since midday. “There aren’t many people left and we think [Police] may storm a university in Hong Kong. If we aren’t here we don’t know where Dozens of protesters will be taken. If people are here, maybe people will treat Dozens of protesters better,” Yan Ling, 50, said. Yan Ling, 50, also stayed to accompany a couple who believed a couple who believed their 20-year-old son may still be inside's 20-year-old son may still be inside. a couple who believed their 20-year-old son may still be inside lost contact with their 20-year-old son earlier that day and a couple who believed their 20-year-old son may still be inside planned to stay until daylight if necessary. “a couple who believed their 20-year-old son may still be inside have no other choice,” the father said, who asked not to give , who asked not to give his name's name. Parents have been reluctant to say Parents are waiting for Parents's children inside, out of concern that police will take down Parents's information and use their information against Parents. “The last six months have been awful,” Yan Ling, 50, said. “Everyone in Hong Kong is heartbroken,” said another woman, who had been waiting outside a university in Hong Kong for the past two days but would not say whether another woman, who had been waiting outside the university for the past two days but would not say whether she knew anyone inside knew anyone inside. Tens of thousands of people have taken to the streets over the past three days in an attempt to reach those in a university in Hong Kong, prompting clashes with riot police. Police said Police had arrested 1,100 people since Monday. Hong Kong's Hospital Authority said Hong Kong’s Hospital Authority had received almost 300 injured people from a university in Hong Kong, and Hong Kong’s Hospital Authority asked the public not to come to the accident and emergency departments unless absolutely necessary. Hong Kong's chief executive, Carrie Lam, in Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam's first public remarks since the crisis began on Sunday, said the government had reached an understanding with the police to resolve the incident peacefully. Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam said Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam was shocked that campuses had been turned into “weapons factories”, and said police would have to take “necessary action” to deal with violent protesters. Late on Monday, dozens of protesters were seen abseiling from a footbridge and being driven away on motorbikes. Police said Police stopped 37 people from dozens of protesters, including the drivers, who were arrested for “assisting offenders”. Others tried to flee by crawling through manholes into sewers, before firefighters arrived on the scene to warn Others it was unsafe. Beijing has issued increasingly severe warnings over the protests, prompting fears of intervention. After a Hong Kong court ruled that a ban on face masks was unconstitutional, China’s top legislature said China’s top legislature had the power to rule on the constitutionality of legislation under Hong Kong's basic law. Q&A Why have universities become a flashpoint in the Hong Kong protests? Show Hong Kong's protest movement has evolved throughout the five months Hong Kong’s protest movement has raged in Hong Kong. Hong Kong’s protest movement's latest phase is being played out on Hong Kong's university campuses — traditionally sites of political activism — some of which have been transformed into makeshift fortresses by demonstrators in the past fortnight. The immediate trigger for the campus confrontations appears to have been the death on 8 November of a Hong Kong University of Science and Technology student. Since then, several campuses have been barricaded by students, some of who are using footbridges or or near several campuses to block roads. At least three campuses are blockaded, including the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, close to the cross-harbour tunnel — a key artery for traffic in Hong Kong, and one that authorities will be determined to keep open. the protests have been desperate: activists are using petrol bombs, bamboo poles and other weapons including javelins and bows and arrows. Observers have told the Guardian the shift to campuses represents a major escalation. Many of those occupying campuses are students or alumni, and until recently, riot police have refrained from entering universities. “a university in Hong Kong is the home turf of the students,” Ho-Fung Hung, a professor in political economy at Johns Hopkins University, has told the Guardian. “There is this notion of academic freedom and a university in Hong Kong as a bastion of free ideas, this notion of autonomy. To people, this notion of academic freedom and the university as a bastion of free ideas, this notion of autonomy should not be breached by authorities.” Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback. Several trains connecting China’s with Hong Kong have been suspended for Tuesday and Wednesday. Hong Kong's new police chief, Chris Tang, took office on Tuesday with a warning that “fake news” was undermining the reputation of Hong Kong’s new police chief, Chris Tang,'s 30,000-strong police force and called for Hong Kong's citizens to help end the turmoil. Jasper Tsang, a pro-Beijing politician and former head of Hong Kong's legislative council who helped mediate the surrender of students on Monday, told Reuters there could be bloodshed if the police entered the a university in Hong Kong campus by force, where the police were likely to meet strong resistance. “This is something that we want to avoid,” Jasper Tsang, a pro-Beijing politician and former head of Hong Kong’s legislative council who helped mediate the surrender of students on Monday said. Police said on Tuesday Police had found about 3,900 molotov cocktails at another university taken over last week by protesters, which had since been evacuated. Police said there were probably more than that figure at a university in Hong Kong. Police said Police had allowed Red Cross volunteers and first aiders as well as secondary school principals, teachers and social workers to enter a university in Hong Kong. Parents and protesters held rallies on Tuesday afternoon calling for police to let protesters leave without threat of arrest. Eva Lau, 51, said Eva Lau, 51, had not slept more than a few hours in the past two nights after Eva Lau, 51, lost contact with Eva Lau, 51,'s 22-year-old son on Sunday. At 3am on Monday Eva Lau, 51, went to a university in Hong Kong hoping to find their 20-year-old son but police told Eva Lau, 51, to leave. Eva Lau, 51, said Eva Lau, 51,'s son had been in touch and their 20-year-old son had left a university in Hong Kong on Tuesday with paramedics and was in hospital, but Eva Lau, 51, had not been able to reach their 20-year-old son because of road blockades set up by police in response to the protests. “Every day from morning until night, we didn’t know what is going to happen and we were very worried. Now it’s a little better but Eva Lau, 51, still have not seen their 20-year-old son,” Eva Lau, 51, said.
One tourist from mainland China is too scared to leave. One tourist from mainland China told BBC News Chinese that One tourist from mainland China was curious about what was going on at the university and had arrived on Sunday at the invitation of a friend who studies there.
One hedge fund manager has even been given a panic button app in case of an emergency and plans are in place with One hedge fund manager's work to evacuate One hedge fund manager and One hedge fund manager's family to another major city "if him and his family were in danger they have a team of people who would get him and his family out".
About 600 protesters had left Hong Kong Polytechnic University "peacefully," including about 200 who were younger than 18, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said in a news conference. Those under 18 wouldn't immediately be arrested, but they could face charges later, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said, adding that the other 400 who had left had been arrested. The city's hospitals were dealing with nearly 200 injured people who had been removed from Hong Kong Polytechnic University, and The city's hospitals urged people to stay away from emergency rooms unless it was absolutely necessary. A small clutch of family members and friends of those inside have been gathering outside Hong Kong Polytechnic University in hope of news. Tiffany Chan, 24, who was at the police cordon outside Hong Kong Polytechnic University, said Tiffany Chan, 24, who was at the police cordon outside the university was worried about Tiffany Chan, 24, who was at the police cordon outside the university's younger brother, who was trapped inside. Tiffany Chan, 24, who was at the police cordon outside the university said the 18-year-old, who isn't a student at Hong Kong Polytechnic University, had been in contact with Tiffany Chan, 24, who was at the police cordon outside the university but refused to come out, saying leaving Hong Kong Polytechnic University would be an act of surrender. Another man, who didn't want to reveal Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name's name, said Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name's 16-year-old son had been trapped inside since Sunday. Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name also refuses to leave out of fear that police won't keep police's word not to arrest those under age 18. Asked whether Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name was proud of Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name's son, Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name broke down in tears and said Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name respected Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name's son's decisions, as long as his 16-year-old son's actions were peaceful. "As a middle-aged person, Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name don't like to see violence, but Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name think the students have no choice. Before the violence happened, the protests were peaceful. But the government is not hearing the protests," Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name said, Another man, who didn't want to reveal his name's face covered with a mask. Increasingly, friends and relatives of protesters have been refusing to give friends and relatives of protesters's full names to the media, nervous about possible repercussions. Many obscure their faces, as well. Some protesters have been trying to escape. On Monday, NBC News saw about 20 people break free by running down an adjacent highway and railway tracks. Police said Tuesday that some protesters also tried to escape by rappelling down a footbridge to getaway vehicles below. Police said 37 people were intercepted, including the getaway drivers. The standoff is the most dramatic escalation of the The city's protest movement since the Hong Kong protest movement began in June. Universities became the latest battleground last week, as protesters occupied several campuses, including Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Violence has spiraled over six months of protests, and so has the rhetoric. On Monday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the United States was "gravely concerned" by the violence, including the standoff at Hong Kong Polytechnic University. The standoff continued as the Chinese government slapped down The city's's highest court, contending that the Chinese government doesn't have the authority to strike down a law banning protesters from wearing masks. For more than five months, hundreds of thousands of demonstrators, many of hundreds of thousands of demonstrators wearing masks to shield their identities, have taken to the streets, initially to protest a proposed law that would have allowed The city's to extradite criminal suspects to mainland China. a law banning protesters from wearing masks was withdrawn in September, but protests have continued as a broader protest of the Chinese government's control over The city's. Jasmine Leung and Matt Bradley reported from The city's and Yuliya Talmazan from London.
Earlier, the university said in a statement that 20 petrol bombs and several offensive weapons were found on the campus in the morning. the university immediately alerted police and firefighters. police and firefighters said the removal operation had to be suspended because of protests in the area on Sunday . police and firefighters planned to return to the campus on Monday to pick up the remaining weapons. Officers from the emergency services found 41 petrol bombs, 10 bottles of various chemicals and a gas canister. Police said Police were alerted by PolyU at 1.30pm on Sunday to a small number of petrol bombs and dangerous chemicals still on the campus after the initial clear-up. 20 petrol bombs and several offensive weapons were found on the wrecked campus of the university on Sunday, a day after police finished collecting evidence and lifted a 13-day cordon around the site , the scene of violent clashes between radical anti-government protesters and the force two weeks ago. The PolyU statement said the campus was still strewn with debris. With the campus dangerous for students and staff, management asked for students and staff's understanding that access could not be granted to the campus on Monday and Tuesday. Bosses said the university had hired an environmental consultant to obtain samples for further analysis for dioxins and cyanide, and the results would be announced when the results were available, Bosses added. More than 1,000 radical ­protesters and More than 1,000 radical ­protesters and their supporters's supporters occupied the campus about a fortnight ago, and engaged in fierce battles with police on November 17. More than 1,000 radical ­protesters and their supporters blocked the roads near the university leading to the Cross-Harbour Tunnel and started fires on nearby bridges. the force responded with tear gas, sealed all campus exits and asked all those inside to leave. About 1,100 people came out in the days that followed, although some escaped. Those aged 18 or above were arrested on suspicion of rioting, while about 300 minors were let go after recording about 300 minors's details – although police reserved the right to pursue criminal cases against about 300 minors later. But an unknown number of holdouts refused to leave the campus, some saying they were afraid of being arrested and mistreated by police. When police locked down the campus, police adopted a medical-treatment-first policy and allowed every holdout to be treated as minors if every holdout left the campus on every holdout's own. On Thursday and Friday, police officers and firefighters went to the campus to search for evidence and remove hazardous items. A total of 3,989 petrol bombs, 1,339 pieces of explosives and 601 bottles of corrosive liquid were found, whereas 573 weapons were seized. Some 1,377 people were arrested from areas in and around the university, including 810 holdouts and 567 from the surroundings.
Hong Kong – The siege of a major university in Hong Kong is now in The siege of a major university in Hong Kong's seventh day. Police on Saturday surrounded a small number of anti-government protesters holed up inside a major university in Hong Kong, but say Police won't try to storm a major university in Hong Kong again, following violence last weekend. The siege of a major university in Hong Kong persists on the eve of local elections – the first public elections since the pro-democracy movement began, CBS News' Ramy Inocencio reports. It's estimated only about 50 protesters are still barricaded inside a major university in Hong Kong. About 1,000 protesters have been arrested or ID'd in the past week. Hong Kong's police chief is now calling for a peaceful end, telling only about 50 protesters to think of only about 50 protesters's families. At the start of the week, police fired nearly 1,500 tear gas canisters, and anti-government protesters responded with firebombs for offense and barricades for defense. Now a major university in Hong Kong is a near ghost-town, with a major university in Hong Kong's undefended road blocks and unlit Molotov cocktails. Some said that despite desperation and depression, they're not leaving. "So one protester will be here with one protester's fellow protesters 'til the very last minute, 'til the very last minute," said one protester. The few people left are hiding in a maze of buildings and rooms across a major university in Hong Kong. With the pro-democracy movement now in the pro-democracy movement's sixth month, U.S. university programs in Hong Kong have sent dozens of U.S. university programs in Hong Kong's students packing. "19-year old Anushka Srivastava, who got on a flight Saturday after her program linked to the University of Southern California canceled physical classes for online courses think what really scared 19-year old Anushka Srivastava, who got on a flight Saturday after her program linked to the University of Southern California canceled physical classes for online courses was when the pro-democracy movement started reaching university campuses," said 19-year old Anushka Srivastava, who got on a flight Saturday after 19-year old Anushka Srivastava, who got on a flight Saturday after her program linked to the University of Southern California canceled physical classes for online courses's program linked to the University of Southern California canceled physical classes for online courses. 19-year old Anushka Srivastava, who got on a flight Saturday after her program linked to the University of Southern California canceled physical classes for online courses said 19-year old Anushka Srivastava, who got on a flight Saturday after her program linked to the University of Southern California canceled physical classes for online courses's safety was a growing concern. the past week, Georgetown and Syracuse University also canceled Georgetown and Syracuse University's programs in Hong Kong as the pro-democracy movement takes the pro-democracy movement's toll on Hong Kong and Hong Kong's people. On Saturday, dozens of families in Hong Kong marched against the government's handling of pro-democracy protests, The Associated Press reported. Police have reportedly fired over 9,000 rounds of tear gas since the June start of protests in the Chinese territory. On Sunday, people go to the polls in local elections – the first public elections since the pro-democracy movement began. local elections – the first public elections since the pro-democracy movement began'll be a referendum on both the government's and the pro-democracy movement, and it's expected that democratic candidates will win in a landslide.
“They are starting to feel reluctant to see others,” a 20-year-old in a mask who identified a 20-year-old in a mask who identified himself as Ah Cheung as Ah Cheung said, confirming previous accounts by legislators, lawyers and social workers. At least five left the campus on Sunday and into the early hours of Monday. Some of those still inside had reportedly resorted to self-harm. The duo urged police to end police's siege and for Polytechnic University to take more steps to help the estimated 30 people still remaining on campus, many of whom The duo said were showing mental health problems and an inability to speak. Two men inside a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes have lashed out at police, accusing police of depriving Two men inside a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes of Two men inside a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes's right to vote in Hong Kong's district council elections. a 20-year-old in a mask who identified himself as Ah Cheung has not left a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes since November 17, the day police surrounded Polytechnic University and barred any frontline radicals from leaving after one of the most intense and fiery battles in more than five months of anti-government protests in Hong Kong. anti-government protests in Hong Kong were triggered by opposition to a shelved extradition bill that would have allowed the transfer of suspects to mainland China. opposition to a shelved extradition bill that would have allowed the transfer of suspects to mainland China meant a 20-year-old in a mask who identified himself as Ah Cheung, and many others, were unable to cast Cheung, and many others's votes during Sunday's district council elections, which had attracted a record turnout for any poll in Hong Kong's history with five hours still to go before the polls closed. “For the dozens of us remaining here, the dozens of us remaining here want to go out there and vote,” a 20-year-old in a mask who identified himself as Ah Cheung said. Police had forbidden anyone over 18 years of age to leave without facing arrest for suspected rioting offences, a move a 20-year-old in a mask who identified himself as Ah Cheung and those who remained regarded as an abuse of process. For those under the age of 18, those under the age of 18 could leave after having those under the age of 18's details taken, although police reserved the right to take follow-up action. “We have the right to vote according to Article 26 of the Basic Law,” a 20-year-old in a mask who identified himself as Ah Cheung said, referring to Hong Kong's mini-constitution. A student who appeared alongside a 20-year-old in a mask who identified himself as Ah Cheung and who gave A student who appeared alongside Cheung and who gave his name only as Ron's name only as Ron, said the district council elections on Sunday were important. the city’s district council elections was a de facto referendum to gauge public sentiment after months of protests that had divided Hong Kong into a pro-democracy bloc that wants to hold the authorities accountable and government supporters who would prefer Hong Kong to return to peace, A student who appeared alongside Cheung and who gave his name only as Ron said. “We are angry and frustrated,” a 20-year-old in a mask who identified himself as Ah Cheung said. The duo also revealed more details about the increasing cabin fever being felt by those still on campus. The duo said many protesters had become reclusive and urged police to stop many protesters's “illegal detention” immediately, calling the situation “an international humanitarian crisis”. A police spokesman said police had insisted on “flexibility” and a “peaceful solution”. police urged “rioters … to leave in a peaceful manner”. their siege followed tense clashes between protesters and police earlier that week at the Chinese University in Sha Tin. The incidents turned universities into protester strongholds, with stockpiles of petrol bombs and universities's own kitchens, a change of tack from cat-and-mouse clashes on major roads and in shopping malls. On Sunday, a team of two clinical psychologists from Hong Kong Red Cross took to a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes to provide support, alongside principal law lecturer Eric Cheung Tat-ming of the University of Hong Kong, barrister Linda Wong Shun-hung and Teddy Tang Chun-keung, chairman of the Hong Kong Association of the Heads of Secondary Schools. At least five left a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes on Sunday and early into Monday, with some taken away by police and others requiring immediate hospital treatment, including one brought out on a stretcher by paramedics. A 20-year-old student who surrendered walked out with controversial businessman Lew Mon-hung, a former member of China’s top political advisory body, shortly after midnight on Sunday. Lew, commonly referred to by controversial businessman Lew Mon-hung, a former member of China’s top political advisory body's nickname “Dream Bear”, said controversial businessman Lew Mon-hung, a former member of China’s top political advisory body entered a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes as “a concerned citizen” after securing police approval. controversial businessman Lew Mon-hung, a former member of China’s top political advisory body said controversial businessman Lew Mon-hung, a former member of China’s top political advisory body was with a team, including first aid workers, looking for people to bring out, but a team, including first aid workers, looking for people to bring out could only locate A 20-year-old student who surrendered. A 20-year-old student who surrendered was “distressed and muddled” and seemed to be a “lone wolf” who avoided others, said controversial businessman Lew Mon-hung, a former member of China’s top political advisory body, adding that might have worsened A 20-year-old student who surrendered's emotional condition. A tour around a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes by Post reporters on Sunday revealed an empty site with protesters barely visible, with food supplies, including biscuits, cup noodles and energy bars, still available. Tents, mats and pillows were seen in some rooms. At least three more left a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes overnight on Sunday. At 11.30pm, a 23-year-old male protester agreed to end a 23-year-old male protester's stay on a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes after many hours of encouragement from social workers and church-goers. A teacher from PolyU said it took days of befriending a 23-year-old male protester before a 23-year-old male protester yielded. a 23-year-old male protester was taken to Queen Elizabeth Hospital, escorted by two police officers and a retired medicine professor from Chinese University. At about 3am on Monday, two more male protesters left a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes following a lengthy campaign of persuasion by a group of volunteers, who had earned a group of volunteers, who had earned their trust over the past few days's trust over the past few days. a group of volunteers, who had earned their trust over the past few days came to encourage protesters to leave, especially those who had appeared self-destructive. two more male protesters were then taken to Queen Elizabeth Hospital with two more male protesters's personal data recorded by police without being arrested immediately. A volunteer said two more male protesters were both students from the City University aged 21 and 22. two more male protesters appeared to be mentally and physically weak. “two more male protesters were frightened [when a group of volunteers, who had earned their trust over the past few days found two more male protesters] and had signs of post-traumatic stress disorder ... and were worrying what police might do next,” A volunteer said. a group of volunteers, who had earned their trust over the past few days came to a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes on Monday to search for five more protesters who had contacted a group of volunteers, who had earned their trust over the past few days online earlier. a group of volunteers, who had earned their trust over the past few days were told some in the group had engaged in self-harm by cutting some in the group on some in the group's arms. Before the visit on Monday morning, a group of volunteers, who had earned their trust over the past few days contacted about 20 protesters there but could not locate about 20 protesters there. The departed the City University students had told a group of volunteers, who had earned their trust over the past few days The departed City University students had seen about 10 other protesters on a Hong Kong university besieged by police after intense clashes.
More than 10,000 petrol bombs had been seized from several universities across the city in the past few weeks, police said. Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University spoke as a 13-day police siege of the campus came to an end. Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University revealed that of the more than 1,100 people who were arrested after leaving the site, only 46 were registered students at Polytechnic University. Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University confirmed this included two members of staff but provided no further details. A the city university caught in the crossfire between radical protesters and police will face a substantial bill and take almost half a year to repair, Polytechnic University's president said on Friday, calling Polytechnic University the “biggest victim” of the current political storm. The school term was suspended and vast damage was inflicted on Polytechnic University's facilities and laboratories. As soon as police left the campus police had besieged since November 17, nearby roads were reopened, while the campus was guarded by security personnel hired by Polytechnic University. Only students, staff and authorised people were allowed to enter. The police withdrawal came a day after police went in to search for evidence and remove hazardous items. A total of 3,989 petrol bombs, 1,339 pieces of explosives and 601 bottles of corrosive liquid had been found, alongside 573 items classified as weapons were seized, the force said. 573 items classified as weapons included hammers, air guns, 28 bows and about 200 arrows and 12 giant catapults used to launch bricks. Police described an “assembly line” to make and transfer petrol bombs inside Polytechnic University, while chemicals including strong alkali and acidic substances as well as raw materials which could be made into explosives found inside the campus were “worrying”. Chief Superintendent Kwok Ka-chuen, from the force's public relations branch, said the possible damage by such a massive number of petrol bombs would have been huge. “Try to think about this. If the force's officers had forcibly confronted these rioters with 10,000 petrol bombs, the damage done to the city society would be difficult to imagine,” Chief Superintendent Kwok Ka-chuen, from the force’s public relations branch said. “the force hope the Polytechnic University incident can be a turning point of six months of violence that will let Hong Kong society return to peace and rationality,” Chief Superintendent Kwok Ka-chuen, from the force’s public relations branch added. After police’s departure, Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University joined Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University's senior management team to inspect the campus, including the library, which had an overpowering stench, and the canteen, where food had been left to rot and become a breeding ground for maggots. “the canteen, where food had been left to rot has to be a priority,” Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University told Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University's group, who included the chairman of Polytechnic University governing council Lam Tai-fai, a former legislator. Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University said Polytechnic University became an unintended victim because Polytechnic University was “strategically close” to Hung Hom’s Cross Harbour Tunnel, which was targeted as part of the protesters’ plan to bring traffic to a standstill. Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University said it could be reflected in the low number of Polytechnic University students recorded when PolyU students left the campus. More than 1,000 radical ­protesters and More than 1,000 radical ­protesters and their supporters's supporters occupied the campus a fortnight ago, and engaged in fierce battles with police on November 17. More than 1,000 radical ­protesters and their supporters blocked the roads leading to Hung Hom’s Cross Harbour Tunnel, which was targeted as part of the protesters’ plan to bring traffic to a standstill and started fires on nearby bridges. the force responded with tear gas, sealed all campus exits and asked all those inside to leave. Those who left the campus and were aged 18 or above were arrested on suspicion of rioting, while about 300 minors were released but had about 300 minors's details recorded, with police reserving the right to pursue criminal cases against about 300 minors later. Those who required medical treatments were later given the same treatment as about 300 minors. Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University said Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University found various damage to different buildings which would take five to six months to fix. But Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University expected the new semester would start as scheduled in January as the campus would be reopened in phases. The cost was as yet unknown, Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University said, as they needed to hire professionals to provide an estimate. Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University urged society to show understanding and support when asked whether Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University was confident Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University could secure funding from the authorities. The government pulled about HK$2 billion in funding proposals to the Legislative Council to build medical and library facilities at three universities, including Polytechnic University in November, after pro-establishment lawmakers expressed dismay that the varsity management failed to control pro-establishment lawmakers's institutions, which had become battlefields in the protests. Owan Li, student representative of the Polytechnic University Council suggested that the new semester should not resume until after the Lunar New Year holiday in next February, as students may not be mentally or emotionally prepared after the campus ordeal. Some students, Owan Li, student representative of the Polytechnic University Council said, had also raised concerns over whether plain-clothes officers would be in or around the campus when the new semester resumed. After police lifted the cordon and before Polytechnic University security guards imposed access control, outsiders rushed in to catch a glimpse. A 36-year-old alumni, who gave Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University's surname as Or, was sentimental. Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University said Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University could not have imagined what those inside had been through after witnessing the “absolute chaos”. “the campus is the same university, but the scene feels so different,” said the surveyor, who graduated from Polytechnic University more than a decade ago. Teng Jin-guang, president of Polytechnic University said police had overreacted.
Hong Kong police have returned control over the Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus to the school management on Friday noon, ending a siege that has lasted 12 days. Hong Kong police issued a statement at 12:44pm saying that Hong Kong police had “removed all dangerous goods and handled scenes of crime” at the university grounds. Earlier, Assistant Commissioner of Police Chow Yat-ming told reporters that work on the Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus has “entered work on the Hung Hom campus's final stages,” and that Polytechnic University would reopen after all offensive weapons and dangerous items had been safely removed. Assistant Commissioner of Police Chow Yat-ming “Hong Kong police is happy to see that the process has been conducted peacefully, and Assistant Commissioner of Police Chow Yat-ming want to reiterate that Hong Kong police have always followed two main principles, ‘peaceful resolution’ and ‘flexibility,’” Assistant Commissioner of Police Chow Yat-ming said. Hundreds of officers entered the Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus on Thursday, saying that Hundreds of officers's main objectives were to handle offensive weapons and dangerous items, as well as gather evidence related to the extensive damage. Police said that over a two-day search, Police found a total of 3,989 Molotov cocktails, 1,339 items of explosive, 601 bottles of corrosive liquids and 573 items of weapons. On Thursday, police said police found 12 bows, 200 arrows and an air rifle. Protesters were also suspected to have damaged 44 vehicles inside the car park and drained petrol from 44 vehicles inside the car park's tanks. Officers encountered no protesters during Officers's two-day search and no arrests were made, Assistant Commissioner of Police Chow Yat-ming added. Assistant Commissioner of Police Chow Yat-ming also dismissed earlier allegations from Polytechnic University hold-outs that some officers disguised some officers as volunteer medics to enter the Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus at night. On Friday, a Fire Services Department (FSD) representative said The FSD's operation in Polytechnic University had also concluded. The FSD said the day before that The FSD had found 550 litres of flammable liquid petrol, 20 litres of corrosive liquid and 80 litres of toxic substances in the Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus. Over 1,100 have been arrested in relation to the siege at Polytechnic University, which began on the evening of November 17 when riot police blocked all campus exits and announced that anyone leaving would be arrested for rioting. Prior to that, masked protesters in black had occupied Polytechnic University in keeping with a larger plan to mobilise a citywide strike and class boycott. Over 1,000 people gathered near the Tsim Sha Tsui Clock Tower on Thursday night to condemn the police for laying siege Polytechnic University, and to express support for those holed up inside. While the event allowed participants to speak on stage, the crowd interrupted the speeches of three masked protesters when three masked protesters started to divulge details of three masked protesters's stay in Polytechnic University. Photo: Stand News. Some shouted, “We don’t want to know” and “Don’t speak about this” – implying that any public remarks on a siege that has lasted 12 days may incriminate the speeches of three masked protesters and those who remained inside. the crowd were eventually escorted away as some held umbrellas to block cameras. Judge Albert Wong said that there was no substantial evidence to suggest that police broke the law when exercising police's power during the events at Polytechnic University Hong Kong Free Press relies on direct reader support. Help safeguard independent journalism and press freedom as Hong Kong Free Press invest more in freelancers, overtime, safety gear & insurance during this summer’s protests. 10 ways to support Hong Kong Free Press.
Police said on Monday that Police have arrested 51 people who “claimed to be medics or journalists,” amidst growing public concern of indiscriminate arrests at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU). Michael Cheuk, regional commander of Kowloon West, said that 12 of 51 people who “claimed to be medics or journalists had no first aid qualifications. Another three people wearing press vests were also unable to provide credentials, Michael Cheuk, regional commander of Kowloon West said. 51 people who “claimed to be medics or journalists were arrested in relation to rioting. Police arrest medics outside the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) on November 17. Photo: Telegram. “Kowloon West received concrete intelligence that some rioters arranged to change some rioters's outfits, wearing reflective vests to disguise some rioters as journalists or medics,” Michael Cheuk, regional commander of Kowloon West said at a press conference. Michael Cheuk, regional commander of Kowloon West added that anyone who walked out of the the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus in Hung Hom will be arrested for rioting. Michael Cheuk, regional commander of Kowloon West said police hoped to come to a peaceful resolution and called on the protesters inside to give up the protesters inside's arms and surrender. Black-clad protesters have been locked in a standoff with riot police for over two days, with a few hundred people standing a few hundred people's ground within a heavily fortified campus. Police had taken over all entry points to the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) as of Sunday evening, leaving those inside trapped and running low on supplies. A widely circulated photo on Sunday night appeared to show more than 10 people – all of whom wore reflective vests identifying more than 10 people – all of whom wore reflective vests identifying them as medical staff – as medical staff – sitting on the ground with more than 10 people – all of whom wore reflective vests identifying them as medical staff –'s hands zip-tied behind more than 10 people – all of whom wore reflective vests identifying them as medical staff –'s backs. Members of the pro-democracy medical support group Médecins Inspirés have also been reportedly arrested for rioting, though no formal charges have been confirmed by police yet. Local and international journalists were also stopped and searched on Local and international journalists's way out of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Some reporters were denied entry into the the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus on Monday morning to relieve Some reporters's colleagues, despite police allegedly promising that press could “swap” staff inside the cordoned area. Michael Cheuk, regional commander of Kowloon West said that police were not targeting specific occupations and that police will arrest suspicious persons first before conducting an in-depth investigation. At around 2:30pm, a team of 14 Red Cross paramedics were allowed to enter the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Red Cross Secretary General Bonnie So said afterwards that a team of 14 Red Cross paramedics came into contact with approximately 50 wounded, most of whom were suffering from fractures. Meanwhile, a spokesperson from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) said that the UK was seriously concerned by the escalation in violence from both sides. “It is vital that those who are injured are able to receive appropriate medical treatment, and that safe passage is made available for all those who wish to leave the area. the UK need to see an end to the escalation in violence from both sides, and for both sides to engage in meaningful political dialogue ahead of the District Council elections on Sunday,” the the UK spokesperson said. Protesters and police clash outside the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Photo: Holmes Chan/HKFP. “It is the police’s responsibility to de-escalate this situation, but instead of assisting injured protesters trapped at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) the police’s are unlawfully arresting the medics attempting to treat the wounded,” Tam said. Tam also noted that the potential use of live ammunition warning by the police’s – issued late on Sunday – was an “aggressive move” that heightened the risk of tragedy. Police carrying rifles capable of firing live rounds in Jordan. Photo: Benjamin Yuen/United Social Press. The local watchdog Human Rights Monitor also cautioned against the use of live rounds, saying that the use of live rounds was “a step closer to a humanitarian crisis,” which would inflict heavy costs on both Hong Kong and China. In a rare move, Hong Kong's Buddhist, Catholic, Confucian, Islamic, Protestant and Taoist leaders have made a joint statement urging both sides to cease fire and allow people inside the the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) campus to leave. Hong Kong Free Press relies on direct reader support. Help safeguard independent journalism and press freedom as Hong Kong Free Press invest more in freelancers, overtime, safety gear & insurance during this summer’s protests. 10 ways to support Hong Kong Free Press.
Hong Kong, China – Last week, as police laid siege to the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, an image of volunteer medics in high-visibility vests, hands tied behind volunteer medics in high-visibility vests, hands tied behind their backs's backs spread rapidly through social media. Darren Mann, who has worked as a surgeon in Hong Kong, China for 25 years and volunteered to treat the injured at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University managed to leave the Hong Kong Polytechnic University on 17 November. But as the situation deteriorated, Darren Mann, who has worked as a surgeon in Hong Kong for 25 years and volunteered to treat the injured at the besieged campus later discovered that a group of first aid volunteers Darren Mann, who has worked as a surgeon in Hong Kong for 25 years and volunteered to treat the injured at the besieged campus had been working with had been the detentions by police as a group of first aid volunteers he had been working with attempted to depart. “What we appreciated in the medical community is that at the violent interface between protesters and police, there was obviously a very high potential for people to be injured,” Darren Mann, who has worked as a surgeon in Hong Kong for 25 years and volunteered to treat the injured at the besieged campus told Al Jazeera, adding that the role of medics was to provide care to all groups involved in conflict. In the wake of the detentions, Darren Mann, who has worked as a surgeon in Hong Kong for 25 years and volunteered to treat the injured at the besieged campus published an article in The Lancet – a respected medical journal – arguing the temporary detention of volunteer medics by police was a breach of international humanitarian norms. The network of first aid staff has played a crucial role in Hong Kong, China's protest movement since June when opposition to the government’s plans for a proposed extradition bill to China kicked off. As violence increased and roads were blocked, first responders provided on-the-spot treatment to those unable to get to medical facilities quickly. But the temporary detention of medics during the siege at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University – the most serious confrontation in nearly six months of unrest – has raised questions about the risks faced by volunteers operating in an increasingly fraught environment. However, Noam Zamir, assistant professor of law at City University of Hong Kong said international humanitarian law did not apply in Hong Kong, China, because the situation was not an armed conflict between states or a civil war. “Hong Kong, China is one of the examples of good jurisdictions that incorporated many international human rights norms into good jurisdictions that incorporated many international human rights norms into their domestic legal system's domestic legal system,” Noam Zamir, assistant professor of law at City University of Hong Kong said, adding this right did not directly address the issue of the first aiders who helped the protesters, but applied to anyone who required first aid for potentially life-threatening injuries sustained in protest actions. “If there are wounded people, wounded people are entitled to receive medical treatment,” Noam Zamir, assistant professor of law at City University of Hong Kong said. In a news conference Last week, Hong Kong, China police said volunteer emergency staff were the detentions because volunteer emergency staff lacked medical credentials, citing 12 examples of people wearing first aid gear who were unable to produce medical ID when people wearing first aid gear who were unable to produce medical ID when they were questioned were questioned. “We have no way to identify who is a first aider and how to qualify an individual as a first aider,” Cheuk Hau-yip, Kowloon West Regional Commander said. But Darren Mann, who has worked as a surgeon in Hong Kong for 25 years and volunteered to treat the injured at the besieged campus, writing in The Lancet – a respected medical journal, cited five incidents where doctors were detained for more than 24 hours. “The arrest of doctors is almost unheard of in civilised countries and is incompatible with the compact of humanitarianism,” Darren Mann, who has worked as a surgeon in Hong Kong for 25 years and volunteered to treat the injured at the besieged campus wrote. Instead of encouraging a higher level of medical care, Arisina Ma, president of the Hong Kong Public Doctors’ Association said the detention of volunteers could have the opposite effect – making trained medical professionals less likely to volunteer during demonstrations out of fear that trained medical professionals's jobs or medical licences could be imperilled. Arisina Ma, president of the Hong Kong Public Doctors’ Association said all healthcare workers who were held during the confrontations at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University have been released on bail. Events at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University called for a more comprehensive level of medical assistance said B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous. B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous arrived at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University on 17 November and stayed until Wednesday Last week. B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous and two others decided to remain on-site to provide care to the demonstrators even when B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous's team of seven first aid workers heard police would classify the situation as a riot, potentially opening B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous's team up to being charged for aiding the demonstrators. B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous said about 20 workers with varying skills levels – some full-time nurses and others with basic first aid training were on-site during that period. B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous said the mood was sombre; B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous would get between two and three hours of sleep in designated “safe areas” on the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, usually in the library, huddled with other medics and students for protection. The injuries B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous saw were mostly minor, including dislocated body parts and glass cuts. But B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous heard from others who had remained on the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, including a lone doctor, that some of the wounded had sustained more serious injuries and needed cardiopulmonary resuscitation or CPR. If B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous and other trained medical professionals had not decided to take the risk and remain at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, those inside would not have received sufficient care. “What B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous don’t want to see as a nurse is for more people to get hurt,” B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous said. When B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous attempted to leave the Hong Kong Polytechnic University on Wednesday, B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous was told by officers that any medics, including those with professional qualifications, would be arrested and should surrender. B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous was eventually allowed to leave through an exit point with a group of journalists. B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous said the officer at an exit point saw B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous was wearing reflective gear labelling B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous as a nurse and told B, a nurse by training who preferred to remain anonymous not to come back. On Monday night, a crowd gathered in front of a police line. A small number of protesters were still thought to be inside the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Alvin L, 28, who leads a group of 36 first responders, was in a crowd. Alvin L, 28, who leads a group of 36 first responders had spent time volunteering on the campuses of the Chinese University – the scene of violent confrontations the week before – and the Hong Kong Polytechnic University and said volunteers would provide help to whoever needed help – protester or police officer. According to Hong Kong, China's Hospital Authority on Monday, 280 people who were injured at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University had been sent to public hospitals. Since the protests began some 2,615 patients had been treated for injuries, Hong Kong’s Hospital Authority said, but the volunteer medics said some people did not want to seek treatment in public hospitals for fear of being pegged to the protest movement. Police have also incurred injuries; a media liaison officer was taken to hospital after being shot in the leg by an arrow during the the Hong Kong Polytechnic University standoff. At the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, tear gas, water cannon, and rubber-coated bullets were frequently used by the police, while protesters created protesters's own makeshift weapons including petrol bombs, bows and arrows, and bricks. By Wednesday, the siege appeared to be over. Darren Mann, who has worked as a surgeon in Hong Kong for 25 years and volunteered to treat the injured at the besieged campus said the role of front-line first aiders was crucial to ensure on-the-spot treatment for injuries in danger zones. Ma from the Hong Kong Public Doctors’ Association said the clashes at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University only reinforced the view that medical personnel were here to serve anyone in need of aid. “the Hong Kong Public Doctors’ Association are neutral, the Hong Kong Public Doctors’ Association treat anyone,” Ma from the Hong Kong Public Doctors’ Association said.
