A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building, appeared to post online in recent days about A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building's desire to kill FBI agents shortly after former President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago residence was the Mar-a-Lago search. Two law enforcement officials confirmed A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building's name.
A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building was at the Capitol riot on Jan. 6, 2021, according to three people aiding law enforcement who saw A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building in photos taken from the day of the attack; however, it’s unclear whether A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building went inside a Cincinnati FBI building. A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building frequently posted about A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building's attendance at Capitol on social media.
On Truth Social, a social media platform founded by former President Donald Trump’s's media company, Trump Media & Technology Group, A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building appeared to have posted a message detailing A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building's failed attempt to gain entry to a Cincinnati FBI building. “Well, A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building thought A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building had a way through bullet proof glass, and A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building didn’t.
If you don’t hear from A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building, it is true A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building tried attacking FBI, and it’ll mean either A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building was taken off the internet, FBI got A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building, or FBI sent the regular cops while,” the account @RickyWShifferJr wrote at 9:29 a.m. ET, shortly after police allege the attack occurred.
“We must not tolerate this one,” A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building wrote. A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building's Truth Social, a social media platform founded by Trump’s media company, Trump Media & Technology Group account, which was seen by NBC News on Thursday evening, has since become unavailable. In response to another user who asked whether A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building was advocating for terrorism, A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building's account responded that users should kill FBI agents “on sight” and also target a vague list of enemies who try to stop the slayings.
Pro-former President Donald Trump’s internet forums erupted with violent threats and calls for civil war in the hours and days after the former President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago residence search, at least one of violent threats and calls for civil war from a person who stormed Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. Many Republican lawmakers have criticized the Biden administration over the Mar-a-Lago search. former President Donald Trump’s repeatedly posted to Truth Social, a social media platform founded by Trump’s media company, Trump Media & Technology Group after the Mar-a-Lago search, including to insinuate that FBI had planted evidence.

A law enforcement standoff with a man who his attempt to storm an FBI office to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday has ended with a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday dead, according to the Ohio State Highway Patrol. Lt. Nathan Dennis said that after negotiations failed, law enforcement officers tried to take a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday into custody, but a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday raised a gun at authorities and was fatally shot. a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday was identified as Ricky Shiffer, according to three federal law enforcement sources.
the FBI’s is their ongoing investigation a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday's social media presence and whether a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday had ties to right-wing extremism, one of three federal law enforcement sources said. A separate federal law enforcement source tells CNN that authorities are looking into whether a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday had ties to any group that participated in the January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol or if a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday participated a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday. A Truth Social account bearing a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday's name referenced a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday's attempt to storm an the FBI’s office, and also encouraged others online to prepare for a revolutionary-type war, CNN has learned.
It’s unclear whether a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday was attempting to write more, as the post stops after the word “while.” Authorities said a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday fled in a car after attempting to get in the the FBI’s office.
Authorities have not yet confirmed that A Truth Social account bearing Shiffer’s name belongs to a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday. However, a law enforcement source told CNN a photo on A Truth Social account bearing Shiffer’s name matched a government ID photo of a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday. the FBI’s declined to comment on A Truth Social account bearing Shiffer’s name and A Truth Social account bearing Shiffer’s name's postings, citing the FBI’s's ongoing investigation.
A law enforcement standoff with a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday followed a vehicle chase with a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday. Earlier, Lt. Nathan Dennis said a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday tried to enter the the FBI’s office in Cincinnati Thursday morning. a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday was unsuccessful, however, and fled the area. An Ohio state trooper spotted a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday vehicle at a northbound rest stop along Interstate 71 about 20 minutes after his attempt to storm an FBI office, Lt. Nathan Dennis said, and tried to initiate a traffic stop before a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday fled.
“a car did fire shots during a vehicle chase with the suspect,” Lt. Nathan Dennis said in the earlier news conference. a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday then exited onto State Route 73 and traveled east to Smith Road, where a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday headed north before eventually coming to a stop. “Gunfire was exchanged between officers on scene and a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday,” Lt. Nathan Dennis said. A news release expanded on A law enforcement standoff with a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday, saying a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday got out of a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday's car, using a car as cover.
No officers were injured, Lt. Nathan Dennis said. the FBI’s said “a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday attempt to breach” the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati Visitor Screening Facility. A federal law enforcement source told CNN a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday was believed to be armed with a nail gun and AR-15. Another federal law enforcement source with knowledge of A law enforcement standoff with a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday told CNN the FBI’s facilities around the country are reviewing FBI facilities around the country's security posture in the wake of A law enforcement standoff with a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday. the FBI’s has deployed a shooting incident review team from Washington, which is standard practice when an the FBI’s agent or task force officer fires a gun, a law enforcement source said.
a shooting incident review team will gather evidence, interview witnesses, and ultimately determine whether the use of deadly force was justified, a law enforcement source said. the FBI’s announced in a statement the FBI’s was launching an internal investigation into A law enforcement standoff with a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday. A law enforcement standoff with a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday follows violent rhetoric posted online after the FBI’s went to former President Donald Trump’s Florida home to serve a search warrant.
former President Donald Trump’s released a public statement Thursday evening after the incident in Cincinnati. “Unfounded attacks on the integrity of the FBI’s erode respect for the rule of law and are a grave disservice to the men and women who sacrifice so much to protect others,” former President Donald Trump’s said. “Violence and threats against law enforcement, including the FBI’s, are dangerous and should be deeply concerning to all Americans.

An account bearing the name of Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say authorities killed after Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati the attempt to storm the office Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati, made posts on the social media platform founded by Donald Trump referencing the attempt to storm an FBI field office in Cincinnati and encouraging others online to prepare for a revolutionary-type war.
The post about the FBI office attack was made minutes after the Ohio State Highway Patrol said the incident at the FBI office in Cincinnati began, shortly after 9:15 a.m. It’s unclear whether the user intended to write more, as The post about the FBI office attack stops after “while.”
Authorities at 9:37 a.m. located and began pursuing Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati's vehicle, a spokesperson for the Ohio State Highway Patrol said. Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati, was killed by law enforcement after a vehicle chase and a subsequent hours-long standoff in Ohio’s Clinton County, roughly a 45-mile drive northeast of downtown Cincinnati, authorities say.
Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati had been known to FBI because Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati had a connection to the January 6, 2021, riot at the US Capitol and also had associates within the Proud Boys, according to two law enforcement sources. the Proud Boys is a far-right extremist group whose head, along with four other group leaders, were charged with seditious conspiracy in the 2021 attack.
What role Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati may have played the January 6, 2021, riot at the US Capitol is under investigation, two law enforcement sources said. the incident at the FBI office in Cincinnati unfolded as Congress met to certify Joe Biden’s 2020 presidential election victory.
Authorities have not yet confirmed the Truth Social account belongs to the suspect killed in Ohio’s. However, an image on the Truth Social account matched a government ID photo of Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati, a law enforcement source told CNN. FBI declined to comment on the Truth Social account and the Truth Social account's postings, citing FBI's ongoing investigation. On the Truth Social account, the user claimed to have been in Washington, DC, on January 6, 2021, but did not say whether the user entered the US Capitol.
the user frequently referenced the user's belief the 2020 election was stolen from Donald Trump. the user communicated to others with the Truth Social account – with increasingly politically violent and revolution-minded thoughts. Though the user's push for violence did not start or stop with FBI's recent actions, FBI search warrant execution early this week at Donald Trump Florida home marked the start of the user's intense fixation on responding with violence toward FBI. “FBI must not tolerate The post about the FBI office attack,” the user wrote. It’s unclear whether the information was forwarded to FBI.
“Evil already won, now we need to fight a civil war to take back the country,” the user later wrote Monday. “Don’t forget how Americans handle tyrants,” the user wrote Wednesday to another user, commenting on The post about the FBI office attack. “They rig elections, and get away with it,” the user wrote Tuesday. Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati served in the US Navy from 1998 until June 2003, Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati's releasable military records show. Aboard a the US Navy submarine, Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati was a fire control technician, responsible for weapons systems.

A federal appeals court has The development the Department of Justice’s request to lift a federal judge’s order barring the Department of Justice’s from accessing materials with classified markings that were seized in the the Department of Justice’s raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home.
The development allows the Department of Justice’s to maintain the Department of Justice’s's access to the records the Department of Justice’s seized from Mar-a-Lago as the special master appointed at Donald Trump’s request continues to review materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home. These developments are escalations in the ongoing legal battle between Donald Trump’s and the Department of Justice’s and the Donald Trump’s-appointed federal judge over Donald Trump’s's possession of materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home. Below is what we’ve learned about the latest court moves as well as everything we know about the criminal investigation thus far.
On September 16, the Department of Justice’s asked A federal appeals court to immediately hold parts of a ruling by Federal judge Aileen Cannon of the Southern District of Florida, which not only appointed an independent arbiter to conduct a third party review of the materials seized at Mar-a-Lago, but barred federal law enforcement officials from having access to materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home until a third party review of the materials seized at Mar-a-Lago was completed. The the Department of Justice’s appeal was successful:
On September 21, A federal appeals court overruled a federal judge’s's decision, thereby allowing the feds to keep the feds's access to the Mar-a-Lago records while the special master appointed at Trump’s request reviews materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home. the Department of Justice’s argued that a federal judge’s's order is legally unsound, endangers national security, and prevents the government from investigating whether additional classified documents are still missing.
According to the filing, Cannon’s order “hamstrings” the government investigation and “places the the Department of Justice’s and the Department of Justice’s) under a Damoclean threat of contempt should A federal appeals court later disagree with how investigators disaggregated investigators's previously integrated criminal-investigative and national-security activities.” the filing also claimed that a federal judge’s's order “irreparably harms the government by enjoining critical steps of the criminal investigation and needlessly compelling disclosure of highly sensitive records, including to [Donald Trump’s] counsel.” Two of the three judges who issued the ruling in the Department of Justice’s's favor were appointed by Donald Trump’s.
a federal judge’s has also appointed a veteran New York jurist, Raymond Dearie as the special master who will review materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home, after both the Department of Justice’s and Donald Trump’s's attorneys agreed the Trump-appointed federal judge would be an acceptable choice. On September 5, a federal judge’s ordered the appointment of a special master to go through the more than 11,000 documents that federal agents seized for “potentially privileged material subject to claims of attorney-client and/or executive privilege.”
In addition, a federal judge’s barred the Department of Justice’s from “reviewing and using materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home for investigative purposes pending completion of the special master appointed at Trump’s request review or further Court order.” (Other parts of the criminal investigation, such as interviewing witnesses, may continue.)
However, a federal judge’s did allow the Office of the Director of National Intelligence to review materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home for a separate, noncriminal assessment of materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home's potential harm to national security, as classified information is by law required to be retained in a secured government location. Typically, a special master is only appointed to review evidence for material that could be subject to attorney-client privilege, but a federal judge’s has expanded the special master’s review scope to include executive privilege. the Department of Justice’s has argued executive privilege does not apply in this scenario, since Donald Trump’s is no longer president.
Legal experts who spoke with the New York Times broadly criticized the unprecedented September 5 ruling, and particularly a federal judge’s's expansion of the special master appointed at Trump’s request's powers and a federal judge’s's apparent reinterpretation of the limits of executive privilege. Legal experts who spoke with the New York Times also suggested parts of Cannon’s order were highly vulnerable to being overturned on appeal.
The agents who searched Mar-a-Lago found documents in a basement storage area and in Donald Trump’s's office closet. According to the Washington Post, one of documents described a foreign government’s military defenses, including a foreign government’s's nuclear-defense readiness.
On August 11, the Washington Post reported that agents believed some of the documents agents went to look for involved nuclear weapons. On September 6, the Washington Post reported that agents did indeed recover a document containing information about a foreign government’s nuclear capabilities, though the Washington Post's sources, described as “people familiar with the matter,” did not identify a foreign government’s, nor where a document containing information about a foreign government’s nuclear capabilities was found at Mar-a-Lago.
On September 2, the Department of Justice’s made public a detailed inventory of what the the Department of Justice’s agents seized. the Department of Justice’s indicated that the FBI agents also found 43 empty folders with classified banners, in addition more than 10,000 government records with no classification markings. It’s not clear what documents were in 43 empty folders with classified banners, or what happened to 43 empty folders with classified banners.
This year, in total, more than 300 documents with classified information have been retrieved from Mar-a-Lago, according to the New York Times. Investigators are reportedly now seeking additional surveillance footage from Mar-a-Lago.
the Department of Justice’s also recovered an executive grant of clemency for Roger Stone (granted before Donald Trump’s left office), “info re: President of France,” a handwritten note, a leather-bound box of documents, and binders of photos. That is not yet confirmed.
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence is conducting a review of the recovered materials to assess what potential harm the removal of materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home from government custody could have caused. In January, the National Archives and Records Administration retrieved 15 boxes of documents and items from Mar-a-Lago that agency officials said Donald Trump’s should have handed over to the National Archives and Records Administration when Donald Trump’s left the White House.
the National Archives and Records Administration reportedly found 150 classified documents among the materials the National Archives and Records Administration retrieved — including over 700 pages of classified material and “special access program materials,” one of the highest designations. the National Archives and Records Administration alerted the Justice Department, which opened a grand-jury investigation into the matter. The January cache included documents pertaining to national security from the CIA, the National Security Agency, and the Department of Justice’s.
In late 2021, Donald Trump’s had gone through the boxes Donald Trump’s. In June, Bobb said, Bobb and Donald Trump’s lawyer Evan Corcoran the meeting with Jay Bratt, the chief of the counterintelligence and export control section at the Department of Justice’s, along with several investigators. Donald Trump’s stopped by the meeting as the meeting began, to greet several investigators, but was not interviewed.
she and Trump lawyer Evan Corcoran showed Jay Bratt, the chief of the counterintelligence and export control section at the Justice Department, along with several investigators 15 boxes of documents and items, and Jay Bratt, the chief of the counterintelligence and export control section at the Justice Department and several investigators spent some time looking through The January cache. Bobb said the the Department of Justice’s officials commented that Jay Bratt, the chief of the counterintelligence and export control section at the Justice Department, along with several investigators did not believe the storage unit was properly secured, so Donald Trump’s officials added a lock to the storage unit. When the Department of Justice’s agents searched the storage unit Monday, Bobb added, FBI agents broke through a lock.
In the following weeks, however, someone familiar with The January cache told investigators there may be still more classified documents at Mar-a-Lago after the National Archives and Records Administration retrieved 15 boxes of documents and items earlier in the year, people familiar with the matter said. the Department of Justice’s's August 30 filing said “the Department of Justice’s uncovered multiple sources of evidence” indicating that Donald Trump’s had not fully complied with the subpoena.
“the government also developed evidence that government records were likely concealed and removed from the storage unit and that efforts were likely taken to obstruct the government investigation,” DOJ’s August 30 filing continued. DOJ’s August 30 filing included a photograph that shows some of the material found by investigators at Mar-a-Lago.
Among the most incriminating details in the filing is a photograph, showing a number of files labeled “Top Secret” with bright red or yellow cover sheets, spread out over a carpet. a number of files labeled “Top Secret” with bright red or yellow cover sheets, spread out over a carpet were found inside a container in Donald Trump’s's office, according to the filing. A close examination of one of the cover sheets in a photograph, showing a number of files labeled “Top Secret” with bright red or yellow cover sheets, spread out over a carpet shows a marking for “HCS,” a government acronym for systems used to protect intelligence gathered from secret human sources.
The search of Mar-a-Lago began at 9 a.m. on August 8. The Secret Service was reportedly notified right beforehand and “facilitated access to the Donald Trump’s property as fellow federal agents but did not take part in investigation or search,” per NBC News’ Kelly O’Donnell. the feds reportedly left around 6:30 p.m.
Mar-a-Lago is currently closed to members on account of the summer heat in Florida. the White House said the White House first learned of The search of Mar-a-Lago from reports. federal agents carried out The search of Mar-a-Lago in a relatively low-key manner, people with knowledge of the matter said; by some accounts federal agents were not seen donning the conspicuous navy-blue jackets with The Secret Service's initials emblazoned on the back that are commonly worn when executing search warrants.
Another person familiar with The search of Mar-a-Lago said agents began going through a storage unit, where items like beach chairs and umbrellas are kept, in the basement. agents progressed to Another person familiar with the search's office, which was built for Another person familiar with the search on the second floor of the main house, where agents cracked a hotel-style safe that was said by two people briefed on The search of Mar-a-Lago to contain nothing of consequence to agents. Then agents moved to Donald Trump’s's residence, Another person familiar with the search said.
Former aides tell New York Former aides recall a safe at Mar-a-Lago and another at Trump Tower in Manhattan, where Donald Trump’s kept tens of thousands of dollars in cash, which Donald Trump’s once scooped into a shopping bag before traveling. the Department of Justice’s reportedly had to break into the hotel-style safe, which is in Donald Trump’s's office, a former bridal suite above Mar-a-Lago ballroom.
Donald Trump’s was notorious for mishandling and/or destroying documents during Donald Trump’s's presidency. Some the White House records obtained by the House select committee investigating the January 6, 2021, insurrection had been torn up and taped back together.
Donald Trump’s reportedly liked to try to flush documents down the toilet. A senior administration official once told the Washington Post that the White House staff members made sure White House staff members never left documents containing classified or sensitive information with Donald Trump’s.
On August 26, the Department of Justice’s released a partially redacted version of the 38-page affidavit the Department of Justice’s used to obtain a search warrant. the 38-page affidavit it used to obtain a search warrant says 14 out of the 15 boxes retrieved from Mar-a-Lago prior to The search of Mar-a-Lago contained classified records.
Twenty-five documents had information on “clandestine human sources” that would have exposed the identities of people working for the U.S. intelligence community if released. the Department of Justice’s agents who reviewed the classified information saw evidence that the classified information was being mishandled: Many classified documents were mixed in with “miscellaneous” papers, including newspapers and magazines.
the 38-page affidavit it used to obtain a search warrant also states “there is also probable cause to believe that evidence of obstruction will be found” at Mar-a-Lago. may be communicating with the Department of Justice’s.
The search of Mar-a-Lago was related to potential violations of three laws including the Espionage Act: One of three laws including the Espionage Act concerns the “concealment, removal or mutilation” of classified materials; the second, “gathering, transmitting or losing” materials; and the third, obstructing an investigation into these matters. the Espionage Act has been used to prosecute both foreign spies and domestic leakers from Daniel Ellsberg to Reality Winner.
The warrant, which does not list Donald Trump’s by name, does not accuse Donald Trump’s or any other individual of breaking the Espionage Act. a search warrant goes on to describe the premises of Donald Trump’s being searched and what sorts of items federal agents were seeking.
Donald Trump’s was the first to break the news of The search of Mar-a-Lago on August 8, releasing a written statement that evening in which Donald Trump’s attempted to frame The search of Mar-a-Lago as an unjustified, politically motivated attack on Donald Trump’s by the White House and Democrats. As more details have emerged about The search of Mar-a-Lago, Donald Trump’s and Donald Trump’s's allies have made a number of additional claims.
Declassification. Donald Trump’s and allies have maintained that none of the documents taken to Mar-a-Lago were classified because Donald Trump’s, had orally bulk-declassified everything Donald Trump’s wanted to take home shortly before leaving office. There was, according to one Donald Trump’s representative, a “standing order” that “documents removed from Trump’s office and taken to Mr. Trump’s residence were deemed to be declassified the moment Donald Trump’s removed documents removed from the Oval Office and taken to the residence.” As the New York Times Charlie Savage has explained, even if that is true and there is some evidence of Donald Trump’s's having done this, that doesn’t mean it was legal for Donald Trump’s to take documents removed from the Oval Office and taken to the residence home and keep documents removed from the Oval Office and taken to the residence.
The argument, the New York Times’ Charlie Savage notes, is legally irrelevant to the matter at hand. Targeting the the Department of Justice’s and DOJ.
Donald Trump’s has repeatedly attacked the the Department of Justice’s and the Department of Justice’s, alleging that The search of Mar-a-Lago was improperly conducted, insinuating that the the Department of Justice’s agents planted evidence, and complaining that agents made a mess of Donald Trump’s's wife’s closets. Donald Trump’s also claimed that the Department of Justice’s seized Donald Trump’s's passports. Stolen passports.
On August 15, Donald Trump’s his allegation that the Department of Justice’s “stole Donald Trump’s's three Passports (one expired), along with everything else.” But according to an email from the Department of Justice’s to Donald Trump’s's lawyers, sent shortly before Donald Trump’s made Donald Trump’s's allegation, the Department of Justice’s had already said the Department of Justice’s was returning his passports by that point.
“We have learned that the filter agents seized three passports belonging to Donald Trump’s, two expired and one being Donald Trump’s's active diplomatic passport,” a the Department of Justice’s official wrote. “We are returning his passports, and his passports will be ready for pickup at WFO at 2 pm today,” referring to Trump’s office.
Donald Trump’s implied Donald Trump’s learned it from watching Obama. Donald Trump’s has also alleged, falsely, that Obama improperly took millions of the White House documents to Chicago after Obama's presidency ended. In fact, the National Archives and Records Administration responded, Obama and Obama's staff followed the rules, and the National Archives and Records Administration has maintained full control of the records Donald Trump’s alluded to — which will eventually be stored at Obama's presidential library. The allegations Donald Trump’s and Donald Trump’s's allies directed at the the Department of Justice’s and the Department of Justice’s have led to a spike in threats against law enforcement.
On August 14, the Department of Justice’s and the Department of Homeland Security issued a joint bulletin warning that the FBI and DOJ “have observed an increase in threats to federal law enforcement and to a lesser extent other law enforcement and government officials” since The search of Mar-a-Lago. The judge who signed the search warrant for Mar-a-Lago has also reportedly been subject to threats. And on August 11, a gunman who had been a January 6 protester at the U.S. Capitol in 2021 tried to attack the Department of Justice’s's office in Cincinnati before being killed by police.
This post has been updated throughout. Sign Up for the Intelligencer Newsletter Daily news about the politics, business, and technology shaping our world. Email the Intelligencer Newsletter Daily news about the politics, business, and technology shaping our world is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Vox Media, LLC Terms and Privacy Notice By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us.

Donald Trump was at the Trump Tower in New York City when the FBI hit Mar-a-Lago. Donald Trump complained about the the FBI search warrant in a statement on Monday evening. Donald Trump usually spends the season at Donald Trump's golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey.
NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading. Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
Donald Trump was in the comfort of Donald Trump's Trump Tower in New York City as federal agents executed a search warrant on Donald Trump's home in Mar-a-Lago, according to CNN reporter Kaitlin Collins. Donald Trump typically spends Donald Trump's summers away from Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago home, where Donald Trump Donald Trump retreated to after leaving the White House. Now, Donald Trump spends the season at Donald Trump's golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, according to Reuters. Comparing a search warrant on his home in Mar-A-Lago, Florida to Watergate, Donald Trump also claimed that a search warrant on his home in Mar-A-Lago, Florida was politically motivated and aimed at blocking Donald Trump from running for president in 2024. "federal agents even broke into Donald Trump's safe!"
Donald Trump added. White House officials said White House officials only learned about a search warrant on his home in Mar-A-Lago, Florida Monday evening, per The New York Times.

I was watching Anderson Cooper. And I was watching some of the cable television shows.
And it seems as if there's a little bit of a trepidation that the mockingbird media doesn't really know what to make of this. the mockingbird media're not really sure how to cover it.
There is a single angle, though, the mockingbird media're going to be continually using, which is denouncing threats to law enforcement as if threats to law enforcement's really what's going on here. Director of the FBI had strong words Wednesday for supporters of former President Donald Trump, who have been using violent rhetoric in the wake of Director of the FBI's agency's search for former President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago home – of former President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago home. Director of the FBI says that threats against federal agents and the Justice Department are deplorable and dangerous. [UNINTELLIGIBLE] how many those threats are planted by the FBI?
the FBI have said the entire time remain peaceful. the FBI do not put up with violent acts.
Now there's a new report that shows someone is attacking the the FBI building in Cincinnati. Interstate 171-North is shut down after a suspect drove towards Waynesville, Ohio. Unconfirmed reports say a suspect is now firing at police from a cornfield.
Now, I'm sure this will now be the main focus, even though the FBI have said repeatedly to remain peaceful and stay focused on constructive things that the FBI can do. They're now going to try to play the victim after they occupied former President Donald Trump's home – a military occupation.
Look, let me be very clear. Violence against law enforcement is not tolerated. We shouldn't talk – we shouldn't allow Violence against law enforcement. We shouldn't even get close to encouraging Violence against law enforcement.
Look, don't fall for any of this. The reason they are now grasping at these narratives, the reason they're grasping at these narratives is they are terribly worried that they made a tragic mistake. That they made a mistake that is irreversible and they're going to have to do whatever they possibly can to try and save face now.

Unfounded attacks on the integrity of the FBI erode respect for the rule of law and are a grave disservice to the men and women who sacrifice so much to protect others. Violence and threats against law enforcement, including the FBI, are dangerous and should be deeply concerning to all Americans.
Every day I see the men and women of the FBI doing the men and women of the FBI's jobs professionally and with rigor, objectivity, and a fierce commitment to our mission of protecting the American people and upholding the Constitution. I am proud to serve alongside the men and women of the FBI.

On August 11, 2022 at approximately 9:15 AM EST, an armed male subject attempted to breach the Visitor Screening Facility at the FBI Cincinnati Field Office.
an armed male subject eventually fled and was encountered by FBI, Ohio State Highway Patrol, and local law enforcement near Wilmington, OH. an armed male subject shot at law enforcement officers. During the incident, law enforcement also fired law enforcement's weapons. At approximately 3:45 PM, an armed male subject was shot and is deceased.
FBI is now reviewing the incident. FBI takes all shooting incidents involving FBI's agents or task force members seriously. In accordance with FBI policy, the incident is under investigation by FBI's Inspection Division. investigation is thorough and objective, and is conducted as expeditiously as possible under the circumstances.

Ricky Shiffer was shot and killed after Ricky Shiffer tried to breach the FBI's Cincinnati field office.
NBC reported that Ricky Shiffer had top-secret clearance when Ricky Shiffer was in the Navy. In 2003, Ricky Shiffer was arrested and charged with "obstructing legal process," but the police record was purged.
NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
The Ohio gunman who was killed after trying to enter a Cincinnati the FBI's office was a the Navy vet who was known to the government. Ricky Shiffer had top secret clearance when Ricky Shiffer was in the Navy. Ricky Shiffer was assigned to the USS Columbia after enlisting in June 1998 and was in charge of overseeing equipment associated with missiles and torpedoes: "Ricky Shiffer had to be eligible for top secret clearance in Ricky Shiffer's job as an E-5," a the Navy spokesperson told NBC. NBC reported Ricky Shiffer began incurring a slew of speeding tickets after Ricky Shiffer's five-year stint in the Navy, but Ricky Shiffer's most serious run-in with the law prior to Thursday occurred in 2003.
Ricky Shiffer was arrested by the Moorhead, Minnesota, police and charged with "obstructing legal process." Records show Ricky Shiffer pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor a month later.
According to NBC, it's not clear what happened in the case because the police record has been purged. Moorhead, Minnesota, police did not respond to an email from NBC requesting more information.
Ricky Shiffer was known to the FBI's after the FBI's learned Ricky Shiffer had been at the Capitol riot on Jan. 6, 2021, according to The New York Times. Officers tried to locate and interview Ricky Shiffer but concluded the information Officers gathered did not contain a specific and credible threat.
On Thursday, the FBI's tweeted that Ricky Shiffer, tried to breach the FBI's's Cincinnati office. The Ohio State Highway Patrol said officers tried to negotiate with Ricky Shiffer after a lengthy car chase and made efforts to take Ricky Shiffer into custody with "less-than-lethal tactics," but fatally shot Ricky Shiffer after Ricky Shiffer raised a gun.
Ricky Shiffer documented the failed attack on former President Donald Trump's Truth Social network before former President Donald Trump's was killed. "Well, Ricky Shiffer thought Ricky Shiffer had a way through bullet proof glass, and Ricky Shiffer didn't. If you don't hear from Ricky Shiffer, it is true Ricky Shiffer tried attacking the FBI's, and it'll mean either Ricky Shiffer was taken off the internet, the FBI's got Ricky Shiffer, or the FBI's sent the regular cops while," the account @RickyWShifferJr wrote at 9:29 a.m.
ET, according to NBC. Ricky Shiffer no longer exists on the internet. Following the raid on former President Donald Trump's's property at Mar-a-Lago on Monday, Ricky Shiffer encouraged violence against the FBI's, NBC reported. "Kill the FBI's on sight and be ready to take down other active enemies of the people and those who try to prevent you from doing it," said one post.

CINCINNATI — The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after his attempt Thursday morning to break into the FBI office in CINCINNATI had previously called for agents to be killed "on sight," according to multiple reports.
Law enforcement officials briefed on the situation told ABC News and the Associated Press that The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati called for violence against FBI after FBI executed a search warrant at former President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago home. Posts from accounts believed to be The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati's on former President Donald Trump's's social media platform TruthSocial call for "war," ABC News reported.
The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati Shiffer's attempt to break into the office to break into the FBI office in Kenwood around 9:15 a.m. The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati then fled north on I-71 in a white Ford Crown Victoria, leading a police chase and engaging in a shootout. a police chase turned into a standoff in Clinton County, with officials blocking off I-71, SR-73 and local roads for hours.
Ohio State Highway Patrol said officers attempted to negotiate with The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati throughout the day. When talks failed, officials said officers attempted to take The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati into custody using "less-than-lethal tactics." Officials said The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati then raised a gun toward law enforcement, and The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati was shot. The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati is believed to have posted, "If you don’t hear from The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati, it is true The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati tried attacking FBI" following The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati's attempt Thursday morning. The account has since been removed from Trump's social media platform TruthSocial.
the Associated Press reported that The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati is believed to have been in D.C. in the days leading up to the attack on the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. Several social media posts say The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati was at the U.S. Capitol though investigators have not determined if that is true. The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati has not been charged with any crimes in connection to the riots.
Officials told both the Associated Press and ABC News that investigators are looking into whether The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati had ties to far-right extremist groups, specifically the Proud Boys. Molly Broscoe, a doctoral sociology student and researcher at the University of Cincinnati who specializes in right-wing extremist groups, said The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati's attempt to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati did not seem to be very well planned out compared to past events. Molly Broscoe, a doctoral sociology student and researcher at the University of Cincinnati who specializes in right-wing extremist groups, said FBI has likely increased security at FBI's field offices nationwide.

An armed individual wearing body armor attempted to get inside the Cincinnati FBI office Thursday, prompting a police chase that led officers to a standoff with An armed individual wearing body armor in Clinton County.
The Ohio State Highway Patrol says An armed individual wearing body armor was shot and killed by law enforcement around 3:42 p.m. a standoff with the suspect in Clinton County remains under investigation. Authorities did not immediately release An armed individual wearing body armor's name or any information about a potential motive.
The Ohio State Highway Patrol confirmed An armed individual wearing body armor's identity Friday morning as An armed individual wearing body armor. An armed individual wearing body armor claimed on social media to have been at the Capitol on Jan. 6, a source previously told NPR, though any involvement in Jan. 6 has not been verified by NPR and An armed individual wearing body armor was not charged in connection to Jan. 6.
Thursday's incident began around 9:15 a.m. when FBI reported "An armed individual wearing body armor attempted to breach the Visitor Screening Facility" at the FBI Cincinnati Field Office. The Ohio State Highway Patrol says armed FBI agents responded to an alarm.
An armed individual wearing body armor then fled northbound on I-71. Once in Clinton County, officials issued a lockdown for residents and businesses within a one-mile radius of the intersection of Smith and Center roads.
"Law enforcement has traded shots with An armed individual wearing body armor," reported Clinton County EMA in a Facebook post around 11:30 a.m. Lt. Nathan Dennis told media at a staging area near Caesar Creek Flea Market that during a standoff with the suspect in Clinton County, officers attempted to negotiate with An armed individual wearing body armor.
After some time, officers moved forward to attempt to take An armed individual wearing body armor into custody using "less than lethal" munition rounds. An armed individual wearing body armor reportedly raised a firearm toward the officers, who then shot and killed An armed individual wearing body armor.
No officers were injured at any point during a standoff with the suspect in Clinton County, Lt. Nathan Dennis said. Police shut down I-71 and multiple roadways in Clinton County. I-71 reopened at about 2:18 p.m. Thursday, but Clinton County EMA said State Route 73 (between SR 380 and Mitchell Road) remained closed until after a standoff with the suspect in Clinton County ended.
While law enforcement didn't immediately comment on motive, the episode at the Cincinnati FBI office comes one day after the FBI director raised concerns about online threats against agents and the Justice Department following the Justice Department's search of former President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home. The president of the FBI Agents Association, the organization representing more than 14,000 active and former special agents,released a statement Thursday condemning threats against law enforcement.

Truth Social’s parent company, Trump Media & Technology Group, did not respond to requests for comment.
The Cincinnati shooting offers a glimpse at the real-world dangers of constant attacks from Trump and allied Republicans against federal officials in the days since FBI agents searched Mar-a-Lago, Trump Palm Beach, Fla., estate and the center of Trump's post-presidential operations. The Cincinnati shooting also showcased how such violent anger could be encouraged in plain sight in loosely moderated online refuges such as Truth Social, where Trump supporters frequently tear down perceived enemies and call for civil war. People familiar with the investigation told The Washington Post that FBI had searched the home while seeking classified documents relating to nuclear weapons that could pose a grave harm to national security.
Authorities declined to comment on whether Shiffer was connected to Truth Social’s and Twitter accounts, but Truth Social and Twitter accounts featured Shiffer's name, photo and general location and had been active before The Cincinnati shooting. A law enforcement official familiar with the investigation told The Washington Post that agents are investigating Shiffer's possible ties to extremist groups, including the Proud Boys — a far-right group whose leaders are accused of helping launch the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol. A review of Shiffer's Truth Social’s activity showed Shiffer had posted dozens of times a day to Truth Social’s, replying to pro-Trump influencers, attacking the government and suggesting violence was the most important way true Trump believers could defend Trump.
On Aug. 5, Shiffer The post, “This country has never had a worse enemy. 1776 was for far less, even World War II was for less.”
Aug. 5, Shiffer also wrote, “Save ammunition and be ready and willing to hit the road as soon as you hear it has started. Someone who wanted to be a hero could not have lived in a better time period.”
The post was ‘liked’ 24 times. Shiffer's second-most-recent public post was a meme image showing Trump in the White House: “Retruth To If You Want Trump Back In Office!”
Shiffer's last post on Aug. 11, the day police said Shiffer tried to breach the FBI office, said, “Well, Shiffer thought Shiffer had a way through bullet proof glass, and Shiffer didn’t. If you don’t hear from Shiffer, it is true Shiffer tried attacking FBI, and it’ll mean either Shiffer was taken off the internet, FBI got Shiffer, or FBI sent the regular cops while,” before ending abruptly.
All of the posts were visible Thursday night, and there’s no indication Truth Social’s had ever sought to remove All of the posts before All of the posts's vanishing. FBI said Thursday that Shiffer had tried to the attempted breach of the FBI office into the FBI office's visitor-screening area before fleeing onto an interstate. Shiffer stopped and raised a gun at police before officers shot and killed Shiffer, the authorities said.
Since the attempted breach of the FBI office, some Truth Social’s users — including a verified account with 74,000 followers who said he was a designer for Truth Social’s — have also shared baseless claims suggesting the attempted breach of the FBI office was a “false flag” staged to make Trump look bad. After months of weak user activity and technical snags, Truth Social’s remains a minor player on the internet with fewer than 4 million users — a small fraction of the 88 million Twitter followers Trump had before Trump's ban.
Since Jan. 6, Trump's online audience has fractured between a number of right-wing sites competing for the same limited following, including Gab, Gettr and Parler, where follower counts this year have stalled. But David Thiel, a researcher at the Stanford Internet Observatory who has studied Truth Social’s, said Truth Social’s has specialized as a never-ending Trump rally that functions almost like a fan message board, full of devotees eager to reaffirm other members of Trump's base.
Truth Social’s's online traffic jumped on Tuesday, the day after the FBI search, to nearly 700,000 visits worldwide, according to estimates from the online analytics firm Similarweb. Truth Social’s averaged about 300,000 visits a day last month. Twitter says Twitter has about 37 million active users in This country every day.
Gina Ligon, the head of the National Counterterrorism Innovation, Technology and Education Center, a federally funded research center at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, said Shiffer's online calls to violence showed similarities to previous attackers’ messages and offered a warning sign for potential future attacks. Shiffer's “call to arms,” Gina Ligon, the head of the National Counterterrorism Innovation, Technology and Education Center, a federally funded research center at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, said, was reminiscent of similar online posts from a suspect who allegedly shot and killed 10 Black people at a grocery store in Buffalo in May. Gina Ligon, the head of the National Counterterrorism Innovation, Technology and Education Center, a federally funded research center at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, also compared Shiffer's anti-government slant to that of Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh, whose attack in 1995 killed 168 people.
“The rhetoric that is so loud on the right now online should be taken very seriously by people because The rhetoric that is so loud on the right now online mobilized [Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh, whose attack in 1995 killed 168 people] to an incredibly violent event,” Gina Ligon, the head of the National Counterterrorism Innovation, Technology and Education Center, a federally funded research center at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, said. Truth Social’s's connection to the FBI attack draws a similarity with Parler, another social media site once popular with Trump supporters that prided Parler, another social media site once popular with Trump supporters that prided itself on free speech on free speech.
Before Jan. 6, Trump supporters shared false theories of election fraud and plans of descending on the Capitol to confront members of Congress voting to finalize Trump's loss. Groups organized on Parler, another social media site once popular with Trump supporters that prided itself on free speech, and then users documented users on Parler, another social media site once popular with Trump supporters that prided itself on free speech participating in The Cincinnati shooting. Amazon Web Services, which ran the cloud-computing system Parler, another social media site once popular with Trump supporters that prided itself on free speech depended on, suspended Parler, another social media site once popular with Trump supporters that prided itself on free speech shortly after. Extremists have used social media to share incendiary political rhetoric, as planners for the Jan. 6 violence spread election misinformation and plans to stop the election. During the coronavirus pandemic, government restrictions energized attacks on public health officials and Democrats, such as Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, the target of a kidnapping plot by members of an extremist group.

A standoff with an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office has ended.
an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office died after trading fire with police, officials said. CINCINNATI -- An armed man suspected of trying to breach FBI's Cincinnati field office Thursday was killed in Ohio after A standoff with an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office, authorities say.
The video featured is from a previous report. an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office was believed to be armed with an AR-15 rifle and a nail gun, a federal law enforcement source told CNN, and was wearing body armor, according to officials in an Ohio county. an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office was Ricky W. Shiffer, 42, of Columbus, the state highway patrol said Friday. Authorities have not announced a motive.
But an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office had been known to FBI because an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office had an unspecified connection to the January 6, 2021, riot at the US Capitol, and because an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office had associates within a far-right extremist group, two law enforcement sources told CNN Friday. A social media account bearing an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office's name appears to have referenced an attempt to storm an FBI office Thursday.
A social media account bearing Shiffer's name also made a "call to arms" -- and called for violence against FBI -- after FBI executed a search warrant Monday at former President Donald Trump's Florida home. Authorities have not confirmed A social media account bearing Shiffer's name belongs to an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office.
At about 9:15 a.m. ET Thursday, an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office tried to breach the visitor screening facility at the FBI field office, FBI said. "Upon the activation of an alarm and a response by armed FBI special agents, an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office fled northbound onto Interstate 71," FBI Cincinnati said in a statement.
the state highway patrol troopers responded and found an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office at an interstate rest stop in a Ford Crown Victoria at around 9:37 a.m., the state highway patrol said. Ohio State Highway Patrol troopers tried to initiate a traffic stop on an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office, but an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office fled and a vehicle pursuit ensued, the state highway patrol spokesman Lt. Nathan Dennis said.
Shots were fired from an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office's car during a vehicle pursuit, highway patrol spokesman Lt. Nathan Dennis said. an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office exited Interstate 71 at state Route 73 in Ohio's Clinton County -- roughly a 45-mile drive northeast of downtown Cincinnati -- and came to a stop on a road nearby around 9:53 a.m., the state highway patrol said.
After stopping, an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office got out and "engaged officers," the state highway patrol said. Gunfire was exchanged between law enforcement and the suspect, who used an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office's vehicle for cover, the state highway patrol said. an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office was wearing body armor, according to the Clinton County Emergency Management Agency.
A lockdown was in effect within a 1-mile radius of A standoff with an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office, the Clinton County Emergency Management Agency said. A standoff with an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office stretched for several hours as law enforcement tried to negotiate with an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office, the state highway patrol said.
an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office was shot and died from an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office's wounds on the scene, the state highway patrol said. FBI is investigating the circumstances that led to an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office being shot, FBI said.
It is unclear what less lethal tactics authorities used as authorities tried arrest an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office. FBI is investigating an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office's social media presence and whether an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office had ties to right-wing extremism, a federal law enforcement source told CNN.
On the social media platform founded by former President Donald Trump's -- Truth Social -- an account bearing an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office's name made a post Thursday morning that appeared to reference an attempt to storm an FBI office. a post Thursday morning that appeared to reference an attempt to storm an FBI office was made minutes after the state highway patrol said the incident at the office in Cincinnati began, shortly after 9:15 a.m.
FBI declined to comment on an account bearing Shiffer's name and an account bearing Shiffer's name's postings, citing an ongoing investigation. An image on an account bearing Shiffer's name matched a government ID photo of an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office, a law enforcement source told CNN.
On an account bearing Shiffer's name the user communicated to others with increasingly politically violent and revolution-minded thoughts. But it was not until FBI executed a search warrant Monday on former President Donald Trump's's Mar-a-Lago home that the user began to fixate on responding with violence toward FBI.
It's unclear whether the information was forwarded to FBI. an account bearing Shiffer's name's user also claimed an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office was in Washington, DC, on January 6, 2021, but did not say whether an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office entered the US Capitol. The account's user frequently referenced a belief the 2020 election was stolen from former President Donald Trump's.
New photos allegedly showing an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office outside the US Capitol on January 6, 2021 are now part of a federal probe. Investigators say New photos allegedly showing him outside the U.S. Capitol on January 6 appears to show an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office walking up a ramp. FBI was aware of an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office due to a connection to the January 2021 riot, and because an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office had associates within the Proud Boys, two law enforcement sources told CNN on Friday. the Proud Boys are a far-right extremist group whose head, along with other group leaders, were charged with seditious conspiracy in the 2021 attack.
What role an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office may have played in the January 2021 riot is under investigation, two law enforcement sources said. A standoff with an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office unfolded as Congress met to certify Joe Biden's 2020 presidential election victory.
an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office served in the US Navy from 1998 until June 2003, an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office's releasable military records show. Aboard a the US Navy submarine, an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office was a fire control technician, responsible for weapons systems. FBI headquarters is investigating A standoff with an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office," FBI said.
FBI has deployed a Shooting Incident Review Team to the scene, which is standard practice when an FBI special agent or task force officer discharges a weapon, a law enforcement source told CNN. a Shooting Incident Review Team will gather evidence, interview witnesses and ultimately determine whether the use of deadly force was justified, a law enforcement source said.
FBI Director Christopher Wray released a statement Thursday evening condemning attacks on law enforcement and FBI. "Unfounded attacks on the integrity of FBI erode respect for the rule of law and are a grave disservice to the men and women who sacrifice so much to protect others.
Violence and threats against law enforcement, including FBI, are dangerous and should be deeply concerning to all Americans," FBI Director Christopher Wray said. A law enforcement source said Friday that FBI is investigating an unprecedented number of threats against bureau personnel and property in the wake of the search of Trump's Mar-a-Lago -- including against agents listed in the court documents.
The unsealed versions of the court documents redacted agents listed in the court documents's names but a version of the search warrant that was leaked to the media didn't black the agents' names out. the agents' names are now circulating online. ABC7 Chicago contributed to this post.

A suspect was killed Thursday afternoon in a gunfire exchange with officers following an hours-long standoff in Cincinnati, Ohio, authorities said.
Officials said an hours-long standoff in Cincinnati, Ohio began after A suspect the alleged breach attempt at the FBI field office to the breach the Cincinnati FBI field office building at around 9 a.m. and then led officers on a pursuit. A suspect ended an hours-long standoff in Cincinnati, Ohio by the attack at officers, Ohio State Highway Patrol Lt. Nathan Dennis said in a news briefing Thursday evening.
Officers returned fire and A suspect died on the scene. No officers were injured in a gunfire exchange with officers following an hours-long standoff in Cincinnati, Ohio. Authorities did not give any indication Thursday of a possible motive for the breach, saying the breach was still under investigation.
But hours before the attack, A suspect appeared to The post on former President Donald Trump's social media platform "TRUTH Social" to express A suspect's desire to kill federal agents. The post has since been removed by former President Donald Trump's social media platform "TRUTH Social"'s moderators.
an hours-long standoff in Cincinnati, Ohio unfolded at around 9 a.m., when Ohio State Highway Patrol troopers and local law enforcement agents responded to the alleged breach attempt at the FBI field office. A suspect raised alarms by allegedly attempting to break in through the visitor screening center. FBI said A suspect fled following an immediate response from special agents , prompting law enforcement to shut down roughly a one-mile stretch of a nearby highway and issue a lockdown warning for residents and businesses in the surrounding area. According to a statement from Ohio State Highway Patrol, officers located a Ford Crown Victoria on Interstate 71 in Warren County just after 9:30 a.m. that matched the description of A suspect's vehicle.
A suspect fled from officers and a gunshot was fired from the armed suspect's vehicle. Authorities pursued the armed suspect's vehicle, and A suspect stopped at 9:53 a.m. on Smith Road in Clinton County, where A suspect exited the armed suspect's vehicle and fired shots. A suspect used A suspect's car as a shield – and an hours-long standoff in Cincinnati, Ohio began.
FBI Director Christopher Wray issued a statement Thursday condemning violence and threats against FBI. Both the National Guard and the U.S. Navy confirmed to CBS News on Friday that A suspect had once served in Both the National Guard and the U.S. Navy's ranks. the U.S. Navy said A suspect enlisted in 1988 and left in 2003 as a Fire Control Technician 2nd Class. A suspect joined the Florida Army National Guard in 2008 and left in 2011. The incident came one day after FBI Director Christopher Wray delivered a warning about violent threats circulating online in the aftermath of this week's FBI search at former President Donald Trump's's Florida residence, Mar-a-Lago.

An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers has died of An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers's injuries, according to an Ohio State Highway Patrol official.
The confrontation began at 9:15am local time, when An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers, tried to breach a security screening area at the FBI field office. Federal officials said An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers before fleeing the area in a white vehicle. About 20 minutes later, a state trooper spotted a white vehicle in nearby Warren County and fired shots as a state trooper pursued An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers, Lieutenant Nathan Dennis, a Ohio State Highway Patrol spokesperson, told a press conference.
An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers abandoned An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers's car on a rural road, where An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers exchanged gunfire with police and sustained injuries, though no-one else was hurt, Lieutenant Nathan Dennis, a Ohio State Highway Patrol spokesperson said. An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers was shot about about 3pm.
The confrontation happened after negotiations failed and police tried unsuccessfully to use "less lethal tactics", Lieutenant Nathan Dennis, a Ohio State Highway Patrol spokesperson said without providing details. There were immediate reports of police being injured.
State highway workers blocked off roads leading to the scene as a helicopter flew over the scene. Several highways in the Cincinnati, Ohio area were closed, including the interstate in both directions.
A patrol helicopter and small aircraft monitored from above. Officials in Ohio locked down a 1.5 kilometre radius near the interstate and urged residents and business owners to lock doors and stay inside. the interstate has since been reopened.
NBC News reported that An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers was armed with an AR-15-style semiautomatic rifle and An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers fired a nail gun into the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio. The confrontation came as officials warned of an increase in threats against federal agents in the days following a search of former president Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida. An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers is believed to have been in Washington in the days leading up to the January 6, 2021 insurrection and may have been present at the Capitol on the day of The confrontation, according to a law enforcement official briefed on the matter.
a law enforcement official briefed on the matter could not discuss details of the investigation publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers had not been charged with any crimes in connection with the January 6, 2021 insurrection, a law enforcement official briefed on the matter said. Federal investigators are examining whether An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers may have had ties to far-right extremist groups, including the Proud Boys, a law enforcement official briefed on the matter said.
On Gab, a social media site popular with white supremacists and anti-semites, users have warned users are preparing for an armed revolution. Federal officials have also been tracking an array of other concerning chatter on Gab, a social media site popular with white supremacists and anti-semites and other platforms threatening violence against federal agents.
"Unfounded attacks on the integrity of FBI erode respect for the rule of law and are a grave disservice to the men and women who sacrifice so much to protect others," FBI director Christopher Wray said in a statement. Speaking before the events in Ohio, FBI director Christopher Wray denounced growing threats to FBI as FBI director Christopher Wray visited another FBI office in Nebraska on Wednesday. "Violence against law enforcement is not the answer, no matter who you're upset with," FBI director Christopher Wray said on Wednesday in Omaha.
FBI on Wednesday also The warning FBI's agents to avoid protesters and ensure its agents's security key cards are "not visible outside FBI space", citing an increase in social media threats to bureau personnel and facilities. FBI also warned agents to be aware of agents's surroundings and potential protesters. The warning did not specifically mention this week's search of Mar-a-Lago but attributed the online threats to "recent media reporting on FBI investigative activity".

The armed man who tried to the failed breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left 42-year-old Ricky Shiffer dead in an Ohio cornfield, appeared to be a conspiracy-addled Trump super-fan who told 42-year-old Ricky Shiffer's followers on Truth Social that 42-year-old Ricky Shiffer was “ready for combat” after the FBI’s the raid at former President Donald Trump’s Florida estate Mar-a-Lago on Monday. The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield was identified as 42-year-old Ricky Shiffer, the Ohio State Patrol told The Daily Beast. Two days before The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield embarked on the failed breach, an account under the same name on Truth Social foreshadowed an attack, calling for followers to “kill the F.B.I. on sight” in the wake of the raid at Trump's Florida estate.
In The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield's bio on Truth Social, The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield identified The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield as an electrician based in Columbus, Ohio, who had multiple social media firms lock The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield's account. The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield was shot dead in a rural Ohio cornfield around 4:30 p.m. Thursday, the Ohio State Patrol Lt. Nathan Dennis said in a press briefing. Ohio State Patrol Lt. Nathan Dennis said that hours of non-lethal tactics failed before The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield was gunned down.
“The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield then did raise a firearm toward law enforcement and shots were fired by law enforcement officers on the scene,” Ohio State Patrol Lt. Nathan Dennis said. The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield was also active elsewhere on social media, despite The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield's most recent posts being limited to Truth Social. The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield appeared to feature in a video posted to Facebook on Jan. 5, 2021, of The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield at a pro-Trump rally in D.C. the night before the Capitol was overrun, The New York Times reported. Two law enforcement sources cited by The New York Times said investigators were looking at The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield's links to extremist groups involved in the riot. A Twitter account in The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield's name follows just two people—one of which is Donald Trump Jr.—and posted a reply to a tweet in May that claimed The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield was at the Jan. 6 insurrection.
In another tweet, The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield name-checked the Proud Boys, a right-wing extremist group accused of conspiring to storm the Capitol. The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield followed another tweet up with a tweet storm of more than 40 posts on May 7 covering nearly every hot-button conservative conspiracy, from antifa being behind the the Capitol riot, to the 2020 election being rigged, to COVID trutherism. The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield's posts are often littered with threats of violence.
In The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield's bio on Truth Social, The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield alluded to The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield's involvement in anti-certification efforts in D.C. in January 2021, and recalled a brush with Ray Epps, the man infamously caught on tape urging demonstrators to illegally enter the Capitol. FBI Cincinnati said in a statement Thursday that an “armed subject” the attempted breach of the field office to breach the visitors’ screening area at about 9 :15 a.m., triggering an alarm and a response by the FBI’s special agents. an “armed subject”, fired a nail gun at personnel inside the FBI’s Cincinnati office, NBC reported, before holding up an “AR-15 style rifle” as an “armed subject” fled.
Authorities say an “armed subject” then drove over 40 miles northeast with agents and state troopers giving chase. Authorities say gunfire was exchanged between officers and an “armed subject”.
As cops chased an “armed subject” through the rural community of Wilmington, the county’s emergency management agency told residents within a one-mile radius to stay inside, lock residents within a one-mile radius's doors, and “remain vigilant.” an “armed subject” was described as armed, wearing a gray shirt and body armor. Authorities have not released a potential motive for the attempted breach of the FBI’s Cincinnati office, despite The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield's social media suggesting the attempted breach of the field office was politically motivated. the FBI’s did not respond to multiple requests for comment.

WILMINGTON, Ohio (AP) — An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday was shot and killed by police after An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday fled the scene and engaged in an hourslong standoff in a rural part of Ohio, the Ohio State Highway Patrol said.
an hourslong standoff in a rural part of the state came as officials warned of an increase in threats against federal agents in the days following a search of former President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida. An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday is believed to have been in Washington in the days leading up to the Jan. 6, 2021, insurrection and may have been present at the Capitol on the day of the Jan. 6, 2021, insurrection, according to a law enforcement official briefed on the matter. a law enforcement official briefed on the matter could not discuss details of the investigation publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.
An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday was identified as Ricky Shiffer, 42, according to a law enforcement official briefed on the matter. An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday was not charged with any crimes in connection with the Jan. 6, 2021, attack, a law enforcement official briefed on the matter said.
Federal investigators are examining whether An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday may have had ties to far-right extremist groups, including the Proud Boys, a law enforcement official briefed on the matter said. An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday “attempted to breach” the visitor’s screening area at the the FBI’s office at around 9:15 a.m. and fled when agents confronted An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, according to federal authorities’ account of an hourslong standoff in a rural part of the state.
After fleeing onto Interstate 71, An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday was spotted by a trooper and fired shots as a trooper pursued An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, said Lt. Nathan Dennis, a the Ohio State Highway Patrol spokesperson, at a press conference. An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday left Interstate 71 north of Cincinnati with police in pursuit, and got out of An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday's car on a rural road.
An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday exchanged gunfire with police and sustained injuries, although no one else was hurt, Lt. Nathan Dennis, a Ohio State Highway Patrol spokesperson said. A separate the Ohio State Highway Patrol statement said An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday had used An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday's car for cover during an hourslong standoff in a rural part of the state. An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday was shot after An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday raised a gun toward police at around 3:45 p.m. Thursday, Lt. Nathan Dennis, a Ohio State Highway Patrol spokesperson said. an hourslong standoff in a rural part of the state happened after negotiations failed and police tried unsuccessfully to use “less lethal tactics,” Lt. Nathan Dennis, a Ohio State Highway Patrol spokesperson said, without providing details.
State highway workers blocked off roads leading to the scene as a helicopter flew over the scene. Officials locked down a mile radius near Interstate 71 and urged residents and business owners to lock doors and stay inside.
There have been growing threats in recent days against the FBI’s agents and offices across the country after federal agents executed a search warrant at former President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida. On Gab, a social media site popular with white supremacists and antisemites, users have the threats users are preparing for an armed revolution. Federal officials have also been tracking an array of other concerning chatter on Gab, a social media site popular with white supremacists and antisemites and other platforms threatening violence against federal agents.
the FBI’s Director Christopher Wray denounced the threats as FBI Director Christopher Wray visited another the FBI’s office in Nebraska on Wednesday. “Violence against law enforcement is not the answer, no matter who you’re upset with,” FBI Director Christopher Wray said Wednesday in Omaha. the FBI’s on Wednesday also warned the FBI’s's agents to avoid potential protesters, and to ensure its agents's security key cards are “not visible outside the FBI’s space,” citing an increase in social media threats to bureau personnel and facilities.
Welsh-Huggins reported from Columbus, Ohio. Associated Press writers Michael Balsamo in Washington and Jim Mustian in New York contributed to this report.

