A man identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, who died in a confrontation with police after he fired a nail gun at a Cincinnati FBI building, appeared to post online in recent days about his desire to kill FBI agents shortly after former President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago residence was searched. Two law enforcement officials confirmed Shiffer’s name.
Shiffer was at the Capitol riot on Jan. 6, 2021, according to three people aiding law enforcement who saw him in photos taken from the day of the attack; however, it’s unclear whether he went inside the building. Shiffer frequently posted about his attendance at the Capitol on social media.
On Truth Social, a social media platform founded by Trump’s media company, Trump Media & Technology Group, Shiffer appeared to have posted a message detailing his failed attempt to gain entry to the FBI building. “Well, I thought I had a way through bullet proof glass, and I didn’t.
If you don’t hear from me, it is true I tried attacking the F.B.I., and it’ll mean either I was taken off the internet, the F.B.I. got me, or they sent the regular cops while,” the account @RickyWShifferJr wrote at 9:29 a.m. ET, shortly after police allege the shooting occurred.
“We must not tolerate this one,” he wrote. Shiffer's Truth Social account, which was seen by NBC News on Thursday evening, has since become unavailable. In response to another user who asked whether Shiffer was advocating for terrorism, Shiffer’s account responded that users should kill FBI agents “on sight” and also target a vague list of enemies who try to stop the slayings.
Pro-Trump internet forums erupted with violent threats and calls for civil war in the hours and days after the Mar-a-Lago search, at least one of them from a person who stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. Many Republican lawmakers have criticized the Biden administration over the search. Trump repeatedly posted to Truth Social after the search, including to insinuate that the FBI had planted evidence.

A law enforcement standoff with a man who attempted to breach the FBI’s field office in Cincinnati on Thursday has ended with the suspect dead, according to the Ohio State Highway Patrol. Lt. Nathan Dennis said that after negotiations failed, law enforcement officers tried to take the suspect into custody, but the suspect raised a gun at authorities and was fatally shot. The man was identified as Ricky Shiffer, according to three federal law enforcement sources.
The FBI is investigating Shiffer’s social media presence and whether he had ties to right-wing extremism, one of the sources said. A separate federal law enforcement source tells CNN that authorities are looking into whether the suspect had ties to any group that participated in the January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol or if he participated himself. A Truth Social account bearing Shiffer’s name referenced his attempt to storm an FBI office, and also encouraged others online to prepare for a revolutionary-type war, CNN has learned.
It’s unclear whether the user was attempting to write more, as the post stops after the word “while.” Authorities said the suspect fled in a car after attempting to get in the FBI office.
Authorities have not yet confirmed that the account belongs to the suspect. However, a law enforcement source told CNN a photo on the account matched a government ID photo of the suspect. The FBI declined to comment on the account and its postings, citing their ongoing investigation.
The hours-long standoff followed a vehicle chase with the suspect. Earlier, Dennis said an armed man tried to enter the FBI office in Cincinnati Thursday morning. The suspect was unsuccessful, however, and fled the area. An Ohio state trooper spotted the suspect’s vehicle at a northbound rest stop along Interstate 71 about 20 minutes after the attempted breach, Dennis said, and tried to initiate a traffic stop before the suspect fled.
“The suspect vehicle did fire shots during that pursuit,” Dennis said in the earlier news conference. The suspect then exited onto State Route 73 and traveled east to Smith Road, where he headed north before eventually coming to a stop. “Gunfire was exchanged between officers on scene and the suspect,” Dennis said. A news release expanded on the shootout, saying the suspect got out of his car, using the vehicle as cover.
No officers were injured, Dennis said. The FBI said “an armed subject attempt to breach” the facility’s Visitor Screening Facility. A federal law enforcement source told CNN the suspect was believed to be armed with a nail gun and AR-15. Another federal law enforcement source with knowledge of the incident told CNN FBI facilities around the country are reviewing their security posture in the wake of the incident. The FBI has deployed a shooting incident review team from Washington, which is standard practice when an FBI agent or task force officer fires a gun, a law enforcement source said.
The team will gather evidence, interview witnesses, and ultimately determine whether the use of deadly force was justified, the source said. The FBI announced in a statement it was launching an internal investigation into the fatal shooting. The incident follows violent rhetoric posted online after the FBI went to former President Donald Trump’s Florida home to serve a search warrant.
He released a public statement Thursday evening after the incident in Cincinnati. “Unfounded attacks on the integrity of the FBI erode respect for the rule of law and are a grave disservice to the men and women who sacrifice so much to protect others,” he said. “Violence and threats against law enforcement, including the FBI, are dangerous and should be deeply concerning to all Americans.

An account bearing the name of Ricky Shiffer, the man authorities say they killed after he tried Thursday to breach an FBI field office in Cincinnati, made posts on the social media platform founded by Donald Trump referencing the attempt to storm the office and encouraging others online to prepare for a revolutionary-type war.
The post about the FBI office attack was made minutes after the Ohio State Highway Patrol said the incident at the FBI office in Cincinnati began, shortly after 9:15 a.m. It’s unclear whether the user intended to write more, as the post stops after “while.”
Authorities at 9:37 a.m. located and began pursuing the suspect’s vehicle, a spokesperson for the Ohio State Highway Patrol said. Shiffer, 42, of Columbus, was killed by law enforcement after a vehicle chase and a subsequent hours-long standoff in Ohio’s Clinton County, roughly a 45-mile drive northeast of downtown Cincinnati, authorities say.
He had been known to the FBI because he had a connection to the January 6, 2021, riot at the US Capitol and also had associates within the Proud Boys, according to two law enforcement sources. The Proud Boys is a far-right extremist group whose head, along with four other group leaders, were charged with seditious conspiracy in the 2021 attack.
What role Shiffer may have played the riot is under investigation, the two sources said. The deadly incident unfolded as Congress met to certify Joe Biden’s 2020 presidential election victory.
Authorities have not yet confirmed the Truth Social account belongs to the suspect killed in Ohio. However, an image on the account matched a government ID photo of the suspect, a law enforcement source told CNN. The FBI declined to comment on the account and its postings, citing its ongoing investigation. On the account, the user claimed to have been in Washington, DC, on January 6, 2021, but did not say whether he entered the Capitol.
The poster frequently referenced his belief the 2020 election was stolen from Trump. The user communicated to others with the account – which has only been active in the last few weeks – with increasingly politically violent and revolution-minded thoughts. Though the user’s push for violence did not start or stop with the FBI’s recent actions, the bureau’s search warrant execution early this week at Trump’s Florida home marked the start of the user’s intense fixation on responding with violence toward the agency. “We must not tolerate this one,” the user wrote. It’s unclear whether the information was forwarded to the FBI.
“Evil already won, now we need to fight a civil war to take back the country,” the user later wrote Monday. “Don’t forget how Americans handle tyrants,” the user wrote Wednesday to another user, commenting on the same article. “They rig elections, and get away with it,” the user wrote Tuesday. Shiffer himself served in the US Navy from 1998 until June 2003, his releasable military records show. Aboard a US Navy submarine, he was a fire control technician, responsible for weapons systems.

A federal appeals court has approved the Department of Justice’s request to lift a federal judge’s order barring the DOJ from accessing materials with classified markings that were seized in the FBI raid on Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home.
The development allows the FBI to maintain its access to the records it seized from Mar-a-Lago as the special master appointed at Trump’s request continues to review the files. These developments are escalations in the ongoing legal battle between the former president and the DOJ and the Trump-appointed federal judge over the former president’s possession of the documents, some of which contained classified material — reportedly including information about a foreign government’s nuclear capabilities. Below is what we’ve learned about the latest court moves as well as everything we know about the criminal investigation thus far.
On September 16, the Justice Department asked a federal appeals court to immediately hold parts of a ruling by Federal judge Aileen Cannon of the Southern District of Florida, which not only appointed an independent arbiter to conduct a third party review of the materials seized at Mar-a-Lago, but barred federal law enforcement officials from having access to the documents until that review was completed. The DOJ appeal was successful: On September 21, the 11th U.S. Circuit of Appeals overruled Cannon’s decision, thereby allowing the feds to keep their access to the Mar-a-Lago records while the special master reviews them.
The DOJ argued that Cannon’s order is legally unsound, endangers national security, and prevents the government from investigating whether additional classified documents are still missing. According to the filing, the court order “hamstrings” the government’s investigation and “places the FBI and Department of Justice (DOJ) under a Damoclean threat of contempt should the court later disagree with how investigators disaggregated their previously integrated criminal-investigative and national-security activities.”
It also claimed that Cannon’s order “irreparably harms the government by enjoining critical steps of an ongoing criminal investigation and needlessly compelling disclosure of highly sensitive records, including to [Trump’s] counsel.” Two of the three judges who issued the ruling in the DOJ’s favor were appointed by Trump. Judge Cannon has also appointed a veteran New York jurist, Raymond Dearie as the special master who will review the seized documents, after both the DOJ and Trump’s attorneys agreed Dearie would be an acceptable choice.
On September 5, Cannon ordered the appointment of a special master to go through the more than 11,000 documents that federal agents seized for “potentially privileged material subject to claims of attorney-client and/or executive privilege.” In addition, the judge barred the Justice Department from “reviewing and using the seized materials for investigative purposes pending completion of the special master’s review or further Court order.”
(Other parts of the investigation, such as interviewing witnesses, may continue.) However, she did allow the Office of the Director of National Intelligence to review the same materials for a separate, noncriminal assessment of their potential harm to national security, as classified information is by law required to be retained in a secured government location.
Typically, a special master is only appointed to review evidence for material that could be subject to attorney-client privilege, but Cannon has expanded the review’s scope to include executive privilege. The Justice Department has argued executive privilege does not apply in this scenario, since Trump is no longer president. Legal experts who spoke with the New York Times broadly criticized the unprecedented September 5 ruling, and particularly Judge Cannon’s expansion of the special master’s powers and her apparent reinterpretation of the limits of executive privilege.
They also suggested parts of the order were highly vulnerable to being overturned on appeal. The agents who searched Mar-a-Lago found documents in a basement storage area and in Trump’s office closet.
According to the Washington Post, one of the documents described a foreign government’s military defenses, including its nuclear-defense readiness. On August 11, the Post reported that agents believed some of the documents they went to look for involved nuclear weapons.
On September 6, the Post reported that agents did indeed recover a document containing information about a foreign government’s nuclear capabilities, though the Post’s sources, described as “people familiar with the matter,” did not identify the country, nor where the document was found at Mar-a-Lago. On September 2, the Justice Department made public a detailed inventory of what the FBI agents seized.
It indicated that they also found 43 empty folders with classified banners, in addition more than 10,000 government records with no classification markings. It’s not clear what documents were in the empty folders, or what happened to them. This year, in total, more than 300 documents with classified information have been retrieved from Mar-a-Lago, according to the New York Times.
Investigators are reportedly now seeking additional surveillance footage from the resort. The FBI also recovered an executive grant of clemency for Roger Stone (granted before Trump left office), “info re: President of France,” a handwritten note, a leather-bound box of documents, and binders of photos.
That is not yet confirmed. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence is conducting a review of the recovered materials to assess what potential harm the removal of the classified documents from government custody could have caused.
In January, the National Archives and Records Administration retrieved 15 boxes of documents and items from Mar-a-Lago that agency officials said Trump should have handed over to it when he left the White House. NARA reportedly found 150 classified documents among the materials it retrieved — including over 700 pages of classified material and “special access program materials,” one of the highest designations.
The agency alerted the Justice Department, which opened a grand-jury investigation into the matter. The January cache included documents pertaining to national security from the CIA, the National Security Agency, and the FBI. In late 2021, Trump had gone through the boxes himself.
In June, Bobb said, she and Trump lawyer Evan Corcoran met with Jay Bratt, the chief of the counterintelligence and export control section at the Justice Department, along with several investigators. Trump stopped by the meeting as it began, to greet the investigators, but was not interviewed. The lawyers showed the federal officials the boxes, and Bratt and the others spent some time looking through the material.
Bobb said the Justice Department officials commented that they did not believe the storage unit was properly secured, so Trump officials added a lock to the facility. When FBI agents searched the property Monday, Bobb added, they broke through the lock that had been added to the door. In the following weeks, however, someone familiar with the stored papers told investigators there may be still more classified documents at the private club after the National Archives retrieved 15 boxes earlier in the year, people familiar with the matter said.
DOJ’s August 30 filing said “the FBI uncovered multiple sources of evidence” indicating that Trump had not fully complied with the subpoena. “The government also developed evidence that government records were likely concealed and removed from the Storage Room and that efforts were likely taken to obstruct the government’s investigation,” it continued.
The filing included a photograph that shows some of the material found by investigators at Mar-a-Lago. Among the most incriminating details in the government filing is a photograph, showing a number of files labeled “Top Secret” with bright red or yellow cover sheets, spread out over a carpet.
Those files were found inside a container in Trump’s office, according to the court filing. A close examination of one of the cover sheets in the photo shows a marking for “HCS,” a government acronym for systems used to protect intelligence gathered from secret human sources. The search of Mar-a-Lago began at 9 a.m. on August 8.
The Secret Service was reportedly notified right beforehand and “facilitated access to the Florida Trump property as fellow federal agents but did not take part in investigation or search,” per NBC News’ Kelly O’Donnell. The Feds, who were in plainclothes, reportedly left around 6:30 p.m. Mar-a-Lago is currently closed to members on account of the summer heat in Florida.
The White House said it first learned of the search from reports. The agents carried out the search in a relatively low-key manner, people with knowledge of the matter said; by some accounts they were not seen donning the conspicuous navy-blue jackets with the agency’s initials emblazoned on the back that are commonly worn when executing search warrants. Another person familiar with the search said agents began going through a storage unit, where items like beach chairs and umbrellas are kept, in the basement.
They progressed to his office, which was built for him on the second floor of the main house, where they cracked a hotel-style safe that was said by two people briefed on the search to contain nothing of consequence to the agents. Then they moved to Mr. Trump’s residence, the person said. Former aides tell New York they recall a safe at Mar-a-Lago and another at Trump Tower in Manhattan, where Trump kept tens of thousands of dollars in cash, which he once scooped into a shopping bag before traveling.
The FBI reportedly had to break into the hotel-style safe, which is in his office, a former bridal suite above the estate’s ballroom. Trump was notorious for mishandling and/or destroying documents during his presidency.
Some White House records obtained by the House select committee investigating the January 6, 2021, insurrection had been torn up and taped back together. The former president reportedly liked to try to flush documents down the toilet.
A senior administration official once told the Washington Post that White House staff members made sure they never left documents containing classified or sensitive information with Trump. On August 26, the Department of Justice released a partially redacted version of the 38-page affidavit it used to obtain a search warrant.
The document says 14 out of the 15 boxes retrieved from Mar-a-Lago prior to the raid contained classified records. Twenty-five documents had information on “clandestine human sources” that would have exposed the identities of people working for the U.S. intelligence community if released.
FBI agents who reviewed the classified information saw evidence that it was being mishandled: Many classified documents were mixed in with “miscellaneous” papers, including newspapers and magazines.
The affidavit also states “there is also probable cause to believe that evidence of obstruction will be found” at Mar-a-Lago. may be communicating with the FBI.
The search was related to potential violations of three laws including the Espionage Act: One of the laws concerns the “concealment, removal or mutilation” of classified materials; the second, “gathering, transmitting or losing” materials; and the third, obstructing an investigation into these matters. The Espionage Act, which governs classified information that could harm national security if released, has been used to prosecute both foreign spies and domestic leakers from Daniel Ellsberg to Reality Winner.
The warrant, which does not list Trump by name, does not accuse him or any other individual of breaking the law. The warrant goes on to describe the premises of “FPOTUS” (former president of the U.S.) being searched and what sorts of items federal agents were seeking.
The former president was the first to break the news of the raid on August 8, releasing a written statement that evening in which he attempted to frame the search as an unjustified, politically motivated attack on him by the Biden administration and Democrats. As more details have emerged about the raid, Trump and his allies have made a number of additional claims.
Declassification. Trump and allies have maintained that none of the documents taken to Mar-a-Lago were classified because Trump, as president, had orally bulk-declassified everything he wanted to take home shortly before leaving office. There was, according to one Trump representative, a “standing order” that “documents removed from the Oval Office and taken to the residence were deemed to be declassified the moment he removed them.” As the New York Times’ Charlie Savage has explained, even if that is true and there is some evidence of his having done this, that doesn’t mean it was legal for him to take the documents home and keep them.
The argument, Savage notes, is legally irrelevant to the matter at hand. Targeting the FBI and DOJ.
Trump has repeatedly attacked the FBI and Justice Department, alleging that the search was improperly conducted, insinuating that the FBI agents planted evidence, and complaining that agents made a mess of his wife’s closets. Trump also claimed that the FBI seized his passports. Stolen passports.
On August 15, Trump alleged that the FBI “stole my three Passports (one expired), along with everything else.” But according to an email from the Justice Department to Trump’s lawyers, sent shortly before Trump made his allegation, the DOJ had already said it was returning them by that point.
“We have learned that the filter agents seized three passports belonging to President Trump, two expired and one being his active diplomatic passport,” a Justice Department official wrote. “We are returning them, and they will be ready for pickup at WFO at 2 pm today,” referring to the Washington Field Office.
Trump implied he learned it from watching Obama. Trump has also alleged, falsely, that Barack Obama improperly took millions of White House documents to Chicago after his presidency ended. In fact, NARA responded, Obama and his staff followed the rules, and the agency has maintained full control of the records Trump alluded to — which will eventually be stored at Obama’s presidential library. The allegations Trump and his allies directed at the FBI and Justice Department have led to a spike in threats against law enforcement.
On August 14, the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security issued a joint bulletin warning that they “have observed an increase in threats to federal law enforcement and to a lesser extent other law enforcement and government officials” since the raid. The judge who signed the search warrant for Mar-a-Lago has also reportedly been subject to threats. And on August 11, a gunman who had been a January 6 protester at the U.S. Capitol in 2021 tried to attack the FBI’s office in Cincinnati before being killed by police.
This post has been updated throughout. Sign Up for the Intelligencer Newsletter Daily news about the politics, business, and technology shaping our world. Email This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Donald Trump was at the Trump Tower in New York City when the FBI hit Mar-a-Lago. Trump complained about the FBI search warrant in a statement on Monday evening. The former president usually spends the season at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey.
NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading. Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
Former President Donald Trump was in the comfort of his Trump Tower in New York City as federal agents executed a search warrant on his home in Mar-A-Lago, Florida, according to CNN reporter Kaitlin Collins. Trump typically spends his summers away from his Mar-a-Lago home, where he he retreated to after leaving the White House. Now, he spends the season at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, according to Reuters. Comparing the search to Watergate, Trump also claimed that it was politically motivated and aimed at blocking him from running for president in 2024. "They even broke into my safe!"
he added. White House officials said they only learned about the search Monday afternoon, per The New York Times.

I was watching Anderson Cooper. And I was watching some of the cable television shows.
And it seems as if there's a little bit of a trepidation that the mockingbird media doesn't really know what to make of this. They're not really sure how to cover it.
There is a single angle, though, they're going to be continually using, which is denouncing threats to law enforcement as if that's really what's going on here. Director of the FBI had strong words Wednesday for supporters of former President Donald Trump, who have been using violent rhetoric in the wake of his agency's search for Trump's Mar-a-Lago home – of Trump's Mar-a-Lago home. He says that threats against federal agents and the Justice Department are deplorable and dangerous. [UNINTELLIGIBLE] how many those threats are planted by the FBI themselves?
We have said the entire time remain peaceful. We do not put up with violent acts.
Now there's a new report that shows someone is attacking the FBI building in Cincinnati. Interstate 171-North is shut down after a suspect drove towards Waynesville, Ohio. Unconfirmed reports say he is now firing at police from a cornfield.
Now, I'm sure this will now be the main focus, even though we have said repeatedly to remain peaceful and stay focused on constructive things that we can do. They're now going to try to play the victim after they occupied Donald Trump's home – a military occupation.
Look, let me be very clear. Violence against law enforcement is not tolerated. We shouldn't talk – we shouldn't allow it. We shouldn't even get close to encouraging it.
Look, don't fall for any of this. The reason they are now grasping at these narratives, the reason they're grasping at these things is they are terribly worried that they made a tragic mistake. That they made a mistake that is irreversible and they're going to have to do whatever they possibly can to try and save face now.

Unfounded attacks on the integrity of the FBI erode respect for the rule of law and are a grave disservice to the men and women who sacrifice so much to protect others. Violence and threats against law enforcement, including the FBI, are dangerous and should be deeply concerning to all Americans.
Every day I see the men and women of the FBI doing their jobs professionally and with rigor, objectivity, and a fierce commitment to our mission of protecting the American people and upholding the Constitution. I am proud to serve alongside them.

On August 11, 2022 at approximately 9:15 AM EST, an armed male subject attempted to breach the Visitor Screening Facility at the FBI Cincinnati Field Office.
The subject eventually fled and was encountered by the FBI, Ohio State Highway Patrol, and local law enforcement near Wilmington, OH. The subject shot at law enforcement officers. During the incident, law enforcement also fired their weapons. At approximately 3:45 PM, the subject was shot and is deceased.
The FBI is now reviewing this agent-involved shooting. The FBI takes all shooting incidents involving our agents or task force members seriously. In accordance with FBI policy, the shooting incident is under investigation by the FBI's Inspection Division. The review process is thorough and objective, and is conducted as expeditiously as possible under the circumstances.

Ricky Shiffer was shot and killed after he tried to breach the FBI's Cincinnati field office.
NBC reported that Shiffer had top-secret clearance when he was in the Navy. In 2003, Shiffer was arrested and charged with "obstructing legal process," but the police record was purged.
NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
The Ohio gunman who was killed after trying to enter a Cincinnati FBI office was a Navy vet who was known to the government. Ricky Shiffer had top secret clearance when he was in the Navy. The 42-year-old was assigned to the USS Columbia after enlisting in June 1998 and was in charge of overseeing equipment associated with missiles and torpedoes: "Shiffer had to be eligible for top secret clearance in his job as an E-5," a Navy spokesperson told NBC News. NBC reported he began incurring a slew of speeding tickets after his five-year stint in the Navy, but his most serious run-in with the law prior to Thursday occurred in 2003.
Shiffer was arrested by the Moorhead, Minnesota, police and charged with "obstructing legal process." Records show he pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor a month later.
According to NBC, it's not clear what happened in the case because the record has been purged. Moorhead police did not respond to an email from the news outlet requesting more information.
Shiffer was known to the FBI after they learned he had been at the Capitol riot on Jan. 6, 2021, according to The New York Times. Officers tried to locate and interview him but concluded the information they gathered did not contain a specific and credible threat.
On Thursday, the FBI tweeted that an armed man, later identified as Shiffer, tried to breach their Cincinnati office. The Ohio State Highway Patrol said officers tried to negotiate with Shiffer after a lengthy car chase and made efforts to take him into custody with "less-than-lethal tactics," but fatally shot him after he raised a gun.
Shiffer documented the failed attack on former President Donald Trump's Truth Social network before he was killed. "Well, I thought I had a way through bullet proof glass, and I didn't. If you don't hear from me, it is true
I tried attacking the F.B.I., and it'll mean either I was taken off the internet, the F.B.I. got me, or they sent the regular cops while," the account @RickyWShifferJr wrote at 9:29 a.m. ET, according to NBC News. The account no longer exists on the platform. Following the raid on Trump's property at Mar-a-Lago on Monday, Shiffer encouraged violence against the FBI, the outlet reported.

CINCINNATI — The man who died during a standoff with law enforcement after attempting to break into the FBI office in Cincinnati had previously called for agents to be killed "on sight," according to multiple reports.
Law enforcement officials briefed on the situation told ABC News and the Associated Press that 42-year-old Ricky Shiffer called for violence against the FBI after the agency executed a search warrant at former President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago home. Posts from accounts believed to be Shiffer's on Trump's social media platform TruthSocial call for "war," ABC News reported.
The Columbus resident attempted to break into the FBI office in Kenwood around 9:15 a.m. He then fled north on I-71 in a white Ford Crown Victoria, leading a police chase and engaging in a shootout. The chase turned into a standoff in Clinton County, with officials blocking off I-71, SR-73 and local roads for hours.
Ohio State Highway Patrol said officers attempted to negotiate with Shiffer throughout the day. When talks failed, officials said officers attempted to take him into custody using "less-than-lethal tactics." Officials said Shiffer then raised a gun toward law enforcement, and he was shot. Shiffer is believed to have posted, "If you don’t hear from me, it is true I tried attacking the F.B.I." following his attempt Thursday morning. The account has since been removed from TruthSocial.
The Associated Press reported that Shiffer is believed to have been in D.C. in the days leading up to the attack on the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. Several social media posts say Shiffer was at the Capitol though investigators have not determined if that is true. Shiffer has not been charged with any crimes in connection to the riots.
Officials told both the Associated Press and ABC News that investigators are looking into whether Shiffer had ties to far-right extremist groups, specifically the Proud Boys. Molly Broscoe, a doctoral sociology student and researcher at the University of Cincinnati who specializes in right-wing extremist groups, said Shiffer's attempt to break into the office did not seem to be very well planned out compared to past events. Broscoe said the FBI has likely increased security at its field offices nationwide.

An armed individual wearing body armor attempted to get inside the Cincinnati FBI office Thursday, prompting a police chase that led officers to a standoff with the suspect in Clinton County.
The Ohio State Highway Patrol says the suspect was shot and killed by law enforcement around 3:42 p.m. The incident remains under investigation.
Authorities did not immediately release the man's name or any information about a potential motive. The Ohio State Highway Patrol confirmed his identity Friday morning as Ricky Shiffer, 42, of Columbus.
Shiffer claimed on social media to have been at the Capitol on Jan. 6, a source previously told NPR, though any involvement in Jan. 6 has not been verified by NPR and Shiffer was not charged in connection to Jan. 6. Thursday's incident began around 9:15 a.m. when the FBI reported "an armed subject attempted to breach the Visitor Screening Facility" at the FBI Cincinnati Field Office.
The agency says armed FBI agents responded to an alarm. The suspect then fled northbound on I-71.
Once in Clinton County, officials issued a lockdown for residents and businesses within a one-mile radius of the intersection of Smith and Center roads. "Law enforcement has traded shots with a male suspect who is wearing a gray shirt and body armor," reported Clinton County EMA in a Facebook post around 11:30 a.m.
Lt. Nathan Dennis told media at a staging area near Caesar Creek Flea Market that during the hours-long standoff, officers attempted to negotiate with the suspect. After some time, they moved forward to attempt to take the suspect into custody using "less than lethal" munition rounds.
The suspect reportedly raised a firearm toward the officers, who then shot and killed him. No officers were injured at any point during the situation, Dennis said. Police shut down I-71 and multiple roadways in Clinton County outside Wilmington.
I-71 reopened at about 2:18 p.m. Thursday, but the Clinton County EMA said State Route 73 (between SR 380 and Mitchell Road) remained closed until after the standoff ended. While law enforcement didn't immediately comment on motive, the episode at the Cincinnati FBI office comes one day after the FBI director raised concerns about online threats against agents and the Justice Department following the agency’s search of former President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago home.

Truth Social’s parent company, Trump Media & Technology Group, did not respond to requests for comment.
The Cincinnati shooting offers a glimpse at the real-world dangers of constant attacks from Trump and allied Republicans against federal officials in the days since FBI agents searched Mar-a-Lago, Trump’s Palm Beach, Fla., estate and the center of his post-presidential operations. It also showcased how such violent anger could be encouraged in plain sight in loosely moderated online refuges such as Truth Social, where Trump supporters frequently tear down perceived enemies and call for civil war. People familiar with the investigation told The Washington Post that the FBI had searched the home while seeking classified documents relating to nuclear weapons that could pose a grave harm to national security.
Authorities declined to comment on whether Shiffer was connected to Truth Social and Twitter accounts, but both featured his name, photo and general location and had been active before the shooting. A law enforcement official familiar with the investigation told The Post that agents are investigating Shiffer’s possible ties to extremist groups, including the Proud Boys — a far-right group whose leaders are accused of helping launch the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol. A review of the Shiffer account’s Truth Social activity showed he had posted dozens of times a day to the site, replying to pro-Trump influencers, attacking the government and suggesting violence was the most important way true Trump believers could defend the former president.
On Aug. 5, he posted, “This country has never had a worse enemy. 1776 was for far less, even World War II was for less.”
That day, he also wrote, “Save ammunition and be ready and willing to hit the road as soon as you hear it has started. Someone who wanted to be a hero could not have lived in a better time period.”
The post was ‘liked’ 24 times. His second-most-recent public post was a meme image showing Trump in the White House: “Retruth To If You Want President Donald Trump Back In Office!”
His last post on Aug. 11, the day police said he tried to breach the FBI office, said, “Well, I thought I had a way through bullet proof glass, and I didn’t. If you don’t hear from me, it is true I tried attacking the F.B.I., and it’ll mean either I was taken off the internet, the F.B.I. got me, or they sent the regular cops while,” before ending abruptly.
All of the posts were visible Thursday night, and there’s no indication Truth Social had ever sought to remove them before their vanishing. The FBI said Thursday that Shiffer had tried to break into the field office’s visitor-screening area before fleeing onto an interstate. He stopped and raised a gun at police before officers shot and killed him, the authorities said.
Since the attempted breach of the FBI office, some Truth Social users — including a verified account with 74,000 followers who said he was a designer for the site — have also shared baseless claims suggesting the attack was a “false flag” staged to make Trump look bad. After months of weak user activity and technical snags, Truth Social remains a minor player on the internet with fewer than 4 million users — a small fraction of the 88 million Twitter followers Trump had before his ban.
Since Jan. 6, Trump’s online audience has fractured between a number of right-wing sites competing for the same limited following, including Gab, Gettr and Parler, where follower counts this year have stalled. But David Thiel, a researcher at the Stanford Internet Observatory who has studied the site, said Truth Social has specialized as a never-ending Trump rally that functions almost like a fan message board, full of devotees eager to reaffirm other members of Trump’s base.
Truth Social’s online traffic jumped on Tuesday, the day after the FBI search, to nearly 700,000 visits worldwide, according to estimates from the online analytics firm Similarweb. The site averaged about 300,000 visits a day last month. Twitter says it has about 37 million active users in the United States every day.
Gina Ligon, the head of the National Counterterrorism Innovation, Technology and Education Center, a federally funded research center at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, said Shiffer’s online calls to violence showed similarities to previous attackers’ messages and offered a warning sign for potential future attacks. Shiffer’s “call to arms,” Ligon said, was reminiscent of similar online posts from a suspect who allegedly shot and killed 10 Black people at a grocery store in Buffalo in May. She also compared Shiffer’s anti-government slant to that of Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh, whose attack in 1995 killed 168 people.
“The rhetoric that is so loud on the right now online should be taken very seriously by people because it mobilized [McVeigh] to an incredibly violent event,” she said. Truth Social’s connection to the FBI attack draws a similarity with Parler, another social media site once popular with Trump supporters that prided itself on free speech. Before Jan. 6, Trump supporters shared false theories of election fraud and plans of descending on the Capitol to confront members of Congress voting to finalize the former president’s loss.
Groups organized on the platform, and then users documented themselves on it participating in the riot. Amazon Web Services, which ran the cloud-computing system the site depended on, suspended it shortly after. Extremists have used social media to share incendiary political rhetoric, as planners for the Jan. 6 violence spread election misinformation and plans to stop the election. During the coronavirus pandemic, government restrictions energized attacks on public health officials and Democrats, such as Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, the target of a kidnapping plot by members of an extremist group. Recent altercations reflect a trend in the country’s psyche: One in 3 Americans say they believe violence against the government can at times be justified, the largest share to feel that way in more than two decades, according to a Washington Post-University of Maryland poll.

A standoff with an armed suspect who tried breaking into an FBI office has ended.
The suspect died after trading fire with police, officials said. CINCINNATI -- An armed man suspected of trying to breach the FBI's Cincinnati field office Thursday was killed in Ohio after a vehicle chase and hours-long standoff with law enforcement, authorities say.
The video featured is from a previous report. The suspect was believed to be armed with an AR-15 rifle and a nail gun, a federal law enforcement source told CNN, and was wearing body armor, according to officials in an Ohio county. He was Ricky W. Shiffer, 42, of Columbus, the state highway patrol said Friday. Authorities have not announced a motive.
But Shiffer had been known to the FBI because he had an unspecified connection to the January 6, 2021, riot at the US Capitol, and because he had associates within a far-right extremist group, two law enforcement sources told CNN Friday. A social media account bearing Shiffer's name appears to have referenced an attempt to storm an FBI office that day.
It also made a "call to arms" -- and called for violence against the agency -- after the FBI executed a search warrant Monday at former President Donald Trump's Florida home. Authorities have not confirmed the account belongs to the suspect.
At about 9:15 a.m. ET Thursday, an armed man tried to breach the visitor screening facility at the FBI field office, the agency said. "Upon the activation of an alarm and a response by armed FBI special agents, the subject fled northbound onto Interstate 71," FBI Cincinnati said in a statement.
Ohio State Highway Patrol troopers responded and found the suspect at an interstate rest stop in a Ford Crown Victoria at around 9:37 a.m., the patrol said. The troopers tried to initiate a traffic stop on the suspect, but he fled and a vehicle pursuit ensued, highway patrol spokesman Lt. Nathan Dennis said.
Shots were fired from the suspect's car during the chase, he said. The suspect exited the highway at state Route 73 in Ohio's Clinton County -- roughly a 45-mile drive northeast of downtown Cincinnati -- and came to a stop on a road nearby around 9:53 a.m., the highway patrol said.
After stopping, the man got out and "engaged officers," the highway patrol said. Gunfire was exchanged between law enforcement and the suspect, who used his vehicle for cover, they said. The suspect was wearing body armor, according to the Clinton County Emergency Management Agency.
A lockdown was in effect within a 1-mile radius of the standoff location, the agency said. The standoff stretched for several hours as law enforcement tried to negotiate with the suspect, the highway patrol said.
The suspect was shot and died from his wounds on the scene, the agency said. The FBI is investigating the circumstances that led to the suspect being shot, the bureau said.
It is unclear what less lethal tactics authorities used as they tried arrest him. The FBI is investigating Shiffer's social media presence and whether he had ties to right-wing extremism, a federal law enforcement source told CNN.
On the social media platform founded by Trump -- Truth Social -- an account bearing Shiffer's name made a post Thursday morning that appeared to reference an attempt to storm an FBI office. The post was made minutes after the Ohio State Highway Patrol said the incident at the office in Cincinnati began, shortly after 9:15 a.m.
The FBI declined to comment on the account and its postings, citing an ongoing investigation. An image on the account matched a government ID photo of Shiffer, a law enforcement source told CNN.
On the account, which has been active only the last few weeks, the user communicated to others with increasingly politically violent and revolution-minded thoughts. But it was not until the FBI executed a search warrant Monday on Trump's Mar-a-Lago home that the user began to fixate on responding with violence toward the agency.
It's unclear whether the information was forwarded to the FBI. The account's user also claimed he was in Washington, DC, on January 6, 2021, but did not say whether he entered the Capitol. The poster frequently referenced a belief the 2020 election was stolen from Trump.
New photos allegedly showing him outside the U.S. Capitol on January 6 are now part of a federal probe. Investigators say this photo appears to show Shiffer walking up a ramp. The FBI was aware of Shiffer himself due to a connection to the January 2021 riot, and because he had associates within the Proud Boys, two law enforcement sources told CNN on Friday. The Proud Boys are a far-right extremist group whose head, along with other group leaders, were charged with seditious conspiracy in the 2021 attack.
What role Shiffer may have played in the January 2021 riot is under investigation, the two sources said. The deadly incident unfolded as Congress met to certify Joe Biden's 2020 presidential election victory.
Shiffer served in the US Navy from 1998 until June 2003, his releasable military records show. Aboard a US Navy submarine, he was a fire control technician, responsible for weapons systems. FBI headquarters is investigating the "agent-involved shooting," the agency said.
The agency has deployed a Shooting Incident Review Team to the scene, which is standard practice when an FBI special agent or task force officer discharges a weapon, a law enforcement source told CNN. The review team will gather evidence, interview witnesses and ultimately determine whether the use of deadly force was justified, the source said.
FBI Director Christopher Wray released a statement Thursday evening condemning attacks on law enforcement and the FBI. "Unfounded attacks on the integrity of the FBI erode respect for the rule of law and are a grave disservice to the men and women who sacrifice so much to protect others.
Violence and threats against law enforcement, including the FBI, are dangerous and should be deeply concerning to all Americans," Wray said. A law enforcement source said Friday that the FBI is investigating an unprecedented number of threats against bureau personnel and property in the wake of the search of Mar-a-Lago -- including against agents listed in the court documents.
The unsealed versions of the court documents redacted the agents' names but a version of the search warrant that was leaked to the media didn't black them out. The names of the two agents who signed the warrant paperwork are now circulating online. ABC7 Chicago contributed to this post.

A suspect was killed Thursday afternoon in a gunfire exchange with officers following an hours-long standoff in Cincinnati, Ohio, authorities said.
Officials said the standoff began after the suspect attempted to breach the Cincinnati FBI field office building at around 9 a.m. and then led officers on a pursuit. The suspect, identified by two law enforcement sources as Ricky Shiffer, ended the standoff by firing at officers, Ohio State Highway Patrol Lt. Nathan Dennis said in a news briefing Thursday evening.
Officers returned fire and the suspect died on the scene. No officers were injured in the confrontation. Authorities did not give any indication Thursday of a possible motive for the breach, saying the incident was still under investigation.
But hours before the attack, Shiffer appeared to post on former President Donald Trump's social media platform "TRUTH Social" to express his desire to kill federal agents. The post has since been removed by the site's moderators.
The situation unfolded at around 9 a.m., when Ohio State Highway Patrol troopers and local law enforcement agents responded to the alleged breach attempt at the FBI field office. A suspect raised alarms by allegedly attempting to break in through the visitor screening center. The FBI said the individual fled following an immediate response from special agents , prompting law enforcement to shut down roughly a one-mile stretch of a nearby highway and issue a lockdown warning for residents and businesses in the surrounding area. According to a statement from state highway patrol, officers located a Ford Crown Victoria on Interstate 71 in Warren County just after 9:30 a.m. that matched the description of the armed suspect's vehicle.
The driver fled from officers and a gunshot was fired from the car. Authorities pursued the car, and the suspect stopped at 9:53 a.m. on Smith Road in Clinton County, where he exited the car and fired shots. He used his car as a shield – and the standoff with officers began.
FBI Director Christopher Wray issued a statement Thursday condemning violence and threats against the agency. Both the National Guard and the U.S. Navy confirmed to CBS News on Friday that Shiffer had once served in their ranks. The Navy said he enlisted in 1988 and left in 2003 as a Fire Control Technician 2nd Class. He joined the Florida Army National Guard in 2008 and left in 2011. The incident came one day after Wray delivered a warning about violent threats circulating online in the aftermath of this week's FBI search at Trump's Florida residence, Mar-a-Lago.

An armed man who attempted to breach the FBI building in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers has died of his injuries, according to an Ohio State Highway Patrol official.
The confrontation began at 9:15am local time, when the armed man, who was clad in body armour, tried to breach a security screening area at the FBI field office. Federal officials said the suspect, who was identified as Ricky Shiffer, 42, exchanged gunfire with law enforcement officers before fleeing the area in a white vehicle. About 20 minutes later, a state trooper spotted the vehicle in nearby Warren County and fired shots as they pursued him, Lieutenant Nathan Dennis, a Ohio State Highway Patrol spokesperson, told a press conference.
Mr Shiffer abandoned his car on a rural road, where he exchanged gunfire with police and sustained injuries, though no-one else was hurt, Mr Dennis said. He was shot about about 3pm.
The fatal encounter with police happened after negotiations failed and police tried unsuccessfully to use "less lethal tactics", Mr Dennis said without providing details. There were immediate reports of police being injured.
State highway workers blocked off roads leading to the scene as a helicopter flew over the area. Several highways in the Cincinnati area were closed, including the interstate in both directions.
A patrol helicopter and small aircraft monitored from above. Officials in Ohio locked down a 1.5 kilometre radius near the interstate and urged residents and business owners to lock doors and stay inside. The interstate has since been reopened.
NBC News reported that the suspect was armed with an AR-15-style semiautomatic rifle and he fired a nail gun into the FBI building. The incident came as officials warned of an increase in threats against federal agents in the days following a search of former president Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida. The man is believed to have been in Washington in the days leading up to the January 6, 2021 insurrection and may have been present at the Capitol on the day of the attack, according to a law enforcement official briefed on the matter.
The official could not discuss details of the investigation publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. Mr Shiffer had not been charged with any crimes in connection with the Capitol Hill riot, the official said. Federal investigators are examining whether Mr Shiffer may have had ties to far-right extremist groups, including the Proud Boys, the official said.
On Gab, a social media site popular with white supremacists and anti-semites, users have warned they are preparing for an armed revolution. Federal officials have also been tracking an array of other concerning chatter on Gab and other platforms threatening violence against federal agents.
"Unfounded attacks on the integrity of the FBI erode respect for the rule of law and are a grave disservice to the men and women who sacrifice so much to protect others," FBI director Christopher Wray said in a statement. Speaking before the events in Ohio, Mr Wray denounced growing threats to the agency as he visited another FBI office in Nebraska on Wednesday. "Violence against law enforcement is not the answer, no matter who you're upset with," Mr Wray said on Wednesday in Omaha.
The FBI on Wednesday also warned its agents to avoid protesters and ensure their security key cards are "not visible outside FBI space", citing an increase in social media threats to bureau personnel and facilities. It also warned agents to be aware of their surroundings and potential protesters. The warning did not specifically mention this week's search of Mar-a-Lago but attributed the online threats to "recent media reporting on FBI investigative activity".

The armed man who tried to storm the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday, before getting into a shootout with cops that left him dead in an Ohio cornfield, appeared to be a conspiracy-addled Trump super-fan who told his followers on Truth Social that he was “ready for combat” after the FBI raided Mar-a-Lago on Monday. The gunman was identified as 42-year-old Ricky Shiffer, the Ohio State Patrol told The Daily Beast. Two days before Shiffer embarked on the failed breach, an account under the same name on Truth Social foreshadowed an attack, calling for followers to “kill the F.B.I. on sight” in the wake of the raid at former President Donald Trump’s Florida estate.
In his bio on TruthSocial, Shiffer identified himself as an electrician based in Columbus, Ohio, who had multiple social media firms lock his account. Shiffer was shot dead in a rural Ohio cornfield around 4:30 p.m. Thursday, Ohio State Patrol Lt. Nathan Dennis said in a press briefing. He said that hours of non-lethal tactics failed before the 42-year-old was gunned down.
“The suspect then did raise a firearm toward law enforcement and shots were fired by law enforcement officers on the scene,” Dennis said. Sheffer was also active elsewhere on social media, despite his most recent posts being limited to Truth Social. He appeared to feature in a video posted to Facebook on Jan. 5, 2021, of him at a pro-Trump rally in D.C. the night before the Capitol was overrun, The New York Times reported. Two law enforcement sources cited by the Times said investigators were looking at Shiffer’s links to extremist groups involved in the riot. A Twitter account in Shiffer’s name follows just two people—one of which is Donald Trump Jr.—and posted a reply to a tweet in May that claimed he was at the Jan. 6 insurrection.
In another tweet, he name-checked the Proud Boys, a right-wing extremist group accused of conspiring to storm the Capitol. He followed it up with a tweet storm of more than 40 posts on May 7 covering nearly every hot-button conservative conspiracy, from antifa being behind the Capitol riot, to the 2020 election being rigged, to COVID trutherism. His posts are often littered with threats of violence.
In his bio on TruthSocial, Shiffer alluded to his involvement in anti-certification efforts in D.C. in January 2021, and recalled a brush with Ray Epps, the man infamously caught on tape urging demonstrators to illegally enter the U.S. Capitol. FBI Cincinnati said in a statement Thursday that an “armed subject” tried to breach the visitors’ screening area at about 9 :15 a.m., triggering an alarm and a response by FBI special agents. The man, now known to be Shiffer, fired a nail gun at personnel inside the building, NBC reported, before holding up an “AR-15 style rifle” as he fled.
Authorities say Shiffer then drove over 40 miles northeast with agents and state troopers giving chase. Authorities say gunfire was exchanged between officers and Shiffer, who then took cover in a cornfield for more than five hours.
As cops chased Shiffer through the rural community of Wilmington, the county’s emergency management agency told residents within a one-mile radius to stay inside, lock their doors, and “remain vigilant.” Shiffer was described as armed, wearing a gray shirt and body armor. Authorities have not released a potential motive for the attempted breach of the field office, despite Schiffer’s social media suggesting it was politically motivated. The FBI did not respond to multiple requests for comment.

WILMINGTON, Ohio (AP) — An armed man clad in body armor who tried to breach the FBI’s Cincinnati office on Thursday was shot and killed by police after he fled the scene and engaged in an hourslong standoff in a rural part of the state, the Ohio State Highway Patrol said.
The confrontation came as officials warned of an increase in threats against federal agents in the days following a search of former President Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida. The man is believed to have been in Washington in the days leading up to the Jan. 6, 2021, insurrection and may have been present at the Capitol on the day of the attack, according to a law enforcement official briefed on the matter. The official could not discuss details of the investigation publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.
The suspect was identified as Ricky Shiffer, 42, according to the law enforcement official. He was not charged with any crimes in connection with the Jan. 6 attack, the official said.
Federal investigators are examining whether Shiffer may have had ties to far-right extremist groups, including the Proud Boys, the official said. Shiffer “attempted to breach” the visitor’s screening area at the FBI office at around 9:15 a.m. and fled when agents confronted him, according to federal authorities’ account of the incident.
After fleeing onto Interstate 71, he was spotted by a trooper and fired shots as the trooper pursued him, said Lt. Nathan Dennis, a Ohio State Highway Patrol spokesperson, at a press conference. Shiffer left the interstate north of Cincinnati with police in pursuit, and got out of his car on a rural road.
He exchanged gunfire with police and sustained injuries, although no one else was hurt, Dennis said. A separate highway patrol statement said Shiffer had used his car for cover during the standoff. Shiffer was shot after he raised a gun toward police at around 3:45 p.m. Thursday, Dennis said. The fatal encounter with police happened after negotiations failed and police tried unsuccessfully to use “less lethal tactics,” Dennis said, without providing details.
State highway workers blocked off roads leading to the scene as a helicopter flew over the area. Officials locked down a mile radius near the interstate and urged residents and business owners to lock doors and stay inside.
There have been growing threats in recent days against FBI agents and offices across the country after federal agents executed a search warrant at Mar-a-Lago. On Gab, a social media site popular with white supremacists and antisemites, users have warned they are preparing for an armed revolution. Federal officials have also been tracking an array of other concerning chatter on Gab and other platforms threatening violence against federal agents.
FBI Director Christopher Wray denounced the threats as he visited another FBI office in Nebraska on Wednesday. “Violence against law enforcement is not the answer, no matter who you’re upset with,” Wray said Wednesday in Omaha. The FBI on Wednesday also warned its agents to avoid potential protesters, and to ensure their security key cards are “not visible outside FBI space,” citing an increase in social media threats to bureau personnel and facilities.
Welsh-Huggins reported from Columbus, Ohio. Associated Press writers Michael Balsamo in Washington and Jim Mustian in New York contributed to this report.

