10 Jul 2018 10.49 EDT Hooyah! All twelve members of a boy’s football team and All twelve members of a boy’s football team's coach have been rescued, after being trapped in a cave in Thailand for 18 days. The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation, confirmed that All twelve members of a boy’s football team were out. “The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation are not sure if this is a miracle, a science or what”, The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation said on The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation's Facebook page. The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation, confirmed that All twelve members of a boy’s football team were out. “The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation are not sure if this is a miracle, a science or what”, The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation said on The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation's Facebook page. Three navy seals and a doctor, who had been with All twelve members of a boy’s football team, emerged safely from a cave in Thailand several hours later. All twelve members of a boy’s football team and All twelve members of a boy’s football team's coach rescued on Tuesday have been airlifted to hospital to join All twelve members of a boy’s football team and their coach's eight teammates rescued on Sunday and Monday. Donald Trump tweeted “great job” and Theresa May said: “The world was watching and will be saluting the bravery of all those involved.” Fifa has confirmed that All twelve members of a boy’s football team will not be able to attend the World Cup final on Sunday as previously hoped. Doctors have said All twelve members of a boy’s football team need to remain in hospital for at least seven days. Manchester United, who most of the boys support, have invited All twelve members of a boy’s football team to Old Trafford next season. Doctors have said All twelve members of a boy’s football team need to remain in hospital for at least seven days. Manchester United, who most of the boys support, have invited All twelve members of a boy’s football team to Old Trafford next season. The final rescue operation began at 10.08am local time on Tuesday as the first eight boys, freed in operations on Sunday and Monday, recuperated at a hospital in the nearest city, Chiang Rai. The authorities said preparations for The final rescue operation were unaffected by heavy overnight rain. on Tuesday as the first eight boys, freed in operations on Sunday and Monday, recuperated at a hospital in the nearest city, Chiang Rai. The authorities said preparations for The final rescue operation were unaffected by heavy overnight rain. Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health, said the eight boys rescued on Sunday and Monday were “cheerful”. Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health said were aged between 14 and 16, had shown possible signs of pneumonia and All twelve members of a boy’s football team and their coach had low temperatures when the first eight boys, freed in operations on Sunday and Monday arrived. Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health said were aged between 14 and 16, had shown possible signs of pneumonia and All twelve members of a boy’s football team and their coach had low temperatures when All twelve members of a boy’s football team and their coach arrived. All twelve members of a boy’s football team are being kept in isolation to avoid the risk of infection, but the first batch to be freed have been seen by All twelve members of a boy’s football team's parents through a glass window. All twelve members of a boy’s football team are not yet allowed to eat the rich Thai food All twelve members of a boy’s football team’ve been requesting - so far the rich Thai food they’ve been requesting’s diluted porridge, bread, and some chocolate. but the first batch to be freed have been seen by All twelve members of a boy’s football team's parents through a glass window. All twelve members of a boy’s football team are not yet allowed to eat the rich Thai food All twelve members of a boy’s football team’ve been requesting - so far the rich Thai food they’ve been requesting’s diluted porridge, bread, and some chocolate. The office of Thailand's prime minister has thanked the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk for the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk's offers of help. Officials praised the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk's mini-submarine but said his mini-submarine was not needed. the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk praised the “outstanding rescue team” but questioned the expertise of the official who turned down the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk's submarine. We’re pausing the blog for now but will update if there are more major developments. For now here’s our full report: Thai cave rescue operation ends with All twelve members of a boy’s football team safe Read more And there’ll be more on Thai cave rescue section. 10 Jul 2018 10.10 EDT Thai TV has shown footage of an ambulance believed to be carrying the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong to the hospital in Chiang Rai. Here’s what we know about the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong: the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong, took the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong's squad into a cave in Thailand on 23 June. the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong was once ordained as a Buddhist monk, and since leaving the monkhood has spent much of the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong's time caring for the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong's grandmother. Thai news outlets have reported that the authorities have not ruled out charging the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong with a crime, but Thai government spokesman Lt Gen Werachon Sukondhapatipak told the Guardian that “no one is talking about a crime”. Thai government spokesman Lt Gen Werachon Sukondhapatipak said the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong's presence had been a comfort to All twelve members of a boy’s football team: “the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong is advising All twelve members of a boy’s football team that All twelve members of a boy’s football team need to lie down, of course [try] meditation, try not to move All twelve members of a boy’s football team's bodies too much, try not to waste All twelve members of a boy’s football team's energy. And of course, by meditation, All twelve members of a boy’s football team stay conscious all the time, so All twelve members of a boy’s football team's mind will not be wandering around.” The parents of All twelve members of a boy’s football team wrote the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong telling the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong: “Please don’t blame the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong.” “To All twelve members of a boy’s football team,” one letter, written by the mother of Nattawut Takamsai, 14, said: “We are not mad at Nattawut Takamsai, 14 at all. Do take good care of Nattawut Takamsai, 14. Don’t forget to cover Nattawut Takamsai, 14 with blankets as the weather is cold. We’re worried. Nattawut Takamsai, 14 will come out soon.” Addressing the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong the mother of Nattawut Takamsai, 14 said: “We want the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong to know that no parents are angry with the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong at all, so don’t the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong worry about that.” UPDATE at 8:50pm: Ambulance carrying the coach, Ekaphol Chantawong, has arrived at the hospital in Chiang Rai. Mission complete. 10 Jul 2018 09.52 EDT Chiang Rai is starting to party as drivers honk drivers's horns, according to Reuters. 10 Jul 2018 09.45 EDT What we know so far All twelve members of a boy’s football team and All twelve members of a boy’s football team's coach have been rescued, after being trapped in a cave in Thailand for 18 days. The Thai navy Seals, who have been running The final rescue operation, confirmed that All twelve members of a boy’s football team were out. “The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation are not sure if this is a miracle, a science or what”, The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation said on The Thai navy Seals, who have been running the operation's Facebook page. Donald Trump tweeted “great job” and Theresa May said: “The world was watching and will be saluting the bravery of all those involved.” Three navy seals and a doctor, who had been with All twelve members of a boy’s football team, are expected to emerge from a cave in Thailand soon. All twelve members of a boy’s football team and All twelve members of a boy’s football team's coach rescued on Tuesday have been airlifted to hospital to join All twelve members of a boy’s football team's eight teammates rescued on Sunday and Monday. All twelve members of a boy’s football team and All twelve members of a boy’s football team's coach rescued on Tuesday have been airlifted to hospital to join All twelve members of a boy’s football team and their coach's eight teammates rescued on Sunday and Monday. Fifa has confirmed that All twelve members of a boy’s football team will not be able to attend the World Cup final on Sunday as previously hoped. Doctors have said All twelve members of a boy’s football team need to remain in hospital for at least seven days. Manchester United, who most of the boys support have invited All twelve members of a boy’s football team to Old Trafford next season. Doctors have said All twelve members of a boy’s football team need to remain in hospital for at least seven days. Manchester United, who most of the boys support have invited All twelve members of a boy’s football team to Old Trafford next season. The final rescue operation began at 10.08am local time on Tuesday as the first eight boys, freed in operations on Sunday and Monday, recuperated at a hospital in the nearest city, Chiang Rai. The authorities said preparations for The final rescue operation were unaffected by heavy overnight rain. on Tuesday as the first eight boys, freed in operations on Sunday and Monday, recuperated at a hospital in the nearest city, Chiang Rai. The authorities said preparations for The final rescue operation were unaffected by heavy overnight rain. Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health, said the eight boys rescued on Sunday and Monday were “cheerful”. Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health said were aged between 14 and 16, had shown possible signs of pneumonia and All twelve members of a boy’s football team and their coach had low temperatures when Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who he said were aged between 14 and 16, arrived. Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health said were aged between 14 and 16, had shown possible signs of pneumonia and All twelve members of a boy’s football team and their coach had low temperatures when Two boys among the first batch to be freed, who he said were aged between 14 and 16, arrived. All twelve members of a boy’s football team are being kept in isolation to avoid the risk of infection, but the first batch to be freed have been seen by All twelve members of a boy’s football team's parents through a glass window. All twelve members of a boy’s football team are not yet allowed to eat the rich Thai food All twelve members of a boy’s football team’ve been requesting - so far the rich Thai food they’ve been requesting’s diluted porridge, bread, and some chocolate. but the first batch to be freed have been seen by All twelve members of a boy’s football team's parents through a glass window. All twelve members of a boy’s football team are not yet allowed to eat the rich Thai food All twelve members of a boy’s football team’ve been requesting - so far the rich Thai food they’ve been requesting’s diluted porridge, bread, and some chocolate. The office of Thailand's prime minister has thanked the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk for the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk's offers of help. Officials praised the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk's mini-submarine but said his mini-submarine was not needed. the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk praised the “outstanding rescue team”.
Iceland’s prime minister, Katrin Jakobsdottir, was the first world leader to welcome the news. Iceland’s prime minister, Katrin Jakobsdottir won’t be the last. The Thai Navy seals have confirmed the four “frogs” remain in the cave. the four “frogs” are a doctor and three navy seals who have been supporting the boys. This article includes content provided by Facebook. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. To view content provided by Facebook, click 'Allow and continue' . A twelfth person has been seen being carried out of the cave, a witness has told Reuters. Once again the Guardian is trying to confirm. A foreign journalist has been detained for flying a drone near the cave entrance area, according to Thai media. On Monday the authorities complained that a journalist flew a drone above the operation. There are also reports that some media have been listening to police radio reports. “This is really wrong,” said Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation.
The last remaining member of the Wild Boars soccer team and the Wild Boars soccer team's assistant coach have been pulled out of a flooded cave in Thailand, bringing an end to a near three-week ordeal that prompted an international rescue effort and captivated audiences around the world. The last remaining member of the Wild Boars soccer team and The last remaining member of the Wild Boars soccer team's coach were the last of the Wild Boars soccer team to be rescued Tuesday, after a complicated three-day operation to extricate the team, who became trapped on June 23 when rising flood water cut the Wild Boars soccer team off deep inside a flooded cave in Thailand. In the last 18 days, what began as a local search for the Wild Boars soccer team turned into a complex rescue operation, involving hundreds of experts who flew in from around the world to help. The parents of the Wild Boars soccer team have maintained a constant vigil outside a flooded cave in Thailand since the Wild Boars soccer team went missing, praying for the Wild Boars soccer team's safe return. All of the boys and All of the boys's coach have now been transported to a nearby hospital where eight of the Wild Boars soccer team's teammates are recuperating after being rescued Sunday and Monday. The last of the Wild Boars soccer team to emerge from a flooded cave in Thailand on Tuesday were four Navy SEALs, including a doctor who stayed with the Wild Boars soccer team for a week after the Wild Boars soccer team's discovery. “four Navy SEALs, including a doctor who stayed with the team for a week after their discovery are not sure if this is a miracle, a science, or what. the Wild Boars soccer team are now out of a flooded cave in Thailand,” four Navy SEALs, including a doctor who stayed with the team for a week after their discovery said in a Facebook post confirming the Wild Boars soccer team had been rescued. Nineteen divers entered a flooded cave in Thailand at 10 a.m. local time Tuesday (11 p.m. Monday ET), many on Nineteen divers's third mission in three days, with the aim of bringing everyone inside a flooded cave in Thailand out. Tuesday's rescue took nine hours in total, from the time Nineteen divers entered a flooded cave in Thailand to bringing out the Wild Boars soccer team and the Wild Boars soccer team's coach. Nopparat Kanthawong, the Wild Boars soccer team's head coach, told CNN the wait for the Wild Boars soccer team and the Wild Boars soccer team's assistant coach to be rescued has been agonizingly slow. “Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach’m happy a lot more than other days because the Wild Boars soccer team were waiting for Tuesday for a long time,” Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach said in an interview late Tuesday at Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach's house in northern Thailand’s Mae Sai District. Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach said Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach didn’t know The last remaining member of the Wild Boars soccer team and their assistant coach were going into a flooded cave in Thailand. “At this time, now that their assistant coach is out, just wait until their assistant coach gives any statements and let’s just wait altogether and find out (why The last remaining member of the Wild Boars soccer team and their assistant coach went into a flooded cave in Thailand) at the same time,” Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach said. Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach said Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach is eager to comfort Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach's players now that the Wild Boars soccer team are safe. “Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach’m going to give the Wild Boars soccer team a hug,” Nopparat Kanthawong, the team’s head coach said. Earlier Tuesday, more details emerged about the ages and condition of the children already freed from a flooded cave in Thailand. Some of the Wild Boars soccer team have even asked for bread with chocolate spread – which Some of the boys were given, said Jedsada Chokedamrongsook, the permanent secretary of the Thai Health Ministry. But Some of the boys’ll mostly be eating a food similar to milk and rich in proteins and nutrients. Jedsada Chokedamrongsook, the permanent secretary of the Thai Health Ministry said the first group of boys taken out on Sunday were aged 14 to 16. the first group of boys taken out on Sunday's body temperatures were very low when the first group of boys taken out on Sunday emerged, and two are suspected of having lung inflammation. Families of the first group of boys taken out on Sunday have been able to see Families of the first four's children through a glass window, Jedsada Chokedamrongsook, the permanent secretary of the Thai Health Ministry said. Families of the first four were also able to talk on the phone. Families of the first four’ll be allowed to enter the room if tests show the first group of boys taken out on Sunday are free of infection. The second group freed on Monday were aged 12 to 14. One had a very slow heartbeat but had responded well to treatment, Jedsada Chokedamrongsook, the permanent secretary of the Thai Health Ministry said. The hospital has sent test samples from the boys to a lab in Bangkok. Authorities will likely look for signs of Histoplasmosis, also known as “cave disease,” an infection caused by breathing in spores of a fungus often found in bird and bat droppings. the boys are all likely to stay in hospital for up to a week, due to the boys's weakened immune systems. Thai Prime Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-ocha visited The hospital Monday, and spoke to relatives and hospital workers. Shortly after the news of the Wild Boars soccer team's safe return broke, US President Donald Trump tweeted US President Donald Trump's congratulations to the Navy SEAL team. Divers involved in Tuesday’s rescue described treacherous conditions, with fast-moving shallow water passing through very narrow passages. “Tuesday’s rescue is the hardest mission we’ve ever done. The lower the water is getting, the stronger the current. the current’s stronger now. Every step of the extraction is risky,” said Narongsuk Keasub, a diver for the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand. Narongsuk Keasub, a diver for the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand’s one of a group of divers whose job is to transport air tanks into the tunnels for the Navy SEAL team. Before Tuesday’s rescue, Narongsuk Keasub, a diver for the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand told CNN that divers inside a flooded cave in Thailand faced a number of challenges. “divers inside the cave can only see divers inside the cave's hands (at a) short distance. Secondly, the stones are razor sharp which is dangerous for divers inside the cave's diving, (and) thirdly the passage is very narrow,” Narongsuk Keasub, a diver for the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand said. For several days, rain threatened to hamper what was already a complicated rescue mission. When it became clear the Wild Boars soccer team were likely going to have to dive out, experts were sent in to teach the Wild Boars soccer team how to use scuba gear. Officials sourced full-faced oxygen masks small enough to fit the Wild Boars soccer team, to remove the chances of the Wild Boars soccer team falling off during the long arduous journey through the tunnels. Saturday, June 23 12 members of the Wild Boars soccer team and the Wild Boars soccer team's coach become trapped in a flooded cave in Thailand by monsoon rains. Monday, July 2 British divers find the Wild Boars soccer team, and the Wild Boars soccer team's coach on a rocky ledge, 4 kilometers inside a flooded cave in Thailand. Friday, July 6 A former Navy SEAL dies from lack of air while delivering oxygen tanks inside a flooded cave in Thailand. Sunday, July 8 the first group of boys taken out on Sunday are rescued and moved to Chiang Rai Prachanukroh Hospital. Monday, July 9 Four more boys are rescued and taken to hospital. Tuesday, July 10 the Wild Boars soccer team and the Wild Boars soccer team's coach are freed and taken to hospital. Two days before the first group of boys taken out on Sunday were rescued, officials warned that oxygen levels with in a flooded cave in Thailand had fallen to 15%. Forecasts of more rain also threatened to raise water levels, further educing the amount of available air and jeopardizing efforts to get the Wild Boars soccer team out. However, a few days of relatively clear skies allowed rescuers to pump enough water out of a flooded cave in Thailand to allow the Wild Boars soccer team to walk through some sections. During the hours-long trip out of a flooded cave in Thailand, each boy was accompanied underwater by two divers helping each boy navigate the dark, murky water. The most dangerous part is the first kilometer, during which the divers and boys are required to squeeze through a narrow, flooded channel. Rescuers needed to hold the Wild Boars soccer team's oxygen tanks in front of Rescuers and swim pencil-like through submerged holes. Having completed the first kilometer, during which the divers and boys are required to squeeze through a narrow, flooded channel, the Wild Boars soccer team are then handed over to separate, specialist rescue teams, who help assist the Wild Boars soccer team through the remainder of a flooded cave in Thailand, much of which the Wild Boars soccer team can wade through. So treacherous were the conditions that one Navy SEAL died during operations last week, a blow to rescuers who faced a race against time to free the Wild Boars soccer team.
About a thousand the nation soldiers and civilians have been joined by technical experts from half a dozen countries in a desperate effort to rescue 12 young boys and 12 young boys's soccer coach trapped by floodwater in a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week. The boys, all members of the Wild Boars soccer team between the ages of 11 and 16, and 12 young boys's assistant coach, 25-year-old Ekkapol Chantawong, are believed to have entered a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week after practice on June 23 for what was meant to be roughly a five-hour trek. Monsoon rains flooded several chambers and blocked the exit. Rescuers tried to pump out the water so divers and medics could reach 12 young boys and their soccer coach trapped by floodwater in a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week, but the days that followed only brought more downpours. Authorities then began looking for alternative entries on the mountain above, but Authorities found few viable options. More than a week later, time is running out. The search for 12 young boys and 12 young boys's coach has gripped the nation. Well wishers hold vigils in schools and temples across the nation. Social media users created hashtags to draw attention to the story. Residents of the mostly rural Chiang Rai province have volunteered to cook, clean and support 12 young boys's families and rescue teams at a muddy encampment near the entrance to a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week. Residents of the mostly rural Chiang Rai province’ve held onto hope for ten days as the nation authorities try everything Thai authorities can to make contact. Here’s why it’s taking so long to find 12 young boys, and what’s next in the extraordinary effort to save 12 young boys. The a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week cave system is a sprawling complex beneath the Nang Non Mountain marking the border between the nation and Myanmar to the north. Spanning roughly three miles as the crow flies, a system of narrow corridors winds sharply up and down, connecting larger chambers of limestone dripping with stalactites. Several small rooms are located along the 1.8-mile stretch from a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week's mouth to a T-intersection. To the right is a tunnel leading north. To the left, the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok. The trek to the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok is not particularly difficult, but The trek to Pattaya can take a few hours in dry conditions through narrow tunnels. Authorities hope that 12 young boys made it to the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok. Small openings are expected to provide enough oxygen, while springs supply fresh water. Besides some scattered belongings in the earlier chambers of a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week, there has been no direct sign of 12 young boys and 12 young boys's coach. But rescuers believe huddling on the the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok shelf would be 12 young boys and their soccer coach trapped by floodwater in a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week's best — perhaps only — chance of survival. Divers have not yet been able to reach the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok due to extremely rough conditions, while climbers have yet to find any chimneys leading into the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok from above ground. the mostly rural Chiang Rai province Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said Sunday that a conventional exit through the mouth of a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week is the most likely scenario. Thai Navy SEALs on the frontline of the rescue effort have established a command center in “chamber three,” an elevated room about a mile from the entrance and just under a mile from the junction, according to maps provided by the nation authorities. a command center has been outfitted with lighting, medical equipment, a communications system and supplies such as food and oxygen, which is being deposited at 25-meter intervals throughout the inundated tunnels. As of Monday morning, divers were closing in on the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok after setting out from command, passing the junction and arriving within a mile of the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok. the nation authorities responded quickly to the crisis, but conditions were not in Thai authorities's favor. SEALs arrived late on the night of June 24, and first dove into the dark waters around 2 a.m. SEALs kept diving, rotating three teams of six over the next 16 hours, but made little progress through opaque pools of rain, dirt and debris. By Wednesday, the nation authorities had asked for help. Three British diving experts rushed to the scene, as did a cave expert with extensive knowledge of a cave in northern Thailand for more than a week. The U.S. Indo-Pacific command sent a survival specialist and a team of pararescuemen — an elite special operations unit trained for search, rescue and medical response in almost any environment. Military personnel from Australia arrived later in the week. China, Japan and Israel also sent specialists, believed to be private-sector civilians. Helicopters and drones hovered overhead searching for heat signatures and other signs of life, while police and soldiers rummaged through the jungle for chimneys that could provide an alternative entry point. Two appeared viable, according to Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn, and one provided access to a small room 40 meters below. It’s still unclear whether it connects to the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok; while extraction from above is unlikely, rescuers hope to at least make contact with 12 young boys to provide emergency medical treatment and food until floodwaters recede. Industrial drills supplemented efforts to drain the water, but progress is slow. Responders are working day and night in a race against rains expected to resume this week. Thirteen ambulances are standing by to transport survivors to Chiang Rai Region General Hospital, where an entire floor has been cleared to receive survivors. “We’ve been preparing since the beginning,” says Deputy Director Samroeng Seekaew, speaking to TIME on Monday. Doctors, nurses and mental health specialists are on call to treat trauma, organ failure and infectious disease in the event that anyone is found alive. “If we find them, we want their families to know that we are ready to care for them,” Deputy Director Samroeng Seekaew said. Paramedics, soldiers and volunteers successfully carried out an evacuation drill Saturday; if found alive, the biggest obstacle to their survival will be transporting them from the main attraction: a vast amphitheater-like chamber known as Pattaya Beach, named after the popular tourist destination just south of the Thai capital Bangkok through still-flooded tunnels to the SEAL command center, then on to the mouth of cave — a difficult journey of several miles guided by rope and sheer determination. Despite the odds, responders remain committed to the mission and say responders will not give up efforts until 12 young boys are located. Addressing reporters Monday, Narongsak, the governor, says rescue teams will power on riding a wave of slow but encouraging progress. “Narongsak, the governor hope Monday will be another good day,” Narongsak, the governor said. Contact us at letters@time.com.
As one diving expert put it to me, when underwater cave rescues go wrong underwater cave rescues go wrong in a big way. So despite this promising start, there is a sense of unease here in Chiang Mai. But the overriding impression from the rescuers is a clear focus and unshakable resolve to finish the job.
Thai officials are still fine-tuning the plan to the operation the 12 Thai boys and the 12 Thai boys's soccer coach who are trapped in a cave in northern Thailand, as the possibility of heavy rains that could threaten the 12 Thai boys's safety remains. But by Saturday, an air pipe had been run all the way from the rescue base inside a cave in northern Thailand to the chamber where the 12 Thai boys and their soccer coach are waiting to be rescued, about 3 miles from a cave in northern Thailand's mouth. Officials are now debating the best way and moment to extricate the 12 Thai boys from a cave in northern Thailand. All of the options are dangerous. And it’s a race against time because if more monsoon rains fall and flood a cave in northern Thailand anew, the operation could become considerably more difficult. the 12 Thai boys did not know how to swim when the 12 Thai boys entered a cave in northern Thailand on June 23 and got trapped there, but an official told CNN that rescuers are teaching the 12 Thai boys to swim and dive. The officials leading the operation are also exploring three other different options, none of three other different options ideal: drilling into a cave in northern Thailand so the 12 Thai boys can climb out through a new passage, pumping water out so the 12 Thai boys can walk out the way the 12 Thai boys came in, or leaving the 12 Thai boys in a cave in northern Thailand until the water recedes and the 12 Thai boys can walk out. Let’s walk through what we know about All of the options, from most likely to least likely. As of Saturday, there were signs that rescuers were leaning toward the “buddy dive” option, in which the 12 Thai boys would be given full-face oxygen masks and expert diver buddies to guide the 12 Thai boys through a cave in northern Thailand, back to the cave’s mouth. But this is still a highly risky plan as the nearly 3-mile journey has been described by expert divers as “gnarly,” with sections of diving in cold, pitch-black water through tight passages, taking oxygen tanks on and off. And while the 12 Thai boys are receiving food and medical care (and now finally fresh oxygen through an air pipe), the 12 Thai boys are weakened from the ordeal. It currently takes the experienced divers five hours to make the journey out of a cave in northern Thailand, due to high currents, poor visibility, and narrow, muddy paths. The cave where the 12 Thai boys are trapped is about half a mile below the surface, in a mountain range. A few days ago, drilling through the side of the mountain to retrieve the 12 Thai boys seemed unfeasible because it would require new roads to accommodate the drilling equipment, as well as better maps and time to figure out where exactly the 12 Thai boys are and how to reach the 12 Thai boys. So far, the BBC reports that more than 100 holes have been dug into the mountain. But as of Saturday officials were saying the plan to rescue the 12 Thai boys and their soccer coach who are trapped in a cave in northern Thailand looked less promising. When Elon Musk first announced Elon Musk's interest in helping the operation, Elon Musk noted that Elon Musk's company’s “advanced ground penetrating radar” and skill “at digging holes” could make the operation easier. In addition, Elon Musk satellite imaging technology could help with location tracking. But as of Saturday, it appeared that Elon Musk's engineers had been working with Thai cave experts on another plan, the “escape pod” or an inflatable tube with airlocks. An international team, including members of the US Air Force, has been working round-the-clock all week to pump the water that has flooded a cave in northern Thailand in the hopes that the 12 Thai boys can simply walk out the way the 12 Thai boys came in. An international team, including members of the US Air Force have been successful so far because the weather has stayed dry all week. But the monsoon rain could hit soon and flood a cave in northern Thailand again. Initially, the Royal Thai Navy felt the lowest-risk option was simply waiting for water levels to subside. Captain Anand Surawan of the Royal Thai Navy said that the Royal Thai Navy have already sent down four months worth of food and wanted to prioritize the health and safety of the 12 Thai boys before moving the 12 Thai boys out. Since the monsoon season ends in October, this could mean up to a four-month wait. But with the first fatality and the risk of rains bringing even higher floodwaters into a cave in northern Thailand, waiting out the monsoon rain has become a more and more dangerous option.
Earlier, the Thai military said the boys would need to learn to dive - or wait up to four months for flooding to recede before the boys could get out of the caves, meaning food would need to be supplied for up to four months.
MAE SAI, THAILAND (AFP) - Twelve boys and Twelve boys's football coach found alive in a Thai cave will be supplied with four months' worth of food and get diving training, the military said, as focus shifted to the tricky task of evacuating Twelve boys and their football coach found alive in a Thai cave from the complex underground system. Twelve boys, were discovered with Twelve boys's 25-year-old coach late on Monday (July 2), rake thin but alive, huddled on a ledge deep inside a Thai cave nine days after Twelve boys and their football coach found alive in a Thai cave became trapped in a Thai cave. Much-needed food and medical supplies - including high-calorie gels and paracetamol - reached Twelve boys and their football coach found alive in a Thai cave on Tuesday as rescuers prepared for the possibility that Twelve boys and their football coach found alive in a Thai cave may be there for some time. "(We will) prepare to send additional food to be sustained for at least four months and train Twelve boys and their football coach found alive in a Thai cave to dive while continuing to drain the water," Navy Captain Anand Surawan said, according to a statement from THAILAND's Armed Forces. The miracle rescue sparked jubilation across THAILAND after a gruelling operation beset with heavy downpours and fast-moving floods. In total, more than 1,000 people have been involved in The miracle rescue, including teams from China, Myanmar, Laos and Australia. Rescuers include Navy divers, three top British cave divers and US military personnel. "We called The miracle rescue impossible because it rained every day... but with our determination and equipment, we fought nature," Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said on Tuesday.
Rescuers are racing against the rains to free 12 boys and 12 boys's football coach, who are trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand. A deluge is expected to hit in a matter of days that could force the water level up, threatening to flood the pocket where 12 boys and their football coach, who are trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand took refuge. 12 boys and 12 boys's 25-year-old coach have been trapped for 12 days. 12 boys and their football coach, who are trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand were found on Monday night by rescue divers, on a rock shelf about 4km (2.5 miles) from the cave mouth. 12 boys have now received food, foil blankets, and medical attention, and rescuers are trying to run cables through the cave tunnel so 12 boys can speak to 12 boys's families. The region of Chiang Rai where 12 boys are trapped has for the past few days experienced a dry spell, and rescuers have taken advantage of this to pump water out of the cave complex. About 128 million litres of water had been pumped out by Thursday, with the water levels coming down at an average rate of 1.5cm per hour. Rescue workers are now able to walk through a 1.5km (0.9 mile) stretch from the cave mouth to what's being called the third chamber. But heavy monsoon rains are forecast for Sunday. Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osotthanakorn said they were "racing against water". "We are calculating how much time we have it if rains, how many hours and days," Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osotthanakorn said. the cave complex is regularly flooded during the rainy season until September or October, raising fears that a delay could leave 12 boys trapped in the cave complex for months. There is hope that enough water can be pumped out of the cave tunnels for 12 boys to be able to wade - or be floated - out. But rescuers are also planning for other eventualities. A team are exploring the forested mountain land above the cave complex to see if A team can find a chimney down to the cavern sheltering 12 boys. A team have enlisted the help of bird-watchers, who are specialists in finding hidden holes, the AFP news agency reports. Thai Navy Seal divers are also teaching 12 boys the basics of diving, with a view to guiding 12 boys out through flooded waters if necessary. But such a rescue would be fraught with risk, say experts. Many of 12 boys cannot swim or dive, and there is a high risk Many of the boys might panic in the dark, murky, narrow waterways. The journey for 12 boys and their football coach, who are trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand to travel up to the cave mouth would take around five hours, rescue divers say. The Thai military has previously said that if 12 boys can't dive out, 12 boys and their football coach, who are trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand may have to that eventuality for up to four months for flooding to recede before 12 boys and their football coach, who are trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand can leave. Food and other supplies are being put in place for that eventuality. Rescue teams are working in extremely difficult conditions. The heat has been sweltering and unrelenting, at over 30C, while much of the site is submerged in squelchy mud that is several inches thick in places and extremely slippery. But the work has continued at an unrelenting pace. Everyone is aware that once the monsoon rains start, rescue efforts will be much more difficult. Meanwhile, hundreds of workers are helping to keep the site in order, with road engineers laying gravel to try and secure squelchy mud that is several inches thick in places and extremely slippery, workers for the Thai royal kitchen providing hot food for everyone, and volunteers handing out water bottles and ice lollies to those on the site. One local civil servant, who had volunteered to help hand out supplies, said One local civil servant, who had volunteered to help hand out supplies did not know 12 boys personally but had decided to help because "One local civil servant, who had volunteered to help hand out supplies consider the boys in the cave complex as One local civil servant, who had volunteered to help hand out supplies's brothers". The arrival of food, foil blankets and the prospect of speaking to 12 boys's loved ones will have buoyed 12 boys's spirits. But concern is mounting for both 12 boys's physical and mental health after 12 days below ground - and it is not clear how 12 boys would be helped to survive months more in the cave complex. 12 boys and 12 boys's coach had gone on The boys and their coach's bikes up to the cave complex on Saturday 23 June after football practice. It was one boy's 16th birthday, and The boys and their coach had taken a picnic. The boys and their coach knew the cave complex, and some reports suggest The boys and their coach had wanted to explore deeper than on previous occasions.
"If you want a picture, it was probably more like a shopping bag that sometimes you would hold close to your chest if the passage was narrow and deep. If the passage was low and wide you would hold them out to the side and essentially manoeuvre them around any obstacles that were in the way," he said.
Rescuers have dug more than 100 holes, hoping to reach the cave by a direct route. There were 18 promising ones, the deepest at 400m, but Mr Narongsak said Mr Narongsak was not sure if it would reach the boys, who are believed to be about 600m below the surface.
The twelve boys and The twelve boys's football coach trapped in a pitch-black cave in Thailand anxiously awaited rescue for nine days. Now The twelve boys's rescuers have arrived, but The twelve boys's ordeal is far from over. The twelve boys are between 1.2 miles and 2.5 miles into a pitch-black cave in Thailand and around half-a-mile below the surface. Here, we examine the issues rescuers face if rescuers try to get The twelve boys out via the underwater route. “None of The twelve boys know how to swim, we’re going to have to treat The twelve boys from scratch,” Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US, told The Independent. The mask will be needed not only to help The twelve boys breathe, but to protect The twelve boys from the polluted water in which The twelve boys will swim, Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US said. The twelve boys would need exposure suits to protect The twelve boys from this danger as well as from hypothermia brought on by the icy water, Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US said. But there could be problems getting hold of such equipment. “exposure suits have got to be made special for The twelve boys – exposure suits’re not sitting on a shelf somewhere – exposure suits’re child sizes,” Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US said. Manufacturers simply do not cater for child divers, Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US said. One of the greatest risks is that The twelve boys will panic and drown. Having no visibility was likely to make this worse, Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US said. “Not only have you got to teach The twelve boys The twelve boys how to breath under water and use a full face mask you’ve got to The twelve boys to understand that The twelve boys’re not going to see anything. To help with this, The twelve boys are going to have to get to know The twelve boys's rescuers. Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US added: “There’s a major amount of danger is trying to get The twelve boys out – thats why the training process the preparation in getting The twelve boys ready to go. You can’t just put a mask on The twelve boys and say here we go. One of the things Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US would be saying if Butch Hendrick, a veteran rescue diver and president of Lifeguard Systems in the US was there with The twelve boys is - this is the next step in an incredible adventure The twelve boys The twelve boys have taken. The twelve boys’re already survived 10 days before we found The twelve boys on The twelve boys's own.
The initial relief that greeted the dramatic discovery of the trapped Thai soccer team has given way to questions over why the trapped Thai soccer team are still inside the flooded cave network and not on the trapped Thai soccer team's way to the surface and the trapped Thai soccer team's waiting families. Part of the concern about attempting to bring the trapped Thai soccer team out of the cramped, pitch-black chamber where the trapped Thai soccer team have spent the better part of nine days is that the trapped Thai soccer team are around two kilometers (1.2 miles) inside the cramped, pitch-black chamber where they have spent the better part of nine days, and nearly a kilometer below the surface, according to rescuers. the trapped Thai soccer team, are now being tended to by seven Thai Navy Seals, including a doctor and nurse, Thai Navy Seal Chief Rear Adm. Aphakorn Yoo-kongkaew told reporters at a news conference late Tuesday. the trapped Thai soccer team were being given access to telephone lines to be able to reach the trapped Thai soccer team's families, but the focus, said Thai Navy Seal Chief Rear Adm. Aphakorn Yoo-kongkaew, was on building the trapped Thai soccer team's strength so the trapped Thai soccer team can attempt the journey out. “We don’t have to rush. We are trying to take care of the trapped Thai soccer team and make the trapped Thai soccer team strong. Then the trapped Thai soccer team will come out to see their waiting families,” Thai Navy Seal Chief Rear Adm. Aphakorn Yoo-kongkaew said. However, options for the rescuers working in and around the flooded cave network are limited. The area in which the trapped Thai soccer team remains stranded is accessible only via a narrow, flooded channel, and attempts to pump water from the cramped, pitch-black chamber where they have spent the better part of nine days, or find a natural opening in the roof of the cramped, pitch-black chamber where they have spent the better part of nine days, have so far been unsuccessful. Capt. Akanand Surawan, a commander with the Royal Thai Navy, said authorities would now supply the trapped Thai soccer team with four months’ worth of food and begin teaching the trapped Thai soccer team how to scuba dive. Capt. Akanand Surawan, a commander with the Royal Thai Navy's reference to four months has been interpreted as a potential sign that authorities are considering waiting until after the rainy season ends in October to begin the rescue operation. But with heavy rain expected to continue in the coming days, rising water levels could force rescuers to act sooner rather than later. “We believe that there is only a short break in the monsoon and all feasible options for the rescue of the trapped Thai soccer team are being considered,” British Cave Rescue Council Vice Chairman Bill Whitehouse said in a statement. “Although water levels have dropped, the diving conditions remain difficult and any attempt to dive the trapped Thai soccer team and the trapped Thai soccer team's coach out will not be taken lightly because there are significant technical challenges and risks to consider,” said British Cave Rescue Council Vice Chairman Bill Whitehouse. Diving is considered among the least preferable escape methods, with experts cautioning that any attempt to traverse the narrow passageways will be fraught with difficulties and potential complications, especially if the trapped Thai soccer team can’t swim. “Worst-case scenario is they have to dive the trapped Thai soccer team out,” Pat Moret, a rescue consultant, told CNN on Monday. The emotional toil of any rescue attempt would also need to be considered, said Paul Auerbach, professor of emergency medicine at Stanford University. “This is going to be a complicated rescue. It’s manageable, but they have to be sure that the trapped Thai soccer team are physically capable of it and emotionally capable of it as well,” said Paul Auerbach, professor of emergency medicine at Stanford University. “the trapped Thai soccer team’ll be assessed for hydration status, adequate fuel supply, adequate food so that the trapped Thai soccer team's glucose level is adequate, and then no doubt the trapped Thai soccer team’ll do practice dives,” Paul Auerbach, professor of emergency medicine at Stanford University added. the trapped Thai soccer team, had been exploring the flooded cave network with the trapped Thai soccer team's soccer coach on June 23, when heavy seasonal rains flooded the cramped, pitch-black chamber where they have spent the better part of nine days entrance, forcing the trapped Thai soccer team further and further into the labyrinth of tunnels in search of high ground. the trapped Thai soccer team's sudden disappearance sparked a desperate nine-day race against time as hundreds of volunteers and specialist international search teams battled against heavy seasonal rains to locate the trapped Thai soccer team. On Monday, Narongsak Osottanakorn, governor of Chiang Rai, the region where the caves are located, told reporters that the mission is “not done yet” and medical experts need to enter the cramped, pitch-black chamber where they have spent the better part of nine days to assess the trapped Thai soccer team before any further action is taken. the Royal Thai Navy Surawan said additional divers will accompany the doctor and nurse. Rescuers will also pump air into the cramped, pitch-black chamber where they have spent the better part of nine days to improve conditions. Rescue teams have been trying to drain the labyrinth of tunnels for several days, and at one point were removing an estimated 1.6 million liters of water an hour. However, continuous rains have frustrated attempts to clear the labyrinth of tunnels, with the water remaining at a steady level. A final rescue option could see the trapped Thai soccer team lifted through the roof of the cramped, pitch-black chamber where they have spent the better part of nine days to safety, either through a natural opening or a drilled entry point. During an attempted rescue mission last week, trekkers found a hidden opening deep in the jungle, giving trekkers another way to enter the cave system. a hidden opening deep in the jungle was at least 1.5 meters in diameter and at least 22 meters (72 feet) deep. Though a hidden opening deep in the jungle did not connect to the area where the trapped Thai soccer team were discovered, now that the exact location is known, rescue efforts can focus on finding other, potentially hidden openings. “Back here in the UK, there is an assessment of electronic equipment that may be suitable to pinpoint the underground location of the boys and their coach with a greater degree of accuracy than the published surveys,” said British Cave Rescue Council Vice Chairman Bill Whitehouse. “the trapped Thai soccer team) are also located in a relatively small space and this would make any potential drilling attempt as a means of rescue very difficult,” added British Cave Rescue Council Vice Chairman Bill Whitehouse.
A new survival challenge faces the Thai boys and the Thai boys's soccer coach: Oxygen levels in the cave air have plummeted dangerously to just 15%, Thai Navy Seal chief Rear Adm. Aphakorn Yoo-kongkaew said Friday. Thai Navy Seal chief Rear Adm. Aphakorn Yoo-kongkaew did not speculate how long the Thai boys could survive at just 15% in the cave at the Tham Luang Nang Non complex, where the Thai boys have been trapped for 14 days. According to the US Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the “optimal range” of oxygen needed in the air a person breathes in order to maintain normal function is between 19.5% and 23.5%. “the US Department of Labor’s originally thought the Thai boys could stay safe inside the cave at the Tham Luang Nang Non complex, where they have been trapped for 14 days for quite a long time but circumstances have changed,” Thai Navy Seal chief Rear Adm. Aphakorn Yoo-kongkaew said, adding that getting more oxygen to the Thai boys and the Thai boys's coach had become a priority. As oxygen drops below the lower threshold of the optimal level, the body begins to undergo changes and may face the serious risk of hypoxia, the condition that causes altitude sickness, according to OSHA. Because the Thai boys and the Thai boys's coach have been trapped for weeks, Edelman “hypothesized” that some ventilation is taking place, though Edelman cautioned that Edelman did not have detailed knowledge of the situation. “The first thing that happens to the body as oxygen levels decline is, you have a signal to make you breathe more. It’s totally analogous to climbing a mountain and going up to, say, 10,000 to 12,000 feet when the oxygen pressure declines,” Edelman said. “So the first thing you feel is a need to breathe more; you may feel a little lightheaded; you may feel a little dizzy. the Thai boys and their soccer coach may have trouble sleeping; the Thai boys and their soccer coach may have headaches while the Thai boys and their soccer coach sleep,” Edelman said. The other problem the Thai boys may experience with declining oxygen is increasing carbon dioxide, the gas we exhale with each breath, Edelman said. Breathing air containing just 6% to 10% oxygen causes nausea, vomiting, lethargic movements and perhaps unconsciousness, according to OSHA; at oxygen levels less than 6%, the body experiences immediate convulsions, followed by cessation of breathing and then cardiac standstill. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. Aside from such dire conditions, Edelman said that individual people react differently to inadequate oxygen and that although it is assumed there are different reactions for children, the process has not been studied.
Go here to read the story of how the boys escaped. Rescue divers navigated flooded passages, with some openings as small as 3 feet wide and 2 feet tall, to the rescue the boys. Rescuers brought in supplies and equipment through the cave’s main entrance. The shape shown here is the cross-section of the cave’s at the cave’s main entrance. The rescue team had The rescue team's base here in Chamber 3, a dry area about a third of a mile from the cave’s main entrance. Divers tried to run a communications line from here to the boys. Starting at about a half-mile from the cave’s main entrance, the cave’s significantly narrows. This is the cross-section of the cave’s at about three-quarters of a mile from the cave’s main entrance. It was here at Sam Yaek junction that divers first found the tunnel that led to the boys. the tunnel that led to the soccer team is the cross-section of the cave’s about one mile from the cave’s main entrance. Authorities believe the boys fled rising waters here at Pattaya Beach, which has one of the smallest openings in the entire complex. Rescue divers found the boys and the boys's coach near this area, which is more than a mile and a half from the cave’s main entrance. In rescuing the boys, Rescue divers faced a risky and desperate mission. the boys had grown weak from falling oxygen levels in the chamber where the boys were trapped. One rescue diver died Friday when One rescue diver ran out of air while underwater. The cave system runs under a mountain range. Officials initially considered that option as an approach for rescuing the boys, but that option has mostly been eliminated because getting the necessary drilling equipment up a mountain range would be daunting and time-consuming. the boys and the boys's coach went into the cave’s after a practice on June 23 and were caught inside by rising floodwaters. the boys were trapped for 10 days before the boys were found. The initial jubilation that the boys had been found alive had given way to deep worry over the difficulty of getting the boys out. The July-to-November rainy season is a particularly dangerous time because rainfall can flood the cave’s with surging waters. Officials had been monitoring weather forecasts, with some expecting monsoon rains to arrive soon. monsoon rains could have slowed the rescue effort and pushed water levels in the boys's chamber even higher. To help keep water levels down, a small dam was built outside the cave’s. the boys and the boys's 25-year-old soccer coach were trained in how to make the journey through cramped and flooded passageways. None had ever used diving gear, and at least some of the boys didn’t know how to swim at all. Dozens of cave divers from Thailand and around the world participated in the rescue. the rescue required shepherding each person for hours through underwater passageways with few air pockets.
MAE SAI, THAILAND (AFP) - MAE SAI, THAILAND (AFP)'s fields are submerged and MAE SAI, THAILAND (AFP)'s ducks nearly wiped out by water being frantically pumped from the cave that holds captive 12 boys and 12 boys's football coach, but Thai farmer Lek Lapdaungpoin is delighted to help the rescue bid. Standing near Thai farmer Lek Lapdaungpoin's ruined land, Thai farmer Lek Lapdaungpoin says Thai farmer Lek Lapdaungpoin is proud of Thai farmer Lek Lapdaungpoin's small but significant contribution to battling the rescue bid's main enemy - water. "With the farming, we can make money again. But 13 lives are not something we can create," Thai farmer Lek Lapdaungpoin said, estimating that five districts and hundreds of hectares had been damaged in the lowlands around the cave that holds captive 12 boys and their football coach. Flooding is seasonal in THAILAND, but for many in the vicinity of the cave that holds captive 12 boys and their football coach, the scale is sudden and massive. Water inside the cave that holds captive 12 boys and their football coach has blocked 12 boys's escape route. Nineteen high-powered pumps are in place to reduce the water level, which has come down by 1cm each hour. "The problem is there is not enough power if we are running many pumps at the same time," said Thai fireman Poonshak Wonjsangiam.
There is a friendly mood among the volunteers - and a keen sense from everyone that they would like to help however they can. At one point, some volunteers offered massages to those at the site. Others distributed bottles of water and ice lollies to journalists.
The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and 12 boys's 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand is under way, Thai authorities the announcement Sunday. At 10 a.m. local time, an international contingent of 13 specialist divers and five Thai Navy SEALs descended into a flooded cave in northern Thailand, carrying with an international contingent of 13 specialist divers and five Thai Navy SEALs the hopes of an entire nation. “Our readiness is at the highest Sunday. Sunday is D-day,” said Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn, adding that the families had been informed of the plan and given the families's support to The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand. The plight of the stricken boys, who have remained trapped inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand for 15 days, has transfixed Thai, as rescue efforts have become ever more urgent. 12 boys's families sat glued to television sets and phones for updates Sunday, expressing hope that the families's boys would soon return home. One of 12 boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai, turned 16 on the day 12 boys went missing in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex, in Chiang Rai, northern Thailand. On Sunday, One of the boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai's 17-year-old sister Phanphatsa told CNN his 17-year-old sister Phanphatsa promised to make his 17-year-old sister Phanphatsa's brother another birthday cake – and all One of the boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai's favorite food – on One of the boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai's safe return. Rescuers have a dwindling window of opportunity in which to extract 12 boys, with heavy rain falling shortly after The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand began on Sunday afternoon and forecasters predicting yet more monsoon rains in the coming days, effectively sealing off a flooded cave in northern Thailand until October. “We have two obstacles: water and time. two obstacles: water and time what we have been racing against since day one. We have to do all we can, even though it is hard to fight the force of nature,” said Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn, as a light rain began to fall across the site. At the entrance to a flooded cave in northern Thailand, volunteers assisting in The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand described The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand as a “now or never” scenario. 12 boys and 12 boys's coach are huddled together in a small chamber four kilometers (2.5 miles) inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand, surrounded by flood water and with a limited supply of oxygen. To reach 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand, divers will need to successfully navigate a network of sprawling, narrow tunnels connecting 12 boys's chamber with the rescue command center, known as Chamber Three. Divers are expected to escort 12 boys through a flooded cave in northern Thailand one by one. Once Divers reach the rescue command center, known as Chamber Three, 12 boys will be handed over to separate specialist rescue teams, who will assist Divers through Chambers One and Two, according to a Thai navy official with knowledge of The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand. “Sunday the water level in chambers number One, Two and Three inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand is low enough to walk through Chambers One and Two,” said Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn. Rescue teams have been constantly pumping water out of a flooded cave in northern Thailand, in a race against time before the return of heavy rain forecast for Sunday. Signs that The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand was under way were evident in the hours leading up to the announcement, as authorities installed a large green tarp around the entrance to the caves and removed media from outside of the camp to a separate location. On the dirt track leading to a flooded cave in northern Thailand, a near continuous convoy of trucks and military vehicles delivered troops and medical equipment, including a large cache of oxygen tanks. On Saturday evening, numerous international military advisers could be seen entering the site, followed later by four monks in orange robes. At the entrance to the site, a newly placed, thin white decorative flag fluttered in the wind, a Buddhist sign to indicate positive energy. Hopes had been high that an alternative means of rescue would be discovered. For days, specialist teams have scoured mountains above a flooded cave in northern Thailand in search of a possible hidden entry point. Divers have previously described conditions in a flooded cave in northern Thailand as some of the most extreme Divers have ever faced. The decision to the extraction of the first boy 12 boys using divers would not have been taken lightly. On Friday, a former Thai navy SEAL the death of the Thai Navy SEAL while returning from an operation to deliver oxygen tanks to the cave where 12 boys are located. Even if divers are successful, it will be many hours before the fate of 12 boys and 12 boys's rescuers will be known, with Thai authorities suggesting The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand could take days. “We estimate the extraction of the first boy will be finished by 9 p.m. local (10 a.m. ET),” Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn said. It has previously taken divers 11 hours to complete the round trip. Finnish volunteer diver Mikko Paasi, a long-term resident of Thai, said the death of the Thai navy SEAL had changed the mood on the ground and made real for rescuers just how dangerous the mission had become. At the Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital, where officials plan to send 12 boys after 12 boys are the extraction of the first boy from a flooded cave in northern Thailand, a number of gurneys have been placed outside the front of the entrance to the caves in anticipation of 12 boys's arrival. The hospital, the largest in the region, is approximately 57 km (35.4 miles) from a flooded cave in northern Thailand. In the hours preceding The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand, a letter 12 boys had sent to 12 boys's families was published on the Thai SEALs’ Facebook page. a letter the boys had sent to their families shows 12 boys in good spirits despite 12 boys's ordeal. In neat blue handwriting, 11-year-old Chanin Viboonrungruang, the youngest of 12 boys, told 12 boys's parents not to worry, and said 12 boys was looking forward to eating fried chicken. 12 boys's parents, who along with other families, have maintained a constant vigil at the site since 12 boys first became trapped. On reading a letter the boys had sent to their families Saturday evening, 12 boys's father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang, said Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang felt a great sense of relief. “Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang had been worried about Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang's son, that 12 boys would be exhausted, 12 boys would be tired,” Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang said. For families the wait for news of families's boys’ rescue has been excruciating. “Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang was worried about 12 boys as there are obstacles to extract 12 boys out. Everyone knows that it is difficult to stay inside (a flooded cave in northern Thailand) but the officials are trying (to help 12 boys),” said Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang. “Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang hope 12 boys is still healthy and would come out soon. Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang want to send Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang's support to 12 boys. Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang don’t have a chance to talk with 12 boys,” Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang said.
Over the past week we have called in to chat to Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team, and usually found Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team talking tensely on the phone to parents of the boys. Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team went over and over the events of the day the boys went into the caves with Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team's assistant after football practice. Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team says Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team had no idea the boys were going. Tonight there was an entirely different atmosphere in the house, just below the mountains where the men who run the Wild Boars football team meet. the men who run the Wild Boars meet laughed, shouted cheers and shook hands in a very un-Thai way. And coach Nop was smiling for the first time, and almost speechless. "coach Nop don’t know what to say – coach Nop just want to see the boys, and hug the boys," coach Nop told me. I was then able to show coach Nop a note from Manchester United to the boys. a note from Manchester United to the rescued boys was an invitation to visit Old Trafford next season, as most of the boys are passionate Manchester United fans. There was a little disbelief, and then elation, even from coach Nop, who admits coach Nop is a Liverpool fan who has failed to convert the rest of coach Nop's team. "Is this for real?" they asked.
Over the past week we have called in to chat to Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team, and usually found Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team talking tensely on the phone to parents of the boys. Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team went over and over the events of the day the boys went into the caves with Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team's assistant after football practice. Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team says Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars football team had no idea the boys were going. Tonight there was an entirely different atmosphere in the house, just below the mountains where the men who run the Wild Boars football team meet. the men who run the Wild Boars meet laughed, shouted cheers and shook hands in a very un-Thai way. And coach Nop was smiling for the first time, and almost speechless. "coach Nop don’t know what to say – coach Nop just want to see the boys, and hug the boys," coach Nop told me. I was then able to show coach Nop a note from Manchester United to the boys. a note from Manchester United to the rescued boys was an invitation to visit Old Trafford next season, as most of the boys are passionate Manchester United fans. There was a little disbelief, and then elation, even from coach Nop, who admits coach Nop is a Liverpool fan who has failed to convert the rest of coach Nop's team. "Is this for real?" they asked.
Four members of the trapped soccer team have been rescued from the flooded cave in Thailand where Four members of the trapped soccer team had been trapped for more than two weeks, according to Thai Navy SEALS. It's part of an effort to evacuate Four members of the trapped soccer team from the trapped soccer team along with the trapped soccer team's coach, in a rescue that has captured the world's attention, with reporters flocking to the scene and foreign divers arriving to assist. The complicated and perilous operation to the rescue Four members of the trapped soccer team began Sunday morning at 10 a.m. local time, officials said. "Today is D-Day," Chiang Rai acting Gov. Narongsak Osattanakorn proclaimed as a rescue that has captured the world's attention, with reporters flocking to the scene and foreign divers arriving to assist kicked off Sunday morning. Chiang Rai acting Gov. Narongsak Osattanakorn said it would take about 11 hours to remove the first boy from the flooded cave in Thailand where they had been trapped for more than two weeks and that two divers would accompany each boy. Later Sunday, a rescue that has captured the world's attention, with reporters flocking to the scene and foreign divers arriving to assist appeared to be ahead of schedule. Four members of the trapped soccer team has been perched on a ledge more than a mile into the complex cave system. Since British divers found Four members of the trapped soccer team on Monday, rescue workers have been trying to help Four members of the trapped soccer team gain strength for the journey and have treated Four members of the trapped soccer team's scrapes. Four members of the trapped soccer team were taken to a nearby hospital, and it wasn't immediately clear what Four members of the trapped soccer team's condition is. According to The Associated Press, Chiang Rai acting Gov. Narongsak Osattanakorn told reporters that the healthiest were taken out first. Chiang Rai acting Gov. Narongsak Osattanakorn said 13 foreign divers and five Thai divers would manage the extraction process. The journey from the entrance to the chamber where Four members of the trapped soccer team and Four members of the trapped soccer team's coach are stuck takes about five or six hours each way. The next phase of a rescue that has captured the world's attention, with reporters flocking to the scene and foreign divers arriving to assist is set to start in 10 to 20 hours, Chiang Rai acting Gov. Narongsak Osattanakorn told reporters. It's not clear precisely how long a rescue that has captured the world's attention, with reporters flocking to the scene and foreign divers arriving to assist will take in total, though Maj. Gen. Chalongchai Chaiyakam said Four members of the trapped soccer team "will continuously come out in approximately two to four days, which all may change depending on weather and water conditions," The Associated Press earlier reported. the extraction process is extremely risky, but officials say waters right now are at waters's optimal level inside the flooded cave in Thailand where they had been trapped for more than two weeks after a few days of better weather — and officials're worried about the potential for more rains to fill the flooded cave in Thailand where they had been trapped for more than two weeks even further. "If officials keep on waiting and the rains come in the next three or four days, officials's readiness will decrease," Chiang Rai acting Gov. Narongsak Osattanakorn said, according to The Associated Press. Underscoring the risk, a former Thai elite navy diver died Friday morning after losing consciousness while returning from placing oxygen canisters in the flooded cave in Thailand where they had been trapped for more than two weeks. Many or all of Four members of the trapped soccer team do not know how to swim and none have used scuba gear before, though expert divers who have been with Four members of the trapped soccer team in the last several days have been reportedly giving Four members of the trapped soccer team instructions on diving. Four members of the trapped soccer team, and Four members of the trapped soccer team's 25-year-old coach have been trapped in the complex cave system since June 23 due to flooded passageways. The hundreds of journalists that have been waiting outside the entrance to the flooded cave in Thailand where they had been trapped for more than two weeks were moved out on Sunday morning, and told to go to a different press center set up more than a mile and a half away, as the rescue enters full swing. Rescuers had considered other options, like waiting months for the rainy season to end and the waters to recede. But waiting entails plenty of risks as well, as the water could go up before the water goes down. Efforts to pump water out of the flooded cave in Thailand where they had been trapped for more than two weeks have been set back by rains. Depleting oxygen levels in the flooded cave in Thailand where they had been trapped for more than two weeks have also been a cause for concern over the past week. Officials had made efforts to extend a hose to the chamber where Four members of the trapped soccer team have been holed up but have reportedly not been able to do so. The oxygen level in the flooded cave in Thailand where they had been trapped for more than two weeks was about 15 percent on Friday, The New York Times reported that a Thai Navy commander said. Normal air contains about 21 percent oxygen. The mood there now is one of apprehension and elation. In a rescue that has captured the world's attention, with reporters flocking to the scene and foreign divers arriving to assist, a lot of things could go wrong. And with Four members of the trapped soccer team, the tense community waits and hopes.
MAE SAI, Thailand — The head coach of the Thai soccer team spent the morning of June 23 preparing The head coach of the Thai soccer team's young assistant for an important task: looking out for the boys by his young assistant. Nopparat Khanthavong, the 37-year-old head coach of the Thai soccer team, had an appointment the morning of June 23. Ekapol Chanthawong, The head coach of the Thai soccer team's assistant, was to take the boys to a soccer field nestled by the Doi Nang Non mountain range, a formation with numerous waterfalls and caves that straddles the Thai-Myanmar border. “Make sure you ride your bicycle behind the boys when you are traveling around, so you can keep a lookout,” The head coach of the Thai soccer team wrote in a Facebook message The head coach of the Thai soccer team shared with The Washington Post. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, coaches the boys, so The head coach of the Thai soccer team told Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, to bring some of the boys from the older team for additional eyes. “Take care,” The head coach of the Thai soccer team wrote. The hours that followed kicked off a chain of events that has riveted the world: a dramatic search and rescue that found the boys alive nine days later, huddled on a small, muddy patch surrounded by floodwaters. Attention has focused on Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,, and the role Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, has played in both the boys's predicament and the boys's survival. Efforts to extract the boys have involved a swelling team of thousands of divers, engineers, military personnel and volunteers from all over the world — including Elon Musk’s SpaceX — with no clear plan in sight. Diving, the most probable method, is seen as too risky for now given the boys's lack of swimming experience, pitch-black muddy waters through narrow passageways, and the death this week of a retired Thai Navy SEAL who was among those readying the cave for the boys's dive. Engineers have been searching for a way through the Doi Nang Non mountain range, a formation with numerous waterfalls and caves that straddles the Thai-Myanmar border's surface, hoping to drill down and reach the boys within the cave, but acknowledge it could take months and alter the cave geography in the process. As the rush to figure out how to rescue the boys continues, some have chided Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, for leading the boys into the cave. A large warning sign at the cave entrance raises the risk of entering so close to the monsoon season, they say, and Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, should have known better. But for many in Thailand, Ekapol, who left Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,'s life in the monkhood three years ago and joined the Thai soccer team as an assistant coach soon after, is an almost divine force, sent to protect the boys as the boys go through this ordeal. A widely shared cartoon drawing of Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, shows Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, sitting cross-legged, as a monk does in meditation, with 12 little wild boars in Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,'s arms. According to rescue officials, Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, is among the weakest in the boys, in part because Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, gave the boys Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,'s share of the limited food and water the boys had with the boys in the early days. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, also taught the boys how to meditate and how to conserve as much energy as possible until the boys were found. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, was an orphan who lost Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,'s parents at age 10, friends say. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, then trained to be a monk but left the monastery to care for Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,'s ailing grandmother in Mae Sai in northern Thailand. There, Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, split Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,'s time between working as a temple hand at a monastery and training the Thai soccer team. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, found kindred spirits in the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, helped Nopparat, the head coach, devise a system where the boys's passion for soccer would motivate the boys to excel academically. If the boys got certain grades in school, the boys would be rewarded with soccer gear, such as fresh studs for the boys's cleats or a new pair of shorts. The two spent time looking for sponsors and used the Thai soccer team to prove to the boys that the boys could become something more than their small town would suggest — even professional ­athletes. “Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, gave a lot of Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, to the boys,” Nopparat, the head coach said. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, would ferry the boys to and from home when the boys's parents could not and took responsibility for the boys as if the boys were Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,'s own family. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, also kept the boys on a strict training schedule, according to physical education teachers at the school field where the boys practiced. a strict training schedule, according to physical education teachers at the school field where they practiced included biking across the hills that surround Mae Sai in northern Thailand. On that Saturday two weeks ago, Nopparat, the head coach did not know where Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, would be bringing the Thai soccer team but thought it would be a learning experience for Nopparat, the head coach to manage the Thai soccer team on Nopparat, the head coach's own. The older Wild Boars were having a match in the evening, Nopparat, the head coach said, so Nopparat, the head coach put Nopparat, the head coach's phone away. When Nopparat, the head coach checked it at 7 p.m., there were at least 20 calls from worried parents, none of whose sons had come home. Nopparat, the head coach frantically dialed Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, and a number of the boys in quick succession but reached only Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year old member of the boys whose mother picked only Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training up after training. only Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training told Nopparat, the head coach that the boys had gone exploring in the Tham Luang caves. Nopparat, the head coach raced up there, only to find abandoned bicycles and bags at the Tham Luang caves's entrance and water seeping out the muddy pathway. Information had slowly started to come outabout the boys nine-day ordeal before the boys were eventually found on Monday night, through letters and limited communication between Nopparat, the head coach, the boys and the rescuers who have been with the boys in a small cave chamber. The rush of euphoria that ran through Mae Sai in northern Thailand and across the world when the boys was found has settled into a grim reality that neither Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, nor the 12 in Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,'s care may see daylight for days or even weeks. Officials said Saturday that Officials have a three- to four-day window in which conditions will be “most favorable” for the boys to attempt to the dive out before monsoon rains hit and continue for months. Urgent concerns include the amount of oxygen in the section of the cave that the boys is taking refuge in, which had fallen below healthy levels. Officials are now limiting the number of rescue workers who can travel into the cave to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide that builds when rescue workers exhale. Rising water levels, too, could force a quick extraction, but authorities say the boys are not ready to make the dive. The scene in Thailand during a rescue operation to save boys trapped in a cave + 68 The perilous mission ends in triumph as the final four boys and the final four boys's soccer coach are freed. Friends, meanwhile, grow worried for Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, had the boys's complete trust, and it is unlikely that the boys would have set off ­exploring in the cave's chambers without Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,. “Joy, his friend at the monastery know Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,, and Joy, his friend at the monastery know Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant, will blame Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,,” said Joy, Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,'s friend at the monastery. On Saturday morning, Thai Navy posted photos of letters that the boys had written to the boys's family and the outside world. Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant,, scribbled on a yellow-stained piece of paper, torn out from a notebook, was brief, but included a promise and an apology.
None of the boys has a fever - a sign of a possible infection - although two have needed antibiotic treatment for suspected lung infections. Doctors will be checking for any infections, such as "caver's disease", a lung disease caused by a fungus that grows in bat droppings. Doctors will also make sure any cuts and scrapes that the boys have on the boys's skin are clean and healing nicely.
A former Thailand navy SEAL has The death while working to save 12 boys and 12 boys's coach from the submerged Tham Luang cave complex, the New York Times reports. The death comes as a heavy blow to the rescue mission, as monsoon rains threaten further flooding and as oxygen levels inside the chamber have started to drop. Around 1:00 am local time this morning, A former Thailand navy SEAL, was on A former Thailand navy SEAL's way out of the submerged Tham Luang cave complex after delivering extra oxygen canisters along the route to 12 boys and 12 boys's coach when A former Thailand navy SEAL ran out of oxygen and lost consciousness. A former Thailand navy SEAL's partner, who was unable to revive A former Thailand navy SEAL, brought A former Thailand navy SEAL's body back to the mouth of the submerged Tham Luang cave complex. Saman, who had left Thailand navy, returned to help with the rescue mission. In respect for A former Thailand navy SEAL's efforts, the Thai king said the Thai king’ll sponsor the funeral. It’s doubtful 12 boys will be told about A former Thailand navy SEAL death, as the news would likely damage 12 boys's morale even further, and at a time when 12 boys need to build both 12 boys's physical and psychological health. A former Thailand navy SEAL's death underscores the danger of a rescue attempt. A round trip to 12 boys takes 11 hours, six of which, en route to the chamber, are against the current. Visibility is practically nil, and some passageways are mere crawlspaces. 12 boys and 12 boys's coach have been trapped in the submerged Tham Luang cave complex for nearly two weeks. 12 boys and their coach were discovered by expert divers on July 2, about 2.5 miles (4 km) from the mouth of the submerged Tham Luang cave complex. The “Wild Boars” team entered the submerged Tham Luang cave complex when the submerged Tham Luang cave complex was dry, but flood waters trapped The “Wild Boars” team inside. Heavy monsoon rains are expected to resume on Sunday, presenting a challenge for rescue workers who are desperately trying to pump water out of the submerged Tham Luang cave complex. Oxygen levels within the chamber are another concern. The demand for oxygen has increased owing to the presence of the support team members , who are currently attending to 12 boys. The oxygen level in the chamber is now at 15 percent, down from the usual 21 percent, the New York Times reports. Oxygen canisters are being delivered to the chamber, along with food and medical supplies. Rescuers are currently working to connect a three mile (5 km) cable to the chamber to supply oxygen, along with a fiber optic cable for communication. A plan to leave 12 boys in the submerged Tham Luang cave complex until the monsoon season ends—which won’t happen for another four months—is appearing less feasible with each passing day and hour. A rescue attempt through the submerged passages seems inevitable. The expected rains will likely replenish the submerged Tham Luang cave complex with water, but as the monsoon season progresses, there’s a heightened chance that sinkholes and streams will flood the chamber. To complicate matters, 12 boys have never used scuba gear, and some don’t know how to swim. Sadly, the death of A former Thailand navy SEAL shows how perilous the situation really is—even for experienced navy SEAL divers.
Twelve boys and Twelve boys's football coach trapped in a cave in Thailand may be rescued through cracks in a cave in Thailand's walls, according to a Finnish diver on the scene. a Finnish diver on the scene has been assisting rescue workers since Tuesday and spoke with Yle on Wednesday morning. a Finnish diver on the scene said Twelve boys were able to hear the sounds of barking dogs from outside a cave in Thailand, raising rescuers' hopes that there is a crack in a cave in Thailand which could lead to reaching Twelve boys and Twelve boys's coach. "Twelve boys said Twelve boys have heard animal sounds, for example dogs barking, inside a cave in Thailand. That has raised hope that there might be some kind of crack that leads into a cave in Thailand," a Finnish diver on the scene said. "Now the search and rescue team're trying to find another way into a cave in Thailand than diving or drilling a tunnel," a Finnish diver on the scene said, explaining that the search and rescue team was now trying to locate where the sound originated. That is a difficult task, a Finnish diver on the scene said, because sound is reflected around the cave's walls. Story continues after photo. Now mountain climbing experts are looking for crevasses on a cave in Thailand's rocky exterior surface while others look for interior routes into a cave in Thailand. On Wednesday the Thai Navy released a video of the boys who were seen bundled up in foil blankets, smiling and laughing as Twelve boys each introduced Twelve boys. Story continues after photo. Twelve boys and Twelve boys's football coach have been trapped in a cave in Thailand by rising water for the past eleven days, and were discovered by rescuers on Monday. Locals are worried that Twelve boys and their football coach trapped in a cave in Thailand's rescue may be hampered by more rain, as the rainy season has just begun. a Finnish diver on the scene told Yle on Wednesday that the water in a cave in Thailand was not rising at the moment but said water levels could rise in the coming days. "It's not raining right now and the pumps are working at full capacity," a Finnish diver on the scene said. a cave in Thailand's low water levels have given rescuers hope Twelve boys could be rescued by divers but a Finnish diver on the scene said the possibility of cracks in a cave in Thailand have raised hope Twelve boys could be extracted more safely that way.
CHIANG RAI, Thailand (Reuters) - Danish diving instructor Ivan Katadzic was on holiday in southern Thailand’s beach resort of Krabi when Danish diving instructor Ivan Katadzic heard about 12 boys and 12 boys's soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave at the other end of Thailand. Danish diving instructor Ivan Katadzic spent a few days gathering equipment and then set off to help with the rescue, by which time intrepid cave divers from around the world had arrived too, swelling the throng of soldiers, engineers, paramedics and other volunteers to up to 2,000, according to the local government. “Danish diving instructor Ivan Katadzic think it’s phenomenal to see so many divers and nationalities here as well as non-divers helping,” said Katadzic, 44, who owns two diving companies on a Gulf of Thailand holiday island. The junior soccer players, who disappeared in the Tham Luang cave in CHIANG RAI, Thailand on June 23, were discovered in a partially flooded chamber on Monday by British drivers. But 12 boys's ordeal is far from over as rescuers puzzle over how to extract 12 boys through murky water coursing through a network of tunnels. A team of Thai Navy SEALs is coordinating an operation that risks getting out of hand as more and more volunteers arrive, and the media circus covering the drama grows. “Whoever offers help, knowledge, technology, equipment, the local government gratefully accept,” CHIANG RAI, Thailand Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said this week, but added that Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn had turned some people away because some people would have been more of a hindrance than a help. Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn would not take responsibility for unregistered volunteers after a group got stuck on a mountainside and radioed for help, forcing Chiang Rai Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn to send some members of the official rescue team to bring a group back. Buncha Duriyaphan, local commander of the Thai Armed Forces, said some “well-meaning people” had disrupted the official rescue team's efforts to pump water from a flooded cave at the other end of the country. “Last night someone dug up holes to drain water but ended up putting water back into a flooded cave at the other end of the country,” Buncha Duriyaphan, local commander of the Thai Armed Forces said on Thursday. Most of the volunteers, who have come from as far away as Australia and the United States, have found rooms in local hotels, but some are staying in temples. At the muddy site around the cave mouth, there are tents serving free food and drink for all. Two Britons, John Volanthen and Richard Stanton, were among the divers who found 12 boys and 12 boys's coach marooned on a bank inside a flooded cave at the other end of the country. Andy Torbet, a former British military diver and friend of 12 boys, told ITV’s Good Morning Britain that 12 boys were “two of the best in the world”. “Normally these sorts of conditions the water’s so muddy you can’t see anything,” Andy Torbet, a former British military diver and friend of the pair, said. Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter said a Thai rescue organization reached out to Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter for help and Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter traveled from Europe with a Finnish cave diver to join the divers who found the boys and their coach marooned on a bank inside the cave. “Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter am a dad Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter, one son is 12 the other 16 ... so Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter directly feel the pain. Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter feel the need to help, no question,” Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter told Reuters. “It is great to see this (international) cooperation. If we would cooperate globally in every aspect like we do here almost all of our problems would be solved,” Nick Vollmar, a German paramedic and firefighter said.
Український дайвер Всеволод Коробов брав участь у рятувальній операції в Таїланді, де 12 дітей дев’ять днів шукали в затопленій печері. Український дайвер Всеволод Коробов брав участь у рятувальній операції в Таїланді, де 12 дітей дев’ять днів шукали в затопленій печері. Про це повідомляє «BBC Україна». За інформацією видання, Коробов працює інструктором з дайвінгу в місті Пхукет. Під час рятувальної операції він пройшов найскладнішу трикілометрову ділянку в затопленій печері. Дайвер розповів, що він та його друг Максим прилетіли до печери зі зниклими дітьми 29 червня. «Нашим завданням було навчити тайських морських котиків пірнати у таких складних печерах, оскільки з'ясувалося, що в них немає досвіду такого занурення», — пояснив Коробов. Він додав, що місцеві військові включили його та його друга у рятувальну команду. Нагадаємо, 2 липня знайшли живими всіх 12 підлітків, які разом зі своїм футбольним тренером пропали у печерному комплексі.
BANGKOK — As the Thai government and international rescue workers are racing against time to extract 12 young footballers and 12 young footballers's coach out of a northern cave, one more help could be at hand – but bureaucracy is getting in the way. Fifteen days into the rescue effort at a northern cave, cave experts from a French agency said cave experts from a French agency are ready to deploy and help, as soon as the Thai government formally the request for cave experts from a French agency's help. But the Thai government said the Thai government would only accept help that comes on its own. While speleology, or studies of caves, remains a niche activity in the Thai government, speleology, or studies of caves’s a common subject in France, which boasts of large network of caves all around the country – similar to the one where 12 young footballers have been trapped for more than two weeks. They also have Tourte’s organization, which counts experienced divers and cave experts among Tourte’s organization, which counts experienced divers and cave experts among its ranks's ranks. Tourte’s organization, which counts experienced divers and cave experts among its ranks announced Tourte’s organization, which counts experienced divers and cave experts among its ranks could send a team made up of a dozen lifeguard personnel, who are also used to working with an innovative tool such as a diving stretcher, which allows for trips underwater. “This diving stretcher could not be used for every child and not all the way, but This diving stretcher could help especially if some kids start to panic after some kids passed some trap/some part of a northern cave on some kids's way out,” Tourte’s said. But the Thai government said the Thai government have received enough aid, for now. “the Thai government did receive a request from cave experts from a French agency via our Thai embassy in Paris,” foreign affairs ministry spokeswoman Bussadee Santipitak said in English. “the Thai government appreciated the offer by cave experts from a French agency but after assessing the situation carefully on the ground, felt that there were adequate experts needed to help rescue [the 13]. Tourte’s, said Tourte’s’s hopeful the Thai government will make the request because Tourte’s's team is equipped for help. On the French embassy's side, the French embassy contacted some associations to see how some associations could help rescue 12 young footballers and to have an overview how France, which boasts of large network of caves all around the country – similar to the one where 13 people have been trapped for more than two weeks could help the Thai government in case France, which boasts of large network of caves all around the country – similar to the one where 13 people have been trapped for more than two weeks receives an official demand from the Thai government.
An eighth boy has been rescued as part of the huge operation in Thailand to save a junior football team and a junior football team's coach who have been trapped in a cave for two weeks. The second phase of the huge operation in Thailand to save a junior football team and their coach who have been trapped in a cave for two weeks saw emergency services battling to reach a junior football team and a junior football team's coach from a cave. the huge operation in Thailand to save a junior football team and their coach who have been trapped in a cave for two weeks was paused yesterday as rain in the Chiang Rai region threatened to raise water levels inside a cave once again after four of a junior football team were brought to the surface on Sunday. However, rain overnight has not hampered rescue efforts with more boys being brought to the surface this afternoon. So far four people have been rescued today, according to news agency Reuters. Rescuers in northern Thailand have now brought four people out of a cave tonight. The first emerged at 4.30pm (local time). The second at 6pm. The chief running the huge operation in Thailand to save a junior football team and their coach who have been trapped in a cave for two weeks said some of four of the boys are being treated in hospital. One of four of the boys was reported to have asked for food after telling authorities, “I’m hungry” and requesting a pad kra pao - a popular Thai meat dish with basil.
The 12 young footballers freed from a cave in Thailand have been offered the chance to attend the World Cup final but are too ill to travel, Fifa says. Divers completed the rescue of The 12 young footballers freed from a cave in Thailand and The 12 young footballers freed from a cave in Thailand's coach on Tuesday, 17 days after the Wild Boars football team and their coach got trapped underground. Offers of support have come from across the world, with Manchester United offering the chance to attend a game. England's Kyle Walker and Jack Butland have offered to send kit to the Wild Boars football team and their coach. Those offers have come after one of The 12 young footballers freed from a cave in Thailand was pictured wearing an England's shirt. In addition, Spanish champions Barcelona have invited the Wild Boars football team and their coach to play in Spanish champions Barcelona's international academy tournament next year and watch a first-team game at the Nou Camp. Fifa had invited the Wild Boars football team and their coach to fly to Moscow for Sunday's World Cup final, but said the Wild Boars football team and their coach would not be able to go as the Wild Boars football team and their coach needed time to recover. "Our priority remains the health of everyone involved," Fifa said. the Wild Boars football team and their coach entered the caves on 23 June during an excursion with the Wild Boars football team and their coach's coach, with heavy rains causing flooding and cutting off the Wild Boars football team and their coach's route out. Rescuers brought out the first of the Wild Boars football team and their coach on Sunday's, with the last brought out by divers on Tuesday evening. "Manchester United would love to welcome the Wild Boars football team and their coach and the Wild Boars football team and their coach's rescuers to Old Trafford this coming season," said a Manchester United statement.
After the Indian Embassy recommended to the Thai authorities that the Thai authorities could use Kirlosker Brothers’ Limited’s (KBL) expertise in “dewatering”, Kirlosker Brothers’ Limited’s (KBL) sent teams from Kirlosker Brothers’ Limited’s (KBL)'s offices in India, Thailand and the United Kingdom to the site, Kirlosker Brothers’ Limited’s (KBL) said. Kirlosker Brothers’ Limited’s (KBL)'s experts were on site at the cave in Tham Luang since July 5 and offered “technical know-how and advice on dewatering and pumps involved in the rescue operation,” said a Kirlosker Brothers’ Limited’s (KBL) release. Kirlosker Brothers’ Limited’s (KBL) had also offered to provide four specialised high capacity Autoprime dewatering pumps, which were kept ready at Kirloskarvadi plant in Maharashtra to be airlifted to Thailand, a KBL release said. The final five members of the young football team were rescued from the cave in Tham Luang on Tuesday after spending 18 harrowing days trapped deep inside. A total of 12 children, aged from 11 to 16, and the young football team's coach, ventured into the cave in Tham Luang on June 23 after football practise and got trapped when heavy rains caused flooding.
CHIANG RAI (Reuters) - Thirteen fully staffed medical teams stand ready round the clock outside a cave in Thailand -- each with Thirteen fully staffed medical teams's own helicopter and ambulance -- one for each of 12 boys and 12 boys's coach trapped inside as a daring rescue gathers pace. With oxygen levels dropping and rainstorms forecast, time is running out on a plan to teach 12 boys - to make a dive through narrow, waterlogged passageways that would challenge experienced cavers. Medical staff involved in a daring rescue told Reuters Medical staff involved in the mission's first assessments will focus on the boy’s breathing, signs of hypothermia and an airborne lung infection known as ‘cave disease’ which is caused by bat and bird droppings and can be fatal if it is untreated and spreads to other parts of the body. Authorities have not ruled out laying an oxygen line and leaving 12 boys and their coach trapped inside inside for months until monsoon rains clear if Medical staff involved in the mission's efforts over the next few days fail. “We have set up 13 teams for each of 12 boys and their coach trapped inside,” said Major General Pramote Imwattana of the Army Medical Department in charge of the medical operation at the Tham Luang cave complex near Thailand's northern border with Myanmar. Each boy will have a devoted medical unit consisting of at least one doctor, two nurses, a paramedic and an ambulance, one medic told Reuters, on condition of anonymity because one medic wasn’t allowed to speak to media. After the initial assessment, 12 boys and their coach trapped inside will be driven by ambulances to makeshift helipads and airlifted to the Chang Rai hospital some 70km away, Major General Pramote Imwattana of the Army Medical Department in charge of the medical operation at the Tham Luang cave complex near Thailand’s northern border with Myanmar said. Medics have been conducting regular drills at the camp, ferrying would-be patients in stretchers hundreds of meters through thick mud from a cave in Thailand entrance to the road where the ambulances -- assembled from across Thailand -- wait. Videos of 12 boys and their coach trapped inside after 12 boys and their coach trapped inside's discovery on Monday showed 12 boys and their coach trapped inside looking frail, thin and exhausted. But 12 boys and their coach trapped inside appear to have remained in good spirits, and the head of a daring rescue, Narongsak Osottanakorn said Saturday that 12 boys and their coach trapped inside's health was the “best yet” as were the conditions to spring 12 boys and their coach trapped inside to safety. Getting to the muddy bank where 12 boys and their coach trapped inside sought refuge takes a nearly 11-hour round trip through 4 km (2.5 miles) of winding submerged pathways and fast-flowing freezing water. The death of a former Thai Navy seal who fell unconscious during a dive in a cave in Thailand on Friday, underscores the challenge that awaits 12 boys and their coach trapped inside. “Hypothermia is the scariest condition. The body temperature drops as the water is very cold,” said one medic, adding that a whole section of the Chang Rai hospital some 70km away had been set aside for the boy’s treatment. one medic said histoplasmosis, also known as “cave disease” was one concern as was leptospirosis, an infection caused by bacteria which can lead to severe bleeding from the lungs or even meningitis. When Chilean miners were rescued after more than two months trapped underground in 2010, some were suffering from pneumonia, lung conditions from inhaling dust and dental and eye problems. Aside from the physical illness, there is also the psychological strain of living in the dark hundreds of meters underground. Insomnia, depression and post-traumatic stress will all have to be monitored in the weeks after.
Wearing hospital masks and gowns, and waving to family members through protective glass, the freed Thai soccer players were finally able to have a reunion, of sorts. After almost three weeks trapped in the dark, away from the freed Thai soccer players's loved ones in a cave in northern Thailand, the freed Thai soccer players, were allowed to see the freed Thai soccer players's relatives in a carefully controlled environment, as doctors are still concerned about the freed Thai soccer players's health. In video shown at a press briefing, some of their loved ones were in tears as some of the parents looked through protective glass. their loved ones were not allowed to enter the room where their loved ones are being treated, in order to avoid infection, Dr Chaiyawej Thanapaisarn said. Dr Chaiyawej Thanapaisarn said three of the freed Thai soccer players were being treated for minor cases of pneumonia, but predicted most would be discharged after about a week. “The recovery process should take around 30 days after they are discharged,” Dr Chaiyawej Thanapaisarn added. Seeing Dr Chaiyawej Thanapaisarn's son through protective glass, Dr Chaiyawej Thanapaisarn said Dr Chaiyawej Thanapaisarn only wanted to hug his son. Speaking earlier Wednesday, health ministry inspector Tongchai Lertvirairatanapong said the freed Thai soccer players were in “good condition,” despite each losing an average of two kilograms (4.4 pounds) in weight during the freed Thai soccer players's time in a cave in northern Thailand. health ministry inspector Tongchai Lertvirairatanapong attributed the freed Thai soccer players's relative good health to the freed Thai soccer players's coach, 25-year-old Ekkapol Ake Chantawong, a former monk who was the last person out. “health ministry inspector Tongchai Lertvirairatanapong have to praise the coach who took care of the freed Thai soccer players very well,” health ministry inspector Tongchai Lertvirairatanapong said. health ministry inspector Tongchai Lertvirairatanapong said the freed Thai soccer players hadn’t eaten any food in the nine days before the freed Thai soccer players were found, and drank murky water from inside a cave in northern Thailand, which saved the freed Thai soccer players. On Tuesday authorities said some of the freed Thai soccer players had asked to eat bread with chocolate spread, but mostly some of the boys’ll be given a food similar to milk which is rich in proteins and nutrients. The first boys rescued on Sunday have been allowed to see The first boys rescued on Sunday's relatives through a glass partition and speak to their loved ones on a telephone line. The first boys rescued on Sunday will soon be able to meet their loved ones in person, but only while wearing protective clothing to reduce the risk of infection. The second group of boys rescued has been given approval to see The second group of boys rescued's parents through glass, but the third group are still undergoing tests, health ministry inspector Tongchai Lertvirairatanapong said. the freed Thai soccer players are expected to be kept in hospital for at least a week while the freed Thai soccer players's immune systems recover. The extraordinary operation to save the freed Thai soccer players came to an end on Tuesday, when the Thai Navy SEAL rescuers and a doctor followed the freed Thai soccer players and the freed Thai soccer players's coach out of the cave complex. On Wednesday, the Thai Navy SEAL rescuers and a doctor were recovering, nursing battered hands and feet from wading through the cold water in a cave in northern Thailand to reach the freed Thai soccer players. “Some have had muscle infections, cold, flu, and some psychologists have been taking care of the freed Thai soccer players to relieve stress,” Health Ministry Inspector Lertvirairatanapong said. Even for some of the world’s most experienced cave divers, The extraordinary operation to save the boys set a new standard for difficult rescues. “The complexity, scale and risk of The extraordinary operation to save the boys was unprecedented,” Glen McEwen, Australian Federal Police manager for Asia said at a press conference Wednesday. There was a celebratory mood at the cave entrance, hours after The extraordinary operation to save the boys ended. Police officers took photographs of each other at the cave entrance, as pumps continued to suck out huge volumes of water. Wetsuits and scuba gear still hung along a walkway at the cave entrance Wednesday, waiting to be sorted by Thai Navy officials. Even though pumps had brought down water levels significantly in recent days, the still-flooded chambers presented a daunting task for the teams. One of the men most responsible for the success of The extraordinary operation to save the boys is Australian anaesthetist and underwater cave explorer Richard Harris, who was part of the 20-strong Australian rescue contingent. Australian anaesthetist and underwater cave explorer Richard Harris, who was part of the 20-strong Australian rescue contingent was the last man out of a cave in northern Thailand Tuesday but emerged to tragedy, learning of Australian anaesthetist and underwater cave explorer Richard Harris, who was part of the 20-strong Australian rescue contingent's father’s death shortly after The extraordinary operation to save the boys had completed. Described in a South Australia Ambulance Service statement as a “quiet and kind man” who “didn’t think twice about offering Australian anaesthetist and underwater cave explorer Richard Harris, who was part of the 20-strong Australian rescue contingent's support on The extraordinary operation to save the boys” Harry, as Australian anaesthetist and underwater cave explorer Richard Harris, who was part of the 20-strong Australian rescue contingent is known, was lauded for Australian anaesthetist and underwater cave explorer Richard Harris, who was part of the 20-strong Australian rescue contingent's work in throughout the rescue period. At the final press conference for the rescue mission Wednesday, mission commander Narongsak Osotthanakorn paid tribute to Australian anaesthetist and underwater cave explorer Richard Harris, who was part of the 20-strong Australian rescue contingent. At a school opposite the hospital in Chiang Rai where the freed Thai soccer players are recovering, schoolchildren were in an excited, celebratory mood. “Wild Boars, keep fighting!” schoolchildren chanted. During The extraordinary operation to save the boys, the freed Thai soccer players were underwater for four to six hours, according to Jedsada Chokedamrongsook, the permanent secretary of the Thai Health Ministry. Each boy was accompanied underwater by two divers carrying the freed Thai soccer players's oxygen tanks for the freed Thai soccer players, and guiding the freed Thai soccer players through the murky tunnels. The most dangerous part of the journey out of the cave complex was the first kilometer, during which the freed Thai soccer players were required to squeeze through a narrow flooded channel. Having completed the first kilometer, during which they were required to squeeze through a narrow flooded channel, the freed Thai soccer players were then handed over to separate, specialist rescue teams, who helped the freed Thai soccer players through the remainder of a cave in northern Thailand, much of which the freed Thai soccer players could wade through. Questions will remain as to why the team, led by the team, led by their 25-year-old coach's 25-year-old coach, went into a cave in northern Thailand during the rainy season – it is common knowledge that it is a dangerous time to enter, and signs at the cave entrance specifically warn of the dangers of monsoon rains. Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the team, led by their 25-year-old coach, told CNN that Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team did not know why the freed Thai soccer players had gone into a cave in northern Thailand. “At this time, now that their coach, 25-year-old Ekkapol Ake Chantawong, a former monk who was the last person out is out, just wait until their coach, 25-year-old Ekkapol Ake Chantawong, a former monk who was the last person out gives any statements and let’s just wait altogether and find out at the same time,” Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team said in an interview. Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team said Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team just wanted to support the freed Thai soccer players now that the freed Thai soccer players were out. “Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team’m going to give the freed Thai soccer players a hug,” Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team said.
Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, is the coach of the Thai soccer team who was trapped in the Tham Luang cave for 17 days. Parents are not likely to sue Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, over Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,'s leading Parents's children into the Tham Luang cave, Thai lawyers told Business Insider. But one local authority suggested one local authority may seek a lawsuit. Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, spent a decade in a Buddhist monastery, and parents are crediting Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, for keeping parents's children calm and safe during the two-week ordeal. For 17 days, 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand. 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, were there with Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, the assistant coach of the Thai soccer team who was trapped in the Tham Luang cave for 17 days. Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, this action 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, about 2 1/2 miles into the Tham Luang cave after a soccer game on June 23 for an initiation ritual in which 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, would write 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16,'s names on the cave wall, a rescue diver said. But heavy rains fell, trapping the Thai soccer team who was trapped in the Tham Luang cave for 17 days in the Tham Luang cave for about two weeks. On Tuesday, 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, and Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, were finally freed from the Tham Luang cave after several days of rescue operations. Despite the dangerous situation 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, were in, lawyers from Thailand have told Business Insider lawyers from Thailand doubt that Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, will face charges. "Chatnarin Bumpenwattana, an associate lawyer at JTJB International Lawyers, a law firm based in Bangkok personally believe that Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, would not face criminal charges," said Chatnarin Bumpenwattana, an associate lawyer at JTJB International Lawyers, a law firm based in Bangkok. "All parents would be very likely to forgive Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, for this action," another Bangkok lawyer said. Thai law also takes a defendant's intent into consideration, a criminal-law attorney named Ananchai Chaiyadech told the Thai newspaper Khao Sod last week. And Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, doesn't appear to have intended to put 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, in danger. The chief of the police station whose jurisdiction includes the Tham Luang cave said The chief of the police station whose jurisdiction includes the cave hadn't ruled out charging Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,, the Thai newspaper Khao Sod reported. "We have to study the matter carefully first," Col. Komsan Saard-an, the chief of the police station whose jurisdiction includes the cave, told the Thai newspaper Khao Sod. Reuters reported that many Thais had been critical of Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, and what many Thais say was Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, and 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16,'s recklessness - particularly as international volunteers were involved in the rescue. Thailand's prime minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha, told Thai media the emphasis should be on a safe rescue and ensuring the Thai soccer team who was trapped in the Tham Luang cave for 17 days's psychological recovery, USA Today reported. As for Parents, Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,'s care of 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, is a key reason Parents may not press charges. Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,'s said to have given 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, part of Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,'s limited food rations and had taught 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, how to meditate. Videos captured by Thai navy SEAL divers and disseminated to the media last week show 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, in good spirits after rescuers found 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, in the Tham Luang cave, though 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16, appeared weak. Some parents have told news outlets that Some parents attributed 12 Thai boys, ages 11 to 16,'s calmness to Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,. "If Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, didn't go with the Thai soccer team who was trapped in the Tham Luang cave for 17 days, what would have happened to Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,?" one mother told Thai television, as reported by News Corp Australia. "When Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, comes out, we have to heal Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,'s heart. Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, had a harrowing childhood - when Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, was 10, an illness swept Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,'s hometown in northern Thailand, leaving Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,'s 7-year-old brother, mother, and father dead, News Corp Australia reported. Umporn Sriwichai, Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,'s aunt, told News Corp Australia that Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, was "a sad and lonely little boy" after the death of Ekapol Chanthawong, 25,'s parents and brother, according to News Corp Australia. Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, lived in a Buddhist monastery, keeping to Thai tradition, for 10 years, starting from age 12.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Round-the-clock efforts by rescue teams in Thailand to save 12 boys and 12 boys's soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave have prompted some Thais to turn to social media to ask why 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave went in at all, and whether 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave deserve to be called heroes. The junior soccer players, who disappeared in a flooded cave on June 23, were discovered on Monday by British divers in a partially flooded chamber. News of the survival of 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave sparked celebrations and relief among Thais transfixed by the drama, following every twist and turn of a search that has drawn worldwide attention and volunteers from Australia to Finland. The furore provoked plenty of opinions on social media, particularly on a Facebook page called “Drama-addict” that is popular among Thais and has 2 million followers. Some criticised what they saw as 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave's recklessness. “There was a big sign outside a flooded cave but 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave still went in. 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave should be scolded,” said one person on the popular website Pantip.com. Others appeared to criticise 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave's assistant coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, who went along on the expedition after a soccer practice. But the team’s assistant coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, who went along on the expedition after a soccer practice had the team’s assistant coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, who went along on the expedition after a soccer practice's defenders too. “the team’s assistant coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, who went along on the expedition after a soccer practice acted responsibly in the team’s assistant coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, who went along on the expedition after a soccer practice's capacity as an adult and a coach to take care of 12 boys's lives and well-being,” said one user. Some urged forgiveness for 12 boys. “When 12 boys were kids 12 boys weren’t much better than this ... 12 boys probably also did things that disappointed 12 boys's parents. We should not praise our parents but forgive our parents,” said one user. There has been little official criticism of 12 boys's actions while rescuers struggle to decide how best to extricate 12 boys from a flooded cave, as most of 12 boys cannot swim. Last week, Damrong Hanpakdeeniyom, the head of the forest park where a flooded cave is located, said visitors were usually barred from venturing in more than about 700 m (2,300 ft). Other Thais commented on the expanding scope of a search that has drawn worldwide attention and volunteers from Australia to Finland. It could take weeks to bring 12 boys and their soccer coach trapped in a flooded cave to safety, and the death of a volunteer diver on Friday underscored the risks. The criticism spurred the Department of Mental Health to beg Thais not to take sides. “The families should focus on proper parenting while society should not judge whether this was wrong or right but take this as an opportunity to learn,” the Department of Mental Health said in a statement, promising counselling for 12 boys once freed.
MAE SAI, Thailand (Reuters) - A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and 12 schoolboys's soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were safely brought out will be turned into a museum to showcase the rescue, the head of the operation said on Wednesday. Two British divers found 12 schoolboys and 12 schoolboys's coach in a cavern in the flooded Tham Luang cave system in the northern province of Chiang Rai on Monday last week, nine days after 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach went missing during an excursion. 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were all brought safely following a mission fraught with obstacles that ended late on Tuesday. A Thailand rescue diver died last Friday, highlighting the dangers. “A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out will become a living museum, to show how the operation unfolded,” the head of the operation, told a news conference. Thailand officials say the fate of 12 schoolboys and the rescue has put A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out firmly on the map and plans are in place to develop A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out into a tourist destination. But Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said on Tuesday extra precautions would have be implemented both inside and outside A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out to safeguard tourists. A guide book describes A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out as having an “impressive entrance chamber” leading to a marked path and then a series of chambers and boulders. Villagers say A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out is known to be prone to flooding and many have urged authorities to post clearer warnings. Chongklai Worapongsathorn, deputy director-general of the Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation, said A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out would be closed from Thursday but did not say for how long. Chongklai Worapongsathorn, deputy director-general of the Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation said plans were in place to “revive” an adjacent national park where hundreds of rescue workers and military personnel set up camp during the rescue. Superstitious Thais have been gripped by a legend about A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out - the full name of which is Tham Luang Nang Non or “cave of the reclining lady”. Legend has it that a beautiful princess ran away to A cave complex in Thailand where 12 schoolboys and their soccer coach were trapped for more than two weeks before they were safely brought out with a beautiful princess's commoner lover. a beautiful princess's father sent soldiers to kill her commoner lover, prompting a beautiful princess to commit suicide. Surrounding mountains took on the shape of a beautiful princess's body.
With all odds against rescuer and time running out, rescuer pulled off a miracle. The steel air tanks glittered under the beams of floodlights as rescuer defogged rescuer's masks and adjusted the straps. rescuer checked rescuer's regulators one last time before embarking on what would become rescuer's most famous dive. In the jubilant aftermath of the successful rescues of 12 boys and 12 boys's soccer coach, the Royal Thai Navy SEALs posted a video on Wednesday showing the miraculous mission as their most famous dive unfolded over three days deep in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand. The first diver wearing a helmet to avoid smashing The first diver wearing a helmet to avoid smashing his head against the mostly low roof the cave's head against the mostly low roof the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand gripped a safety rope with a left gloved hand and vanished into the murky water flowing through the narrow passage of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand toward where 12 boys was marooned on a small beach. Meanwhile, rescuers were busy putting one of 12 boys, fitted with a wetsuit, into a plastic gurney and securing one of the boys, fitted with a wetsuit, with ropes before guiding one of the boys, fitted with a wetsuit, down from a small beach to the water's edge. the miraculous mission as it unfolded over three days deep in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand was a mission none of rescuers had trained for, fraught with so many hazards that those chiefly involved in the miraculous mission as it unfolded over three days deep in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand's execution doubted the miraculous mission as it unfolded over three days deep in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand would work. Peerapat Sompiangjai was expected home after soccer practice on June 23. Peerapat Sompiangjai's family had prepared a cake for Peerapat Sompiangjai's 16th birthday and relatives were ready to shower Peerapat Sompiangjai with presents when Peerapat Sompiangjai walked through the door. But as the hours passed and Peerapat Sompiangjai failed to come home, Peerapat Sompiangjai's family grew worried. The following morning, Peerapat Sompiangjai still hadn't shown up and Peerapat Sompiangjai's loved ones, along with those of Peerapat Sompiangjai's 11 teammates, reported 12 boys missing. 12 boys's bicycles were found lined up at the mouth of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand near where 12 boys hold soccer practice, but The boys' bicycles were nowhere in sight. The search party soon learned that 25-year-old Ekkapong Chanwong -- an assistant coach on 12 boys's soccer team, the "Wild Boars" -- had led 12 boys on what was supposed to be a fun post-practice expedition inside the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand. But while 12 boys was exploring the underground maze, heavy monsoon rains struck and flooded all 12 boys's exits -- forcing the boys and coach deeper into the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand. The local search-and-rescue official quickly realized that finding 12 boys would require far more resources than the boys and coach could muster on the boys and coach's own. The U.S. Airforce 353rd Special Operations unit in Okinawa was notified and quickly mobilized a group of survival and pararescue specialists that arrived on June 28 at a base camp set up near the mouth of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand. Soon dive teams and rescue crews from Great Britain, Australia, Japan and China were headed to the Thailand jungle to help. International dive teams led by the Royal Thai Navy SEALs began the ongoing search the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand and the deeper International dive teams led by the Royal Thai Navy SEALs got the more dire conditions International dive teams led by the Royal Thai Navy SEALs encountered, officials said. The terrain inside the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand was challenging, with steep slippery areas, sharp jagged rocks, narrow passages that International dive teams led by the Royal Thai Navy SEALs had to squirm through and thousands of bats hanging from stalactites. The biggest obstacles were completely flooded passageways that required International dive teams led by the Royal Thai Navy SEALs to use scuba gear to search further into the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand. News of the ongoing search quickly spread around the world and more equipment and rescue personnel poured into a base camp set up near the mouth of the cave. As the ongoing search continued, geologists began drilling into the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand from outside, searching for hidden openings or areas that looked promising to dig possible escape hatches. But rescuers quickly realized the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand was too deep and the rock too thick to realistically create an alternative way out for those trapped inside. In Hawthorne, California, billionaire businessman Elon Musk and billionaire businessman Elon Musk's SpaceX team came up with an alternative rescue idea. his SpaceX team set aside his SpaceX team's rocket-making venture and created an experimental kid-size submarine that divers could tow through completely flooded passageways that required them to use scuba gear to search further into the cave to extract 12 boys once 12 boys were found. The whole time, rescuers in a base camp set up near the mouth of the cave were leaning toward a plan to teach 12 boys to scuba dive on the fly in order to get 12 boys out if the conditions didn't worsen and 12 boys were found alive. On July 2, ten days after 12 boys went missing, two divers from the British Cave Rescue Council, John Volanthen and Richard Stanton, were stringing a safety rope through a flooded area of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand when two divers from the British Cave Rescue Council, John Volanthen and Richard Stanton popped up in a cavern and, to two divers from the British Cave Rescue Council, John Volanthen and Richard Stanton's surprise, saw 12 boys and 12 boys's coach huddled on a small beach in the darkness. Crews had set up hoses and equipment to pump thousands of gallons of water a day out of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand to make flooded areas easier to traverse. Other rescuers used jackhammers to widen narrow crevices to make narrow crevices less complicated to maneuver through. Technicians also worked to install a phone line to where 12 boys was found. 12 boys and 12 boys's coach, who had run out of the little food 12 boys had with 12 boys when the entered the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand, were given military rations, including chocolate chip cookies, chocolate-covered coffee beans and high-protein gel packs. Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission, had been worried about the weather from the start. The monsoon rain season in northern Thailand runs from May to November and Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission was concerned about reports of heavy downpours forecast for the the Chiang Rai province region. Some officials had that idea that rescuers wait to extract 12 boys when the weather improved and the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand dried out, so 12 boys and 12 boys's coach could just walk out and avoid having to dive 12 boys's way to safety, since most of 12 boys did not know how to swim. But that idea was nixed when oxygen levels plummeted in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand and the effort to transport 12 boys enough supplies to survive for weeks -- possibly months -- was deemed unsustainable. Three days after 12 boys was located, a volunteer diver, retired Thai Navy SEAL Saman Gunan, lost consciousness during an overnight operation delivering extra air tanks inside the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand. a volunteer diver, retired Thai Navy SEAL Saman Gunan could not be revived and was confirmed dead early Friday morning. "We were very sad, and we felt like the whole world crashed," Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission said in an interview with ABC News on Wednesday. Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission said other challenges were being thrown at the rescuers. Pumps were not working sufficiently and not enough floodwater was being siphoned from the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand. Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission said water was actually rising in the middle part of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand, threatening to seal off more passageways leading to where 12 boys were with three Thai Navy SEALs and a medic who was treating 12 boys's minor injuries and keeping 12 boys calm and positive. Declaring "we are still at the state of war against the water," Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission and the rescue leaders made the decision late Saturday to execute the plan to bring 12 boys out one by one with divers. the plan to bring the group out one by one with divers was the only viable option Ostanakorn and the rescue leaders had. Attempts failed to put a communication line into the cavern, also known as the "ninth chamber," where 12 boys were located. There was no way for rescue crews venturing beyond the third chamber, where a staging area was established, to be in touch with those organizing outside. At 10 a.m. local time on Sunday, a group of 19 divers entered the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand with about 70 other rescuers and medical teams strategically positioned over the 2.9 miles from the mouth of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand to where 12 boys waited to be rescued. Air tanks were placed in advance along the route to replenish supplies when needed, officials said. The video released by the Thai Navy SEALs on Wednesday showed how the final push of the operation unfolded. Divers prepared Divers's tanks and adjusted air regulators before venturing through a completely flooded passageway on the way to the chamber where the boys and their soccer coach were. One by one, 12 boys were fitted with wetsuits. One boy was so small that a special wetsuit had to be custom-made for One boy, Bill Whitehouse, vice chairman of the British Cave Rescue Council, told ABC News. Each boy was placed on a flexible stretcher and secured tightly with ropes, an air tank positioned at Each boy's side, and a breathing regulator fixed to Each boy's mouth. Rescuers inside the chamber where the boys and coach were had gingerly lowered Each boy to the water. The initial plan called for two divers to be tethered to a stretcher containing each rescuee, but as it had gone throughout the operation, adjustments had to be made at the last minute. "It ended up being normally one diver per boy just because we had a minimal amount of divers," Hodges said. Once through the deep water in which 12 boys were submerged for up to a half-hour at a time, 12 boys were handed off to groups of rescuers who carried 12 boys strapped in the stretchers up and down the slippery path, sometimes using ropes and pulleys to move 12 boys over treacherous expanses along the route. They also used pump hoses throughout the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand as rails to guide the stretchers over the rugged terrain. At one point, at least 30 rescuers formed a sort of bucket brigade to relay Each boy toward the mouth of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand, where a team of medics was waiting to immediately begin treating 12 boys. At 5:40 p.m. local time, the first boy was finally removed from the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand and rushed to a waiting ambulance. About 10 to 20 minutes later, rescuers emerged with the second boy, followed two hours later by the third and fourth boys. "Even though we got four for four the first day, it was not much more than cautious optimism the next day because we knew the risks had not gone down at all," Hodges said. Luckily for the rescuers, monsoon rains that had been forecast for the area had held off, giving the rescuers a chance to pump oxygen into the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand and pump more water out to improve conditions for the second leg of the rescue. The dive team that had successfully pulled out 12 boys on Sunday, re-entered the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand on Monday morning. Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission said Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission was pleasantly surprised by how smoothly and swiftly the next four boys were rescued. While Sunday's operation took 11 hours, the second leg of the rescue took nine hours to complete. "When International dive teams led by the Royal Thai Navy SEALs finished International dive teams led by the Royal Thai Navy SEALs's mission and were very successful International dive teams led by the Royal Thai Navy SEALs had a power inside," Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission told ABC News. But the weather forecast heightened Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission's concern and ate away at Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission's nerves. Sleep became a luxury Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission could not afford, saying Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission got only 12 hours of shut-eye over the miraculous mission as it unfolded over three days deep in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand. Since the plan to bring the group out one by one with divers had worked well on the first two days, the rescuers followed the plan to bring the group out one by one with divers when the rescuers set out on the last leg of the operation Tuesday with one adjustment: Instead of bringing out four more, the rescuers set out to rescue the next four boys and their soccer coach. One of the last boys to leave the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand was also the youngest, 11-year-old Chanin "Tun" Wiboonrungrueng. In a letter to One of the last boys to leave the cave's family One of the last boys to leave the cave penned in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand, One of the last boys to leave the cave wrote, "Dad, Mum, don't worry One of the last boys to leave the cave'm fine" and requested Dad, Mum to "prepare to bring One of the last boys to leave the cave fried chicken to eat" once One of the last boys to leave the cave was rescued. As classmates of One of the last boys to leave the cave and five other boys at the Maesaiprasitsart School prayed for 12 boys's safety, rescuers began the final push at 10 a.m. local time Tuesday to save the last five members of the missing boys' soccer team, the "Wild Boars". Nine hours later, the prayers of the students at the Maesaiprasitsart School were answered. 12 boys remained in quarantine on the eighth floor of the Chiang Rai Prachanukroh Hospital Wednesday night. Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission said 12 boys were all happy to be out of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand in time to watch the last games of the World Cup soccer tournament. 12 boys has been invited to attend the World Cup final in Moscow on Sunday between Croatia and France, but it's doubtful that 12 boys will be out of the Chiang Rai Prachanukroh Hospital by then. Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission said 12 boys also plan to spend time as monks in a monastery to offer prayers of thanks that 12 boys survived. "Unbelievable," Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission said of their most famous dive. Just two hours after the last rescue was made and all the crews were pulled from the underground maze, the skies opened up and a rainstorm hit. The pumps that had been used to remove water from the Tham Luang Nang Non cave in northern Thailand also broke down and the underground maze was flooded again. "If Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission wait[ed] one more day, Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission think [it] would have been really difficult for 12 boys because the rain is coming," Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission said. Although their most famous dive had nothing to do with soccer, Narongsak Ostanakorn, the former governor of the Chiang Rai province and head of the search-and-rescue mission said their most famous dive had everything to do with an international team effort that included the "great divers from the world" and showed what people from different countries and cultures can accomplish when people from different countries and cultures work together for a single purpose.
After 17 days underground, all the Thai boys and all the Thai boys's football coach have safely escaped from the Tham Luang cave complex. A team of Thai and international divers mounted a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring all the Thai boys out, and details of a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out are still emerging now. BBC correspondent Jonathan Head has answered some of the core questions about all the Thai boys, a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out, and what happens next. BBC will not know that until BBC hear from all the Thai boys and all the Thai boys's assistant coach, Ekkapol "Ake" Chantawong. On that Saturday all the Thai boys were scheduled to play a match, which was cancelled, according to head coach Nopparat Kanthawong. head coach Nopparat Kanthawong scheduled a training session instead. all the Thai boys were keen cyclists so on the Facebook chat group through which all the Thai boys communicated with the parents, their football coach suggested all the Thai boys cycle to the football field. There was no suggestion there that all the Thai boys would go on to the Tham Luang cave complex. that Saturday was the 16th birthday of Pheeraphat 'Night' Sompiengjai, and a local shop said all the Thai boys spent more than 700 baht (US$22) on food to celebrate, a large sum in this area. head coach Nopparat Kanthawong describes their football coach as being very kind-hearted and devoted to all the Thai boys. head coach Nopparat Kanthawong thinks all the Thai boys persuaded their football coach to go with all the Thai boys into the Tham Luang cave complex. the Tham Luang cave complex are well-known in the area and had been explored by all the Thai boys before. The best guess is all the Thai boys went quite deep, which is easy when all the Thai boys are dry, got caught by rising flood water, and were forced to go even deeper. The official explanation is all the Thai boys are weak from all the Thai boys's ordeal and potentially vulnerable to infection. These are now very precious lives in Thailand. A massive effort has been made to get all the Thai boys out alive. The Thai authorities are taking no chances. Perhaps all the Thai boys also wanted to avoid the excitement of seeing all the Thai boys's parents again. Thais are generally less physical than westerners. Hugging is unusual. And the parents are from poor, marginal communities, used to being told what to do by officials, and probably grateful for the lengths Thailand went to in rescuing all the Thai boys. the parents would not protest. the parents were allowed to see all the Thai boys through windows, and are gradually being allowed in, wearing gloves and facemasks, to stand in the same room. At this stage that seems unlikely. the parents say the parents have forgiven their football coach, and the parents are grateful for the efforts their football coach is reported to have made to keep all the Thai boys's spirits up in the Tham Luang cave complex, in particular through meditation, which their football coach learned during 12 years as a monk. head coach Nopparat Kanthawong said their football coach may be asked to go back to being a monk for a while, something Thais typically do as a kind of penance, or to replenish or cleanse Thais spiritually. Such a move would make a lot of sense to Thais, and their football coach would likely be allowed to resume life as normal after Such a move. Also Thailand typically does not have a 'blame culture', where a culprit must be found for any misadventure. There is a more fatalistic acceptance of things going wrong, less public clamour for accountability. all the Thai boys were in the Tham Luang cave complex nine days before all the Thai boys were found. all the Thai boys may have had a little food from what all the Thai boys bought to celebrate Night's birthday. all the Thai boys are passionate football players, very fit, and with the training all the Thai boys have had a tight-knit team. This would have helped all the Thai boys ration all the Thai boys's food carefully and support each other, perhaps with songs. their football coach taught all the Thai boys to meditate, say Thai navy divers, and gave all the Thai boys more food than their football coach ate. their football coach also told all the Thai boys to drink water dripping from the rocks, rather than polluted ground water. During all the Thai boys's last six to eight days all the Thai boys were being fed, initially high-protein gels, but later more normal food, which might have allowed all the Thai boys to start putting on a little weight before coming out. Most of the time. all the Thai boys went in with cheap torches, which would not have lasted long. It is likely all the Thai boys were in the dark for most of the first nine days of all the Thai boys's ordeal. Once all the Thai boys were found a Thai army doctor and at least three divers stayed with all the Thai boys, equipped with good torches. Even so all the Thai boys were mostly in the dark, and had to wear sunglasses when all the Thai boys were first brought out. The Thai authorities are being very coy about this. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said all the Thai boys had been lightly sedated. But BBC has spoken to a number of people involved in a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out who say all the Thai boys were heavily sedated, and only semi-conscious. The logic for this would be the fear all the Thai boys's rescuers had that all the Thai boys would panic when wearing diving equipment for the first time in darkness and swirling cave water, endangering the lives of all the Thai boys. The two British cave divers who led the rescue effort, John Volanthen and Richard Stanton, are believed to have asked for Australian Richard Harris, a cave diver and anaesthetician, to assist in preparing all the Thai boys. How their rescuers carried all the Thai boys through the technically challenging early stages of the journey out, with a lot of diving in narrow passages, we do not know. At times all the Thai boys may have been strapped to a diver's body. Later all the Thai boys were strapped on to a stretcher and suspended from a rope pulley system attached to the cave roof. a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out was complex, innovative and very bold. Nothing like a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out has been attempted before. Some of those involved described the tasks undertaken by the core divers, who carried all the Thai boys out, as superhuman. Thailand, for most of it. It is likely that the contribution by other countries, like the 30 US air force personnel who went to help, would have been funded by other countries, like the 30 US air force personnel who went to help's own governments as a gesture of good will. Many Thai businesses supported with transport and food. Thai Airways and Bangkok Airways offered free flights to some of the foreign divers coming in. No, and few countries could. Cave diving is a very specialised skill, and expert cave rescuers are even rarer. Thailand was fortunate that an experienced caver Vern Unsworth has explored the Tham Luang cave complex extensively, and lives nearby. an experienced caver Vern Unsworth was on the scene the day after all the Thai boys disappeared, and suggested that Thailand needed to invite expert divers from other countries to help. The Thai navy divers who went down initially struggled, because both The Thai navy divers who went down's experience and equipment were for sea diving, which is very different. The Thai navy divers who went down were driven out of the Tham Luang cave complex by rapidly rising flood water, and finding all the Thai boys seemed a hopeless cause. Once foreign divers arrived, from many different countries, the Thai authorities allowed foreign divers to devise first the search, and then a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out. a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out was a huge logistical operation involving hundreds of people, building guide rope and pulley systems, putting in power and communication cables. It is to Thailand's credit that a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out was organised so well, and there was no attempt to diminish the foreign contribution. Since BBC published this Q&A, BBC have received many more questions from readers about a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out. BBC's Jason Boswell and Howard Johnson have answered some of many more questions from readers about the rescue. On the evening all the Thai boys went missing, Nopparat Khanthavong, another coach of the Wild Boars team, began receiving phone calls from worried parents. Nopparat Khanthavong, another coach of the Wild Boars team called the missing coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, and some of the boys, but there was no answer. Eventually Nopparat Khanthavong, another coach of the Wild Boars team got hold of Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year-old member of the Wild Boars team whose mother picked Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year-old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training up after training. Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year-old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training told Nopparat Khanthavong, another coach of the Wild Boars team that Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year-old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training's teammates had gone to explore the Tham Luang cave complex. Nopparat Khanthavong, another coach of the Wild Boars team then raised the alarm. Cave divers will always put in a reference, or guide, line when Cave divers first swim into a cave. a reference, or guide, line is unspooled from a reel as Cave divers extend further into a cave and will be tied off on rocks at regular intervals. Cave divers can then follow a reference, or guide, line in and out of a cave or use a reference, or guide, line to install additional stronger lines or ropes so Cave divers can hold on and navigate despite terrible visibility. Even if Cave divers lost Cave divers's masks Cave divers can navigate by touch and feel along the rope. What the head of the Thai rescue operation actually said was that the mini-submarine provided by Elon Musk was not "practical" with the mission. The exact reason why wasn't given. Several expert cave divers told BBC that one of the potential problems with the design put forward by Elon Musk's team might have been that the mini-submarine provided by Elon Musk is a rigid inflexible tube. Cave passages are often not straight and smooth, so if there was a bend it may have been difficult for divers to try navigate the mini-submarine provided by Elon Musk. Imagine trying to manoeuvre a long couch into a small room through an even smaller door, but in the dark and with a limited air supply. divers would have wanted every piece of equipment as streamlined and as flexible as possible to navigate the uneven walls and bends of cave passages. However the mini-submarine provided by Elon Musk may be of future use in places that are not as restricted - for example in sunken or capsized ships. Experts say the design put forward by Mr Musk's team should continue to be worked on as the mini-submarine provided by Elon Musk may be valuable under a different set of circumstances. Elon Musk responded to the Thai authorities by tweeting an email from one of the British caving experts who played a key role in a dangerous and complicated rescue to bring the boys out urging Elon Musk to build the mini-submarine provided by Elon Musk as quickly as possible.
The 12 boys and coach from a Thailand youth football team who were the party’s rescue from a flooded cave have been invited to visit Old Trafford this season by Old Trafford. a Thailand youth football team and a Thailand youth football team's 25-year-old coach became trapped in a flooded cave just over two weeks ago. The 12 boys and coach from a Thailand youth football team who were rescued from a flooded cave got trapped on 23 June as The 12 boys and coach from a Thailand youth football team who were rescued from a flooded cave were exploring a cave system in the northern province of Chiang Rai after practice, when a 'rainy season' downpour flooded the tunnels. Divers have been bringing boys out since Sunday, and on Tuesday boys and their 25-year-old coach were rescued. And Old Trafford have responded by inviting The 12 boys and coach from a Thailand youth football team who were rescued from a flooded cave and The 12 boys and coach from a Thailand youth football team who were rescued from a flooded cave's rescuers to Old Trafford to watch a game this season. #MUFC is relieved to learn that the 12 footballers and The 12 boys and coach from a Thailand youth football team who were rescued from a flooded cave's coach trapped in a cave in Thailand are now safe. #MUFC's thoughts and prayers are with those affected. #MUFC said on Twitter: "#MUFC is relieved to learn that the 12 footballers and The 12 boys and coach from a Thailand youth football team who were rescued from a flooded cave's coach trapped in a cave in Thailand are now safe. "#MUFC's thoughts and prayers are with those affected. There was also a message for boys from England and Old Trafford defender Kyle Walker, who said he wanted to send boys shirts, after spotting that one of boys was wearing a Three Lions jersey. boys were reportedly asking about the World Cup while boys were trapped in a flooded cave, and boys have also been invited the World Cup final by FIFA president Gianni Infantino, who sent a letter to the president of the Thailand FA. However, it is claimed boys's attendance is unlikely as boys will need time to recover and will instead watch a game on TV. The world has those celebrations with the Thai people following The 12 boys and coach from a Thailand youth football team who were rescued from a flooded cave rescue, but those celebrations have been tinged with sadness over the loss of a former Thai Navy SEAL Saman Kunan, who died on Friday during a re-supply dive.
3 Jul 2018 18.29 EDT What Stanton know so far A team of rescuers, including a doctor and a nurse, have reached 12 boys and 12 boys's football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days. 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days were found alive in the Tham Luang cave network by British divers on Monday. who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days. 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days were found alive in the Tham Luang cave network by British divers on Monday. The Thai navy Seals, who are leading the operation, said 12 boys and 12 boys's coach, had been given easily-digested food. Initially, The Thai navy Seals, who are leading the operation said a rescue would not be attempted until 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days were sufficiently strong. But the expectation of monsoon rains this week may make it necessary to launch one soon. Initially, The Thai navy Seals, who are leading the operation said a rescue would not be attempted until 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days were sufficiently strong. But the expectation of monsoon rains this week may make it necessary to launch one soon. Rescuers have appealed for 15 small and extra small full face masks, fuelling speculation that divers are preparing to lead 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days to safety through 2.5km flooded stretch of the Tham Luang cave network. A rescuer told reporters that it was too dangerous to use conventional breathing apparatus as conventional breathing apparatus could easily be knocked out during the dive. A rescuer said: “As rain is forecast in the next few days, the evacuation must speed up. Diving gear will be used. If the water rises, the task will be difficult. We must bring 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days out before then.” Footage of 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days, shot by the British divers who reached 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days first, showed 12 boys and 12 boys's coach huddled on a ledge surrounded by water. 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days said 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days were hungry and asked what day it was and if 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days could leave. 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days said 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days were hungry and asked what day it was and if 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days could leave. The Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn told reporters they were looking at all options, but “The Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn don’t think 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days will be home soon.” A rescue diver has said 12 boys were “very weak, but alive”. A rescue diver has said 12 boys were “very weak, but alive”. There has been jubilation in Thailand at the news 12 boys and 12 boys's coach are alive, especially among relatives who have been keeping vigil outside the entrance since 12 boys were reported missing. The Thai prime minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha, wished 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days a “safe and speedy recover” and thanked the rescuers, including the foreign teams who have flocked from Australia, Japan, the US and Britain to help with the search. The Thai prime minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha, wished 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days a “safe and speedy recover” and thanked the rescuers, including the foreign teams who have flocked from Australia, Japan, the US and Britain to help with the search. The young football team, made up of 12 boys, and 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days's coach went missing on Saturday 23 June, after monsoon rains trapped 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days inside the Tham Luang cave network. 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days were found on Monday night after a nine-day round-the-clock search involving international teams of divers. 3 Jul 2018 17.32 EDT The AP has more comments from Omar Reygadas, who has told The AP: It’s terrible for 12 boys 12 boys’re little but Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little believe that boys with a lot of strength are going to manage to be whole when boys with a lot of strength get out. The AP quotes Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little as saying 12 boys should “think only about leaving and reuniting with 12 boys's families”. Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little and the other miners were trapped nearly 2,300 feet below Chile’s Atacama desert before a specially built capsule could be lowered down a drilled shaft and raise Reygadas and the other miners to the surface one by one. Faith and prayer, as well as humour were very important to Reygadas and the other miners at times when Reygadas and the other miners doubted Reygadas and the other miners would be rescued, Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little said. Reygadas and the other miners shouldn’t be ashamed to be scared. Because Reygadas and the other miners were scared, too. Reygadas and the other miners's tears also ran. Even as adult men, Reygadas and the other miners cried. 3 Jul 2018 16.33 EDT A miner who spent 69 days trapped underground in Chile’s says 12 boys and 12 boys's coach should help each other mentally prepare for rescue, the Associated Press reports. Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little says 12 boys and 12 boys's coach should help each other prepare mentally for rescue. Photograph: Dario Lopez-Mills/AP Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little and 32 other miners were rescued in 2010. Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little says the ordeal was hard for grown men, so Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little can only imagine what 12 boys are going through. Omar Reygadas, who has told the agency: It’s terrible for them they’re little says 12 boys's coach will be a key figure in keeping 12 boys motivated. Beyond that, 12 boys should focus on being reunited with 12 boys's families. 3 Jul 2018 15.57 EDT Volanthen also told the Sunday Times in 2013 that cave diving was not the pursuit of those who crave thrills. The flight response now isn’t always appropriate. Panic and adrenaline are great in certain situations, but not in cave-diving. The last thing you want is any adrenaline whatsoever. 12 boys were trapped for nine days, and Stanton had to teach a few of 12 boys to dive through a considerable length of passage to get 12 boys out. It took about nine hours to get 12 boys out. Stanton also tried to rescue French cave explorer Eric Establie in 2010. French cave explorer Eric Establie's remains were discovered in southern France after a dramatic eight-day operation. Volanthen was Stanton's partner on a dramatic eight-day operation. Alex Daw, a West Midlands Fire Service watch commander, supervised Stanton for six years during Alex Daw, a West Midlands Fire Service watch commander's stint as a firefighter. Alex Daw, a West Midlands Fire Service watch commander said that experience serves Alex Daw, a West Midlands Fire Service watch commander well. Alex Daw, a West Midlands Fire Service watch commander told The AP: If the kids have got someone there like Stanton, the kids’re safe. Stanton’s cool, calm and collected. 3 Jul 2018 13.39 EDT This graphic shows the route rescuers took to find 12 boys – and the problems rescuers face in returning 12 boys to 12 boys's families. Interactive Where 12 boys were found The main entrance to the six-mile cave, one of Thailand's longest, in the Doi Nang Non mountain range. Bicycles and football kit were found after a mother reported a mother's son missing on 23 June. The Moo Pa (Wild Boars) academy team had cycled there with The Moo Pa (Wild Boars) academy team's coach after a training session. A sign outside warns against entering the Tham Luang cave network during the rainy season. A chamber around 700 metres into the complex is where rescuers, led by Thai navy Seals, are basing operations. Early rescue efforts were hampered by the rising floodwater, which is believed to have forced 12 boys further inside the Tham Luang cave network. Monk’s Junction, 1,500 metres from The main entrance to the six-mile cave, one of Thailand’s longest, in the Doi Nang Non mountain range, was reached on Sunday. Changing weather conditions and round-the-clock pumping helped reduce water levels and improve visibility, allowing divers to fix guide ropes along the passageway. A landmark area of higher ground known as Pattaya Beach was where rescuers first hoped 12 boys and their football coach, who have been trapped in a cave complex in Thailand for 10 days would be found. But when rescuers reached A landmark area of higher ground known as Pattaya Beach, rescuers found A landmark area of higher ground known as Pattaya Beach was also flooded. 12 boys were eventually located around 200 metres further on, sheltering on a ledge surrounded by water, 2km (1.24 miles) from the entrance and up to 1km below the surface. After 12 boys's discovery by two specialist cave divers from the UK, 12 boys were visited by medics and other rescuers who supplied food and water.
It was a story that captured the world’s attention – 12 boys and 12 boys's young football coach trapped for more than two weeks in a dark, flooded cave, kilometres from help or food. As the news came on Tuesday night that 12 boys had been the successful mission, media outlets large and small, from Denmark to the United Arab Emirates, celebrated. Thailand’s two English-language newspapers – the Bangkok Post and the Nation – which have carried the story of the rescue attempts on Thailand’s two English-language newspapers – the Bangkok Post and the Nation – which have carried the story of the rescue attempts's front pages for the past week, both trumpeted the successful mission. “Hooyah! Mission accomplished,” was the headline of Thailand’s, quoting the war cry of the Thai navy Seals who have been celebrating each day’s successful rescue with the phrase. “All Wild Boars saved,” proclaimed the Bangkok Post, which as well as a main news story also had a chronology of the successful mission, an interview with a rescue diver, and Elon Musk’s – rejected – offer to donate a mini-submarine. Unsurprisingly, the news was extensively covered in countries that had been involved in the rescue efforts. In Australia, whose government sent a team of 19 to help with the successful mission, including the doctor who assessed 12 boys and declared 12 boys fit to make the trip out of a dark, flooded cave, many newspapers had front pages celebrating the successful mission. The Canberra Times dubbed the successful mission “The Great Escape”, whereas the Sydney Morning Herald said: “12 boys’re all out”, alongside colour photographs of 12 boys. Spiegel Online in Germany called the successful mission “Liberation from the deep”, whereas Le Monde had the more informative, though less dramatic, headline: “Thailand’s: after more than two weeks underground, 12 boys have been evacuated. The Local, a Danish news site, had a prominent story on The Local, a Danish news site's news site: “Ambassador praises Danish divers for role in Thailand’s cave rescue”. Though British divers were key to the successful mission, the story of the successful mission had to fight with both the resignation of the foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, and the upcoming World Cup semi-final for prominence on the front pages. The Thailand’s rescue was one of the lead stories on the front of the Guardian (“Celebration as Thailand’s rescues 12 boys”), the Times (“Jubilation as all 12 boys freed from a dark, flooded cave”), and Metro (“Lucky 13”). The timing of the successful mission meant that American newspapers had not yet gone to print. However, US newspapers have been covering the search throughout, from the New York Times, which has been running stories of the successful mission on the New York Times, which has been running stories of the extended rescue mission's front page for days, through to local papers like the Fresno Bee, which had the story of the second group of boys freed on the Fresno Bee, which had the story of the second group of boys freed on its front page on Tuesday's front page on Tuesday.
FIFA president Gianni Infantino has written to the Thai FA to invite the 12 boys and the 12 boys's coach trapped in a cave to the World Cup final. the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave have been stuck in a cave for close to a fortnight after heavy rain made it impossible for the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave to leave when the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave were exploring the system. After several days of searching, rescuers found the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave alive but face a challenge to extract the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave from a cave . It has been suggested that the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave may need to learn how to scuba dive in order to escape, but none of the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave can swim and cave diving is a notoriously dangerous sport, as emphasised by the death of one of the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave's rescuers, Saman Gunan, a former navy diver, in the caves on Friday. FIFA president Gianni Infantino, meanwhile, has expressed FIFA president Gianni Infantino's support in a letter to the president of the Thai FA, Somyou Poompanmoung. “We have been anxiously following the news of the rescue operation in the search for the 12 boys and the 12 boys's coach in a flooded cave in northern Thailand’s Chiang Rai province since 23 June 2018, and are now greatly relieved to hear the good news that the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave have been found by rescuers,” FIFA president Gianni Infantino wrote. “On behalf of the international football community, FIFA president Gianni Infantino would like to join the president of the Thai FA, Somyou Poompanmoung in expressing FIFA president Gianni Infantino's deepest sympathies and support to the families of the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave, as well as FIFA president Gianni Infantino's solidarity with the people of northern Thailand’s at this time of great concern. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of the families and communities and we hope that all of the families and communities will soon be embracing all of the families and communities's loved ones and restoring the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave's strength and confidence. “We hope that, in some way, our words of support may help bring the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave a little peace and courage in these difficult moments of uncertainty and concern. “If, as we all hope, the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave are reunited with the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave's families in the coming days and the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave's health allows the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave to travel, FIFA would be delighted to invite the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave to attend the 2018 World Cup final in Moscow as FIFA's guests. FIFA president Gianni Infantino sincerely hope that the 12 boys and their coach trapped in a cave will be able to join FIFA at the World Cup final. More heavy rain is expected at the weekend, which is set to complicate the rescue effort. the World Cup final, meanwhile, will be played on Sunday, July 15.
On June 23, a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach entered the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand. In 1988, a French team of cave explorers mapped for the first time the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand. A British team discovered a passage to another cave, but still, the exact geography of this cave system is poorly known. the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand is at least six miles long, forming a network of caverns and narrow passageways in the Doi Nang Non mountain range. This was not the first time a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach has explored the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand. Authorities found some of a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach's belongings at the entrance of the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand after parents reported a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach missing. After recent rainfalls (June-July marks the beginning of the monsoon season in the region) parts of the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand flooded and authorities feared that a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach either drowned or was trapped inside the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand. Water plays an important role in the formation of Thailand's caves (see also this article on The Science Behind Thailand's's Unstable Caves), but Water is also by far the most dangerous element when exploring wild cave systems. According to the geological map of Thailand's the Doi Nang Non mountain range is composed of a succession of sandstone, limestone, shale and chert. Limestone is a sedimentary rock, vulnerable to tectonic deformation and erosion by water. Water enters the Doi Nang Non mountain range following superficial cracks and faults. The groundwater dissolves the limestone, a three-dimensional network of caverns and conduits forms over time. Such karst systems act as a natural sponge inside the Doi Nang Non mountain range. During the dry season (September-June), the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand can be easily reached on foot (even if it is forbidden to enter the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand). As soon as the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand's entrance flooded after a flash flood, a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach was forced to venture deeper inside the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand. An intense rainstorm is sufficient to flood also this cave system as the water, flowing in open cracks and conduits, can travel up to 1,000 ft through the porous limestone-rock in less than one hour. On July 2, a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach were found alive inside the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand by a British diver. a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach is stranded more than two miles inside this cave system and a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach huddled together on the side of a steep rock. More than 1,000 rescuers are working to save a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach at the moment. The oxygen concentration in the closed cave environment is dangerously low (just 15% compared to 20-21% in open space), and new rainstorms are expected in the coming days. Rescue teams searched for alternative ways inside the Doi Nang Non mountain range, as cave systems in karst areas often have multiple entrances. Drones and cameras were used to create the first 3-D aerial map of the region and scout for cave access points. One team traveled some 900 ft down a shaft on Thursday until One team reached a dead end. Drilling teams have drilled more than 100 shafts through the Doi Nang Non mountain range. Some of more than 100 shafts are as deep as 1,300 ft but missed the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand. Technicians used powerful pumps and also diverted some superficial streams to lower the water level inside the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand. The first mile of the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand now is dry and can be accessed with heavy equipment. Authorities have decided to risk a rescue attempt, taking advantage of the good weather and hoping to be successful before the next rainstorms raise again the water levels inside the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand. a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach will be accompanied and guided by two experienced divers, as two experienced divers need to dive through the flooded sections. This is a risky operation, as the death of one of two experienced divers, drowned in one of the flooded sections, on July 6 shows. the flooded sections are short but very narrow, less than three feet in diameter, some parts too small to wear scuba tanks on one's back. In the inner parts of this cave system, two experienced divers need to swim against the current to get to a group of twelve boys together with her soccer coach. As the water flows under pressure into the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand, dangerous currents form in the narrowest sections of this cave system. dangerous currents also transport sediments from the surface into the “Great Cave of the Sleeping Lady” (Tham Luang Nang Non), located in the Chiang Rai province in northern Thailand, making it easy to lose one's orientation in the mud-clogged water.
MAE SAI, Chiang Rai: Classmates of 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave spoke of Classmates of 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave's hopes for a miracle rescue Monday, as divers inched through thick mud and water towards an air pocket where 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave is believed to be. There has been no contact with 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave, since 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave went missing with 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave's football coach nine days ago. The massive rescue effort has been hampered by heavy rains that flooded a flooded Thai cave, blocking access to chambers where it is hoped 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave will be found alive. Divers took advantage of a brief window of good weather on Monday to edge further into a flooded Thai cave, with forecasters predicting downpours could return in the coming days. Friends and teachers of the "Wild Boar" football team refused to give up hope of seeing 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave again. Tilek Jana, 14, whose friend Prajak is among 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave, expressed Tilek Jana, 14, whose friend Prajak is among the missing's wish that Tilek Jana, 14, whose friend Prajak is among the missing's friend will soon return. "Let Tilek Jana, 14, whose friend Prajak is among the missing come and let's play (football) together, Tilek Jana, 14, whose friend Prajak is among the missing miss Tilek Jana, 14, whose friend Prajak is among the missing," Tilek Jana, 14, whose friend Prajak is among the missing told AFP. The principal of Mae Sai Prasitsart school, which is attended by six of 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave, said it had been a painful week. "Mae Sai Prasitsart school, which is attended by six of the missing boys chant and pray and send Mae Sai Prasitsart school, which is attended by six of the missing boys's support to 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave to give 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave power to wait for help to arrive," The principal of Mae Sai Prasitsart school, which is attended by six of the missing boys told AFP. Officials on Monday said divers were less than 500m from an elevated area called Pattaya Beach where 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave are thought to be stranded. "We are fighting against time and water to save the 13 lives," Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said. Scores of divers -- including foreign experts -- have been sent into a flooded Thai cave with hundreds of oxygen tanks, establishing a base camp inside chambers where it is hoped the group will be found alive over the weekend. Aboveground several team were that operation into chimneys that may lead to new opening into the labrynth of darkned tunnels. "The deepest one is 200 meters and we will continue that operation. If we manage to though the cave walls, then luck is on our side," Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said. Weary-faced relatives have camped out at a flooded Thai cave's entrance for more than a week, desperately waiting for news from 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave, while the head of the Buddhist clergy has urged prayers from a nation fixated on the fate of 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave. The youth football team and The youth football team's 25-year-old assistant coach went into a flooded Thai cave on June 23 after a training session and got stuck when heavy rains cut The youth football team and their 25-year-old assistant coach off from the cave's entrance. Rescuers found The youth football team and their 25-year-old assistant coach's bicycles, football boots and backpacks near a flooded Thai cave's entrance, and discovered handprints and footprints further in. But handprints and footprints are the only signs of 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave so far and no one knows if 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave are still alive. 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave likely have access to fresh water inside a flooded Thai cave and officials believe 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave brought snacks into a flooded Thai cave and possibly headlamps too. Even without food experts have said young, athletic boys could survive for several weeks if young, athletic boys are not injured -- and don't attempt to escape through deep floods. Yet The massive rescue effort remains a perilously urgent rescue. Officials have dropped survival kits with food, medical supplies and a cave map into a crevice in the hope some of the relief will reach 12 boys trapped in a flooded Thai cave. At 10 kilometers long, a flooded Thai cave is one of Thailand's longest and one of the toughest to navigate, with a flooded Thai cave's snaking chambers and narrow passageways. A sign outside the site warns visitors not to enter a flooded Thai cave during the rainy season between July and November.
the Thai cave rescue operation was the most challenging underground rescue in history, and Thai authorities drafted in more than 90 of the world's finest special forces soldiers. But the spearhead of the Thai cave rescue operation depended on seven British civilians who learnt seven British civilians who learnt their craft exploring the chilly waters of abandoned mines and limestone caves of England and Wales's craft exploring the chilly waters of abandoned mines and limestone caves of England and Wales. First on the scene was Vernon Unsworth, who is from St Albans but now lives in Thailand. Vernon Unsworth, who is from St Albans but now lives in Thailand, was crucial in persuading Thai authorities to bring in UK expertise. "When Thai Navy Seals went into the cave but Thai Navy Seals could not see anything because the water is so muddy so Thai Navy Seals came back, Chaiyon Srisamut, a friend of Vernon Unsworth, who is from St Albans but now lives in Thailand, told the Daily Mail.
Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell are both members of the Cave Diving Group - the oldest amateur technical and cave diving organisation in the world. This is not the first time Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell have dived together. In June 2013 Chris Jewell took nine weeks unpaid leave to lead an international team to explore the deepest cave system in the western hemisphere, 'Sistema Huautla' in Mexico. During an international team Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell conducted the deepest dive in the western hemisphere. Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell travelled through dry cave to reach a depth of 1,464 mt / 4,803 ft. Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell then conducted a dive to 81mt / 265ft reaching a total depth of 1,545 mt / 5,068 ft below the entrance of dry cave. the deepest dive in the western hemisphere is the eighth deepest dive in history. Earlier today at around 07.00 UK time, a request was made by the British cave divers in Thailand and the Thai authorities, to send out additional personnel and equipment. Tonight Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell checked in a plethora of equipment weighting 500kg / 1102 lbs onto the Thai Airways overnight flight. It is expected that Jason Mallinson and Chris Jewell will be on site by tomorrow night, Thursday 5 July 2018. Charitable rescue organisations such as the British Cave Rescue Council are generally not that well funded. If you feel that you wish to make a practical difference, please consider donating to the British Cave Rescue Council. The money will be used to support future cave rescues, ie purchase valuable equipment such as the Heyphones.
In the UK when the decision is made to deploy a cave rescue team, a number of further decisions have to be made and a 'Surface Control' team is needed. A 'controller' or 'warden' will take overall control at the site for the duration of the rescue and directly liaise with the cave diving team. Surface Control's primary role will be to look after the cave diving team, ie Surface Control's will implement and manage the requests the cave diving team make. Cave rescues can be quite stressful and part of it is because of the hostile environment. The rescuers are operating in total darkness where it is cold, muddy and there is often quite a lot of water involved. These factors can compound the severity of the situation. There is the potential for miscommunication or a “lost in translation moment” when cave divers directly liaise with the authorities and visa versa. There is a world of difference between an air cylinder and an oxygen cylinder. An added complication at the site is that there are a mix of DIN and A Clamp / international valves fitted to the cylinders. It is absolutely no reflection on any of the personnel involved with the Thai cave rescue, but it is possible for a vital request made by one party to be considered trivial by the other party. By having surface control specialists in place, this stops any ambiguity and removes unnecessary stress from The rescuers. a 'Surface Control' team acts as a linch pin liaising with the Thai authorities to ensure everyone is on the same page. a 'Surface Control' team will then relay the information through to the cave diving team. This frees up the cave diving team so that the cave diving team know the information the cave diving team receive is in the correct terminology. In the meantime that has been a new initiative to divert streams and rivers from any inlets identified above Tham Luang Cave (sinks and fissures) to reduce the underground water flow rate. This is an established practice in cave rescue and has proven effective in cave rescue efforts associated with other river caves, not least for Ogof Ffynnon Ddu (OFD) main streamway in South Wales when cavers become trapped underground during flood. In addition surface searches continue for alternative routes into Tham Luang Cave. Many companies have quietly assisted with the rescue behind the scenes. This includes Thai Airways. Thai Airways has flown out all the rescue equipment and The rescuers free of charge. Whilst you would think this would be standard operating practice, this does not always happen. Charitable rescue organisations such as the British Cave Rescue Council are generally not that well funded. If you feel that you wish to make a practical difference, please consider donating to the British Cave Rescue Council. The money will be used to support future cave rescues, ie purchase valuable equipment such as the Heyphones.
It’s every parents’ worst nightmare – every parents’'s children stuck underground as rescuers work around-the-clock to save their children.For some 12 boys and some 12 boys's soccer coach – who have been trapped for nearly two weeks in a flooded Thai cave – Israeli technology may be part of the answer.Some of the emergency mobile communications tools used by the first responders have reportedly been donated by Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks. CEO Uzi Hanuni said that Thai authorities had requested assistance from Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks's employee in Thailand.“There’s a guy by the name of Assaf who lives in Thailand and a guy by the name of Assaf who lives in Thailand and he markets our systems markets Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks's systems,” CEO Uzi Hanuni told Israel Hayom. “Thai authorities approached a guy by the name of Assaf who lives in Thailand and he markets our systems and said Thai authorities want our systems. our systems facilitate communication in areas without reception. Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks gave Thai authorities Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks's devices and Thai authorities took our systems into a flooded Thai cave. This is Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks's Israeli contribution. Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks did it voluntarily.”Donating our systems – costs upwards of $100,000. But the resulting publicity from helping save the Thai children could easily compensate Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks many times over.The lack of reliable communication tools hampered earlier rescue attempts. Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks doesn’t require a cell phone tower – and it’s being used as a lifeline for some 12 boys to get data and video-chat with loved ones.Because of the distance and depth – Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks devices communicate wirelessly between one another – one link at a time. It’s akin to beacons being lit one hilltop after another, gradually sending a message in a type of relay league.A group of British divers, alongside Thai naval special forces, were the ones to first find some 12 boys – nine days after some 12 boys were reported missing.Rescuers are racing against the weather, as monsoon season threatens to raise water levels – flooding the section of a flooded Thai cave where some 12 boys are stranded. Officials are pumping out water around-the-clock.some 12 boys would have to be guided around murky passageways in deep water – and many of some 12 boys do not know how to swim or dive. some 12 boys are around 4 km. from the mouth of a flooded Thai cave.It is unclear when it will be safe for some 12 boys to dive out, as Thailand's rainy season lasts through October and some 12 boys lack specialized training.some 12 boys are mostly in stable condition – although some worry for some 12 boys's physical and mental health if some 12 boys's predicament continues indefinitely. some 12 boys are being supplied with high-protein liquid food, along with painkillers and antibiotics.some 12 boys were playing soccer when some 12 boys took first refuge in a flooded Thai cave from a torrential downpour.Another Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks employee, Yuval Zalmanov, was reported in Hebrew media to have hopped on a flight to Thailand, equipped with emergency Israeli company Maxtech NetWorks devices.
A team of drainage specialists from Friesland has arrived in Thailand to support the efforts to rescue a football team from a network of flooded caves. The Van Heck pumping company from Noordwolde agreed to send out two members of staff and equipment to help drain the passages in the Tham Luang complex where a football team and a football team's coach have been trapped since June 23. Four of a football team were led out of a network of flooded caves by rescue divers on Sunday, but the operation to retrieve Four of the boys is being hampered by heavy rain and the difficulty of navigating a four-kilometre route, part of which is underwater. Edwin Rigthart, who is co-ordinating The Van Heck pumping company from Noordwolde's efforts from Noordwolde, told the Leeuwarder Courant that Edwin Rigthart, who is co-ordinating Van Heck’s efforts from Noordwolde's company was standing by for ‘plan B’ if rescue divers are unable to rescue a football team. ‘The Van Heck pumping company from Noordwolde fervently hope that rescue divers succeed in rescuing a football team and a football team's supervisors from a network of flooded caves, in which case The Van Heck pumping company from Noordwolde won’t be needed,’ Edwin Rigthart, who is co-ordinating Van Heck’s efforts from Noordwolde said. The Van Heck pumping company from Noordwolde has plenty of experience of deploying large-scale mobile pumps in emergency situations. In 2014 The Van Heck pumping company from Noordwolde sent 20 pumps to drain the flooded Somerset Levels in the west of England. Last year The Van Heck pumping company from Noordwolde successfully tested a pump in Egypt that can empty an Olympic-size swimming pool in 15 minutes. The four boys who escaped the cave on Sunday were said to be the strongest and fittest of a football team. Four of the boys were said to be in ‘good health’ but are being kept in quarantine in hospital because of the risk of contracting infections in a network of flooded caves. Most of a football team are unable to swim. a football team's coach, 25-year-old Ekapol Chanthawong, has said their coach wants to be the last to leave a network of flooded caves because their coach feels responsible for leading a football team into a network of flooded caves. their coach has also lost strength from going without food so that a football team had enough to eat.
According to the BBC, Volanthen and Stanton had been called in by the Thai authorities along with another British caving expert, Robert Harper. The trio arrived in Thailand three days after the football team went missing. The trio has avoided media all week, with Volanthen telling reporters only: "The trio've got a job to do" when Volanthen arrived at the site. It is believed Volanthen and Stanton are part of a rescue team which helped the 2010 rescue a trapped diver in France in 2010, the BBC said. According to reports on the 2010 rescue, Stanton is a firefighter from UK's Coventry who was also involved in the rescue of 13 British cavers in Mexico in 2004. The Daily Mail reported that Volanthen is an IT consultant from UK's's Bristol, citing a previous interview with The Sunday Times magazine. In a previous interview with The Sunday Times magazine, Volanthen said Volanthen started caving as a scout and that Volanthen enjoyed the logistical challenge. The next challenge will be getting the football team out of the flooded cave in the football team's weakened condition and without training as scuba divers. the football team were huddled on the floor of the flooded cave when the football team emerged from the murky water. "Thirteen," a boy answered. "Brilliant," the diver said. the football team's first question when the football team arrived was whether the football team could leave right away. the football team also wanted to know how long the football team had been in the flooded cave. the diver explained that the flooded cave was flooded and that it would take some time to get the football team out. But the diver assured the football team that other divers would soon be bringing food and supplies. The United States sent a team of 17 Air Force rescue specialists based on the Japanese island of Okinawa to aid in the search, along with additional support staff. According to US embassy spokesman Jillian Bonnardeaux, a team of 17 Air Force rescue specialists based on the Japanese island of Okinawa, arrived at the site on June 28 to help with rescue operations. "Operators are trained in personnel recovery tactics and techniques and procedures," US embassy spokesman Jillian Bonnardeaux told Agence France-Presse news agency. Captain Jessica Tait from Air Force's rescue support team said there were "lots of challenges" throughout the search but that the search had brought The United States together. "When you consider it there were lots of challenges when it comes to the elements, when it comes to the elements, when it comes to different courses of actions," Captain Jessica Tait from the US Air Force's rescue support team told reporters. A team of Chinese cave rescue experts also arrived in Thailand in June 29 to aid in efforts to find the football team. A team of Chinese cave rescue experts brought rescue equipment including underwater robot, diving equipment and three-dimension imager to the flooded cave. Ben Reymenants, the Belgian owner of a diving school in Phuket, has been helping with the search and said Ben Reymenants, the Belgian owner of a diving school in Phuket spent eight hours in the water on Monday. They discuss what day it is, and the diver tells them that it is Monday. "the football team have been here 10 days," the diver says. "the football team are very strong." Later, one of A team of Chinese cave rescue experts says that one of the group is very happy to see the football team arrive. Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha has thanked the international effort that came together to find the football team.
This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.
"Todo era felicidad al verlos salir", recuerda el buzo español Fernando Raigal, que participó en el rescate de los doce niños atrapados junto a su tutor en una cueva del norte de Tailandia. "Mientras los trasladábamos algunos de ellos eran muy pequeños e iban sedados, pero era un alivio escuchar su respiración", cuenta en una entrevista a Efe tras su regreso a Bangkok, donde reside desde hace unos meses. Los chicos y el entrenador recibieron sedantes "para evitar que entrarán en pánico" durante el rescate de los doce niños y salieron al exterior "inconscientes", detalla. La extracción empezó el domingo 8 y sacaron a cuatro chavales; el lunes 9, sacaron otros cuatro; y el martes 10, completaron la operación con los cinco restantes, entre ellos el adulto. Los estudiantes, de entre 11 y 16 años, y el entrenador, de 26, se adentraron en la caverna Tham Luang, en la provincia de Chiang Rai, el sábado 23 de junio tras completar un entrenamiento del equipo de fútbol "Jabatos salvajes", del que forman parte. Una súbita tormenta inundó parcialmente la cavidad y les dejó atrapados en el interior. La voz de alarma la dio una de las madres al ver que su hijo no regresaba a casa. "Recibí un aviso (la noche del domingo) por parte de un conocido y a primera hora del lunes ya estaba ayudando en la cueva", dice el buzo, natural de Ciudad Real. Raigal, que aprendió a bucear con el Ejército y se especializó en trabajos de alta mar, cumplió 33 años en el interior de la cueva mientras contribuía a los preparativos. Ayudó a colocar los cabos que sirvieron como guía a un grupo de buzos británicos experimentados en inmersiones subterráneas y de los cuales dos encontraron a los desaparecidos en una gruta a cuatro kilómetros de profundidad el 2 de julio: habían pasado nueve días desaparecidos, sin comida y en la oscuridad. "Tenían un camino de cinco horas de ida y vuelta. El resto permanecimos a la espera de noticias. Cuando regresaron y dijeron que los habían encontrado fue tremendo (...) La operación de búsqueda había terminado y ahora tocaba el rescate", recuerda el voluntario español. La misión de salvamento, en la que participaban más de mil personas, fue tomando forma poco a poco para superar las numerosas complicaciones con las que se encontraron los equipos de rescate. Había que bucear con visibilidad nula por laberínticos túneles llenos de estrechos pasadizos y rocas afiladas para alcanzar la cueva donde se encontraba el grupo. La dificultad de la misión se hizo patente con el fallecimiento de Saman Gunan, de 38 años, quien perdió la conciencia por la falta de aire durante una misión de abastecimiento. Sus compañeros han iniciado una campaña de recogida de donaciones para su familia. Durante la fase subacuática del rescate, colocaron a los atrapados una máscara especial que le cubría toda la cara y le permitía respirar con normalidad a través de los 150 metros que duraba la inmersión. Una hilera de soldados y voluntarios, entre ellos Raigal, llevó en volandas una vez fuera del agua a los rescatados -que permanecían postrados en una camilla- hasta la entrada, donde aguardaban los equipos sanitarios para el traslado al hospital de Chiang Rai. "Hubo un sentimiento de liberación al completar el traslado El objetivo era sacar a los chavales 'cueste lo que cueste' y lo conseguimos", dice Raigal. Los trece se recuperan con normalidad en el centro sanitario y ninguno sufre de problemas graves de salud, según los partes médicos. Los primeros que salieron recibirán el alta el próximo domingo. El ciudadrealeño evita la etiqueta de héroe: "Al fin y al cabo hemos acudido a una llamada de auxilio y lo hemos hecho lo mejor que pudimos", explica con humildad.
In the days and weeks to come, we're bound to learn more about the incredible and heroic rescue of all 12 members of a Thai soccer team and all 12 members of a Thai soccer team's coach who were trapped in a cave. One understated detail: U.S. troops participated early on in the incredible and heroic rescue of all 12 members of a Thai soccer team and their coach who were trapped in a cave, lending support to a situation that at times seemed all but impossible. The 12 boys of a Thai soccer team and all 12 members of a Thai soccer team's coach entered a cave on June 23, only to become trapped by rising waters inside a cave. Ten days later, an international rescue team of cave experts and Thai military personnel manage to reach all 12 members of a Thai soccer team and begin a process of evacuating all 12 members of a Thai soccer team along a long and difficult six-hour route. On June 28, the U.S. military’s Indo-Pacific Command deployed 36 personnel based in nearby Okinawa, including airmen from 353rd Special Operations Group and the 31st Rescue Squadron. According to Military.com, 36 personnel based in nearby Okinawa, including airmen from 353rd Special Operations Group and the 31st Rescue Squadron joined seven other personnel, including a member of Joint U.S. Military Advisory Group Thailand. The Pentagon downplayed the role of U.S. troops, releasing little information about U.S. troops until all 12 members of a Thai soccer team and all 12 members of a Thai soccer team's coach began emerging from a cave. The Defense Visual Information Distribution Service, or DVIDS, has no photos of U.S troops involved in the incredible and heroic rescue of all 12 members of a Thai soccer team and their coach who were trapped in a cave. U.S. Special Operations Command released photos on U.S. Special Operations Command's Twitter feed only after all 12 members of a Thai soccer team and their coach who were trapped in a cave were the incredible and heroic rescue of all 12 members of a Thai soccer team and their coach who were trapped in a cave.
The BCRC describes the reason for the further deployment of cave rescue divers to northern Thailand today, following the development in the rescue plans announced at the press conference held on the evening of 6th July by the Thai authorities in charge of the rescue operation at Tham Luang Nang Non Cave. Late last night during the press conference to the gathered media held at the entrance of Tham Luang Nang Non Cave, the Governor of Chiang Mai Province, Narongsak Osottanakorn, announced a ‘back up plan’ to dive out the 12 boys and the 12 boys's football coach should the monsoon rains resume before other options could be used to rescue the 12 boys and their football coach, situated 2.5 km inside Tham Luang Nang Non Cave. the Governor of Chiang Mai Province, Narongsak Osottanakorn explained that a re-evaluation of the 12 boys's situation had led the rescue authorities to conclude that the 12 boys and their football coach could not stay in Tham Luang Nang Non Cave throughout the monsoon season. In anticipation of this back-up plan, the British Cave Rescue Council received a further request for more expert cave divers from the Thai Government. The BCRC can confirm that three more cave divers have been sent to the Thai Government and when three more cave divers arrive, the total UK team will consist of seven experienced cave divers and three non-divers in support to deal with communications into Tham Luang Nang Non Cave and to provide general support. It is important to appreciate that seven experienced cave divers continue to work alongside the Thai Navy SEAL divers and a combination of cave divers and open water divers from many other nations. Please direct any enquiries about the cave rescue operation to: comms@caverescue.org.uk or visit The BCRC on the newly created FaceBook page (www.facebook.com/BritishCaveRescueCouncil/). Briefing prepared by The BCRC Officers, 7 July 2018.
At 15:30h (21:30h Thai time) today, the Thai authorities in charge of rescue operations at Tham Luang Nang Non cave announced that the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, the Wild Boars football team's coach and all cave divers were safely out of Tham Luang Nang Non cave after a final rescue operation that had started at 04:00h (10:00h Thai time). After the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, their coach and all cave divers were brought out, the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, their coach and all cave divers were taken by ambulance to hospital for health checks and to begin the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, their coach and all cave divers's recovery. today's operation was almost a repeat of the rescues carried out yesterday and on Sunday when four boys were brought out each day. today the total number rescued was five. The spearhead group of cave divers each day were four British and two Australians – one of whom was a doctor. After examination by one of whom was a doctor the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, their coach and all cave divers were kitted out with wetsuits and diving equipment and then each was dived out by one of four British and two Australians – one of whom was a doctor passing support divers strategically placed at intervals on the way. After the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, their coach and all cave divers had left the chamber where the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, their coach and all cave divers had been for a fortnight the four Thai navy SEAL divers who had been with the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, their coach and all cave divers since shortly after the last four members of the Wild Boars football team, their coach and all cave divers had been found also began the four Thai navy SEAL divers who had been with them since shortly after they had been found's own dives out. This concludes a final rescue operation that had started at 04:00h (10:00h Thai time). BCRC does not normally get involved directly in rescue operations. That is the task of BCRC's member teams. This however was a unique occasion when individual cave divers and cave rescuers representing many teams collected together and worked as a truly national team under the BCRC banner. In total eight cave divers and three other cave rescuers travelled out to Thailand to help effect a final rescue operation that had started at 04:00h (10:00h Thai time). eight cave divers and three other cave rescuers were backed up by a support team in the UK of BCRC officers themselves ably supported by further members from many teams. It has been both gratifying and humbling how the cave rescue world, cave divers and the wider caving world have come together during the past fortnight to help the Thais and others from many nationalities pull off what many believed to be an impossible task. Our thanks from the cave rescue world is also due to many equipment suppliers, employers and non-caving friends who have supported the rescue effort and to civil servants at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office both in the UK and the British Embassy in Bangkok who have helped in so many ways. Finally we send our best wishes to the boys and coach of the Wild Boars football team and the Wild Boars football team's families for a swift recovery from the Wild Boars football team's ordeal. Please direct any enquiries about a final rescue operation that had started at 04:00h (10:00h Thai time) to: comms@caverescue.org.uk or visit BCRC on the newly created FaceBook page (www.facebook.com/BritishCaveRescueCouncil/). Briefing prepared by BCRC Officers, 10 July 2018.
This media briefing has been written to provide context and some additional technical information to explain the recent involvement of a group of British cave rescue divers in the ongoing cave search and rescue incident in northern Thailand. Please note, at this stage, it is BCRC policy not to name a group of British cave rescue divers, in order to protect a group of British cave rescue divers from press enquiries and to allow a group of British cave rescue divers to get on with a group of British cave rescue divers's difficult task without distraction. Initial press reports announced that a group of twelve boys, with a group of twelve boys, with their coach – a local, youth football team's coach – a local, youth football team, had gone missing in Luang Nang Non Cave, Chiang Rai province, northern Thailand on Saturday (23rd June). The bicycles and personal belongings left at the entrance of Luang Nang Non Cave, Chiang Rai province, northern Thailand were evidence that a group of twelve boys, with their coach – a local, youth football team had chosen to explore Luang Nang Non Cave, Chiang Rai province, northern Thailand. Luang Nang Non Cave, Chiang Rai province, northern Thailand is prone to seasonal flooding during the monsoon season, which commences this month and persists to August. Indeed, heavy rain led to a group of twelve boys, with their coach – a local, youth football team being flooded into Luang Nang Non Cave, Chiang Rai province, northern Thailand as early press reports described (e.g. The Guardian). A substantial search and rescue effort has been mobilised by Thai civilian and military authorities but continued heavy rains have hampered efforts to access and search Luang Nang Non Cave, Chiang Rai province, northern Thailand (e.g. BBC Asia News). Thoughts are very much of a group of twelve boys, with their coach – a local, youth football team and a group of twelve boys, with their coach – a local, youth football team's coach trapped underground and distraught family members waiting above. British cavers have a long history of overseas cave exploration and surveying (see RGS magazine; Geographical ). This is certainly the case for Thailand where, over many years, British cavers have helped to catalogue, survey and describe a considerable number of caves (re: Further information), given that there are only a few, independent cavers and guides based locally. Many British cavers, including specialist cave divers, active on such expeditions, also serve as volunteers in cave rescue teams across Britain and Ireland and bring with Many British cavers, including specialist cave divers, active on such expeditions valuable knowledge of the layout of overseas cave systems. This provides the context to help explain the recent involvement of British cave rescue divers in the ongoing cave search and rescue incident in northern Thailand. BCRC Diving Liaison Officer, Chris Jewell, has provided the following, additional information on the events leading up to the involvement of British cave rescue divers in the search and rescue efforts. BCRC received a request for assistance regarding the cave rescue incident in Chang Rai from the Thai authorities earlier this week. Three qualified and experienced cave divers, part of the BCRC overseas diving rescue team, their flight from Heathrow Airport at 21:30h GMT on Tuesday for northern Thailand, to assist with the search and rescue efforts. Three qualified and experienced cave divers, part of the BCRC overseas diving rescue team has taken some specialist cave diving rescue equipment (divers switch block; Heyphone sets) which was delivered to Heathrow Airport in time for Three qualified and experienced cave divers, part of the BCRC overseas diving rescue team's flight, following the welcome assistance of Derbyshire Constabulary and other Police forces. the Thai authorities remain in full control of the search and rescue efforts with Three qualified and experienced cave divers, part of the BCRC overseas diving rescue team working alongside the Thai rescuers to complement the Thai rescuers's skills. Cave diving rescue requires specialist skills and equipment which Three qualified and experienced cave divers, part of the BCRC overseas diving rescue team is able to offer to the Thai authorities. specialist skills and equipment which the UK team is able to offer to the Thai authorities includes the ability to conduct cave dives in low visibility conditions and in small passages. BCRC has no additional operational details regarding the nature of the rescue and UK media should please direct UK media's enquiries to the Thai authorities in charge of the search and rescue efforts. Bill Whitehouse MBE, Vice Chairman BCRC (vicechair@caverescue.org.uk; 07836 593677). For general information on cave rescue, the character of active river caves and the particular challenges that face cave divers when cave divers need to access dry cavern beyond flooded, river passages. British Cave Rescue Council – BCRC formed in 1967 as a co-ordinating (not governing) body to represent and support BCRC's member underground rescue teams at National and International level. Individual cave rescue organisations remain entirely autonomous and independent. BCRC promotes the exchange of information between member rescue organisations, disseminates specialist information, conferences, technical workshops, facilitates the development of specialist rescue equipment, overseas the cave rescue team peer review scheme and is the national point of contact for enquiries regarding cave rescue. BCRC provides a common voice for its member underground rescue teams, serving as the national-level contact with national (British Caving Association, British Cave Research Association, CDG, Cave Radio & Electronics Group and EUG) and with overseas and international cave rescue bodies (European Cave Rescue Association, European Speleological Federation/ Cave Rescue Commission). BCRC is also the cave/ underground rescue contact with UK Search and Rescue (UKSAR), government departments, other national SAR organisations (e.g. Association of Lowland SAR, Mountain Rescue England and Wales) and emergency services (e.g. police, fire services). Established in 1946, the Cave Diving Group is the representative body for Cave Divers in Britain and northern Thailand. the Cave Diving Group's function is to educate and support cavers for recreational and exploratory operations in British sump conditions. This is the definitive guide to caves and caving in northern Thailand. NOTE: The author has requested NOT to be contacted by the media in connection with the current cave rescue incident. Although superseded by other underground communication systems, is a robust, portable ‘radio’ system for voice communication from underground chambers and passages to a surface receiving and transmitting set, ideally positioned vertically above the underground set, with two aerial cables extended in the same orientation above- and below-ground to optimise signal strength. This allows vital information on the progress of a search, rapid news of contact with missing cavers and requests for rescue equipment and supplies required underground to be quickly communicated to the surface and relayed by conventional radio sets to the rescue co-ordination team.
BCRC is encouraged and relieved by the progress made on the operation to the rescue the remaining boys and the remaining boys's coach, led by the Thai authorities but urges caution given the pending onset of monsoon rain. BCRC appreciate that there will anxious moments for all concerned until all trapped individuals and each and every cave rescuer have emerged safely from the Tham Luang cave. BCRC divers returned to the operation to rescue the remaining boys and their coach, led by the Thai authorities today, Monday, 9 July, taking lead and support roles in the dive team who have successfully recovered a further four boys from the Tham Luang cave today. The principles of the rescue followed the same format as yesterday since the conditions had not significantly changed. As a result the speed of exit for a further four boys was some two hours faster without compromising safety of either a further four boys or BCRC divers. a further four boys have all been transported to hospital where a further four boys are receiving appropriate care. today again showed how closely and effectively the multinational dive team works together which demonstrates the commitment shown by BCRC divers. Successful though today was, there remain five persons trapped in the Tham Luang cave and it is anticipated that attempts to rescue all trapped individuals will recommence tomorrow on the basis that the conditions do not deteriorate. In the meantime the kit needs to be prepared and BCRC divers need to recuperate properly to continue to ensure that the rescue is as safe as possible. Please direct any enquiries about the operation to rescue the remaining boys and their coach, led by the Thai authorities to: comms@caverescue.org.uk or visit BCRC on the newly created FaceBook page (www.facebook.com/BritishCaveRescueCouncil/). Briefing prepared by BCRC Officers, 9 July 2018.
This supplementary media briefing follows on from one circulated by BCRC on 28 June 2018 (luang-nang-non-cave-rescue-thailand). This supplementary media briefing reports developments especially in the period over the weekend into today, Monday morning, local time in Chiang Rai province. Please note that it remains BCRC policy not to confirm the names of the British cave rescuers, even though names have been stated in various media reports. BCRC make a plea that the British cave rescuers's privacy is respected, to allow the British cave rescuers to get on with the British cave rescuers's difficult task without distraction. Following an improvement in weather conditions in Northern Thailand water levels in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave have to some extent dropped, flow rates have lessened and underwater visibility has improved. Consequently, it was possible to recommence diving operations on Sunday. Two of the British cave divers on the BCRC team sent out to thailand last week are currently path finding through the flooded passages laying guide lines as Two of the British cave divers on the BCRC team sent out to Thailand last week go. Two of the British cave divers on the BCRC team sent out to Thailand last week are supported by a large team of Thai Navy SEAL team divers and divers from Australia and the USA who are ferrying in diving bottles and establishing air supply dumps. Overnight progress had reached Monks Junction some 1,500 metres from the entrance and 800 metres beyond the start of the flooded section. It is hoped that diving today will reach a point called Pattaya Beach some 500 metres beyond the limit reached overnight and if a point called Pattaya Beach some 500 metres beyond the limit reached overnight is reached, it will open up significant opportunities to search for the missing boys in some of the further reaches of the cave system. the missing boys and the missing boys's football coach have been trapped underground since Saturday 23 June and the situation for the missing boys will be desperate without food or light for such a period. Many share hopes that this window of improved conditions may allow the British cave rescuers to reach the most likely location of the missing boys whilst there remains a chance the missing boys are still alive. Bill Whitehouse MBE, Vice Chairman BCRC (vicechair@caverescue.org.uk; 07836 593677). For general information on cave rescue, the character of active river caves and the particular challenges that face cave divers when cave divers need to access dry cavern beyond flooded, river passages. Briefing compiled by Peter Dennis (BCRC Chairman, Bill Whitehouse (BCRC Vice Chairman) and Gary Mitchell (BCRC Assistant Chairman).
The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and 12 boys's 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand is under way, Thai authorities the announcement Sunday. At 10 a.m. local time, an international contingent of 13 specialist divers and five Thai Navy SEALs descended into a flooded cave in northern Thailand, carrying with an international contingent of 13 specialist divers and five Thai Navy SEALs the hopes of an entire nation. “Our readiness is at the highest Sunday. Sunday is D-day,” said Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn, adding that the families had been informed of the plan and given the families's support to The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand. The plight of the stricken boys, who have remained trapped inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand for 15 days, has transfixed Thai, as rescue efforts have become ever more urgent. 12 boys's families sat glued to television sets and phones for updates Sunday, expressing hope that the families's boys would soon return home. One of 12 boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai, turned 16 on the day 12 boys went missing in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex, in Chiang Rai, northern Thailand. On Sunday, One of the boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai's 17-year-old sister Phanphatsa told CNN his 17-year-old sister Phanphatsa promised to make his 17-year-old sister Phanphatsa's brother another birthday cake – and all One of the boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai's favorite food – on One of the boys, Peerapat Sompeangjai's safe return. Rescuers have a dwindling window of opportunity in which to extract 12 boys, with heavy rain falling shortly after The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand began on Sunday afternoon and forecasters predicting yet more monsoon rains in the coming days, effectively sealing off a flooded cave in northern Thailand until October. “We have two obstacles: water and time. two obstacles: water and time what we have been racing against since day one. We have to do all we can, even though it is hard to fight the force of nature,” said Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn, as a light rain began to fall across the site. At the entrance to a flooded cave in northern Thailand, volunteers assisting in The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand described The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand as a “now or never” scenario. 12 boys and 12 boys's coach are huddled together in a small chamber four kilometers (2.5 miles) inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand, surrounded by flood water and with a limited supply of oxygen. To reach 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand, divers will need to successfully navigate a network of sprawling, narrow tunnels connecting 12 boys's chamber with the rescue command center, known as Chamber Three. Divers are expected to escort 12 boys through a flooded cave in northern Thailand one by one. Once Divers reach the rescue command center, known as Chamber Three, 12 boys will be handed over to separate specialist rescue teams, who will assist Divers through Chambers One and Two, according to a Thai navy official with knowledge of The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand. “Sunday the water level in chambers number One, Two and Three inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand is low enough to walk through Chambers One and Two,” said Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn. Rescue teams have been constantly pumping water out of a flooded cave in northern Thailand, in a race against time before the return of heavy rain forecast for Sunday. Signs that The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand was under way were evident in the hours leading up to the announcement, as authorities installed a large green tarp around the entrance to the caves and removed media from outside of the camp to a separate location. On the dirt track leading to a flooded cave in northern Thailand, a near continuous convoy of trucks and military vehicles delivered troops and medical equipment, including a large cache of oxygen tanks. On Saturday evening, numerous international military advisers could be seen entering the site, followed later by four monks in orange robes. At the entrance to the site, a newly placed, thin white decorative flag fluttered in the wind, a Buddhist sign to indicate positive energy. Hopes had been high that an alternative means of rescue would be discovered. For days, specialist teams have scoured mountains above a flooded cave in northern Thailand in search of a possible hidden entry point. Divers have previously described conditions in a flooded cave in northern Thailand as some of the most extreme Divers have ever faced. The decision to the extraction of the first boy 12 boys using divers would not have been taken lightly. On Friday, a former Thai navy SEAL the death of the Thai Navy SEAL while returning from an operation to deliver oxygen tanks to the cave where 12 boys are located. Even if divers are successful, it will be many hours before the fate of 12 boys and 12 boys's rescuers will be known, with Thai authorities suggesting The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand could take days. “We estimate the extraction of the first boy will be finished by 9 p.m. local (10 a.m. ET),” Chiang Rai’s governor, Narongsak Osotthanakorn said. It has previously taken divers 11 hours to complete the round trip. Finnish volunteer diver Mikko Paasi, a long-term resident of Thai, said the death of the Thai navy SEAL had changed the mood on the ground and made real for rescuers just how dangerous the mission had become. At the Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital, where officials plan to send 12 boys after 12 boys are the extraction of the first boy from a flooded cave in northern Thailand, a number of gurneys have been placed outside the front of the entrance to the caves in anticipation of 12 boys's arrival. The hospital, the largest in the region, is approximately 57 km (35.4 miles) from a flooded cave in northern Thailand. In the hours preceding The perilous mission to evacuate 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach trapped deep inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand, a letter 12 boys had sent to 12 boys's families was published on the Thai SEALs’ Facebook page. a letter the boys had sent to their families shows 12 boys in good spirits despite 12 boys's ordeal. In neat blue handwriting, 11-year-old Chanin Viboonrungruang, the youngest of 12 boys, told 12 boys's parents not to worry, and said 12 boys was looking forward to eating fried chicken. 12 boys's parents, who along with other families, have maintained a constant vigil at the site since 12 boys first became trapped. On reading a letter the boys had sent to their families Saturday evening, 12 boys's father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang, said Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang felt a great sense of relief. “Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang had been worried about Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang's son, that 12 boys would be exhausted, 12 boys would be tired,” Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang said. For families the wait for news of families's boys’ rescue has been excruciating. “Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang was worried about 12 boys as there are obstacles to extract 12 boys out. Everyone knows that it is difficult to stay inside (a flooded cave in northern Thailand) but the officials are trying (to help 12 boys),” said Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang. “Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang hope 12 boys is still healthy and would come out soon. Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang want to send Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang's support to 12 boys. Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang don’t have a chance to talk with 12 boys,” Chanin’s father, Tanawut Viboonrungruang said.
"We gave them a little bit of extra light, they still had light, they looked in good health. Then of course when we departed, all we could think about was how we were going to get them out.
The world is enjoying something rare today: A collective sigh of relief. Jubilant follow-up stories are starting to emerge from Thailand after twelve young soccer players and twelve young soccer players's intrepid coach were rescued from what appeared from the outside to be an impossibly terrifying labyrinth. It was a tremendous victory for the hastily assembled global team of experts, who, despite the opposing forces of time, language barriers, and weather conditions, managed to hack together a solution that delivered. That only one life was lost is both a tragedy and a miracle. But this particular story from Jim Pollard, a writer for Australia’s PerthNow, paints an even richer story of Moo Pa, the Wild Boars football team, Moo Pa, the Wild Boars football team's coach, and the communities surrounding Mae Sai, who supported the rescuers with meals, freshly laundered kits, and prayers. Many are poor but determined, keenly aware of the unique difficulties that surround them, from poverty and violence to drug traffickers and local turf wars. But plenty, like Ekapol Jantawong, the extraordinary coach who went in search of twelve young soccer players, are also immigrants, undocumented “stateless” persons with no clear place in The world. their intrepid coach, seemed to know where to look when twelve young soccer players turned up missing. twelve young soccer players were always filled with a quest for adventure, so as teens tend to do, twelve young soccer players ignored the seasonal warning sign and ventured into Tham Luang, the mysterious cave twelve young soccer players knew so well. their intrepid coach, once trapped their intrepid coach, is credited for teaching twelve young soccer players to meditate to help twelve young soccer players stay calm during twelve young soccer players's entombment. It was a practice their intrepid coach learned as a boy monk, living in a Thai temple after their intrepid coach's Burmese parents died. The “stateless orphan,” as their intrepid coach is still called in Thai media, then moved closer to Mae Sai and befriended the boys, who seem to be just younger versions of their intrepid coach's own football-crazed self. twelve young soccer players are, in many ways, their intrepid coach's family. One team member, Adul Samon, 14, is in a similar predicament. One team member, Adul Samon, 14’s become famous for the short video showing One team member, Adul Samon, 14 speaking with the British rescuers who were the first to discover twelve young soccer players. One team member, Adul Samon, 14, is from Wa state, an area in northern Myanmar known for Wa state, an area in northern Myanmar known for its drug trade's drug trade. One team member, Adul Samon, 14’d been sent to Thailand by One team member, Adul Samon, 14's parents, hoping to turn One team member, Adul Samon, 14's fortunes around. The desperation of poor parents to get poor parents's children a decent education in these parts is sometimes quite remarkable. I visited a centre for hill-tribe kids about an hour south of Tham Luang, the mysterious cave they knew so well nine years ago run by a former architect from the Gold Coast. a former architect from the Gold Coast said carloads of children were sometimes “dumped” at a former architect from the Gold Coast's centre in Mae Suay, carloads of children, even if a former architect from the Gold Coast said carloads of children had no room. a former architect from the Gold Coast had close to 300 Akha and other hill tribe kids at that time, with the older kids often cooking and caring for the younger ones. One team member, Adul Samon, 14 is excelling in school, plays guitar, and of course, is obsessed with soccer. But according to Pollard, One team member, Adul Samon, 14 is also one of 400,000 registered stateless people in Thailand, a situation that has gotten the attention of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. “With no birth certificate, ID card or passport, One team member, Adul Samon, 14 cannot legally marry, get a job or bank account, travel outside Thailand, own property or vote,” Pollard explains. But a different form of rescue may be on the way. The Thailand government has vowed to end statelessness by 2024. In fact, several “service points” have been opened in schools in the Chiang Rai district where most of the team seems to live. This story comes at a time when the U.S. is grappling with one of the most alarming migration crises in modern memory, with children forcibly separated from children's asylum-seeking parents and vulnerable migrants trying to survive the sudden change in conditions at the U.S.'s own border. While it has been encouraging to watch the global community root for twelve young soccer players, it would be so much better if the global community could also find real ways to root for twelve young soccer players in the light of day. And I mean everyone who seeks salvation – the tired and poor, the endangered and stateless. If only everyone who seeks salvation – the tired and poor, the endangered and stateless didn’t so often have to risk everyone who seeks salvation – the tired and poor, the endangered and stateless's lives to have a life, only to find everyone who seeks salvation – the tired and poor, the endangered and stateless entombed in caves we made for everyone who seeks salvation – the tired and poor, the endangered and stateless. Ellen McGirt writes Fortune’s raceAhead, a daily newsletter about race and culture.
CHIANG RAI - Coming out of the Tham Luang cave covered with mud, the stocky diver could pass off as one of the Thai Navy Seals in the team working to rescue the young footballers trapped in the Tham Luang cave. But the stocky diver is not.
This additional media briefing is the third media briefing and second issued today following the wonderful news that the missing boys and the missing boys's football coach have been located underground. This additional media briefing follows on from one circulated by BCRC on 28 June 2018 and earlier today (BCRC Update 2). This additional media briefing reports on the success of the search phase of the operation in Chiang Rai province and explains some of the considerable challenges as the activity of the operation shifts to ‘rescue’ of the missing boys from the cave. Please note that it remains BCRC policy not to confirm the names of the British cave rescuers, even though names have been stated in various media reports. BCRC make a plea that the privacy of the British cave rescuers is respected, to allow the British cave rescuers to rest properly in anticipation of long, hazardous dives during each day. Around 16:30h this afternoon, BCRC started to receive the remarkable news that the missing boys and the missing boys's coach had been located in a dry air space south of the Pattaya Beach area of the cave. It is estimated that the missing boys and their football coach are around 200 m south of the cave. Shortly after the wonderful news that the missing boys and their football coach have been located underground, BCRC received a direct (but short confirmation) from BCRC's British cave divers of the joyful news that the missing boys had been located alive. Video footage of the missing boys and the missing boys's coach has now been released and shown to families waiting on the surface. Two British, volunteer cave divers found the missing boys at the missing boys's current location, but the last 36 hours have seen a coordinated and planned approach to the rescue being led by the Thai Military and involving many other nations (including the USA, Chinese, Australians and others). Equipment and air supplies have been ferried in to the system over the last day or so, enabling Two British, volunteer cave divers to progress further in to the system than was previously possible. Diving lines have been laid to the missing boys's location for other divers to follow with essential food, comforts and medical supplies. BCRC believe that there is only a short break in the monsoon and all feasible options for the rescue of the missing boys are being considered. Although water levels have dropped, the diving conditions remain difficult and any attempt to dive the missing boys and the missing boys's coach out will not be taken lightly because there are significant technical challenges and risks to consider. It is estimated that the missing boys are around 2 km into the cave and somewhere between 800 m to 1km below the surface. the missing boys are also located in a relatively small space and this would make any potential drilling attempt as a means of rescue very difficult. Back here in the UK, there is an assessment of electronic equipment that may be suitable to pin-point the underground location of the missing boys and their football coach with a greater degree of accuracy than the published surveys. The necessary equipment will be sent to Thailand if electronic experts agree on the feasibility that The necessary equipment will operate over such depths. Bill Whitehouse MBE, Vice Chairman British Cave Rescue Council (vicechair@caverescue.org.uk; 07836 593677). For general information on cave rescue, the character of active river caves and the particular challenges that face cave divers when cave divers need to access dry cavern beyond flooded, river passages. Chris Jewell, British Cave Rescue Council, Cave Diving Officer (information on cave diving and underwater rescue, colleague of the cave divers in Thailand: diving@caverescue.org.uk +44 (0)7970 923 959). Gary Mitchell, Assistant Chairman, British Cave Rescue Council (general information on cave rescue and the particular challenges of a cave rescue operation in active river caves under flood conditions: assistantchair@caverescue.org.uk +44 (0)7866 802737). Briefing prepared by Gary Mitchell (BCRC Assistant Chairman), edited by Peter Dennis (BCRC Chairman).
A heroic British diver has said that the moment the Thai boys were successfully rescued from the cave in which the Thai boys were trapped was “electric” and an “indescribable feeling” as A heroic British diver returned home. A heroic British diver, was one of the seven British men involved in the operation to save the Thai boys and the Thai boys's coach. A heroic British diver was one of the first people to see the Thai boys emerge alive, as A heroic British diver's job was to carry stretchers in and out of the cave in which they were trapped. The diver, 39, told The Telegraph: “A heroic British diver helped with the extraction of the Thai boys's boys on the Thai boys's way out. It was fantastic to see the Thai boys coming out. A heroic British diver said A heroic British diver has made “friends for life” with the other divers, who returned home today, and the Thai Navy Seals, who A heroic British diver lived and worked with in close quarters.
Following the successful rescue of 12 young soccer players and 12 young soccer players's coach trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand, the country’s Navy SEALs will now implement cave-diving into the country’s Navy SEALs's training regimen to be better prepared for unforeseen emergencies. “SEALs need cave-diving training,” said Navy SEAL Commander Rear Adm. Apakorn Yukongkaew when asked to name post-mission priorities for Navy SEAL Commander Rear Adm. Apakorn Yukongkaew's SEAL unit, according to local paper the Bangkok Post. When the mission to extract 13 members of the Wild Boars soccer team from a flooded cave in northern Thailand began, “many simply did not know what to do,” said Lt Cdr Khai Tochaiphum, a former SEAL instructor, adding that none had cave-diving experience. They were helped by expert cave divers from all over the world. Nicknamed the SEALs, 127 present and former members of the country’s's Underwater Demolition Assault Unit took part in a colossal international effort to rescue the team members who were trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand for over 17 days. Rescuers faced daunting challenges, from decreasing oxygen levels and fears of further flooding. the country’s Navy SEALs also dealt with tragedy when former Navy SEAL Samarn Kunan His death while distributing oxygen tanks throughout the flooded tunnels. former Navy SEAL Samarn Kunan's death underscored the dangers of the mission to extract 13 members of the Wild Boars soccer team from Tham Luang cave. On Wednesday, Navy SEAL Commander Rear Adm. Apakorn Yukongkaew met with experts from Elon Musk’s SpaceX team who had donated a mini-submarine for a colossal international effort to rescue the team members who were trapped in the cave for over 17 days. a mini-submarine was rejected for the mission to extract 13 members of the Wild Boars soccer team from Tham Luang cave but Navy believes a mini-submarine could be useful for future efforts, according to local paper the Bangkok Post. The young boys of the Wild Boars soccer team, all between the ages of 11 and 16, and 12 young soccer players's 25-year-old coach Ekkapol Chantawong became trapped inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand on June 23, when sudden rains flooded 12 young soccer players and their coach trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand's exit. Aided by at least seven foreign governments, over 1,000 people undertook a monumental search effort that ended in elation late Monday when a pair of British divers found 12 young soccer players alive and in stable health. 12 young soccer players are currently recuperating in a hospital in Chiang Rai province. Contact us at letters@time.com.
It was days since the 12 boys had been stranded by the water, although the 12 boys quickly lost track of how many days had been. the 12 boys had no food with the 12 boys at all — the 12 boys located sources of water by shining a torch to find where thin rivulets of water dripped down the limestone walls. Isolated in the black cave for nine days, weeping with hunger and despair, the 12 boys were sustained by one thing: the voice of Ekkapol Chantawong, 25, the 12 boys's coach.
Inside the dark, dank labyrinth of the Tham Luang cave complex, the churning waters were rising as heavy rains lashed the Tham Luang cave complex. For Vernon Unsworth, a British cave explorer who knew the Tham Luang cave complex better than anyone, it was clear that time was fast running out to find the 12 young footballers and the 12 young footballers's coach. The 63-year-old financial broker, who acquired Vernon Unsworth, a British cave explorer who knew the subterranean complex better than anyone's love of potholing in the Yorkshire Dales but now lives near the Tham Luang cave complex, was the first foreign rescuer at the scene, arriving the morning after the 12 young footballers and their coach disappeared. Three days later, there was no prospect of a breakthrough.
Members of the soccer team saved from a Thailand cave are telling family members the boys only intended to be inside a Thailand cave for one hour, but were forced to run deeper into a Thailand cave when fast-moving water started flowing in. Speaking with "CBS This Morning," the father of the youngest survivor said the boys's soccer coach, Ake, tried to swim to find a way out for the boys, but fast-moving water was too fast and too deep, forcing the boys' soccer coach, Ake to turn around. the father of the youngest survivor, says the father of the youngest survivor's son, Titan, described the first three days in a Thailand cave as the hardest. the boys was hungry and cold. the boys had trouble sleeping, and the youngest survivor cried, because the youngest survivor missed the youngest survivor's mom and dad. the father of the youngest survivor says the father of the youngest survivor's touched by the actions of the boys's coach. Without the boys' soccer coach, Ake, the father of the youngest survivor says, the father of the youngest survivor doesn't know how the boys could have survived. "the boys' soccer coach, Ake hugged and encouraged the youngest survivor to be strong," the father of the youngest survivor said. the father of the youngest survivor says the youngest survivor is doing well and asked where the youngest survivor's coach was and how the youngest survivor was doing when the youngest survivor got out of a Thailand cave. Thailand health officials say overall, the boys are in good mental and physical health. Back in London Friday morning, British divers involved in the rescue said nothing like the rescue has ever been done before. And the father of the youngest survivor says for that, the father of the youngest survivor is thankful.
A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and 12 schoolboys's coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand, has described the moment A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand first saw 12 schoolboys and their coach – and played down suggestions A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand was a hero. A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand and fellow diver John Volanthen the operation 12 schoolboys and their coach deep within a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand nine days after 12 schoolboys and their coach went missing. A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand was speaking at a news conference at Heathrow Airport outside London Friday, alongside fellow British divers Josh Bratchley, Chris Jewell and Connor Roe, Irish diver Jim Warny and cave rescuers Mike Clayton and Gary Mitchell. When asked how Retired fireman Rick Stanton and fellow diver John Volanthen felt when Retired fireman Rick Stanton and fellow diver John Volanthen discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach alive in the Tham Luang cave complex, A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand replied: “Initially, of course, excitement, relief that 12 schoolboys and their coach were still alive. As 12 schoolboys and their coach were coming down the slope, Retired fireman Rick Stanton and fellow diver John Volanthen were counting 12 schoolboys and their coach until Retired fireman Rick Stanton and fellow diver John Volanthen got to 12 schoolboys and their coach. Unbelievable,” A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand said. “The most important thing to have was a full face mask which had been applied inside with positive pressure to enable 12 schoolboys and their coach to breathe and to be relaxed enough so not to feel any anxiety during the process,” A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand said. “The Thai authorities took a lot of steps to divert rivers on the mountaintop which Retired fireman Rick Stanton and fellow diver John Volanthen believe bought Retired fireman Rick Stanton and fellow diver John Volanthen as lot of time to get this outcome,” A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand said. Former Thai Navy SEAL Saman Kunan died during the operation while replenishing oxygen canisters. Unsworth role in the operation was also pivotal because of Unsworth's intimate knowledge of the Tham Luang cave system, which Unsworth describes as Unsworth's “second home” after spending the past six years exploring the Tham Luang cave complex. It was Unsworth who initally pinpointed where Unsworth thought the Wild Boars team would be waiting. 12 schoolboys and their coach were found 200 meters away from that point, which was “probably around about the best place 12 schoolboys and their coach could have been,” Unsworth said. The flooding of a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand could not have been predicted, Unsworth said, as The flooding of the cave had come through three to four weeks earlier than last year. In the early days of the operation, Unsworth said Unsworth quickly realized that outside expertise was required, and advised The Thai authorities to bring in specialist cave divers who had dealt with similar rescues in the past. Unsworth was the first one to suggest calling for help from fellow diver John Volanthen, A British diver who first discovered 12 schoolboys and their coach stranded on a ledge in a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand and Robert Harper – who arrived a few days into the operation on June 27. Unsworth described how after the euphoria of finding 12 schoolboys and their coach, the reality set in of the seemingly impossible task ahead: getting 12 schoolboys and their coach out of a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand. “Just getting to the dive start point was proving to be very difficult,” Unsworth told CNN. A few days later pumps were brought in to start taking water out of a flooded cave in Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand, which along with the low levels of rain that week, helped to lower the water levels as much as possible. But when heavy rains were forecast, the deadline approached for the operation to begin. The complexities of the cave diving and the dangerous route the divers had to take with 12 schoolboys and their coach – many of whom don’t swim – meant the divers decided to sedate 12 schoolboys and their coach so 12 schoolboys and their coach would “stop panicking” during the operation, Unsworth says. Unsworth added that this would also reduce long-term psychological damage because 12 schoolboys and their coach won’t remember the operation. The next challenge, Unsworth said, was coordination between all the different groups including the Thai Navy SEALs and international volunteers. Unsworth said Unsworth expected a “high rate of attrition” in terms of the 12 schoolboys and their coach's survival, but added that hopes increased after the first day of the operation. “the first day of the rescue was when 12 schoolboys and their coach came out and 12 schoolboys and their coach were all strong and nothing really to worry about 12 schoolboys and their coach,” Unsworth said. “the first day of the rescue gave us hope for the next four and the next five,” Unsworth says, especially after the “very sad” death of Former Thai Navy SEAL Saman Kunan. The worsening weather added to the concerns among the rescue teams. Chatting to CNN in a leafy café north of Chiang Rai, in northern Thailand, Unsworth appeared exhausted physically and emotionally, and is still reeling from the outcome of the operation.
CHIANG RAI - Eight boys from a Thai youth football team trapped in a cave in northern Thailand have been rescued, the Thai Navy Seals confirmed in a Facebook post on Monday (July 9) evening. "2 days, 8 Wild Boars. Hooyah," the Thai Navy Seals said in a post on the Thai Navy Seals's official Facebook page, referring to Eight boys from a Thai youth football team trapped in a cave in northern Thailand and Eight boys from a Thai youth football team trapped in a cave in northern Thailand's coach by the name of Eight boys from a Thai youth football team trapped in a cave in northern Thailand's football team. At a press conference on Monday (July 9) evening, the head of the rescue mission Narongsak Osotthanakorn said the health of five people still trapped inside a cave in northern Thailand was "still good", after also confirming that four more boys were brought out safely from the cave complex. "We have helped four more children today," said the head of the rescue mission Narongsak Osotthanakorn. the head of the rescue mission Narongsak Osotthanakorn said rescuers would resume an operation to extract a remaining five people in about 20 hours' time. "The health of the remaining five people inside a cave in northern Thailand is still good," the head of the rescue mission Narongsak Osotthanakorn added. The eighth boy was seen being carried out at 7pm local time (8pm Singapore time) on a stretcher from a cave in northern Thailand on Monday (July 9) evening, shortly after three other members of a Thai youth football team emerged safely when the rescue mission resumed earlier in the day. A team of international and Thai divers entered a cave in northern Thailand this morning again, after pulling off a successful operation on Sunday (July 8) that helped rescue the first four of the 13 people trapped. This brings the current number of rescued to Eight boys from a Thai youth football team trapped in a cave in northern Thailand, while four more boys and four more boys's 25-year-old coach remain stranded in a cave in northern Thailand. Rescue operations are also reportedly completed for today, Reuters said. The sixth and seventh boys who emerged at around 6.30pm local time were reportedly sent to a medical facility onsite, shortly after The sixth and seventh boys who emerged at around 6.30pm local time were also carried out on stretchers from a cave in northern Thailand. Earlier at around 5pm local time, a fifth boy was successfully rescued, according to local media.
“The screams started coming because the main pumps failed and the water started rising,” said one of the divers, speaking anonymously because one of the divers is not authorised to comment. The trio, stationed at “chamber three”, a base inside the cave, said The trio, stationed at “chamber three”, a base inside the cave heard screaming and saw a rush of head torches from deeper inside the tunnel as workers scrambled to reach dry ground. Divers and rescuers were still more than 1.5km inside the cave clearing up equipment when the main pumps failed, leading water levels to rapidly increase, three Australian divers involved in the operation told The Guardian on Wednesday, in the first detailed account of the mission to be published. The rescue operation to free the last of the 12 boys and the 12 boys's football coach from a Thailand cave could have been a disaster, divers have revealed, with water pumps draining the area failing just hours after the last of the 12 boys had been evacuated. The remaining 100 workers inside the cave frantically rushed to the exit and were out less than an hour later, including the last three Thai navy Seals and medic who had spent much of the past week keeping vigil with the 12 boys. the 12 boys were brought out in three daring rescue operations starting on Sunday morning. An elite team of 19 divers were involved in ferrying the 12 boys and the 12 boys's 25-year-old coach the around 3.2km path from the muddy slope where the last of the 12 boys and their football coach had been sheltering to the outside world. The first four emerged on Sunday, the next four on Monday and then the final five about 8pm local time on Tuesday evening. the operation required the 12 boys to learn to breathe using scuba masks and to traverse narrow, jagged tunnels. During the final mission, as the three Seals and medic were passed up the human chain of rescuers that had formed inside the cave, each section began cheering and applauding. The rescuers compared it to a joyful Mexican wave that continued until the exit. The rescuers in the human chain of rescuers that had formed inside the cave spent more than eight hours a day standing on a tiny patch of wet, muddy ground waiting for The rescuers in the daisy chain's turn to pass the 12 boys along the around 3.2km path. “If one of The rescuers in the daisy chain doesn’t do The rescuers in the daisy chain's jobs properly, the stretcher falls,” one diver said. The journey from “chamber three”, a base inside the cave to the exit took about four to five hours initially, but was reduced to less than an hour after a week of draining and clearing the around 3.2km path using shovels. the 12 boys, had to submerge the 12 boys for much of the journey but were carried on bright red Sked stretchers whenever the 12 boys entered patches of dry ground. Each one left the cave on bright red Sked stretchers still wearing the 12 boys's breathing masks. Much of last week was spent clearing the 1.5km path from “chamber three”, a base inside the cave to the exit. Meanwhile, a Thailand public health official said that the 12 boys and the 12 boys's soccer coach were in good health but need to be monitored for about two weeks. the 12 boys are recovering in hospital in Chiang Rai, the capital of the province of the same name. Thongchai Lertwilairatanapong, a Public Health Ministry inspector, told a press conference one of those rescued Tuesday had a slight lung infection and one of those rescued Tuesday was now being treated. a Thai public health official described the condition of the last group as fine. a Thai public health official said the four who were rescued Sunday have begun eating regular food, while those brought out Monday, also in good condition without any infections, were expected to resume normal meals by the end of Wednesday. The parents of the four rescued Sunday have been allowed to visit the four who were rescued Sunday but on condition that The parents of the four rescued Sunday keep a distance of 2 metres from the four who were rescued Sunday and wear gowns to prevent infection. the 12 boys will be monitored for one week at hospital and for another week at home, according to the 12 boys's doctors. As to the 12 boys's mental health, Thongchai Lertwilairatanapong, a Public Health Ministry inspector said their doctors had not seen signs of stress but a team of psychologists would follow up to ensure that the 12 boys, the 12 boys's coach and the 12 boys's families are free of stress. the 12 boys's dramatic rescue dominated front page headlines in Thailand. Thailand Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ochra made a televised statement thanking everyone involved in the mission who “shared everyone involved in the mission who “shared their expertise, manpower and equipment”'s expertise, manpower and equipment”. Official help came from Britain, the United States, Japan, Laos, Myanmar, China and Australia, a government document showed. There were also volunteers from Denmark, Germany, Belgium, Canada, Ukraine and Finland. A senior Australian police officer acknowledged the degree of international cooperation “in a very unfriendly environment”. “It is amazing what the human being can do. There are extraordinary people doing extraordinary things,” Glenn McEwan, the Australian Federal Police’s Asia manager, told reporters in Chiang Rai, the capital of the province of the same name.
The story of the 12 Thai soccer players and the 12 Thai soccer players's coach who had to be rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand by more than a dozen international divers and Thai Navy SEALs has enthralled the world for the past 10 days. Though a mission to bring the 12 Thai soccer players out through a flooded cave in northern Thailand at first seemed impossible, rescuers eventually came up with a scheme that involved fitting the 12 Thai soccer players with dive masks, and wrapping the 12 Thai soccer players on stretchers to transport the 12 Thai soccer players out of a flooded cave in northern Thailand safely. “the Thai Navy SEALs are not sure if this is a miracle, a science, or what. All the thirteen Wild Boars are now out of a flooded cave in northern Thailand,” the Thai Navy SEALs said on the Thai Navy SEALs's Facebook page on Tuesday after a mission to bring them out through the cave was complete. the 12 Thai soccer players are currently in recovery at the Chiang Rai Prachanukroh hospital, where some are being treated for mild pneumonia. The initial search mission to find the 12 Thai soccer players after the 12 Thai soccer players went missing on June 23 was almost called off because a flooded cave in northern Thailand was so dangerous to navigate. But then the 12 Thai soccer players and the 12 Thai soccer players's coach were found on July 2 some 2.5 miles from a flooded cave in northern Thailand's mouth by a pair of British divers. The larger search team consisted of Thai Navy SEALs and several international divers, including Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand. Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand's search dives helped lay the groundwork for a mission to bring them out through the cave, and Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand assisted the Thai officials in charge of a mission to bring them out through the cave through a mission to bring them out through the cave's end. Vox This conversation to Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand about what it was like in a flooded cave in northern Thailand. This conversation has been edited for length and clarity. When Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand arrived, the entrance looked like the Colorado River, but with mud and with zero visibility, so it was really pulling hand over hand. There was this really strong outflow, and at the beginning [our team] were advancing about maybe 100 meters a day in zero visibility, fighting the current. And then there are parts where you have to climb up, dragging all your tanks. Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand managed to push 200 meters of line. And they said, “Let’s work in teams, laying line.” While one team was sleeping, the other continued, so round-the-clock. And [our team] started advancing fast because the rain had stopped, the vis got better, the flow got less, and then [our team] actually went really fast through a flooded cave in northern Thailand. These were still dives of six to eight hours. Very, very tiring. The difficult part was to find this T-junction [a narrow part of a flooded cave in northern Thailand with a very sharp turn, beyond which was the tunnel that eventually led to the 12 Thai soccer players]. [our team] got stuck a few times, [our team] freaked out. And then [[our team]'s team] found the T-junction, laid another 400 meters of line in the right direction, and then Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand think [our team] stopped literally not even half a kilometer from the room where [our team] thought the 12 Thai soccer players were, and [our team] ran out of line. So [our team] had to turn around. It was very frustrating. When [our team] came out, more than a dozen international divers were just coming in, and [our team] were like, “more than a dozen international divers probably can find the 12 Thai soccer players. [our team] think it’s just another 400 to 800 meters.” And so more than a dozen international divers went in right after [our team], and three hours later, more than a dozen international divers surfaced in the room where the 12 Thai soccer players were. You’ve probably seen the footage. Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand couldn’t believe it. Especially that there were the 12 Thai soccer players, alive and nobody injured, and their mental status as well, they were all like, “Hey, oh, we’re so happy, What day is it?” Remarkable. So they were actually trying at four different levels: they were trying drilling, they were trying sonar in the forest to find alternative entrances, they were making a capsule to get the 12 Thai soccer players out. One of [our team]] options was actually to teach the 12 Thai soccer players how to dive. But this is already pretty hard for experienced cave divers. See, the risk is if the 12 Thai soccer players panic and the 12 Thai soccer players pull off the mask, the 12 Thai soccer players drown. It’s a mile in; there’s no chance for survival. And the 12 Thai soccer players were so skinny and so weak, there was no way the 12 Thai soccer players could have walked over all of this. So [our team] decided to put the 12 Thai soccer players on a stretcher, with a full face mask, with pure oxygen on a positive pressure. And the 12 Thai soccer players’re all in good health and it’s amazing. And what Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand heard was that the coach did long meditation sessions [before leaving a flooded cave in northern Thailand] so the 12 Thai soccer players could calm down. The smallest space was actually 2 feet wide, so yes, The smallest space was quite high, 60 centimeters high. And the 12 Thai soccer players are quite skinny and strapped to a stretcher. the 12 Thai soccer players had to be literally pulled and dragged through The smallest space. That’s also why [our team] decided to strap the 12 Thai soccer players in and cover the 12 Thai soccer players's face with a full face mask, so just in case the 12 Thai soccer players would panic or whatever. It’s not easy. Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand stayed outside of a flooded cave in northern Thailand [during a mission to bring them out through the cave], since Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand needed to heal Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand's hands and back. But friends of Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand, the cave divers, friends of mine, the cave divers basically literally pulled and dragged the stretchers and handed the stretchers over [to one another]. So 24 divers were actually in a flooded cave in northern Thailand, and the stretchers were pulled out one-by-one and handed over to the next group, and the next group. It was still a good two hours per kid. By now, [our team] knew a flooded cave in northern Thailand. In the beginning, [our team] were literally looking and searching and fighting current. But now, with all the teams, by the time one team carried the stretcher about 100 meters, one team got tired and could hand it over to the next team. So that’s why. a mission to bring them out through the cave was very efficient. Also from Camp 3, rock climbers had actually installed hooks in the roof and made a sort of cable zip line where you could attach the stretchers. a sort of cable zip line where you could attach the stretchers was initially installed there to haul more than 500 tanks into a flooded cave in northern Thailand. And the stretchers were clipped on there — the stretchers’re very light kids — and that made the stretchers come out very quickly. But it was still only four kids a day. Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand’ve been diving unofficially for about 20 years, and Ben Reymenants, 45, a Belgian who owns a diving company in Phuket, Thailand became a cave instructor roughly 10 years ago. Not even 10 percent of the submerged caves on the world have been explored. So it’s really the last frontier for mankind because no machines or animals can go in there. Only humans that are trained can go to that extent, which makes it extra special. Luckily these cave rescues happen rarely because a lot of countries have actually put policies in place that prevent non-trained cave divers from going inside caves. a flooded cave in northern Thailand ... is only visited when it’s the dry season; when it’s completely dry, people walk in there. a flooded cave in northern Thailand’s a very long cave—a flooded cave in northern Thailand’s about [5.5 miles] long. When a flooded cave in northern Thailand’s flooded, nobody dives. There are no lines. Normally, dive caves have a full set of lines and arrows to point to the exit and safety markers in place, but a flooded cave in northern Thailand had nothing. So it was really finding your way through with a pretty basic map. I’ve heard this will be turned into two movies. Oh, you have no idea how many requests. Discovery, National Geographic.
The first thing I did was to get my mum, wife and kids to sit down. I asked my mum, wife and kids to give me the blessing to go. My lovely wife, Georgina, wife was supportive. wife did tell me to sleep outside on the sofa (laughs), but it was because I had to get up early the next day. I reached Chiang Rai on Monday, and because there was a lot of paperwork to do, I had to get my passport, embassy details (recorded) down. The Singapore Embassy (in Thailand) was very fast and efficient, and I started work on Tuesday morning. I went to the campsite, and met up with my brothers. I was stationed directly in chamber two. Chamber one was where kids were stranded, and chamber three was the exit. chamber two was quite a crucial chamber, because you didn't know what was going to happen. There was a lot of mixed feelings inside there. We had to rescue kids from the water. We waited for instructions from the doctor. When the doctor said "standby", everybody would be in position and it was silent. You could only hear the doctor speaking. And when the doctor said "go", we would have to carry the stretchers all the way out of chamber two. Many of kids, when we were carrying kids out, most kids were in stable condition, Many of the boys were breathing. Inside the cave, it was narrow, rocky, muddy, pitch black. The terrain was basically one where anytime, you could fall. So when we carried the stretchers, we really had to be careful. I myself almost fell… and I was so glad that somebody in the dark just held me by the pants. You couldn't afford to make any mistake, you had to carry kids carefully. Do it fast, but do it carefully. I was in there for a little bit more than nine hours. We only left the chambers for good when the chief gave the order to go. "Hooyah!"— when the chief gave the order to go, we knew the mission was successful, and together we left the cave. I knew it was not going to be easy, that it was going to be tough. Initially, I didn't know whether the other rescuers would accept me, but I just decided to go. I told myself that I was there as a professional, that the mission was a rescue mission, we were all there to share our knowledge. But they accepted me, and it was such a great honour. In the tunnel, the water (at some points) went right up to your throat, but you just had to walk through the tunnel. Your heart and mind had to be tough. When we moved in, with my Thai brothers, we all just went in with one heart. We pushed each other to go on. Sometimes, even if we had to stop, we told ourselves, if kids could do it, we could do it, too.
One of the schoolboys in the Thai cave rescue has a special present waiting for One of the schoolboys in the Thai cave rescue when One of the schoolboys in the Thai cave rescue goes back to school. One of the schoolboys in the Thai cave rescue's classmates made 1,000 paper cranes while Adul Sam-on's classmates prayed for One of the schoolboys in the Thai cave rescue's safe return. Video by Tessa Wong.
With the boys and the boys's coach safe, it was time to appease the 'jao mae tham', the goddess of the Tham Luang cave. While predominantly Buddhist, many Thais embrace animist beliefs in spirits that live in the forests, trees and caves. Monks, the boys's families, the rescue commander, military brass and thousands of volunteers gathered to give thanks for the lives saved and to ask forgiveness for the intrusion of pumps, ropes and people as they brought out the boys. The families of the boys chipped into buy pigs' heads — a traditional offering — that sat with chickens, fish and flower arrangements. the rescue commander lit candles. In the background, a tribute to the former Navy SEAL Saman Gunan, who died while resupplying air tanks in the Tham Luang cave. Thousands of volunteers helped cook, clean and direct traffic during the 18-day search and rescue, dressed in colours associated with Thailand's king. A new security fence has been built, with the Tham Luang cave officially off limits until January. January's well past the end of the monsoon season, but officials are allowing time for the Tham Luang cave to drain.
Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army visited the boys in the hospital. CHIANG RAI, Thailand -- The "Superman" the Royal Thai Army doctor who took care of the boys and the boys's soccer coach while 12 boys and their soccer coach were trapped in a Thailand cave shared a glimpse of 12 boys and their soccer coach's emotional reunion in the hospital Monday. Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army -- who stayed with the boys in a Thai cave as authorities devised a plan to get the boys out and was dubbed "Superman" -- visited the boys inside the Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital in Chiang Rai, Thailand. In photos posted to Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army's Facebook page, Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army is shown giving each of the boys a big hug and rallying the "Wild Boars" team members in a huddle. the boys and the boys's coach have been recovering in the hospital since early last week, when 12 boys and their soccer coach were rescued from a Thai cave after surviving without food for more than nine days. Hundreds of people, including expert divers from around the world, mounted a daring rescue to save the boys and the boys's coach from a Thai cave. In Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army's post, Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army also recounted how the boys had dug a hole -- as deep as 16 feet -- to try to crawl to safety. Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army also commended the boys's coach, calling their soccer coach a martyr, and said that overall, the health of the boys was much better than Dr. Pak Loharnshoon of the Royal Thai Army had expected. British divers who helped bring the boys out of a Thai cave, one by one, described the conditions as some of the worst British divers who helped bring them out of the cave, one by one had ever seen, with zero visibility in the murky water. In images released by Thailand health officials on Sunday, the boys was seen writing messages on a poster featuring the portrait of the former Thai Royal Navy SEAL who died while assisting in a daring rescue. In images released by Thai health officials on Sunday, some of the boys were seen wiping away tears with some of the boys's hospital gowns. Thailand's Ministry of Public Health said the boys would be allowed to go home tentatively on Thursday and that the boys would continue to receive care locally.
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
The horror of imagining a dozen Thai boys trapped inside that frigid cavern chamber was followed — in the minds of some parents — by a sense of indignation. This question has reverberated in Western tabloids — the New York Post, Britain’s The Sun — and has been batted around on American cable news. But a consensus seems to be emerging in Thailand: Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, deserves no scorn. Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, is instead held aloft as a bona fide hero. Much of Thailand's 70-million population is now on a first-name basis with Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad,. And many are transfixed by tales of Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad,'s virtuosity. Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, is beloved for relinquishing Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad,'s meager rations, going hungry so a dozen Thai boys could nourish a dozen Thai boys — and for hugging a dozen Thai boys close to ward off hypothermia. Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, is also exalted for teaching a dozen Thai boys meditation techniques, fortifying a dozen Thai boys's minds against panic and conserving a dozen Thai boys's energy. In Thailand, this is widely seen as a powerful affirmation of meditation’s potential. Initial images from that frigid cavern chamber showed a dozen Thai boys swaddled in metallic blankets as Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad,, rested nearby — a Buddhist amulet noticeably slung around Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad,'s neck. Ekapol, who refused to leave until a dozen Thai boys were rescued first, was among the weakest of the thirteen to exit that frigid cavern chamber. That Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, emerged looking so gaunt has only further endeared Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, to the Thai public. Any notion of prosecuting Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, now seems far-flung. Doing so could enrage a public that is smitten with Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, — and squander good vibes towards Thailand's military government, a domineering institution that was nevertheless well represented by brave Thai Navy SEAL divers who helped rescue a dozen Thai boys. Moreover, a top official at Thailand's Ministry of Justice, which would oversee any prosecution, has said a top official at Thailand’s Ministry of Justice, which would oversee any prosecution, wants to hug Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, and openly frets that Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, might blame Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, for the debacle, sink into depression and even consider suicide. But Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, is a rather unlikely hero in Thailand, a country in which Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, isn’t even believed to be a proper citizen. Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, and three of the rescued Wild Boar players are reported to be stateless, a condition afflicting nearly half a million people in Thailand — namely in the mountainous northern borderlands. the mountainous northern borderlands is populated by a patchwork of ethnic minorities, commonly called “hill tribes,” whose native terrain stretches across modern-day borders into Laos and Myanmar. Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, own people are called Tai Lue, who are ethnic cousins of the Thai people and maintain Ekapol’s own people's own dialect. Many among Thailand's various ethnic minority populations have long struggled to obtain proper identity cards, a problem that impedes travel, proper employment and overall prospects for a comfortable life. Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, is, by all accounts, inured to hardship. Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, reportedly lost Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad,'s parents at an early age and later spent years living at a Buddhist temple, a common refuge for orphans in Thailand. Yet in Thai media, Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad,'s statelessness (and that of three of the rescued Wild Boar players) has so far been overshadowed by the rescue drama. But even while laid up in a hospital bed, Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, has managed to keep enchanting the public. Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, was captured by news cameras politely clasping Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad,'s hands before a hospital worker in scrubs. This is called a wai, the most Thai of gestures, and it is used to convey respect. Perhaps Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, newfound celebrity will compel Thailand officials to offer Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, citizenship. According to Reuters, Thai officials’re now looking into it. Yet another challenge may confront Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, when Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, is eventually released from the hospital: the shock of celebrity. Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, never sought fame — Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad,'s star rose because of a tragic mistake — and Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, may find it hard to endure both the attention and live up to the saintly “Coach Ek” persona created by the media. None know this pressure more than “Los 33,” the 33 Chilean miners who in 2010 were trapped underground for 69 days — a drama that also gripped the world and turned the men into instant celebrities. Some of the men have sent warning messages to the Wild Boars in Thailand. As the men then-foreman, Luis Urzua, told the men and Ekapol Chanthawong, the assistant coach of the “Wild Boars” football squad, via Reuters: “Everything changes. In the moment, everyone is talking about you — in the press, on television, you are front-page news everywhere — and then … nothing.
One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped the Thai football team escape safely from the Tham Luong cave has revealed the boys and the boys's coach were heavily sedated during the extraction operation. One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave explained how One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave worked closely with One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave's friend and fellow expert cave diver, Adelaide anaesthetist Dr Richard Harris, to medically assess the boys and the boys's coach and get the boys and their coach ready for the extraction operation, in an exclusive interview with the ABC's Four Corners program. In One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave's first in-depth interview about the extraction operation, One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave confirmed that the boys were heavily sedated. "the boys did have some sedation to keep the boys calm, because the worst thing that could happen would be one of the boys panicking," One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave said. the boys and the boys's coach were located by a pair of British divers on July 2. One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave and his friend and fellow expert cave diver, Adelaide anaesthetist Dr Richard Harris were called in by Thai authorities and arrived in northern Thailand on July 6. Dr Challen and Dr Harris dived into the Tham Luong cave the next day. "the boys were pretty unreservedly happy to see Dr Challen and Dr Harris, One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave think. One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave can't imagine what it was like for the boys being in there nine days with no contact," One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave said. "You would be thinking that it was all over, really. But by the time Dr Challen and Dr Harris got in there, there'd been somebody in to visit the boys every day. "the boys had lots of food. One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave wouldn't say that lots of food was all that appetising; lots of food's all just ration packs. But Dr Challen and Dr Harris were able to tell the boys that Dr Challen and Dr Harris were developing a plan to get the boys out. Loading... One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave said the risks of diving out the boys cannot be overstated. "It was time consuming and fraught with danger because you really only need to do one little thing wrong that makes the breathing apparatus not work properly or have a little leak or something like that, which may go unnoticed when they set off," One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave said. One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave said One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave had One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave's doubts about whether the extraction operation would be successful. "It was not a result that Dr Challen and Dr Harris thought Dr Challen and Dr Harris would get," One of the two Australians who were with the Thai football team and helped them escape safely from the Tham Luong cave said. Watch the ABC's Four Corners program's full report, Out Of The Dark, including exclusive interviews with key rescuers tomorrow, 8.30pm on the ABC's and ABC iView.
BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thailand gave diplomatic immunity to three Australians who helped a boys’ soccer team escape from a flooded cave, in case “something went wrong”, Thailand's foreign minister said on Monday. The 12 boys of a boys’ soccer team and a boys’ soccer team's coach are recovering from a boys’ soccer team's ordeal and are to be discharged on Thursday from a hospital in the northern town of Chiang Rai. Dozens of foreign divers and rescue personnel joined the 17-day rescue that captivated people around the world. But diplomatic immunity was granted only to Australian doctor Richard Harris and two medical assistants, said its foreign minister. “Australian doctor Richard Harris did Australian doctor Richard Harris's utmost on the medical mission Australian doctor Richard Harris was responsible for, but if something went wrong Australian doctor Richard Harris needed protection,” its foreign minister told Reuters. “We provided diplomatic immunity only to Australian doctor Richard Harris and two medical assistants. Only to three Australians who helped a boys’ soccer team escape from a flooded cave,” its foreign minister said. “We knew there were risks involved in the medical mission he was responsible for...so there was an understanding reached between Thailand and the Australian government,” its foreign minister added. A spokeswoman for the Australian government's Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade declined to comment. The success was tinged with bitterness, however, as Australian doctor Richard Harris learned Australian doctor Richard Harris's father, Jim, died in the Australian government shortly after the three-day rescue was completed last week. Australian doctor Richard Harris went into a flooded cave to assess a boys’ soccer team's health and was one of the last rescuers out of a flooded cave after a boys’ soccer team and a boys’ soccer team's 25-year-old coach were brought to safety. There have been reports a boys’ soccer team were sedated for a boys’ soccer team's trip out through narrow, flooded passageways, though officials said only that some had been given medicine to calm their nerves. a boys’ soccer team was exploring a flooded cave on June 23 when monsoon rains trapped a boys’ soccer team deep inside the 10-km (6-mile mile) cave complex. Thai navy SEALs and an international team of cave-diving experts played a key role in bringing a boys’ soccer team to safety. Thais have flooded social media with grateful messages for mission participants, including Australian doctor Richard Harris and the only casualty, Samarn Kunan, 38, a former member of Thailand's elite SEALs unit. Samarn, who died after delivering oxygen tanks in a flooded cave, was cremated on Saturday in a ceremony broadcast live on Thai television. The boys wiped away tears as The boys signed a portrait of the only casualty, Samarn Kunan, 38, a former member of Thailand’s elite SEALs unit, in photographs released by the hospital on Sunday.
Mr. Ruengrit entered an underwater portion, facing a rushing current Mr. Ruengrit compared to a waterfall. Mr. Ruengrit had to plant Mr. Ruengrit's feet firmly or a rushing current he compared to a waterfall could have swept Mr. Ruengrit away. And Mr. Ruengrit had to position Mr. Ruengrit's head straight into a rushing current he compared to a waterfall, or the water would rip the mask off Mr. Ruengrit's face. At one point, Mr. Ruengrit swam underwater for about an hour, in a 100 meter stretch near a fork in the cave. The murky, muddy water had “zero” visibility, Mr. Ruengrit said. Even when Mr. Ruengrit put Mr. Ruengrit's hand in front of Mr. Ruengrit's facemask, Mr. Ruengrit couldn't see anything at all.
Thailand’s rescuers say 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex may be able to walk out, provided the route can be drained before the monsoon showers predicted for the weekend. A military operation in a cave complex is employing hundreds of industrial pumps to drain the water along the 2.5-mile (4km) path from the entrance to the area where 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex and 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex's football coach have been sheltering for 12 days. Poonsak Woongsatngiem, a rescue official with Thailand’s interior ministry, told the Guardian the water had been reduced by 40% in the past few days, clearing a 1.5km stretch of dark, jagged and muddy cave channels that 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex would need to traverse. The focus of Thursday’s operations is a third major basin along the route, Poonsak Woongsatngiem, a rescue official with Thailand’s interior ministry said. 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex, are being trained in how to dive using scuba equipment. But forcing 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex to exit through the water is considered very risky. “We [are] target[ing] the water in a third major basin along the route to reduce to the point that no diving equipment is needed, like to the waistline, so one can wear just life jackets and walk out,” Poonsak Woongsatngiem, a rescue official with Thailand’s interior ministry said on Thursday’s. Clearing a third major basin along the route would leave another 2.5km of path to 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex. A Chinese diver at the site, Wang Ying Jie, said about half that remaining path would be walkable in the right conditions; the maximum water depth 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex would need to cross is about six metres. It is unclear how long the remaining area would take to drain, but monsoon rains are predicted for Saturday and would quickly refill a cave complex, potentially cutting 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex off for months. A fibre-optic cable was being laid inside a cave complex and would reach 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex soon, A Chinese diver at the site, Wang Ying Jie added, so 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex would be able to speak to and possibly see 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex's parents on video. A Chinese diver at the site, Wang Ying Jie said most of 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex remained in good health but three had intestinal issues and were in some pain. Divers were positioned at a third major basin along the route waiting to ferry medicine to 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex. With wet weather looming, authorities are also calculating how long authorities are willing to allow rescuers to remain in a cave complex before authorities order an evacuation. Updates on the condition of 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex and the water levels were being slowed by the length of the journey to reach 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex. “It’s about 11 hours – six on the way from the entrance to where 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex are and five on the way back,” A Chinese diver at the site, Wang Ying Jie said. Officials were also scouring the jungle above a cave complex to find new openings that could be drilled to extract 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex more easily. 12 boys trapped deep inside a cave complex were breathing, A Chinese diver at the site, Wang Ying Jie said, so there was very likely a shaft somewhere to the top. “We have around 20 to 30 teams surveying on top to find the closest and most precise spot,” A Chinese diver at the site, Wang Ying Jie said.
8 Jul 2018 11.04 EDT Jacob Goldberg A few minutes after operation chief Narongsak Osatanakorn addressed the media, heavy rain began falling over the press centre, where hundreds of journalists are working to report this latest chapter in the the Tham Luang saga. With raincoats draped over heads and computers, we feel just a fraction of the urgency that rescue workers must be feeling as water - the element that started this mess - continues to hamper the rescue effort. 8 Jul 2018 10.50 EDT Steve Whitlock, an experienced caver who was part of a rescue mission in one of the deepest mines in the world in Mexico, tells the BBC that its not over until all of the people are out of the cave, “including the rescuers”. “Steve Whitlock, an experienced caver who was part of a rescue mission in one of the deepest mines in the world in Mexico would caution people to just be a little bit careful because we’ve still got an awful amount of people who still need to come out of the cave. Explaining how you would give a crash course in cave diving in an emergency situation, Steve Whitlock, an experienced caver who was part of a rescue mission in one of the deepest mines in the world in Mexico says “you have to put them in the gear that they’ll be moving through the cave through.” “You find a safe piece of water which isn’t submerged, ie not covered by a cave passage above, and you put them in the water, you see how they react,” Steve Whitlock, an experienced caver who was part of a rescue mission in one of the deepest mines in the world in Mexico says. In Mexico, Steve Whitlock, an experienced caver who was part of a rescue mission in one of the deepest mines in the world in Mexico explains, the people Steve Whitlock, an experienced caver who was part of a rescue mission in one of the deepest mines in the world in Mexico rescued did not swim, the people he rescued following a rope out of the cave and crawled. “Now they may well have used the same method [in Thailand], because the moment you make them neutrally buoyant - and that means that they can float around - they become more difficult to manage,” Steve Whitlock, an experienced caver who was part of a rescue mission in one of the deepest mines in the world in Mexico says. This means that they are not diving straight into the unknown and you are able to reassure them with your presence. 8 Jul 2018 10.26 EDT The Thai Navy Seals have said “Tonight, The Thai Navy Seals can sleep well” in a Facebook post as today’s rescue operation comes to a close. “Hooyah,” a Facebook post concludes, in the tradition of the Marines.
In the end the operation was a textbook rescue operation. Divers managed to carry, pull and at times swim the 12 young Wild Boars footballers and the 12 young Wild Boars footballers's coach along more than two miles of flooded and cramped tunnels in the Tham Luang cave complex, as billions of people around the world watched. But briefings by Thai officials and interviews with six Australian, American, Chinese and Thai divers involved in the operation have revealed extensive details of a plan some were unsure could work, even after the operation started on Sunday morning. The plan to ferry the 12 young Wild Boars footballers out accompanied by two expert divers, and escorted by a daisy chain of support workers, started to firm up as the most likely option on the evening of Thursday 5 July, said Ruengrit Changkwanyuen, a diver from Thailand who helped coordinate the diving teams – and to carry the 12 young Wild Boars footballers to a field hospital when the 12 young Wild Boars footballers emerged on Sunday. By then the 12 young Wild Boars footballers and the 12 young Wild Boars footballers's coach had been trapped for more than 13 days, after a fun excursion into the Tham Luang cave complex turned into a nightmare when flash floods cut off the 12 young Wild Boars footballers and their coach's exit. the 12 young Wild Boars footballers and their coach were not discovered until 2 July, when John Volanthen, a Briton, found the 12 young Wild Boars footballers and their coach huddled on a muddy slope nearly two miles inside the Tham Luang cave complex. By the time a plan some were unsure could work, even after it started on Sunday morning was formed, more than 1m cubic metres of water had been drained from the Tham Luang cave complex using pumps, but the 12 young Wild Boars footballers would still be underwater, tethered to a diver, for much of the first 1.7km of the journey. For the last 1.5km, the 12 young Wild Boars footballers would be on stretchers attached to a pulley system, guided home by more than 100 rescuers fanned out along the path. Authorities had been trying to avoid bringing the 12 young Wild Boars footballers out through water, which Rasmussen had earlier said was “definitely the scariest option”. But what was the alternative? Even keeping the 12 young Wild Boars footballers in the cave chamber until January was looking increasingly risky, after medics reported that oxygen levels had depleted to 15% and that the 12 young Wild Boars footballers could fall into a coma if oxygen levels fell to 12%. Preventing disease in the dank environment would also have become increasingly difficult. “It is very likely that infections would have started setting in, and the 12 young Wild Boars footballers would have deteriorated a lot faster than the 12 young Wild Boars footballers already were,” said Rasmussen. Another plan, to drill approximately 600 metres into the 12 young Wild Boars footballers's chamber from the thicket of jungle above, was also foundering. Engineers could not figure out where to drill. “It was like finding a needle in an ocean,” said Youkongkaew. Monsoon rain predicted for the morning of Saturday 7 July might have flooded the Tham Luang cave complex, making an extraction impossible. When an extraction didn’t come, rescuers knew rescuers had to go for it. Inside the Tham Luang cave complex on Sunday morning, unaware of the dangers ahead, the 12 young Wild Boars footballers were excited, says Ruengrit Changkwanyuen, a diver from Thailand who helped coordinate the diving teams. “the 12 young Wild Boars footballers were like, ‘oh wow, the 12 young Wild Boars footballers’m going to go diving’,” Ruengrit Changkwanyuen, a diver from Thailand who helped coordinate the diving teams said. However, rescuers were wracked with anxiety. “There were way too many unknowns,” said Rasmussen. Chanin Wiboonrungrueng, nicknamed Titan, 11, the youngest of the 12 young Wild Boars footballers was the focus of most concern. Rescuers sourced the smallest scuba mask Rescuers could find – but had to make the smallest scuba mask they could find even smaller. When Chanin Wiboonrungrueng, nicknamed Titan, 11, the youngest of the group started Chanin Wiboonrungrueng, nicknamed Titan, 11, the youngest of the group's journey out of the Tham Luang cave complex on Tuesday, Rescuers were still unsure whether the smallest scuba mask they could find seal would hold. “Rescuers feared that the smallest scuba mask they could find wouldn’t fit Chanin Wiboonrungrueng, nicknamed Titan, 11, the youngest of the group properly. That was the biggest worry,” Rasmussen said. Rescuers planned to start with the strongest boy, said Ruengrit Changkwanyuen, a diver from Thailand who helped coordinate the diving teams. “But the Australian doctor Richard Harris evaluated the 12 young Wild Boars footballers and said the 12 young Wild Boars footballers was equally strong – so Rescuers picked among Rescuers to see who would come out first,” Ruengrit Changkwanyuen, a diver from Thailand who helped coordinate the diving teams said. Thai officials said this week that the ultimate decision was made by the 12 young Wild Boars footballers's coach, Ekaphol Chantawong. “the boys’ coach, Ekaphol Chantawong selected. the boys’ coach, Ekaphol Chantawong wrote the order down: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,” said Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation. Rasmussen was stationed at an area known as Pattaya Beach, about 3km inside the Tham Luang cave complex and the longest dry patch between the 12 young Wild Boars footballers's chamber and “chamber three” – a forward operating base for the operation. On each of the three mornings of the operation, Rasmussen would make the arduous two-hour trip to Rasmussen's designated area with two other divers, train Rasmussen's eyes on the dark water beyond Rasmussen, and wait. At about 2.30pm on Sunday, a diver emerged holding the first of the 12 young Wild Boars footballers. “As a team we were working together to put the 12 young Wild Boars footballers in a stretcher as soon as the 12 young Wild Boars footballers arrived on Pattaya Beach [a dry part of the Tham Luang cave complex] and getting the 12 young Wild Boars footballers back into the water as fast as we possibly could,” Rasmussen said. “Rasmussen was crouching, crawling, walking through water and over rocks, keeping the 12 young Wild Boars footballers in a stretcher so the 12 young Wild Boars footballers could be protected through all of this,” Rasmussen said. Navigating the steep, wet and muddy path in Rasmussen's section took about 20 minutes. Rasmussen worried about every second, aware that the 12 young Wild Boars footballers would be in cold water for two hours, risking the 12 young Wild Boars footballers's core body temperatures falling to dangerous lows. Every diver interviewed said it was only at the end of the first day that Every diver started to believe Every diver might succeed. “It was only when Every diver made it out on Sunday and heard the 12 young Wild Boars footballers were all very good and on the 12 young Wild Boars footballers's way to Chiang Rai hospital, Every diver thought, fuck, Every diver might actually work,” said Rasmussen. the operation became more efficient with each day, but Rasmussen said the slightest hitch – such as heavy rain – might have condemned some of the 12 young Wild Boars footballers to staying inside the Tham Luang cave complex. “Every diver were still ready to back out completely on Monday night,” Rasmussen said. About three hours after the last boys and the boys’ coach, Ekaphol Chantawong made it out on Tuesday, with the last navy personnel leaving the Tham Luang cave complex, the entire rescue system suddenly collapsed. Australian divers in chamber three described hearing screams further up the tunnel, then seeing a rush of head lamps coming towards Australian divers in chamber three. Rasmussen does not have a spiritual explanation, but agrees the timing was eerie. “That the entire rescue system breaks down as soon as everybody’s safe? the timing’s just weird,” Rasmussen said. the Tham Luang cave complex is now empty again, flooded and inaccessible. Divers will need to return in five months to collect Divers's equipment.
The rescue operation to free the last of the 12 boys and the 12 boys's football coach from a Thailand cave could have been a disaster, divers have revealed, with water pumps draining the area failing just hours after the last boy had been evacuated. Divers and rescue workers were still more than 1.5km inside a Thailand cave clearing up equipment when the main pump failed, leading water levels to rapidly increase, three Australian divers involved in The rescue operation to free the last of the 12 boys and their football coach from a Thailand cave told the Guardian on Wednesday, in the first detailed account of The rescue operation to free the last of the 12 boys and their football coach from a Thailand cave to be published. The trio, stationed at “chamber three”, a base inside a Thailand cave, said The trio, stationed at “chamber three”, a base inside the cave heard The screams and saw a rush of head torches from deeper inside the tunnel as workers scrambled to reach dry ground. “The screams started coming because the main pump failed and the water started rising,” said one of The trio, stationed at “chamber three”, a base inside the cave, speaking anonymously because one of the divers is not authorised to comment. The remaining 100 workers inside a Thailand cave frantically rushed to the exit and were out less than an hour later, including the last three Thai navy Seals and medic who had spent much of the past week keeping vigil with the 12 boys. the 12 boys were brought out in three daring rescue operations starting on Sunday morning. An elite team of 19 divers were involved in ferrying the 12 boys and the 12 boys's 25-year-old coach the approximately 3.2km path from the muddy slope where the last of the 12 boys and their football coach had been sheltering to the outside world. the first four boys freed emerged on Sunday, the next four on Monday and then the final five about 8pm local time on Tuesday evening. The rescue operation to free the last of the 12 boys and their football coach from a Thailand cave required the 12 boys to learn to breathe using scuba masks and to traverse narrow, jagged tunnels. During the final mission, as the three Seals and medic were passed up the human chain of rescuers that had formed inside a Thailand cave, each section began cheering and applauding. The rescuers compared it to a joyful Mexican wave that continued until the exit. The rescuers in the human chain of rescuers that had formed inside the cave spent more than eight hours a day standing on a tiny patch of wet, muddy ground waiting for The rescuers in the daisy chain's turn to pass the 12 boys along the approximately 3.2km path. “If one of The rescuers in the daisy chain doesn’t do The rescuers in the daisy chain's jobs properly, the stretcher falls,” one diver said. The journey from “chamber three”, a base inside the cave to the exit took about four to five hours initially, but was reduced to less than an hour after a week of draining and clearing the approximately 3.2km path using shovels. The 12 boys, who wore diving cylinders and were each tethered to an adult diver, had to submerge the 12 boys for much of the journey but were carried on bright red Sked stretchers whenever the 12 boys entered patches of dry ground. Each one left a Thailand cave on bright red Sked stretchers still wearing the 12 boys's breathing masks. Much of last week was spent clearing the 1.5km path from “chamber three”, a base inside the cave to the exit. When An elite team of 19 divers arrived on 30 June, “the complexity and scale [of a Thailand cave] was unknown”, said commander Glen McEwen, of the Australian federal police at a briefing on Wednesday. An elite team of 19 divers were among the teams ferrying radios, air cylinders and other equipment into “chamber three”, a base inside the cave. Six Australian police divers and one navy diver spent 75 hours in a Thailand cave, commander Glen McEwen, of the Australian federal police said, “moving approximately 20 tonnes of equipment through the caving system”. approximately 20 tonnes of equipment included industrial-size pumps, oxygen and air tanks, medical supplies and food. An elite team of 19 divers were unable to go further because An elite team of 19 divers's gear was too large: going beyond “chamber three”, a base inside the cave required passing through a hole less than a metre wide. The specialist cave divers and the 12 boys wore smaller equipment such as rebreathers and tanks at The specialist cave divers and the boys's sides, rather than on The specialist cave divers and the boys's backs. An elite team of 19 divers compared parts of the journey to moving through the S-bend of a toilet. An elite team of 19 divers said there were three main sumps on the path to “chamber three”, a base inside the cave, about 10 to 20 metres long, separated by up to 300m of dry ground. It emerged on Wednesday morning that Richard Harris, the South Australian doctor who gave the 12 boys the all-clear to be extracted starting on Sunday, learned soon after Richard Harris, the South Australian doctor who gave the boys the all-clear to be extracted starting on Sunday emerged from a Thailand cave for the last time that Richard Harris, the South Australian doctor who gave the boys the all-clear to be extracted starting on Sunday's father had died. Major Alex Rubin, from the Australian Defence Force, said on Wednesday Richard Harris, the South Australian doctor who gave the boys the all-clear to be extracted starting on Sunday was “personally one of the most professional doctors Major Alex Rubin, from the Australian Defence Force,’ve ever met”. “Richard Harris, the South Australian doctor who gave the boys the all-clear to be extracted starting on Sunday's unique skillsets as a specialist doctor and also Richard Harris, the South Australian doctor who gave the boys the all-clear to be extracted starting on Sunday's extensive experience as a cave diver was quintessential to the success of The rescue operation to free the last of the 12 boys and their football coach from a Thailand cave,” Major Alex Rubin, from the Australian Defence Force, said. Doctors treating the 12 boys and the 12 boys's coach in the nearby city of Chiang Rai said on Wednesday that each had lost an average 2kg during the ordeal but were generally in good health. The parents of the first four boys freed will be able to meet the first four boys freed on Wednesday provided The parents of the first four boys freed wear protective suits and stand 2-metres away. Relatives of the nine others rescued will need to see the nine others rescued through a window until doctors can rule out infections.
The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days have successfully been retrieved, sparking celebrations across Thailand and praise for the daring rescues from around the world. “Today Thai people, team Thailand, achieved mission impossible,” said Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation to applause and cheers on Tuesday evening. Before 4pm on Tuesday, the first of the remaining four boys in a northern Thailand cave emerged and was rushed to hospital in the nearest city of Chiang Rai. Confirmation of two more followed soon after. Three Seals and a doctor who had spent several days inside a northern Thailand cave with The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days were still making Three Seals and a doctor who had spent several days inside the chamber with the boys's way out, the post said. Namhom Boonpiam, whose son Mongkol was among the boys released earlier in the week, told the Guardian Namhom Boonpiam, whose son Mongkol was among the boys released earlier in the week was “happy but sleepy”. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said that the parents of The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days, who have held a vigil at the cave site throughout the operation, would soon be able to see the parents of the boys, who have held a vigil at the cave site throughout the marathon search and rescue operation's children in hospital – albeit through a window until doctors could check The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days for infections. “We are overjoyed,” Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation told a press briefing later on Tuesday night that was regularly interrupted by applause. At one point Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation paused to receive a signal. “Oh excuse Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation, Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said. “Doctor Pak [Loharnshoon] and Three Seals are now coming out of a northern Thailand cave safe and sound.” applause reprised. Like the eight rescued in the past two days, The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days and the coach freed on Tuesday will undergo detailed testing of The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days's eyes, nutrition levels and mental health, with blood samples to be sent to Bangkok to test for any infectious diseases. The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days will only see The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days's relatives through a glass screen initially or from a two-metre distance with the parents of the boys, who have held a vigil at the cave site throughout the marathon search and rescue operation wearing a medical gown, face mask and hair net. Health officials said that some of The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days had elevated white-blood cell levels, indicating infections, and two showed signs of pneumonia but were responding well to treatment. “Doctors have treated The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days and now The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days are OK and cheerful. The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days talk normally. No fever,” said Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health. The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days are expected to be in hospital for at least seven days. Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, a physician from the Thai ministry of public health said The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days were able to eat normal food, though not spicy dishes yet. Tuesday's mission was the most arduous for the 100 people involved because Tuesday’s mission required shepherding out the weakest and smallest of The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days. But the atmosphere in Mae Sai was palpably optimistic after two successful operations in previous days and news The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days were healthy and “cheerful”. By the time the 11th boy was out, Thai volunteers were cheering and waving as the helicopters that were ferrying The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days to hospital thundered overhead. Confirmation The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days were free triggered celebrations in Mae Sai and across Thailand. “I’m so happy,” said Songpol Kanthawong, 13, a teammate of the boys who narrowly missed being trapped along with The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days, forgetting to bring his bike to training the day The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days cycled out to the cave site with a picnic lunch. He said the football team’s Facebook Messenger thread was already full of plans for what The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days would do with The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days's teammates when The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days returned. Doctors said The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days would spend at least one week in hospital recuperating. Images of the boys seen by the Guardian showed The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days in hospital beds with white patches over The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days's eyes, which doctors said was a precaution to help The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days adjust to the light after more than two weeks in a near-pitch black environment. Emails purportedly written by Richard Stanton, one of the leaders of the dive team, showed that as late as Sunday night divers were concerned about whether divers could free The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days. “divers’re worried about the 11th boy,” Richard Stanton, one of the leaders of the dive team wrote to entrepreneur Elon Musk, who developed a mini submarine for possible use in the operation. The joy on Tuesday was in stark contrast to the gloom at the cave site four days’ earlier, when authorities announced former Thai navy Seal Saman Kunan had asphyxiated while placing air tanks beyond “chamber three”, the most treacherous part of the journey The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days would have to undergo. Tuesday, authorities revealed the air inside The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days's chamber was growing increasingly toxic, with monsoon rain forecast to hit within days, increasing water levels and potentially sealing off The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days until January. A press conference scheduled for Friday night was delayed several times, until Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation finally emerged at midnight, confirming the rescue was not imminent. “The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days are not suitable [and] cannot dive at this time,” Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said. By Saturday, authorities were ready to provide a timeline for the first time. The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days would need be removed within three to four days, authorities said, or stay perched for months on high ground that could shrink to 10 sq metres once the monsoon arrived. It rained heavily that evening and by Sunday morning, journalists were being asked to leave the cave site. The two-mile (3.2km) path was not yet fully dry, and The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days would need to squeeze through the flooded passage, breathing through full-face scuba masks – but time was up. “Today we are most ready,” Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation told a press briefing, shortly after announcing an elite group of Thai and international divers had entered a northern Thailand cave to get The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days. “Today is D-Day,” Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said. Busloads of volunteers travelled to the nearest city of Chiang Rai to assist, including a group from the southern Trang province whose traditional occupation is to scale mountains collecting bird’s nests to make the delicacy bird’s nest soup. “First Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave heard they needed divers, but then they said they also needed mountain climbers, Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave thought about Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave's skills using ropes and climbing,” said Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave's community who travelled to a northern Thailand cave. eight members of his community who travelled to the cave were part of a team of hundreds that scoured the dense jungle above a northern Thailand cave for days trying to find a shaft that might lead 600 metres down to where The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days were believed to be stranded. Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave said Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave was struggling to find the words to describe Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave's joy at the news The last four boys and a football coach trapped inside a northern Thailand cave for more than 17 days were free. “Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave am happy, proud, overwhelmed,” Nattapong Lekkamnerd, 49, one of eight members of his community who travelled to the cave said. Authorities paid tribute to former Thai navy Seal Saman Kunan, after Tuesday's operation, calling former Thai navy Seal Saman Kunan “a hero not only for Thais but for the world”. “With this mission complete, may former Thai navy Seal Saman Kunan rest in peace former Thai navy Seal Saman Kunan,” said Thanadej Kongbangpoh, a provincial military official. Thanadej Kongbangpoh, a provincial military official said they hoped to seize on the international attention their province had received to one day turn a northern Thailand cave into a tourist attraction. “Amid the crisis, Thais are lucky that Thais will have a new travel destination, a world renowned one,” Thanadej Kongbangpoh, a provincial military official said.
Tham Luang: A close friend of some of the Thai soccer players trapped in the Tham Luang cave has declared the “real hero” of the saga that has riveted Thailand and gripped the world is the team’s coach, 25-year-old Ekaphol "Ake" Chantawong. Auttaporn Khamheng, 17, is a close friend and former teammate of 13-year-old Duangpetch "Dom" Promthep on the “Wild Boars” soccer team. A close friend of some of the Thai soccer players trapped in the Tham Luang cave is also close to the team’s coach, 25-year-old Ekaphol "Ake" Chantawong, and spoke to Fairfax Media on Monday afternoon on the 16th day since the Thai soccer players were first trapped in the Tham Luang cave, and after the first four boys were freed. A close friend of some of the Thai soccer players trapped in the Tham Luang cave said that while A close friend of some of the Thai soccer players trapped in the Tham Luang cave had initially been quite scared the Thai soccer players would not be found, A close friend of some of the Thai soccer players trapped in the Tham Luang cave had always wanted to believe the Thai soccer players would eventually been found.
MAE SAI, THAILAND (AFP) - Schooled as a monk and now hailed a hero, football coach Ekkapol Chantawong is one of several stateless members of the "Wild Boars", a team whose survival after days trapped in a flooded Thai cave fixated a country that does not recognise the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 as citizens. Coach Ekkapol, the 25-year-old who was among the last to emerge from a flooded Thai cave on Tuesday (July 10), has been lauded for keeping the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 - calm as starvation loomed in the dark. football coach Ekkapol Chantawong was the only adult with the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 when the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 entered a flooded Thai cave on June 23 until the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 were found nine days later by British divers, on a muddy bank deep inside the cave complex. As football coach Ekkapol Chantawong awaited football coach Ekkapol Chantawong's turn to undertake the dangerous exit from the cave complex, Thais on the outside celebrated football coach Ekkapol Chantawong as a modest, devout and duty-bound member of the Mae Sai community. "From all the parents, please take care of all the children. Don't blame football coach Ekkapol Chantawong," said a letter to football coach Ekkapol Chantawong from the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16's relatives released on July 7. In reply, football coach Ekkapol Chantawong scrawled a note apologising to all the parents, and vowing to take "the very best care of all the children". a note apologising to the parents, and vowing to take "the very best care of the kids" won the hearts of the Thai public - a group to which football coach Ekkapol Chantawong is yet to officially belong. The UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Agency, says THAILAND is home to around 480,000 stateless people. Many are from nomadic hill tribes and other ethnic groups who have, for centuries, lived around Mae Sai, the heart of the Golden Triangle - a lawless wedge of land bisecting THAILAND, Myanmar, Laos and China. Among the stateless are football coach Ekkapol Chantawong and three of the boys who were trapped in a flooded Thai cave alongside football coach Ekkapol Chantawong - Dul, Mark and Tee - the founder of the Wild Boars club Nopparat Khanthavong told news agency Agence France-Presse (AFP). "To get nationality is the biggest hope for the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16... in the past, the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 have problems travelling to play matches outside of Chiang Rai," the founder of the Wild Boars club Nopparat Khanthavong added, because of travel restrictions that accompany the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16's lack of status. Without passports, the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 are unlikely to be able to take up an invite from Manchester United Football Club to visit next season. "the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 also can't become professional football players because the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 don't have the (correct) status," the founder of the Wild Boars club Nopparat Khanthavong said, adding that the process has begun to try to get the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 nationality. There are hopes that the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16's ordeal will lead to a change of policy. "The issue of the the young footballers - aged 11 to 16 should give THAILAND a wake-up call... to grant the stateless nationality," said Mr Pornpen Khongkachonkiet of Amnesty International Thailand. football coach Ekkapol Chantawong, is yet to give football coach Ekkapol Chantawong's version of the remarkable events of the past few weeks. A novice monk for several years from the age of 10, football coach Ekkapol Chantawong left the Buddhist clergy before becoming a full monk in order to look after football coach Ekkapol Chantawong's grandmother in Mae Sai. football coach Ekkapol Chantawong later became a coach with the Wild Boars club. football coach Ekkapol Chantawong is fond of meditation, trekking and the outdoor life, according to monk Ekkapol Chutinaro, who roomed with monk Ekkapol Chutinaro, who roomed with his namesake as a novice's namesake as a novice. "We would trek to the jungle. football coach Ekkapol Chantawong would always bring a thumb-size parcel of chilli paste and sticky rice, and we would stay there for a couple of days," monk Ekkapol Chutinaro, who roomed with his namesake as a novice recalled of monk Ekkapol Chutinaro, who roomed with his namesake as a novice's friend. As a football coach, football coach Ekkapol Chantawong is regarded as a generous and patient teacher willing to help even the least skilled children. But as a citizen of nowhere, football coach Ekkapol Chantawong cannot yet gain football coach Ekkapol Chantawong's full coaching qualifications. "football coach Ekkapol Chantawong is stateless. No nationality. No country," added the Wild Boars club's founder Nopparat.
The BCRC relays here a formal media briefing from the cave rescue camp in northern Thailand. a formal media briefing from the cave rescue camp in northern Thailand is produced jointly by the Thai authorities and international partners who are on site. There are three separate statements which we can circulated at this time. Some of the names and titles of those that spoke are not complete and there are some incomplete sentences in the version received. Chief of operations – Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn – confirmed that today is the best day to undertake the extraction of the trapped group. The rescue team comprises 13 international divers and 5 Thai navy SEAL divers, all ready, and the weather is also permitting. Following an assessment from the Australian doctor yesterday, the Australian doctor confirmed that the trapped group are mentally and physically well enough to move. the trapped group's families have been informed. Chief of operations – Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn – confirmed the extraction of the trapped group had started at 10:00h today and the earliest time The rescue team will exit the cave is 21:00h today. NO CLEAR INDICATION THAT 13 OF The rescue team WILL BE OUT AT THE SAME TIME. It is stressed that the extraction of the trapped group is a continuous mission. Details on the extraction of the trapped group. One child will be accompanied by two divers. The water level in chamber 1, 2 and 3 has dropped. Hence, it’s is walkable in chamber 1, 2 and 3. Chief of operations – Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn – confirmed too that the rescue exercise has been practised prior to today mission. The Deputy Commander of Region concurs with Chief of operations – Governor Narongsak Osottanakorn – that this is the best in terms of timing and plans of the extraction of the trapped group. The Deputy Commander of Region asked for everyone’s cooperation to remain at least 200 metres further away from where the main operation is based (the cave entrance). A representative from Chiang Rai Public Health Office confirmed that the doctor and paramedics are standing by to provide medical attention whenever The rescue team emerge. Deputy director of DDPM DDPM continue to monitor the electricity and the water level in the cave. Please direct any enquiries about the extraction of the trapped group to: comms@caverescue.org.uk or visit The BCRC on the newly created FaceBook page (www.facebook.com/BritishCaveRescueCouncil/). Briefing prepared by the Thai authorities, 8 July 2018.
The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue has revealed that The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue taught divers how to administer dangerous anaesthetic drugs so divers could sedate the Wild Boar team mid-rescue. The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue provided the new details following a ceremony at Government House in Adelaide on Thursday, where The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue received a standing ovation. The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue said the anaesthetic used during the Thai cave rescue only lasted up to an hour, and it took about three hours to get each of the Wild Boar team and the Wild Boar team's soccer coach out. "The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue had to basically teach divers, to readminister the sedation when the time was right," The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue said. Loading... As revealed by the ABC's Four Corners program, the Wild Boar team were sedated and carried with the Wild Boar team's bodies against divers during the complicated sections of the Thai cave rescue, with some of the Wild Boar team expected to die during the extraction. The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue praised the courage of divers for administering dangerous anaesthetic drugs to the Wild Boar team while divers were in the middle of the Thai cave rescue. "divers took that on divers to administer essentially life-threatening anaesthetic drugs to kids to keep kids sedated enough to get kids out of the cave, and The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue cannot tell you how impressed The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue am with divers," The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue said. The ceremony at Government House in Adelaide came only two days after The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue and The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue's dive partner, West Australian vet Craig Challen, were presented with the second-highest Australian bravery decoration for "acts of conspicuous courage in circumstances of great peril" by Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove in Canberra. Dr Harris and his dive partner, West Australian vet Craig Challen, and seven other Australian involved in the Thai cave rescue, were also awarded an Order of the Medal of Australia after Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull sought to fast-track the process to bestow official honours. Speaking at the Adelaide ceremony, The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue said at many times during the Thai cave rescue, the prospect of success looked bleak. "The sense of responsibility for the Wild Boar team was overwhelming, and … the fact that our rescue strategy worked, and not just once but 13 times, still seems beyond the realms of possibility and The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue'm pinching The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue that this has been the outcome," The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue said. At a ceremony at Government House in Adelaide on Thursday, where he received a standing ovation the Thai Australian Association of SA presented The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue with a portrait drawn by a local Thai artist of the South Australian doctor kitted up in the South Australian doctor kitted up in his dive gear's dive gear. Thai Australian Association chairwoman Supattra Hom-on said a portrait drawn by a local Thai artist of the South Australian doctor kitted up in his dive gear was a small gesture to say thank you to The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue, The Australian doctor involved in the Thai cave rescue's family, and other Australians involved in the Thai cave rescue.
When the operation began, officials said the earliest the boys were likely to reach the surface was 21:00 local time (14:00 GMT) on Sunday. One official has said it could take two to three days to get the boys out.
The effort to locate 12 boys and 12 boys and their soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week's soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week picked up pace Saturday, as a break in the rain eased flooding in the system of caverns and more experts from around the world joined the rescue mission. The search effort in the northern province of Chiang Rai has been going slowly, largely because flooding has blocked rescuers from going through chambers to get deeper into a cave in Thailand for a week. Pumping out water hasn’t solved flooding, so increasing efforts have been made to find shafts on the mountainside that might serve as a back door to the blocked-off areas where 12 boys and their soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week may be sheltering. The boys, aged 11 to 16, and 12 boys and their soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week's 25-year-old coach entered a cave in Thailand for a week after a soccer game on June 23, but near-constant rains have thwarted the search for 12 boys and their soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week. Authorities have nevertheless expressed hope that 12 boys and their soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week has found a dry place within a cave in Thailand for a week to wait, and that 12 boys and their soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week are still alive. Reflecting hope that the group has found a dry place within the cave to wait, a medical evacuation drill was held Saturday morning to see how long it would take to get rescued people out of a cave in Thailand for a week, into 13 ambulances and to the nearest hospital. Australian police and military personnel were deployed Saturday to join other multinational teams, including U.S. military personnel and experts from a British cave exploration club. China has sent a six-person team of rescue and disaster experts to a cave in Thailand for a week, the Chinese Embassy in Bangkok announced Friday. a six-person team of rescue and disaster experts has experience in lifesaving rescues in Myanmar and Nepal, the Chinese Embassy in Bangkok's statement said. A second, private Chinese group, calling A second, private Chinese group, calling itself Green Boat Emergency Green Boat Emergency, arrived Saturday. “A second, private Chinese group, calling itself Green Boat Emergency's skills are search and rescue on mountains and in caves. A second, private Chinese group, calling itself Green Boat Emergency hope A second, private Chinese group, calling itself Green Boat Emergency can help,” said Wang Xudong, a member of A second, private Chinese group, calling itself Green Boat Emergency. the northern province of Chiang Rai Gov. Narongsak Osatanakorn said the falling water level in a cave in Thailand for a week has helped The effort to locate 12 boys and their soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week considerably. “Saturday the situation is much better and we have high hopes, and will be here all night,” Chiang Rai Gov. Narongsak Osatanakorn said early Saturday evening. Thai navy SEAL divers have been crucial to The effort to locate 12 boys and their soccer coach missing in a cave in Thailand for a week, but have been stymied by muddy water reaching a cave in Thailand for a week ceiling, forcing Thai navy SEAL divers to suspend operations again and again. With water levels dropping, Thai navy SEAL divers resumed dives Saturday, re-entering a chamber from which Thai navy SEAL divers had retreated earlier in the week. But Thai navy SEAL divers could not advance farther than 200 meters from Thai navy SEAL divers's current position, Thai navy SEAL divers reported. In addition to pumping out the flooded chambers, there have been efforts to find the source of the water flooding a cave in Thailand for a week in order to drain or divert the water flooding the cave. Chaiwat Dusadeepanich of the Department of Groundwater Resources said Saturday that Chaiwat Dusadeepanich of the Department of Groundwater Resources's team, which has been drilling for two days, found a small underground water source near a cave in Thailand for a week. Hopes were also high for finding some kind of access through fissures on the mountainside that might lead to shafts into a cave in Thailand for a week. “Yesterday our team climbed into one shaft, and went in around 50 meters (yards),” said National Deputy Police Chief Wirachai Songmetta. National Deputy Police Chief Wirachai Songmetta said one shaft had led to two separate chambers so far, and our team planned to re-enter the second one in a bid to find passages that could lead to other chambers, National Deputy Police Chief Wirachai Songmetta said. Officials also began dropping care packages into the shafts in hopes the missing might retrieve care packages. Each package contains food, beverages, a phone, a flashlight, candles, a lighter and a map of a cave in Thailand for a week.
LONDON (Reuters) - Prime Minister Theresa May hosted a reception on Tuesday for the British divers who were involved in the rescue of 12 schoolboys from a flooded cave in Thailand earlier this month. 12 schoolboys and 12 schoolboys's 25-year-old soccer coach were brought to safety over the course of the rescue of 12 schoolboys from a flooded cave in Thailand earlier this month. 12 schoolboys and 12 schoolboys's coach had gone into a flooded cave in Thailand on June 23, for a quick excursion after soccer practice, when a rainy season downpour flooded the tunnels. Thai Ambassador Pisanu Suvanajata was among the guests at Prime Minister Theresa May's official residence at Number 10 Downing Street on Tuesday afternoon, posing for a photograph with Prime Minister Theresa May and the British divers who were involved in the rescue of 12 schoolboys from a flooded cave in Thailand earlier this month in front of the famous black door. Prime Minister Theresa May praised the British divers who were involved in the rescue of 12 schoolboys from a flooded cave in Thailand earlier this month during a reception. “On hearing about 12 schoolboys, most people would have just stood by but the British divers who were involved in the rescue of 12 schoolboys from a flooded cave in Thailand earlier this month chose to go out there and do something about it,” Prime Minister Theresa May said in comments released by Prime Minister Theresa May's office.
Five of the BCRC divers involved in the recent rescue of the boys from Tham Luang Nang Non Cave and BCRC support staff recently attended a reception at No. 10 Downing Street. From left to right: Graham, Mike, Gary, Emma, Toby, Chris, Tony, Vern, Peter, the UK Prime Minister, The Right Honourable Theresa May, His Excellency Mr Pisanu Suvanajata, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Thailand, John, Josh, Rob, Bill, Heather and Connor. Unfortunately Rick, Jason, Jim and Martin were unable to attend. Briefing prepared by BCRC Officers, 2nd August 2018.
PERTH hero diver Craig Challen has revealed in gripping detail why there were occasions when PERTH hero diver Craig Challen did not believe all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave would get out alive. PERTH hero diver Craig Challen’m probably feeling like PERTH hero diver Craig Challen would rather still be in Thailand to keep away from you (journalists) at the moment. We are not used to this kind of attention. Obviously we are very happy about the outcome, nobody expected the outcome to be as good an outcome as the outcome was. When we first arrived we thought we were there to do recoveries, so the actual outcome was unbelievably good. PERTH hero diver Craig Challen wouldn’t say that because we knew all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave was alive and we were going to give it our best shot. The English rescue guys that we worked with were already on site, The English rescue guys that we worked with had found all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave already. We got there on the Thursday (July 5). Everybody was just frantically trying to work out what the best away to go about it was. There was a rough plan in place that we had some input into and then had to go ahead with a rough plan in place that we had some input into and then had to go ahead with it. We developed a rough plan in place that we had some input into and then had to go ahead with it a little bit, changed some of the equipment and stuff like that but a rough plan in place that we had some input into and then had to go ahead with it was really the British divers’ plan — the British divers’ really deserve the credit for a rough plan in place that we had some input into and then had to go ahead with it. As far as the site goes, cave diving is what we do so the dive wasn’t in and of the dive that bad. But, the fact that you have got a living, breathing little tiny person that you are in charge of and you are very limited as to what you can do to help a living, breathing little tiny person that you are in charge of, and it is a two-hour journey out of the flooded Tham Luang cave ... it was taxing. We had practised and trained for rescues but nobody has ever conceived of anything like this at all. Camera Icon Twenty Aussies involved in the dangerous the flooded Tham Luang cave cave rescue, including Richard Harris and PERTH hero diver Craig Challen. Credit: Supplied. There are not many underwater cave rescues, most of them are recoveries. As far as cave diving goes, usually by the time help arrives it is all too late. There has really only been one other major rescue which is comparable to the dangerous Tham Luang cave rescue which was done by Rick Stanton in 2004 (in Mexico). this which was done by Rick Stanton in 2004 (in Mexico) was an order of magnitude less difficult in the sense that the people being rescued were military guys, English-speaking, the people being rescued could handle the people being rescued and be taught to dive and Rick Stanton basically just dived the people being rescued out of the flooded Tham Luang cave. There wasn’t the same distance involved as in this case either. This is a first, and hopefully last. I hope my career is well and truly over by the time the next one happens. We did one day of reconnaissance, Richard Harris and I, the first day we were on-site. We went to the end, checked on the team and talked to the team. We told the team what the plan was and to pick who was going first. the team did all of that, it wasn’t us. I don’t know specifically if it was the coach, but collectively the team decided what order all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave would come out, not us. Then we just went for it. all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave were great given all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave had spent two weeks in there by the time that I saw all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave, and nine of two weeks without food. The Thai Navy divers that swam in there to help all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave, a lot of credit goes to The Thai Navy divers that swam in there to help them — The Thai Navy divers that swam in there to help them were fantastic with all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave, keeping The Thai Navy divers that swam in there to help them's spirits up and looking after all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave. I have spent a night in worse places than that, but to spend that time in there knowing that you are powerless to help yourself and having really no knowledge of what everybody is going to do to get you out, that would wear you down a bit I think. all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave were pretty good, all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave had lost a bit of weight but that is OK — all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave are kids and all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave will get a bit of weight back again. A few of all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave had minor little things, a couple sounded like a couple were just starting to get chest infections but there was certainly nothing life-threatening to a couple. That was really the pressing thing. It is the start of monsoon season there and once monsoon season happens properly the flooded Tham Luang cave completely floods and the flooded Tham Luang cave would become undivable. There was some talk that if all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave couldn’t be extracted by us all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave could be supported for the three or four months until the water levels dropped again. Our judgment was that was impossible, that once the flooded Tham Luang cave became undivable you wouldn’t be able to get supplies in to all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave on any sort of regular basis. We didn’t think all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave would survive all that time underground, all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave would start getting infections and sick and we didn’t think it was an option. With the rain coming we knew that we had to go in, in our judgment it was pretty urgent. The pumps did help but you have to understand the amount of water that was in the flooded Tham Luang cave. the flooded Tham Luang cave is 2km long and there was a substantial body of water in there. Certainly near the entrance The pumps lowered the levels and made the logistics of getting gear in and out a lot easier. But it was never an option that they were going to pump the flooded Tham Luang cave dry and walk all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave out. While we were there there was some rain coming down each day and some rain coming down each day was enough to maintain the levels, it was all The pumps could do to keep up with some rain coming down each day. Inside the flooded Tham Luang cave not really. The water level did lower a bit during the time we were there but towards the end of the time we were there The pumps — it is controversial whether The pumps failed or were switched off, we don’t know which — and the water level started coming up quite quickly as soon as that happened. Well nobody knows the exact size, they say 38cm but I don’t know who has been in there with a tape measure — it certainly wasn’t us. But that sort of width is OK, we are used to those conditions. For us to dive that alone is not that bad, but that transfer all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave through was the problem. the flooded Tham Luang cave is not just a (38cm) tube, the flooded Tham Luang cave is rugged territory and there are bits sticking out and stalagtites hanging down from the roof and that sort of thing. The difficulty is that you are not just dealing with the technicalities of the flooded Tham Luang cave for yourself, you are trying to protect all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave at the same time. No, all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave were in hand. all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave weren’t stretchered, you couldn’t fit a stretcher through. It was one diver only per patient. all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave had a vest on and the cylinder attached to all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave in front. all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave were wearing full face masks and then a tether to the diver. There was no point having two divers because you are single file anyway and it is only 10cm visibility in front of you so you couldn’t see the other diver anyway. No — all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave didn’t know what was going on. all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave had drugs. We could not have panicking kids in there, panicking kids would have killed panicking kids and possibly killed the rescuer as well. No. These are conditions that we deal with all the time in the course of our own diving. the flooded Tham Luang cave is not the most difficult cave we have ever dived in, that’s not the problem. It’s the context of the situation of looking after all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave. It wasn’t dangerous for us but I can’t emphasise enough how dangerous it was for all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave. It was absolutely life and death. We didn’t expect to be getting all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave out of there alive. No, what’s the point? We didn’t spend any time on that. It was just a case of the dangerous Tham Luang cave rescue being the only feasible way we could see and the only chance we’ve got, so we are going to give the dangerous Tham Luang cave rescue our best shot. Yes, we got better at the dangerous Tham Luang cave rescue and streamlined the process. We also had more people in, some more divers arrived and some more divers had people stationed at various difficult points along the flooded Tham Luang cave to help. There was one section where all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave had to be de-kitted, come out of the water, go over a dry section and then be re-kitted and that all got streamlined and we got a lot better at the dangerous Tham Luang cave rescue. We cut nearly an hour off the total time by the last day. The first day was probably nearly three hours (on the way back, with all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave) and it was close to two hours on the last day. Where all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave were found on the platform there was short dive until a dry section and then all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave had to be de-kitted, helped about 200m over rocks and sand hills and stuff and then get back into the water again. I was responsible for running that operation with two other guys. I stayed there until the last boy each day. all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave would come through at 45-minute intervals, because 45-minute intervals is how long it took for that transfer. We would go one, two, three, four and then everybody swam out after the last one. Yes we were able to visit all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave in hospital on Wednesday afternoon, which was immensely rewarding. There has been some talk of a visit in the future but I think for now all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave just need to go home to all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave's families and get back to normal life. The death of Saman Gunan was just before we arrived, so we did not get to meet Saman Gunan. Although The death of Saman Gunan was a big shock, everyone was focused on the objective of the dangerous Tham Luang cave rescue and there was no lessening of our resolve to get the job done. The time for reflection on these things is later. I am very uncomfortable with it. We were lucky enough to be available and have some skills that we could offer that contributed towards the great outcome. There were hundreds of other people there that worked just as hard as us and won’t get any awards. The fact that all the boys trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave are out of the flooded Tham Luang cave and healthy is reward enough.
A Thai health official said the 12 boys and the 12 boys's soccer coach rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand are in good condition and recovering at a hospital Wednesday morning following the 18-day ordeal. CBS News has learned the final four boys and their soccer coach were that final rescue just in time. Hours after the last boy was pulled out, the main water pump in a flooded cave in northern Thailand malfunctioned, sending water rushing in. Maj. Charles Hodges, the U.S. mission commander for the 353rd Special Operations unit for the Air Force, was a part of the rescue operation in Thailand. Maj. Charles Hodges, the U.S. mission commander for the 353rd Special Operations unit for the Air Force described the tense moments leading up to that final rescue to "CBS This Morning" on Wednesday. "Well, three of the SEALs, there's the SEALs back there, three of the SEALs made three of the SEALs's way into chamber three and about the same time we got the word that the pumps that had been running nonstop shut off for an unknown reason and the water levels back in chamber three started rising which would have cut off our access back to chambers two, one and then out of a flooded cave in northern Thailand. And that's an abort criteria for our guys and so when the water levels back in chamber three started rising everybody started grabbing their kid and they were ready to get out. Thankfully that last SEAL popped up at the last moment and the SEALs was able to get out of chamber three safely and make the SEALs's way out and mission complete," Maj. Charles Hodges, the U.S. mission commander for the 353rd Special Operations unit for the Air Force said. According to Thai health officials, when most of the 12 boys were admitted, most of the boys were given antibiotics because of high white blood cell counts, reports CBS News's Anna Werner. Some of the 12 boys have lung infections and Some of the boys each lost an average of about four pounds while in a flooded cave in northern Thailand, but overall, health officials said the 12 boys are doing well, considering what the 12 boys went through. Rescue volunteers danced and sang when Rescue volunteers learned the 12 boys and their soccer coach rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand was safely rescued Tuesday and at a school where some of the 12 boys attend, students gathered to celebrate. the 18-day ordeal began more than two weeks ago, when the 12 boys and the 12 boys's soccer coach became trapped 2 and a half miles inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand by fast-moving flood waters. As oxygen levels in a flooded cave in northern Thailand dropped and a new round of monsoon rains threatened to raise floodwaters, divers rushed in to their rescue the 12 boys. the 12 boys and their soccer coach rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand were taken out in three groups, over 72 hours. The last member of the rescue team to leave a flooded cave in northern Thailand was Australian doctor Richard Harris. The last member of the rescue team to leave the cave's boss said The last member of the rescue team to leave the cave found out shortly afterward that The last member of the rescue team to leave the cave's father had died. The last member of the rescue team to leave the cave had stayed in a flooded cave in northern Thailand to look after the 12 boys's health. According to officials, the 12 boys are doing well, in part because the 12 boys stayed hydrated by drinking water dripping from the cave ceiling. the 12 boys are now all being monitored for disease and infections. Health officials said the 12 boys are also doing well mentally. Perhaps because the 12 boys stayed together, the official said, adding that the coach who took care of the 12 boys should be admired. Officials said the 12 boys were given anti-anxiety pills to help keep the 12 boys calm during the 12 boys's rescue. the 12 boys and the 12 boys's coach are expected to be kept at the hospital through the weekend. It may come as no surprise that the story of the 12 boys's rescue may become a movie. Film producers have been on the ground in Thailand scouting.
Cave diver Jim Warny (35) has been in far more extreme subterranean conditions than Tham Luang in northern Thailand, where Cave diver Jim Warny (35) was part of the team that the rescue 12 young soccer players and 12 young soccer players's coach last week. The Burren and Slieve Aughty lowlands, where Cave diver Jim Warny (35) has set new exploration records, are highly challenging, and Cave diver Jim Warny (35) has been in far tighter situations in several parts of the world, most recently in Mexico. However, Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says what made the difference last week was “the psychological factor” and knowing the lives of boys only a few years older than Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s son, Ciarán (9), were at stake. When Warny, who lives in Co Clare, became one of the lead divers in the last stages of the rescue, Cave diver Jim Warny (35) was responsible for navigating their coach to safety through much of the 4km cave system. What made the rescue a “miracle”, in Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s view, was that no one person was in charge. The death of former Thai navy Seal diver Saman Kunan had convinced the Thai authorities that a purely military style approach would not work. Cave diver Jim Warny (35) took up cave diving 20 years ago, and exploration became Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s passion after Cave diver Jim Warny (35) moved to Ireland. One of Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s friends was Polish explorer Artur Kozlowski, and the two of them set a new Irish-British record for a 4km traverse of a water-filled system in the Gort lowlands in 2010. When Polish explorer Artur Kozlowski went missing during an attempted traverse of the Pollonora cave system near Kiltartan in 2011, Cave diver Jim Warny (35) located Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s friend’s body at a depth of 52m. Two of the leading British cave rescuers, fireman Rick Stanton and IT consultant John Volanthen, worked with Cave diver Jim Warny (35) on an attempted traverse of the Pollonora cave system near Kiltartan. “Two of the leading British cave rescuers, fireman Rick Stanton and IT consultant John Volanthen were people Cave diver Jim Warny (35) had looked up to and learned from, because cave exploration is something you have to be mentored in,” Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says. It was IT consultant John Volanthen who found 12 young soccer players and 12 young soccer players's coach on a narrow ledge on July 2nd, and from then on Cave diver Jim Warny (35) was waiting for a call. Cave diver Jim Warny (35) flew out on July 6th. Like mountaineers, cave divers have to manage risk, be self sufficient, but accept that in a subterranean environment there is little or no chance of rescue – only, as Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s late friend Kozlowski told this newspaper, “recovery if you are lucky”. “You compartmentalise your thoughts, and you have to go in knowing you can answer every question,” Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says. It was difficult to focus en route to northern Thailand, with “so much information”, but once Cave diver Jim Warny (35) was in situ Cave diver Jim Warny (35) knew it was “within Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s comfort zone”. “At the same time, nothing could really prepare any one of us for this,which was something we had never experienced,” Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says. In a highly claustrophobic, airless, dark and dank environment, panic attacks are a hazard that every cave diver has to train for. It became clear that the only safe way to take 12 young soccer players and 12 young soccer players's coach out was to sedate 12 young soccer players and their coach, and transport 12 young soccer players and their coach, sometimes submerged, on stretchers equipped with oxygen. Fortunately Australian diver Dr Richard Harris, who was part of the international diving team, specialises in anaesthesiology. On Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s first day, Cave diver Jim Warny (35) was a support diver as part of the chain, pushing, sliding, carrying stretchers equipped with oxygen over a period of five and six hours at a time. Whereas the first 1km of the 4km cave system could be walked through, the latter recesses were “fairly tight”, Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says. “It was never so tight that we had to take our gas bottles off,” Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says, adding that visibility was very poor and down to “touch” in some places. On Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s third day down, Cave diver Jim Warny (35) was one of the main divers charged with bringing their coach out for most of the route. “ their coach had said Cave diver Jim Warny (35) wanted to be the last to leave, but it was not Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s call, and so Cave diver Jim Warny (35) was ninth out, and Cave diver Jim Warny (35) was also sedated,” Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says. Rising water levels on that final day and a breakdown in pumps provided a tight finish, but those still inside the 4km cave system at that point had diving gear, Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says. After a weekend at home in Co Clare, Cave diver Jim Warny (35) was back at work on Tuesday. Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s partner, Asia, and father, Rene, welcomed Cave diver Jim Warny (35) home at Shannon. Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s mother, Rita, who died last year, “would worry about Cave diver Jim Warny (35), but His mother, Rita, who died last year trusted Cave diver Jim Warny (35) in what Cave diver Jim Warny (35) did”, Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says. Asked for Cave diver Jim Warny (35)'s views on Elon Musk’s criticism of one caver on Twitter – after Elon Musk’s's offer of a submarine was turned down – Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says the remarks were “uncalled for”. “Vern Unsworth, the expatriate diver who knows the Tham Luang cave system, was really important in helping us,” Cave diver Jim Warny (35) says. Cave diver Jim Warny (35) would love to return to northern Thailand, knows film rights are already being talked about and wouldn’t mind being involved.
Thailand's authorities say a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and the boys's soccer coach trapped in a cave the tragedy from lack of oxygen. Petty Officer First Class Saman Kunan, a former member of Thailand's elite Navy SEAL unit who was part of the rescue team in Chiang Rai, the tragedy on Thursday night after entering a cave to lay oxygen tanks along a potential exit route, the SEAL commander said. the SEAL commander told a news conference on Friday morning a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave was working in a volunteer capacity and died during an overnight mission in which a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave was placing oxygen canisters. The ABC understands a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave was diving late at night to get to the chamber where the boys are trapped. Loading... a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave, set out at 8:37pm local time to his task oxygen tanks from chamber three to where the boys and the boys's coach are located. a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave completed a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave's task but on the way back lost consciousness. a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave's diving partner performed CPR but was unable to revive a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave. a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave was brought to chamber three but was pronounced dead about 1:00am (local time) on Friday. a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave is one of about 80 Thai Navy SEALs. about 80 Thai Navy SEALs make up the bulk of the divers that are running the rescue effort. the SEAL commander said despite the tragedy, about 80 Thai Navy SEALs "will continue until about 80 Thai Navy SEALs accomplish about 80 Thai Navy SEALs's mission". "In that 1,700-metre section [it] is very treacherous," the SEAL commander said. "Thursday night's operation was to bring oxygen tanks to the mound, which should take about five to six hours each way, so altogether it takes about 12 hours. "This is what about 80 Thai Navy SEALs train for, this is what about 80 Thai Navy SEALs have to face, an incident like the tragedy can always happen but about 80 Thai Navy SEALs're not losing about 80 Thai Navy SEALs's motivation. the SEAL commander said Thailand's's King had ordered a royally-endorsed funeral ceremony. Loading... a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave was a former clearance diver for the Navy SEALs, and Thailand's media has reported a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave was more recently working in a security role at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi Airport. Thailand's authorities are racing to pump out water from a flooded cave where the boys and the boys's soccer coach have been trapped since June 23. A Navy source, speaking on condition of anonymity, told The ABC three factors were driving the urgency — the water level inside a cave, the amount of oxygen available, and the health of the boys and the boys's coach. "The pressure the boys are experiencing comes from working against the weather, as the forecasts tell the boys there will be heavy rain in this area within 48 hours," a former Navy SEAL working to rescue the boys and their soccer coach trapped in a cave said. the boys was trapped in a cave, surviving for nine days before rescue divers found the boys on a muddy ledge. The Navy source said two of the boys were in a weaker condition, as was the 25-year-old coach, who sacrificed their soccer coach's share of the boys's meagre food supplies to give to the boys. The navy source said rescue coordinators faced tough choices and there were differences of opinion among those providing assessments. Loading...
His Majesty the King has posthumously the posthumous promotion of Petty Officer 1st class Saman former Navy Seal Saman Gunan, who died helping save the 12 schoolboys and the 12 schoolboys's football coach trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave, to the rank of lieutenant commander -- an unprecedented rise of seven ranks. The announcement of the posthumous promotion of former Navy Seal Saman Gunan, who died helping save the 12 schoolboys and their football coach trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave, was published in the Royal Gazette on Saturday. His Majesty the King also bestowed a royal decoration -- Knight Grand Cross (First Class) of the Most Exalted Order of the White Elephant -- on the late retired Navy Seal for dedicating former Navy Seal Saman Gunan, who died helping save the 12 schoolboys and their football coach trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave,'s life to the operation to rescue the 13 people trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave. Saman, a 37-year-old former member of Navy's elite Underwater Demolition Unit (known as Seals), lost consciousness during a dive while returning rescuers’ used air tanks to Chamber 3 inside the flooded Tham Luang cave on July 6. former Navy Seal Saman Gunan, who died helping save the 12 schoolboys and their football coach trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave, did not recover. former Navy Seal Saman Gunan, who died helping save the 12 schoolboys and their football coach trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave, had left Navy to work for Airports of Thailand Plc as a security official at Suvarnabhumi airport and was taking time off from work to help former Navy Seal Saman Gunan, who died helping save the 12 schoolboys and their football coach trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave,'s former Seal colleagues with the operation to rescue the 13 people trapped in the flooded cave in Chiang Rai. A large crowd of mourners converged on Wat Ban Nong Khu in Chatuphak Piman district of Roi Et province on Saturday to bid a final farewell to former Navy Seal Saman Gunan, who died helping save the 12 schoolboys and their football coach trapped in the flooded Tham Luang cave,. Navy Seals, police and rescue workers were present to assist the mourners attending the royally sponsored funeral rite. His Majesty the King assigned Privy councillor Gen Surayud Chulanont to preside over the ceremony at 4pm on Saturday. Navy chief Naris Prathumsuwan, senior Navy officers and Navy Seals attended the royally sponsored funeral rite.
CHIANG RAI: Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat has said Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat will use Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat's own funds to the creation a colossal statue of the former Navy Seal who died during the Tham Luang rescue mission. Mr Chalermchai, also the creator of Wat Rong Khun in Muang district of CHIANG RAI:, said Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat planned to organise an activity in honour of the former Navy Seal who died during the Tham Luang rescue mission, and build the statue to be put in the Tham Luang Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park in Mae Sai district, where the flooded Tham Luang cave is situated. Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat said Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat would use Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat's own money to fund the creation in remembrance of the former Navy Seal who died during the Tham Luang rescue mission's sacrifice as only a few good people could risk the former Navy Seal who died during the Tham Luang rescue mission's life like the former Navy Seal who died during the Tham Luang rescue mission. As a native of CHIANG RAI:, Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat wanted to show the former Navy Seal who died during the Tham Luang rescue mission's good deeds to other people, said Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat. Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat shared Thais’ feelings when Thais’ saw all 12 schoolboys and all 12 schoolboys's soccer coach rescued safely. Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat also saw the Tham Luang rescue mission as a good opportunity to turn the crisis that happened in CHIANG RAI: into an opportunity. Aside from the planned creation of the former Navy Seal who died during the Tham Luang rescue mission, Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat would create a large painting, about three metres wide and 13 metres long, featuring all 12 schoolboys venturing into the flooded Tham Luang cave and then trapped inside by floods, as well as the rescue efforts by divers and volunteers from many countries. Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat already began working on a sketch of this artwork which would be finished in the next 1-2 days. Many fellow artists would join Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat in the painting this artwork at the Art Bridge Chiang Rai centre in tambon Ban Doo, Muang district of this northern province, Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat said. this artwork, would be kept at the flooded Tham Luang cave. There would be other paintings and drawings inside the flooded Tham Luang cave, which would be turned into a museum and new tourist attraction of CHIANG RAI:, said Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat. “Don’t worry about the budget. Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat'm not a person who likes to show off good deeds. Over 300 fellow artists in CHIANG RAI: will join Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat in creating this artwork. We want to turn the flooded Tham Luang cave into a new tourist venue worth a visit and study. The statue of 'Ja Sam' (nickname of Pretty Office 1st class Saman) will be twice life-size,’’ said Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat. Renowned national artist Chalermchai Kositpipat would seek permission from the Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation as a colossal statue of the former Navy Seal who died during the Tham Luang rescue mission would be built in the national park.
The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a cave decided to allow the boys that live furthest away to be rescued first. 25-year-old coach Ekapol Chanthawong said the boys that live furthest away were not chosen based on the state of the boys that live furthest away's health, as had previously been reported. Rather the boys that live furthest away were could ride the boys that live furthest away's bikes home and tell concerned families and authorities that the boys that live furthest away were okay. The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a cave decided to allow the boys that live furthest away to be rescued first. It had been previously reported Australian doctor-diver Richard Harris had helped decide which boys to take out first, reportedly the weakest or the bravest of the boys that live furthest away. But at a press conference on Wednesday evening, 25-year-old coach Ekapol Chanthawong said the boys that live furthest away were not chosen based on the state of the boys that live furthest away's health, but rather were chosen based on who lived the furthest away. According to the boys that live furthest away's 25-year-old coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, it was The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a cave, under the guidance of international divers and the Thai Navy SEALS, who decided which boys to rescue from a cave first. Ultimately The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a cave decided the boys that live furthest away were to be extracted first so the boys that live furthest away could ride the boys that live furthest away's bikes and tell concerned families and authorities that the boys that live furthest away were okay. "The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a cave put the hopes on the boys that live furthest away to tell the families The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a cave are coming out and prepare food," 25-year-old coach Ekapol Chanthawong said. the boys that live furthest away and 25-year-old coach Ekapol Chanthawong were rescued after surviving up to 17 days inside a cave. The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a cave had only intended to spend an hour there on June 23, as many of the boys that live furthest away had been before, but became trapped after heavy rains caused a cave's chambers to quickly flood. the boys that live furthest away survived by finding higher ground and drinking cave water. 25-year-old coach Ekapol Chanthawong taught the boys that live furthest away how to meditate and the boys that live furthest away took turns digging a 16-foot-deep hole into a cave's wall in an attempt to leave. "The Thai soccer team who were trapped inside a cave ask everyone to give them personal space and time to be with their families and go to school," the boys that live furthest away said.
When 12 boys and 12 boys's football coach were trapped in a flooded cave in northern Thailand, the nation launched a massive rescue mission that grew to involve 10,000 people. Think you already know the story? Think again. In exclusive interviews, we hear how experienced Navy SEALs braved unfamiliar conditions that turned 5-hour dives into 23-hour ones. How teams of young men and bird's nest collectors helped scour the mountain for any cracks in the earth that might lead to where 12 boys waited. How geologists and ordinary Thais alike came together to control the rising waters in a flooded cave in northern Thailand. And how the leaders of a massive rescue mission that grew to involve 10,000 people coped with the pressures of a massive rescue mission that grew to involve 10,000 people. Coupled with high-end animation, this documentary unpacks how events unfolded over 17 dramatic days in a flooded cave in northern Thailand.
A Kiwi diver who spent seven hours in the Thai cave helping rescue four boys and four boys's coach has described the tense rescue mission. A Kiwi diver who spent seven hours in the Thai cave helping rescue four boys and their coach, was among the rescue team that extracted four boys from the Thai cave on Monday, after the football team of 13 players and the football team of 13 players's coach had been stuck for 18 days. Schnauer, originally from Auckland, has been living in Thailand for 15 years and works as a diver for offshore oil and gas construction all over the world. After returning from a job in Scotland on Sunday, Schnauer, originally from Auckland messaged Schnauer, originally from Auckland's friend and commercial diver Fernando Raigal who was involved in the rescue efforts, and Schnauer, originally from Auckland was called upon for help. "Basically Schnauer, originally from Auckland flew from Bangkok to Chiang Mai the next morning, went straight to the staging area at the Thai cave and joined in with the Thai Navy Seals," Schnauer, originally from Auckland said. Schnauer, originally from Auckland was grouped with three other rescuers who were stationed at the end of the dive zone and responsible for carrying four boys out of the Thai cave. "Schnauer, originally from Auckland was a little bit nervous, Schnauer, originally from Auckland have got to be honest. the Thai Navy Seals told us where we would be and what to expect," Schnauer, originally from Auckland said. "The cavern we were in had a fairly high ceiling and was about the size of a basketball court, but obviously an odd shape. the Thai cave was very rocky on both sides. Schnauer, originally from Auckland said they got about five minutes notice when a boy was near the Thai cave, and everybody would get tense in anticipation. "When four boys came out of the water four boys were put on a stretcher, four boys's oxygen was changed and the first aid guys checked four boys over. "Then we stood in pairs ready to receive four boys and move four boys along in a chain. Schnauer, originally from Auckland said everyone was focused on the task at hand and the particular role they had to play. "The section of the Thai cave we were in was very rocky and unstable. You had to be very careful where you put your feet," Schnauer, originally from Auckland said. Schnauer, originally from Auckland said once four boys were out of the Thai cave, everyone was very happy but also keen to get out of the Thai cave. "When the divers came out we were obviously congratulating four boys and helping four boys with four boys's gear, but Schnauer, originally from Auckland think four boys just wanted to get out of there because four boys had been in there a long time. It was pretty impressive," Schnauer, originally from Auckland said. Schnauer, originally from Auckland said Schnauer, originally from Auckland played "a small role" in the rescue efforts but the success of the tense rescue mission showed what teamwork can achieve. "The teamwork that four boys went through to get four boys out is quite phenomenal really. "The teamwork that they went through to get them out showed what people can do when people collectively come up with a way to do something that has never been done before, and work together," Schnauer, originally from Auckland said. "Everybody played a part and everybody volunteered to go there and help out. It was nice to be a part of that and Schnauer, originally from Auckland would do it again given the option.
As fans around the globe gathered for the World Cup soccer tournament in late June, monsoon rains trapped a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach's 25-year-old coach in a remote cave in Thailand. a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach knew the cave network, Tham Luang, well but heavy rains caught a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach off guard. Located two miles from Thailand's border with Myanmar, a remote cave in Thailand's constant stream turns into a river during monsoon season. Once friends and family realized a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach were trapped, rescuers rallied. But rising frigid water and dangerous swift currents thwarted rescue efforts, dimming hopes for those keeping vigil. The Thai people turned out in strong support. Expert climbers from Libong Island, who scale cliffs to collect edible bird’s nests, used Expert climbers from Libong Island, who scale cliffs to collect edible bird’s nests's generations-old skills to search the steepest terrain. Farmers delayed planting and villagers dropped daily tasks to assist. An outpouring of aid and around-the-clock cooking of meals helped sustain rescuers. Most search-and-rescue missions start with a map to guide the operation and coordinate tools, supplies, and personnel. Today’s maps, created in a geographic information system (GIS), bring in all types of data to query and explore. In cases of cave rescue, workers rely on maps to correlate the underground world to the land above. The war room at the Geohazard Operation Center became the epicenter for map creation and map-based discussions. Early on, the Thailand Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) pulled in GIS and mapping experts from Esri Thailand and GIS Company to create a variety of maps to help locate a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach. While rescuers searched, heavy rains and surging water levels in a remote cave in Thailand made it too dangerous for divers to enter. The force of the currents ripped off diving masks and sent divers drifting too far from the guide ropes used to keep divers on course. The Royal Irrigation Department placed high-capacity pumps inside a remote cave in Thailand early on but high-capacity pumps did not immediately reduce water levels. the Thailand Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) staff and the mapping teams had to find a new approach. DMR staff and the mapping teams added prior cave surveys [see sidebar] to a geographic information system (GIS to make maps that showed the complete picture of the cave surface both above and below. Staff from The Royal Irrigation Department surveyed the area’s geology using electrical resistivity techniques. Mapping experts interpreted the data to find sinkholes that might be acting as water funnels and Staff from the Royal Irrigation Department created 3D maps to show where above-ground streams stopped and went underground. Volunteers followed 3D maps to show where above-ground streams stopped and went underground to conduct a hiking survey of hillsides, noting the direction and volume of flowing water. Experts conferred with GIS-based data and analytics to review and model water diversion options. A team, made up of Department of Royal Irrigation engineers, experts from the Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation, and soldiers from the Royal Army, worked together to construct dams to divert water flow. They ran long pipelines from a sinkhole above the northern part of a remote cave in Thailand to nearby rice paddy fields. Despite ongoing rains, water levels started to drop. A 3D map showing the extent and direction of water flow on the hill in relation to the cave below helped to pinpoint the placement of dams and pipes that greatly reduced the rise of water. Responders set up a rescue operation war room at the Geohazard Operation Center. From the Geohazard Operation Center, Responders planned and coordinated activities using a digital twin of a remote cave in Thailand. As the globe watched, the clock kept ticking, rain continued to fall, and oxygen inside a remote cave in Thailand started to run out. Help from within Thailand turned out in force. His Majesty King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun of Thailand declared it a national priority. More than 10,000 volunteers and workers from Thailand responded including 2,000 soldiers, 150 Thai Navy SEAL divers, and representatives from more than 100 government agencies. Cave diving and logistics experts flew in from around the globe, with individuals and teams from Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, India, Israel, Japan, Laos, the Netherlands, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. With so many responders and experts assembled, and water levels safely lowered, the dive team was ready to set out in search of a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach. the dive team first studied maps depicting a remote cave in Thailand's twists, turns, and dimensions to help navigate difficult passages and mentally mark the dive team's progress inside a remote cave in Thailand. Then the dive team laid out guide ropes and spare oxygen tanks along the path the dive team would take. In the maze of passageways and chambers, divers checked every dead-end of the cave network, Tham Luang, and marked off each one on divers's maps. Meanwhile, on the surface, the Royal Army searched for alternative cave entrances using topographic terrain maps and high-resolution aerial photos from the Royal Thai Survey department. Engineers, hoping to find a place to drill, explored 3D cross-section maps to calculate the distance to the center of a remote cave in Thailand from multiple angles. Nine days into the search, British cave diving experts found the team gathered on a muddy shelf more than two miles from the cave entrance and one mile underground. a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach's discovery kicked off a frantic phase of extraction plans as rain kept pouring and a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach waited in jeopardy. Initially, one government official suggested a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach might have to remain in place for four months until waters receded. But, map-based calculations revealed that cave oxygen levels would not sustain a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach four months. Despite the urgent situation, a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach's soccer coach kept their 25-year-old coach's team calm using Buddhist techniques of meditation and slow breathing—a feat that also conserved energy and air. As the mission shifted from search to rescue, the mapping team collected sensor readings on water and oxygen levels at the cave entrance, at 300 meters, and at 1,500 meters. Hourly map updates showed current water depth and air quality, alerting rescuers to changing conditions. the mapping team also monitored weather radar feeds to forecast and understand the volume of rain falling at the surface. Six days after a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach were located, divers continued to stage the rescue under nearly impossible conditions. divers needed a way to reduce divers's travel time from the surface to the cave shelf where a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach stayed huddled. The trip was taking an average of nine hours and few of a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach knew how to swim or dive. One courageous Thai Navy SEAL diver working on the oxygen supply problem lost One courageous Thai Navy SEAL diver working on the oxygen supply problem's life. Meanwhile, Army teams and volunteers continued to search the surface for alternate entrances, and engineers planned for the drilling contingency. It was July 9 and, by then, the plight of a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach and the rescue had become a major news story. After trying many extraction ideas, divers devised a solution that combined a clever sled and the use of full-face dive masks. To resounding relief, divers guided the first four boys out of a remote cave in Thailand. On July 12, a full 18 days since a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach first entered a remote cave in Thailand, divers led the final group of boys and the final group of boys's coach to the surface. the final group of boys and their coach's ordeal finally ended. And just at the final group of boys left a remote cave in Thailand, a water pump failed flooding the area and intensifying the drama. Hear from those involved in mapping Cave and Karst terrain via this GeoNet community. Learn more about how location technology informs all types of emergency management operations. Following is a gallery with a timeline, indicating how the events unfolded alongside a description of the map products that were created. June 23, 2018: Rising water trapped 12 children and 12 children's coach in a cave in Thailand, a country with one of the globe most concentrated collections of caves. This map, made using cave data from the Caves and Caving in Thailand website, puts Thailand's caves into context. 24 – 27 June 2018: Thailand's government and private agencies formed search and rescue teams. Many maps were distributed via social media, but mapping experts knew Many maps lacked accuracy. June 27, 2018: Esri Thailand and GIS Company joined the rescue, aiding the Department of Mineral Resources. A staff member digs into the work at the Geohazard Operation Center in the image above. search and rescue teams first attempted to pump Rising water out of a remote cave in Thailand, but there was no significant reduction of the water level. June 28, 2018: The mapping team could not find accurate and reliable data of the hilly topography. So, The mapping team generated a digital elevation model and gathered aerial imagery as well as cave survey data from a 1986 French cave survey mission. cave survey data from a 1986 French cave survey mission informed a variety of maps, including a 3D map and a cave cross-section map. The traditional topographic map, above, puts 3D heights and distances into context. June 29, 2018: Heavy rainfall caused rising water levels inside a remote cave in Thailand, hindering the dive team. The mapping team analyzed drainage basin details, water flow direction, and flow accumulation to determine locations to divert water flow. The Royal Irrigation Department conducted an electrical resistivity survey to reveal geology around a remote cave in Thailand. This underground detail appears in the image above. Teams translated the book, Caves of Thailand: Volume 2: Northern Thailand by Martin Ellis. Details from a cave survey by British surveyors from 2015 were added to a 3D map. June 30 to July 1, 2018: Rescue teams built a stone diversion dam above the northern part of a remote cave in Thailand, but water levels didn’t diminish. Martin Ellis sent the team a more detailed cave map with passage cross sections. the team georeferenced a more detailed cave map with passage cross sections (a section is seen above) to provide real-world dimensions of passages and distances between sections. the dive team used a more detailed cave map with passage cross sections for context when planning and operating the rescue. July 2, 2018: On July 2, 2018, a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach and a soccer team of 12 boys, ages 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach's coach were found within the cave in the area’s. Water levels continued to rise due to heavy rainfall. The field team diverted water above the southern part of a remote cave in Thailand. Experts, pictured above, gather around a map to discuss diversion strategy. July 3-4, 2018: The field team diverted water flow by building more stone dams upstream above the southern part of a remote cave in Thailand. Hourly monitoring of water levels in a remote cave in Thailand (shown in the report above) indicated a reduction in water depth. However, oxygen readings indicated dangerously low levels. July 5-8, 2018: 3D analysis supported distance and angle calculations for a possible rescue by drilling an escape shaft (see image above). Ongoing efforts monitored water levels and rainfall intensity. July 9, 2018: the first four boys were rescued. July 10, 2018: The second group of four boys was rescued. July 11, 2018: The final four boys and The final four boys's coach were rescued. Esri Thailand created this interactive story map to reveal the geological details of the area’s and describe the rescue.
Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand have been freed in a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday. The first two boys emerged from a cave in northern Thailand wearing full-face scuba masks just after 5.30pm local time (11.30 BST) on Sunday, and were embraced by the divers who led The first two boys out, said Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday. Two hours later, another two boys were brought out about 10 minutes apart – hours ahead of even the most optimistic predictions authorities had given earlier that day. Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand received preliminary health checks at the scene and were taken to a hospital in Chiang Rai, the nearest major city, Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said. One was airlifted and three arrived by ambulance. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation did not name The first two boys, or reveal the basis on which The first two boys were selected. Parents waiting at the scene did not know which boys had undertaken the dangerous two-mile journey out. Namhom Boonpiam, the mother of Mongkhol, 14, said Namhom Boonpiam, the mother of Mongkhol, 14 was tracking unconfirmed reports on social media that Namhom Boonpiam, the mother of Mongkhol, 14's son was the first boy freed. “Namhom Boonpiam, the mother of Mongkhol, 14 just heard Mongkhol, 14's name, Mongkhol, 14, and Namhom Boonpiam, the mother of Mongkhol, 14 was happy enough,” Namhom Boonpiam, the mother of Mongkhol, 14 said. Namhom Boonpiam, the mother of Mongkhol, 14 is sleeping at the scene along with many other parents awaiting the next stage of a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday, scheduled to begin some time after 7am on Monday. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation was applauded at a press conference on Sunday after announcing Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand had been brought out, but Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said: “Our job is not completely done. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said rescuers needed between 10 and 20 hours to rest and prepare rescuers's equipment. “Air tanks and systems have to be put in place again,” Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation had earlier referred to Sunday as “D-Day” for a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday. Heavy monsoon rain overnight and the sudden exclusion of journalists from the scene in the morning had led to rumours that almost a week since divers found Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand, divers were launching the operation to retrieve Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said water levels inside a cave in northern Thailand had dropped by 30cm on Saturday, allowing Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand to walk about half the jagged, muddy path from the slope where Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand have been sheltering with Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand's 25-year-old coach for 15 nights. An elite group of 10 international cave divers, working with five Thai navy Seals, entered a cave in northern Thailand at about 10am, with some heading for Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand's chamber and others stationed a few hundred metres away at an area called Monk’s Junction. A second group of three foreign divers entered at about 2pm “to support diving efforts”, according to a statement issued by the command centre, with additional rescuers in place helping operate a rope system in a difficult middle stretch of the track. Richard Harris, an Australian doctor with extensive cave-diving experience, went into the boys’ chamber on Saturday, examined Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand and approved Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday, authorities said. Richard Harris, an Australian doctor with extensive cave-diving experience, was also part of the rescue. Authorities had spent the week in a race against time, trying to drain as much water from a cave in northern Thailand as possible to give Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand the easiest possible path to the exit before the arrival of monsoon rains at the weekend. On Sunday morning, Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said the one-mile path from the cave entrance to the third chamber that has been a staging ground for a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday was not completely dry but mostly walkable. “Yesterday the water levels were the lowest the water levels had been,” Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation declined to say whether Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand would need to dive at all in the 1.1-mile journey from where Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand are sheltering to the third chamber. “What Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation can tell you is that there are many parts that Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand can walk,” Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said. Divers had said the return journey to Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand had been taking about 11 hours during the week – six to reach Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand and five to return. A 25-year-old Thai navy Seal, who declined to be named, described one of the most difficult parts of the return journey to the boys. “The hole is really small, A 25-year-old Thai navy Seal, who declined to be named have to take off A 25-year-old Thai navy Seal, who declined to be named's air tank to crawl through The hole. As A 25-year-old Thai navy Seal, who declined to be named do, A 25-year-old Thai navy Seal, who declined to be named feel the edges of The hole on both A 25-year-old Thai navy Seal, who declined to be named's back and chest,” A 25-year-old Thai navy Seal, who declined to be named said. Authorities had predicted no boy would emerge before 9pm at the earliest, but about three hours earlier, journalists posted outside the scene began reporting the movements of ambulances and aircraft. Soon after, divers and Thai navy officials at the scene began confirming two boys had been released – and then, hours later, potentially more. At 9pm, Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation called a second press conference and confirmed four boys had been freed. “a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday was more successful than we expected,” Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation said. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation has emerged as the public face of a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation had officially been transferred to a governorship in the smaller, neighbouring province of Phayao since Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand became stuck in a cave in northern Thailand on 23 June. But Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation's training as an engineer and Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation's management skills earned Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation a continuing role as head of the command centre. Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation's leadership has won Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation national popularity, including calls on social media that Narongsak Osatanakorn, the head of the joint command centre coordinating the operation become prime minister. Thailand’s navy Seals have also been in the spotlight, posting a picture on Thailand’s navy Seals's official Facebook page after the start of a dramatic eight-hour operation to be repeated on Monday of three men gripping each others’ wrists. “We, the Thai team and the international team, will bring the Wild Boars home,” Thailand’s navy Seals wrote, in reference to Four boys from a group of 12 children trapped in a cave in northern Thailand's football team.
MAE SAI, Thailand (AP) -- Authorities overseeing the rescue operation for 12 boys and 12 boys's soccer coach from a flooded cave in northern Thailand said Authorities overseeing the rescue operation for 12 boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave in northern Thailand have a "limited amount of time" to get 12 boys and their soccer coach out, as Authorities overseeing the rescue operation for 12 boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave in northern Thailand raced against worsening weather and lessening oxygen underground. The massive operation inside and around a flooded cave in northern Thailand suffered the rescue operation for 12 boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave in northern Thailand's first death Friday when a former Thai navy SEAL passed out underwater and could not be revived. Oxygen levels are decreasing because of the amount of workers inside a flooded cave in northern Thailand and workers were trying to run an oxygen line into the chambers in addition to the oxygen canisters used by divers, Chiang Rai province Gov. Narongsak Osatanakorn said late Thursday. A senior army commander, Maj. Gen. Chalongchai Chaiyakam, said the most pressing mission is an oxygen line. an oxygen line is tied to a telephone line to provide a channel of communication for 12 boys and their soccer coach. 12 boys and 12 boys and their soccer coach's 25-year-old coach went exploring in a flooded cave in northern Thailand after a soccer game June 23. Monsoon flooding cut off 12 boys and their soccer coach's escape and prevented rescuers from finding 12 boys and their soccer coach for almost 10 days as the only way to reach 12 boys and their soccer coach was by navigating dark and tight passageways filled with muddy water and strong currents. Authorities have been racing to pump out water from a flooded cave in northern Thailand before more storms in the coming days raise the water levels again. At this time though, diving is the only possible method of escape, even though cave rescue experts warn diving is extremely dangerous even for those with experience. Friday's death of a former Thai navy SEAL underscores those risks. a former Thai navy SEAL was working in a volunteer capacity and died during an overnight mission in which a former Thai navy SEAL was placing oxygen canisters along the route divers use to get to 12 boys, Arpakorn said. oxygen canisters allow divers to stay underwater for longer during what is about a five-hour trip to reach 12 boys. While underwater, a former Thai navy SEAL passed out and efforts to resuscitate a former Thai navy SEAL failed, Arpakorn said. Another Thai navy official said Another navy official didn't believe a former Thai navy SEAL's oxygen tank ran out. "Despite this, we will continue until we accomplish our mission," Arpakorn said. Chiang Rai province Gov. Narongsak Osatanakorn has said the 13 may not be extracted at the same time, depending on 12 boys's condition. 12 boys are weak but for the most part physically healthy. 12 boys've practiced wearing diving masks and breathing, in preparation for the diving possibility. Officials prefer to get 12 boys out as soon as possible because heavy rain is expected by Saturday. Officials are hoping that an upgraded draining effort can lower the water in an area where the water is still at or near the ceiling. The idea is to get some headroom so 12 boys would not be reliant on scuba apparatus for a long stretch and could keep 12 boys's heads above water. Cave rescue experts have said it could be safest to simply supply 12 boys where 12 boys are, and wait for Monsoon flooding to subside. That could take months, however, given that Thailand (AP)'s rainy season typically lasts through October. And without proper oxygen levels, staying put could also prove deadly.
An elite team of Thai navy SEALs and foreign rescue divers brought out the final four boys and the final four boys's soccer coach from a flooded cave near the Thai-Myanmar border, extracting the final four boys and their soccer coach through a labyrinth of tight passages after the final four boys and their soccer coach spent two weeks trapped in darkness. The operation on Tuesday moved quickly, raising hopes that the final four boys and the final four boys's adult coach from the Wild Boars soccer team would be at the surface by the end of Tuesday. "the Thai navy SEALs team, which is helping to lead the operation are not sure if this is a miracle, a science, or what. the final four boys and their soccer coach are now out of a flooded cave near the Thai-Myanmar border," the Thai navy SEALs team, which is helping to lead The operation on Tuesday, said on the Thai navy SEALs team, which is helping to lead the operation's Facebook page. One by one, the last of the final four boys were carried to ambulances that whisked the last of the remaining four boys to evacuation helicopters and finally, on to the hospital. Also emerging from a flooded cave near the Thai-Myanmar border: a doctor who has treated the final four boys and their soccer coach after the final four boys and their soccer coach were found last Monday, and several Thai navy SEALs divers who helped to carry out The operation on Tuesday. The boys, ranging in age from 11 to 16, and the final four boys and their soccer coach's coach, 25, set out to explore the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system on June 23, but the final four boys and their soccer coach became trapped after heavy rains quickly flooded passages. Divers finally located the final four boys and their soccer coach on July 2, allowing emergency crews to send the final four boys and their soccer coach food and supplies. Eight boys had been taken out in the past two days — four on Sunday and another four on last Monday. The operation on Tuesday included stashing tanks of air on the long route to safety, a process that took hours to set up between rescue missions. a doctor who has treated the 13 stranded people after they were found last Monday, has been helping to treat the final four boys and ensure the final four boys's safe removal. As The Sydney Morning Herald reports, a doctor who has treated the 13 stranded people after they were found last Monday remained in a flooded cave near the Thai-Myanmar border after the last of the remaining four boys left on Tuesday. For more than a week, officials have been pumping millions of gallons of water out of a flooded cave near the Thai-Myanmar border, trying to combat heavy rains on Sunday and last Monday. officials also worried about dwindling oxygen levels in a flooded cave near the Thai-Myanmar border. Acting Chiang Rai Gov. Narongsak Osottanakorn, who is also head of the joint command center, said that 18 divers and a support team of 100 took nine hours in the second phase of rescues at a flooded cave near the Thai-Myanmar border on last Monday, as opposed to 11 hours on Sunday. "We have more expertise than yesterday," Acting Chiang Rai Gov. Narongsak Osottanakorn, who is also head of the joint command center said on Tuesday. the final four boys and their soccer coach are in good overall health despite spending two weeks in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system, said Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, permanent secretary of the ministry of public health, at a news conference in Chiang Rai. Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, permanent secretary of the ministry of public health said the first four boys who were taken out are now eating well. The parents were allowed to see The parents's children through glass at the hospital, according to the BBC's Jonathan Head. Describing The operation on Tuesday's final phase, Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, permanent secretary of the ministry of public health said that divers were resting and replenishing air tanks — and hoping for good weather. "If the rain god helps us, then we may be able to work fast," Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, permanent secretary of the ministry of public health told reporters earlier on Tuesday. the final four boys's ordeal has transfixed millions of people, as The operation on Tuesday was planned and mounted. "Although Musk's's technology is good and sophisticated, his technology's not practical for The operation on Tuesday," Jesada Chokedamrongsuk, permanent secretary of the ministry of public health said of Musk's mini-sub. Soccer's governing body, FIFA, has invited the final four boys to the World Cup final in Moscow on Sunday if the final four boys are healthy enough to go.
The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand spent another night almost a kilometer underground, after officials coordinating the rescue said officials coordinating the rescue won’t attempt to move The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand before Thursday. New video released by the Thai Navy SEALs Wednesday showed The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand wrapped in foil blankets for warmth, as The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand speak up one by one, introducing The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand and saying “I am healthy.” One said “thank you” to everyone who is waiting for The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's rescue. Claus Rasmussen, who is part of the rescue team, said The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand have told divers The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand heard dogs barking, a rooster crowing and children playing. That information now has teams looking at whether there is a chimney or hole teams can access instead of trying to get The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand out through the water. At least one plan to bring The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand back to the surface include having The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand, and The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's 25-year-old coach, dive through the narrow flooded tunnels in full-face diving masks. The plight of The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand and The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's coach has captured the world’s attention. Former Real Madrid and Brazil soccer legend Ronaldo spoke to CNN at an event in Russia about The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand. Saturday, June 23 The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand and a coach from The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand go missing. Search and rescue missions begin after officials suspect the teammates, aged 11 to 16, and their 25-year-old coach are trapped inside a cave complex by floods caused by monsoon rains. Sunday, June 24 A search and rescue team finds bags and sandals 3 km inside a cave complex but are forced to suspend the search because of rising waters. Monday, June 25 Thai Royal Navy Seal divers reach a cave complex and find handprints on the wall, but pause the search again because of flooding. Rescue operations begin pumping out water. Tuesday, June 26 Heavy rains stop helicopters from searching for other entrances to a cave complex. Wednesday, June 27 Approximately 1,000 army & navy troops along with local volunteers join the search. By nightfall, help from rescue specialists from the US military and the UK also arrives. Thursday, June 28 Heavy duty pumps are brought in to combat the floodwaters, but heavy rains force rescuers to pause for five hours. Friday, June 29 Teams from China join the multinational rescue effort. Saturday, June 30 Australia also sends in experts. Sunday, July 1 Experts from at least six countries, led by Thai Navy Seals continue working to reach the narrow flooded tunnels. More equipment is flown in by plane. Monday, July 2 Contact made: Two British divers find The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand and The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's coach alive, perched on a shelf above the floodwaters deep inside a cave complex. Tuesday, July 3 Thai Navy Seals bring medical help, fresh water, food and blankets to The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand. Wednesday, July 4 Experts debate how best to evacuate The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand, while officials begin evacuation drills to prepare The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand for when its time to leave a cave complex. “It’s terrible news and the world of football hopes that someone can find a way to take The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand out of there,” he said. Austria and Leicester City star Christian Fuchs sent a video message of support Wednesday. Austria and Leicester City star Christian Fuchs won the Premier League title with Thai-owned Leicester in 2016. In a press conference Wednesday morning, Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said it would be “difficult” to bring The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand out Wednesday. Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn didn’t want to give an estimate on when The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand could be brought out and be reunited with The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's families. “All Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn can say is everyone is working very hard here. Everyone is working their hardest. They haven’t rested since day one,” Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said. To keep The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's spirits up, authorities are attempting to set up phone lines inside a cave complex to allow The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand to talk to The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's parents. However, attempts to install the cables have been unsuccessful so far, Maj. Gen. Bancha Duriyaphan said. One cable suffered water damage as divers transported One cable “around small passages.” Teams are attempting to take in a new one. “When the telephone line is ready, we will have relatives talk to The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand. The pressure will be immensely reduced,” Maj. Gen. Chalongchai Chaiyakum, another military spokesman, said. It’s now been over 48 hours since The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand were first located by Two British divers, and while SEAL divers have been able to reach The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand with food and medicine, conditions mean it’s currently too risky to bring The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand out the same way Two British divers came in. It’s is a long, hazardous dive, even for the experienced Thai Navy SEAL divers. Eight members of the Thai Navy team, as well as a doctor and nurse, are staying with The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand and The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's coach in a cave complex overnight, the Thai Royal Navy said in a Facebook post early Thursday. The insignia of the SEALs has been etched onto a rock face in a cave complex, video from The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's Facebook page shows. Initial medical check-ups showed The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand to be in good health. Video showed some being treated for scrapes and mild rashes. The doctor, Lt. Col. Park Loharachun, hasn’t left The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's side since diving into a cave complex. Two British divers are making the complicated dive back and forth to the small, cramped shelf where The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand have sheltered within a cave complex. The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand has been given high-protein gels to rebuild The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's strength. After the initial contact with the British divers – two volunteer specialists who flew in to help with the search – the British divers – two volunteer specialists who flew in to help with the search – the SEAL team returned to give The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand a meal of grilled pork and sticky rice, along with milk. The focus now is on getting The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand ready for the journey ahead. On Wednesday, The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand – practiced wearing the full-face oxygen masks The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand’ll need to wear to survive the journey out. The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand’ve tried using the equipment and breathing with the equipment, but haven’t been submerged in the flood water, Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn said, as currents are too strong. The plan is to bring The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand out at different times, depending on The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's strength. “The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand don’t have to leave all at once. Those who are ready can come out first. We are reassessing the situation daily. We have to see The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand are ready. Therefore if we found any risk we won’t carry out the (evacuation) plan,” Chiang Rai governor Narongsak Osottanakorn added. A sense of urgency persists with unpredictable weather and the threat of more rain that could further flood the chambers. The governor said water is still being pumped out of a cave complex “at full speed” to reduce water levels. Days of relatively fine weather have given rescuers a window to prepare for the moment The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand eventually emerge from a cave complex. Soldiers dressed in green fatigues practiced evacuation drills, linking arms to form a human wall around the mouth of a cave complex. Debate remains over the best way to bring The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand to safety. Given The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's weakness after a week with no food, trapped in the dark, and The teenage soccer team trapped in a cave system in northern Thailand's unfamiliarity with scuba systems, some experts say it’s too difficult to bring a group of novices through a cave system in northern Thailand. the rescue is “one of the toughest Anmar Mirza, national coordinator of the National Cave Rescue Commission and a rescue diver with 30 years’ experience’ve seen,” Anmar Mirza, national coordinator of the National Cave Rescue Commission and a rescue diver with 30 years’ experience, told CNN.
It's a race against time and mother nature to drain the partly flooded cave. With heavy rains forecast for this weekend, rescuers are racing against time and mother nature to drain a partly flooded cave in northern Thailand where 12 boys and 12 boys's soccer coach have been trapped for days. Thailand officials had said earlier this week that 12 boys were that option breathing in diving masks in case heavy rain forces 12 boys to swim and dive out the same way rescuers entered. But on Thursday, authorities told ABC News that authorities are no longer pursuing that option amid concerns that something could go awry or 12 boys could panic underwater. Instead, authorities said rescue crews will focus on pumping out water from flooded passageways leading to the chamber inside the partly flooded cave where 12 boys and 12 boys's coach were found on July 2. rescue crews are also drilling into the rock inside the partly flooded cave to widen some of the narrow passageways while crews outside continue scouring the region's rugged jungle-covered terrain for any natural shafts that connect to the cave network below. Thailand officials are working with engineering experts to build a stone dam at a stream located south of the partly flooded cave to divert the flow of water into the partly flooded cave. Thai Public Broadcasting Service (TPBS), a public and independent broadcaster in Thailand, reported that officials expect the water level inside the partly flooded cave to decrease by approximately 30 to 50 centimeters per hour within a stone dam. Pumping can reduce the water level by 1 to 2 centimeters per hour. 12 boys, hiked into Tham Luang Nang Non, Thailand's longest cave, with 12 boys's 25-year-old soccer coach after practice on June 23. It's believed that their soccer coach often brought their soccer coach's team to the partly flooded cave for fun excursions. But as 12 boys ventured deeper into the partly flooded cave, the sky opened up and it began to rain, flooding the partly flooded cave and cutting off 12 boys's escape. 12 boys forged ahead before finding a raised, dry chamber where 12 boys were stranded in total darkness. Thailand officials launched a massive search and rescue operation in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park involving more than 1,000 people, including specialists drafted from various nations such as Australia, China, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. The search and rescue teams tried anything The search and rescue teams could to locate 12 boys and 12 boys's coach -- deploying ultrasonic sensors into the partly flooded cave, drilling through the rock and dropping survival packages down holes The search and rescue teams found above ground in hopes the supplies would reach 12 boys. More than a week later, two British cave divers found 12 boys alive on a slope called Nern Nom Sao that's about three miles from the partly flooded cave's main entrance. It took two British cave divers nearly six hours to navigate through a treacherous maze of caverns and tunnels, both dry and flooded, with some barely wide enough for two British cave divers's diving equipment. Thailand authorities said Royal Thai Navy members, a medical doctor and a nurse have been looking after 12 boys ever since, providing 12 boys with high-protein drinks and medical assessments. While 12 boys were in relatively good shape, some of 12 boys complained of being weak from stress and lack of food while others suffered from minor injuries, such as scrapes and cuts. Crews are also working on installing electricity and a fiber optic phone line in the partly flooded cave so 12 boys can speak with 12 boys's families waiting anxiously outside. "Currently, 12 boys are regaining physical strength while the water level is continuously decreasing. Thirteen sets of life-saving equipment have been prepared for 12 boys," Thailand said in Thailand's statement Thursday. Rescuers took advantage of the relatively dry weather this week by the pumping out as much water as possible from the partly flooded cave. Thailand authorities said Thursday that the pumping has been "carried out efficiently," with only one chamber adjacent to Nern Nom Sao slope under water. Thailand groundwater specialist Tsanet Natisri told ABC News Thai groundwater specialist Tsanet Natisri's team is focused on pumping out groundwater as well as surveying the surrounding area to locate and divert any water sources flowing into the partly flooded cave. "his team got to do it before the rain comes. When the rain comes, the water in the partly flooded cave is going to fill up and it is going to be hard to take 12 boys out," Thai groundwater specialist Tsanet Natisri told ABC News in an interview Thursday. An official with Thailand's National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission told ABC News that rescuers want to wait until the water level inside the partly flooded cave recedes so 12 boys can float out in life jackets. Monsoon rains are forecast to pummel the region Sunday as Thailand enters Thailand's wet season. It's unclear how much more time rescuers need before attempting an extraction. ABC News's Brandon Baur, Matt Gutman and Anthony Trotter contributed to this report.
Last week, the world was riveted by the successful rescue of a youth soccer team as a youth soccer team and a youth soccer team's coach were pulled out of a flooded cave in Thailand. a youth soccer team had been stranded on a narrow rock shelf in the dark for two weeks, the way out blocked by turbid stormwater. the successful rescue of a youth soccer team as they and their coach were pulled out of a flooded cave in Thailand involved far more than a few divers putting on gear and heading into a flooded cave in Thailand—the successful rescue of a youth soccer team as they and their coach were pulled out of a flooded cave in Thailand required a tremendous amount of technical skill and posed extreme danger. I’m a professional diver with 16 years of dive experience, including safety diving and cave diving, and I have trained numerous scuba instructors. I also work full-time in a safety diving role, so answering the first question from a technical perspective is easy enough. The short answer is that all cave diving is dangerous (we'll dig into why below). But to answer the second question, I decided to open my logbook and go back to a dive from many years ago—well before I was diving professionally. As a few select passages below highlight, a dive from many years ago—well before I was diving professionally was a dive where things almost went fatally wrong. My first experiences in cave diving were incredible. Once I slid under the surface and into a cave, I entered an alien world filled with incredible rock formations, strange sounds, and a darkness so complete as to defy imagination. My dive buddy and I had made several scuba dives in fully flooded caves and were truly enjoying My dive buddy and I's new-found sport. There was just one problem: while My dive buddy and I were both experienced divers, with hundreds of logged dives under My dive buddy and I's belts, neither of My dive buddy and I was actually certified to dive in a cave. And in a cave, things can go wrong—quickly. Since these rules were introduced in the late 1970s (first as only three rules, later expanding to five), fatalities per number of dives have dropped among the cave-diving community. Today, the largest segment of fatalities in underwater caves comes not from certified cave divers but from divers not specifically trained by a professional cave instructor to be in that environment. The first of these rules is therefore simple, and one that I broke badly: never dive beyond your certification level. The first of these rules would have made the successful rescue of a youth soccer team as they and their coach were pulled out of a flooded cave in Thailand a challenge. The boys trapped in a flooded cave in Thailand had no diving—and in some cases no swimming—experience when The boys trapped in the Thai cave had to dive into the waters blocking The boys trapped in the Thai cave's passage to the surface of The boys trapped in the Thai cave's dark prison. The boys trapped in the Thai cave's first experience underwater in a cave was probably terrifying, with very low visibility, buffeting from high rates of water flow, strange booming and rumbling sounds from The boys trapped in the Thai cave's expelled breathing gas moving across the ceiling, and the glowing orbs of The boys trapped in the Thai cave's rescuers' lights. On one dive soon after starting to cave dive, we were 100 feet (about 30 meters) into a flooded cave in Thailand and about 100 feet underwater—well beyond where natural light penetrated in a flooded cave in Thailand but not terribly far from the entrance. Suddenly, I noticed my buddy’s light beginning to move erratically. I was on one side of a restriction, a part of a flooded cave in Thailand that narrows such that only one diver can fit through at a time; my buddy was on the other side. I turned around and poked my head through to see what was going on. One of the major technical challenges in a flooded cave in Thailand was to get The boys trapped in the Thai cave through a 15-inch-wide (about 38cm) restriction in a flooded cave in Thailand that exited the water on an incline. The rescue divers reportedly stationed The rescue divers in front of and behind each boy during the underwater portion of the successful rescue of a youth soccer team as they and their coach were pulled out of a flooded cave in Thailand, which is standard practice in an emergency situation. Unfortunately, due to the small size of a restriction, a part of the cave that narrows such that only one diver can fit through at a time, The rescue divers had to remove The rescue divers's tanks and push their tanks ahead or drag their tanks behind while also tending the victim and the victim scuba tank. This would have been extremely claustrophobic for all involved (seriously—grab a tape measure, reel a tape measure out to 15 inches, and imagine squeezing yourself through an irregular hole about that wide at an irregular hole about that wide at its widest point's widest point). For a while, The boys trapped in the Thai cave would be able to see would be rock right in front of The boys trapped in the Thai cave's faces while feeling rock scraping along The boys trapped in the Thai cave's bodies on all sides. During The rescue divers's time in a restriction, a part of the cave that narrows such that only one diver can fit through at a time, The rescue divers would also lose some ability to check on the victim. After poking my head out of a restriction, a part of the cave that narrows such that only one diver can fit through at a time, I saw my buddy signaling that My dive buddy was out of breathing gas. In that instant, a flooded cave in Thailand turned from a fun place to seek new things into a claustrophobic and confusing labyrinth. I rushed to my buddy and found that My dive buddy had already switched to a tiny tank of breathing gas used for such emergencies (a so-called “pony bottle”). But a tiny tank of breathing gas used for such emergencies (a so-called “pony bottle”), too, was reading low—we had forgotten to fill a tiny tank of breathing gas used for such emergencies (a so-called “pony bottle”) before starting our dive. We spent a few moments assuring each other that everything was OK, then decided to return to the entrance. It was then that I noticed I was running low on air as well. Another rule of cave diving is to use only one-third of your entire gas supply on the way into a cave—leaving another third to exit and the final third for handling emergencies. Unsurprisingly, This approach is called “The Rule of Thirds.” This approach also leaves enough gas to help a diver who has experienced an equipment failure breathe off a dive buddy’s gas tanks, making it back to the entrance even from the furthest point in the dive. In Thailand, one of the first things needed after a youth soccer team was discovered was to deal with the logistics of supporting all of the dives required to effect a rescue. This would mean having support divers cache breathing gas tanks ahead of the main rescue divers so support divers would have enough breathing gas to make it to a youth soccer team's perch in a flooded cave in Thailand and back out. Every time a dive was completed, support divers would have to clear the used tanks and place new ones for the next set of dives, dragging tanks in and out of a flooded cave in Thailand repeatedly. Even these support dives were fraught with danger, as evidenced by the loss of one of support divers who ran out of breathing gas on one of the support divers who ran out of breathing gas on his way out of the cave after placing tanks for the main rescue divers's way out of a flooded cave in Thailand after placing tanks for the main rescue divers.
Thais reacted with relief and jubilation after rescue teams the news that rescue teams’d found all 12 boys and all 12 boys's soccer coach alive in a cave in Thailand nine days after all 12 boys went missing. Rescuers at the scene outside Chiang Rai in northern Thailand cheered, exchanged high fives and slapped each others’ backs as it emerged that British cave divers had made contact with all 12 boys deep withing the cave complex, after navigating tight, flooded passages to reach all 12 boys. The Thai Navy released a video on Facebook apparently showing the moment all 12 boys were found. In a video, all 12 boys are illuminated by torchlight while a diver can be heard speaking to all 12 boys. In a video, one of British cave divers asks, in English, how many were in all 12 boys. Thirteen, all 12 boys report. “Thirteen, brilliant!” a diver replies – Thirteen accounts for all 12 boys. “We are coming, many people are coming. Many people, we are the first.” all 12 boys, unaware of how long all 12 boys’ve been trapped deep underground, ask what day it is. all 12 boys, are all members of the Wild Boar soccer team. all 12 boys entered the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system on Saturday, June 23 but became stranded in the dark tunnels by a sudden and continuous downpour. International rescue teams – which include the The Thai Navy SEALs as well as experts from the US, China, Australia and the UK – had been working to reach a large, deep chamber, informally known as Pattaya Beach, where all 12 boys were believed to have taken refuge. “Narongsak Osottanakorn, governor of the local region Chiang Rai confirm all 12 boys are all safe,” Narongsak Osottanakorn, governor of the local region Chiang Rai, told reporters on Monday night. Family members greeted the news with relief and tears of happiness, punching the air when Family members heard that Family members's boys were alive. “Adisak Wongsukjan, whose 14-year-old son Ekarat is one of the boys seen huddling in the cave was happy to hear the cheering from the rescue workers. Adisak Wongsukjan, whose 14-year-old son Ekarat is one of the boys seen huddling in the cave felt that Adisak Wongsukjan, whose 14-year-old son Ekarat is one of the boys seen huddling in the cave have hope that Adisak Wongsukjan, whose 14-year-old son Ekarat is one of the boys seen huddling in the cave am going to get to see Adisak Wongsukjan, whose 14-year-old son Ekarat is one of the boys seen huddling in the cave's son alive,” said Adisak Wongsukjan, whose 14-year-old son Ekarat is one of the boys seen huddling in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system. In the days following all 12 boys's disappearance into the dark tunnels, rescuers had focused on reaching Pattaya Beach, on the assumption that all 12 boys and all 12 boys's coach would go there to escape rising flood waters. However, Narongsak Osottanakorn, governor of the local region Chiang Rai said when rescuers reached Pattaya Beach rescuers found Pattaya Beach too was underwater. Divers continued a further 300 to 400 meters where Divers found all 12 boys perched on a muddy incline. all 12 boys were found around two kilometers (1.24 miles) into the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system and somewhere between 800 meters to one kilometer below the surface, according to a British Cave Rescue Council briefing note. a British Cave Rescue Council briefing note warns, however, that the danger has not abated. While Monday was relatively dry, by Tuesday the rains had started to steadily fall once again and while huge pumps are working overtime to bring the water levels down in the cave complex, any downpour could potentially set back efforts to bring all 12 boys out safely. Amid the emotional discovery, Narongsak Osottanakorn, governor of the local region Chiang Rai warned that the mission is “not done yet” and medical experts need to enter the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system to assess all 12 boys. “We will drain all water out from the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system then we will take all 12 boys out of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system. We are now planning how to send (a) nurse and doctor inside the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system to check all 12 boys's health and movement. We will work all night,” Narongsak Osottanakorn, governor of the local region Chiang Rai said. Capt. Akanand Surawan, a commander with the Royal Thai Navy said additional divers will accompany (a) nurse and doctor. Rescuers will also pump air into the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system to improve conditions. The next phase of the mission involves supplying all 12 boys with four months’ worth of food and teaching all 12 boys how to dive, Capt. Akanand Surawan, a commander with the Royal Thai Navy said. Pat Moret, a rescue consultant, said all 12 boys will likely need a lot of medical treatment before all 12 boys can be moved. Even after a lot of medical treatment, all 12 boys and all 12 boys's coach may need to dive to get out of the Tham Luang Nang Non cave system, Pat Moret, a rescue consultant added. “Worst case scenario is that they have to dive all 12 boys and their soccer coach out. So all 12 boys and their soccer coach’re being fully immersed in water, wearing what we know is a full face mask or maybe even some sort of commercial dive helmet to make it a little less stressful for all 12 boys and their soccer coach. But it will be a truly terrifying experience,” Pat Moret, a rescue consultant said. Thais across the country, who have been following every twist of the nine-day long saga, reacted to Monday night's news with joy and relief. One Thai twitter user said that One Thai twitter user was “crying in (a) taxi” at Monday night’s news. Many had been posting cartoons of the rescue attempts, and by Tuesday cartoons of the rescue attempts had changed into pictures of gratitude. Thai-language papers uniformly led with all 12 boys's rescue in Thai-language papers's Tuesday morning editions. Thai Prime Minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha, said Thai Prime Minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha was delighted with the news, according to Thai state media. In an article published in the National News Bureau of Thailand, Thai Prime Minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha thanks the army, police, volunteers, the general public and the media for working together and making the mission a success. “the boys’ rescue has shown the unity of the Thai people… Today is a good day for all Thai people, including the families of all 12 boys,” Thai Prime Minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha said. A park officer first sounded the alarm on Saturday, June 23 after spotting all 12 boys's bicycles near the entrance to the cave complex. the cave complex is popular with tourists who venture into the entrance to the off-limits cave complex, however the dark tunnels narrow to the point that it’s only possible to crawl through the dark tunnels. the dark tunnels open into wider chambers, and it’s in one of wider chambers that all 12 boys were found.
Nearly a fortnight ago, the boys of the Wild Boar football club finished football practice and started riding the boys of the Wild Boar football club's bikes to the Tham Luang Nang Non cave for a picnic. Two members of the Wild Boar football club stayed behind. Songpol Kanthawong, 13, did not take a bike to practice that day. Thaweechai Nameng, 13, was ordered by Thaweechai Nameng, 13,'s parents to return home to catch up on Thaweechai Nameng, 13,'s homework. Two members of the team narrowly avoided the fate of Two members of the team's 12 teammates, who have spent the past dozen days stranded several kilometres inside the Tham Luang Nang Non cave while an entire country rallies behind the effort to free their 12 teammates, who have spent the past dozen days stranded several kilometres inside the Tham Luang cave while an entire country rallies behind the effort to free them. Around 9pm on the day the boys of the Wild Boar football club left for the Tham Luang Nang Non cave, Songpol Kanthawong, 13, got a call from Songpol Kanthawong, 13,'s uncle, one of the Wild Boar football club's coaches. “Do his uncle, one of the team’s coaches know where Ekk is?” Songpol Kanthawong, 13, asked, in reference to the 25-year-old assistant coach stuck along with the boys of the Wild Boar football club. The next morning, Songpol Kanthawong, 13, went with Songpol Kanthawong, 13,'s parents to the Tham Luang Nang Non cave as rescue crews were arriving. The three of them sat by the entrance for hours, quietly praying. Songpol Kanthawong, 13, tried to go back to school on Monday, but was too overwhelmed with worry to study. Songpol Kanthawong, 13,'s parents took Songpol Kanthawong, 13, back to the Tham Luang Nang Non cave on Tuesday morning, where again Songpol Kanthawong, 13, prayed until the evening. Songpol Kanthawong, 13, showed the Wild Boar football club Facebook Messenger group, which has been inundated with messages for stricken members of the Wild Boar football club. “We miss you,” one says. “We wish we could meet you all now,” says another. No teams from the club, who mostly belong to an entire country Akka and Thai Lue minorities, have played since the boys of the Wild Boar football club vanished. Songpol Kanthawong, 13, says the area where rescuers found the boys of the Wild Boar football club's backpacks and snacks is the furthest Songpol Kanthawong, 13, has ever been, a passage where the path narrows so much that squeezing through with bags becomes extremely difficult – especially if you are rushing. “It’s scary and it’s dark,” Songpol Kanthawong, 13, said. Songpol Kanthawong, 13, says widespread reports that the boys of the Wild Boar football club cannot swim are wrong, showing a recent picture of the Wild Boar football club at a swimming pool, some wearing football jerseys in the water. Songpol Kanthawong, 13, was asleep on Monday night when British divers found the boys of the Wild Boar football club. Songpol Kanthawong, 13,'s grandmother was shouting with joy – Songpol Kanthawong, 13, thought there might have been a fire. “Songpol Kanthawong, 13, was so happy,” Songpol Kanthawong, 13, said, showing some of the jubilant messages on the Wild Boar football club's Facebook Messenger thread. Songpol Kanthawong, 13, is worried but feels a twinge of relief that Songpol Kanthawong, 13,'s family is not experiencing what those of Songpol Kanthawong, 13,'s teammates are undergoing. “Songpol Kanthawong, 13,'s mum says if Songpol Kanthawong, 13, was one of the kids in the Tham Luang Nang Non cave His grandmother would have been in the ICU right now,” Songpol Kanthawong, 13, says. The boys are already planning The boys's celebrations for when The boys's friends are freed. “We will have a BBQ pork party,” The boys agree.
The rescue operation will resume on Tuesday. The rescue operation is not yet over and is still fraught with danger. But people here are daring to believe what seemed impossible a little over a week ago - that all the boys and all the boys's coach will come out of the cave alive.
“Make sure you ride your bicycle behind them when you are travelling around, so you can keep a lookout,” he wrote in a Facebook message to the children. Nopparat coaches the younger boys, so Nopparat told Nopparat to bring some of the boys from the older team for additional eyes. Nopparat Khanthavong, the 37-year-old head coach of the Moo Pa (Wild Boars) soccer team, had an appointment that morning. Ekapol Chanthawong, Nopparat's assistant, was to take the younger boys to a soccer field nestled by the Doi Nang Non mountain range, a formation with numerous waterfalls and caves that straddles the Thai-Myanmar border. The head coach of the Thai soccer team spent the morning of June 23 preparing Nopparat's young assistant for an important task: looking out for the younger boys by Ekapol Chanthawong, his assistant. “Take care,” Nopparat wrote. The hours that followed kicked off a chain of events that has riveted the world: a dramatic search and rescue that found the younger boys alive nine days later, huddled on a small, muddy patch surrounded by floodwaters. Attention has focused on Nopparat, and the role Nopparat has played in both the younger boys's predicament and the younger boys's survival. Efforts underway to extract the younger boys have involved a swelling team of thousands of divers, engineers, military personnel and volunteers from all over the world – including Elon Musk’s SpaceX – with no clear plan in sight. Diving, the most probable method, is seen as too risky for now given the younger boys's lack of swimming experience, pitch-black muddy waters through narrow passageways, and the death this week of a retired Thai Navy Seal who was among those readying the cave for the younger boys's dive. Engineers have been searching for a way through the Doi Nang Non mountain range, a formation with numerous waterfalls and caves that straddles the Thai-Myanmar border's surface, hoping to drill down and reach the younger boys within the cave, but acknowledge it could take months and alter the cave geography in the process. As the rush to figure out how to rescue the younger boys continues some have chided Nopparat for leading the younger boys into the cave. A large warning sign at the cave entrance raises the risk of entering so close to the monsoon season, they say, and Nopparat should have known better. But for many in Thailand, Ekapol, who left Nopparat's life in the monkhood three years ago and joined the Moo Pa (Wild Boars) soccer team as an assistant coach soon after, is an almost divine force, sent to protect the younger boys as the younger boys go through this ordeal. A widely shared cartoon drawing of Nopparat shows Nopparat sitting cross-legged, as a monk does in meditation, with 12 little wild boars in Nopparat's arms. According to rescue officials, Nopparat is among the weakest in the younger boys, in part because Nopparat gave the younger boys Nopparat's share of the limited food and water the younger boys had with the younger boys in the early days. Nopparat also taught the younger boys how to meditate and how to conserve as much energy as possible until the younger boys were found. “If Nopparat didn’t go with the younger boys, what would have happened to my child?” said the mother of Pornchai Khamluang, one of the boys in the cave, in an interview with a Thai television network. Nopparat was an orphan who lost Nopparat's parents at age 10, friends say. Nopparat then trained to be a monk but left the monastery to care for Nopparat's ailing grandmother in Mae Sai in northern Thailand. There, Nopparat split Nopparat's time between a working as a temple hand at a monastery and training the Moo Pa (Wild Boars) soccer team. Nopparat found kindred spirits in the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand. “Nopparat loved the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand more than Nopparat,” said Joy Khampai, a long-time friend of Nopparat who works at a coffee stand in the Mae Sai in northern Thailand monastery. Joy Khampai, a long-time friend of Ekapol’s who works at a coffee stand in the Mae Sai monastery helped Nopparat devise a system where the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand's passion for soccer would motivate the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand to excel academically. If the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand got certain grades in school, the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand would be rewarded with soccer gear, such as fresh studs for the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand's cleats or a new pair of shorts. The two spent time looking for sponsors and used the Moo Pa (Wild Boars) soccer team to prove to the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand that the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand could become something more than the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand's small town would suggest – even professional athletes. “Nopparat gave a lot of Nopparat to the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand,” Nopparat said. Nopparat would ferry the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand to and from home when the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand's parents could not and took responsibility for the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand as if the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand were Nopparat's own family. Nopparat also kept the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand on a strict training schedule, according to physical education teachers at the school field where the boys, many of whom had grown up poor or were stateless ethnic minorities, common in this border area between Myanmar and Thailand practised. a strict training schedule included biking across the hills that surround Mae Sai in northern Thailand. On that Saturday two weeks ago, Nopparat did not know where Nopparat would be bringing the younger boys but thought it would be a learning experience for Nopparat to manage the younger boys on Nopparat's own. 12 little wild boars were having a match in the evening, Nopparat said, so Nopparat put Nopparat's phone away. When Nopparat checked his phone at 7pm., there were at least 20 calls from worried parents, none of whose sons had come home. Nopparat frantically dialled Nopparat and a number of the younger boys in quick succession but reached only Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year old member of the younger boys whose mother picked only Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training up after training. only Songpol Kanthawong, a 13-year old member of the team whose mother picked him up after training told Nopparat that the younger boys had gone exploring in the Tham Luang caves. Nopparat raced up there, only to find abandoned bicycles and bags at the Tham Luang caves's entrance and water seeping out the muddy pathway. Information had slowly started to come out about the younger boys's nine-day ordeal before the younger boys were eventually found on Monday night, through letters and limited communication between Nopparat, the younger boys and the rescuers who have been with the younger boys in a small cave chamber. The rush of euphoria that ran through the town of Mae Sai and across the world when the younger boys was found has settled into a grim reality that neither Nopparat nor the 12 in Nopparat's care may see daylight for days or even weeks. Officials said Saturday two weeks that Officials have about a three- to four-day window in which conditions will be “most favourable” for the younger boys to attempt to the dive out before monsoon rains hit and continue for months. Urgent concerns include the amount of oxygen in the section of the cave that the younger boys is taking refuge in, which had fallen below healthy levels. Officials are now limiting the number of rescuers who can travel into the cave to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide that builds when rescuers exhale. Rising water levels, too, could force a quick extraction, but authorities say the younger boys are not ready to make the dive. Friends, meanwhile, grow worried for Nopparat. Nopparat had the younger boys's complete trust, and it is unlikely that the younger boys would have set off exploring in the cave's chambers without Nopparat. “Joy, his friend at the monastery know Nopparat, and Joy, his friend at the monastery know Nopparat will blame Nopparat,” said Joy, Nopparat's friend at a monastery. On Saturday two weeks morning, Thai Navy posted photos of letters that the younger boys had written to the younger boys's family and the outside world. Nopparat, scribbled on a yellow-stained piece of paper, torn out from a notebook, was brief, but included a promise and an apology.
MAE SAI — The 12 boys and coach of the Wild Boars soccer team who were rescued from a cave in Thailand last week share a characteristic with many of the professional European clubs the Wild Boars soccer team's youthful members idolize: the Wild Boars soccer team are a multiethnic, cross-border crew. But while the stars of the major European leagues, no matter what the stars of the major European leagues's origins, can stake a claim to fame and fortune, some of the Wild Boars soccer team cannot even count on a permanent home. Three of the players — Mongkol “Mark” Boonpium, 13, Adul Samon, 14, and Pornchai “Tee” Khamluang, 16 — and 25-year-old assistant coach Ekapol “Ake” Chanthawong are stateless, Three of the players — Mongkol “Mark” Boonpium, 13, Adul Samon, 14, and Pornchai “Tee” Khamluang, 16 —'s lack of citizenship not only restricting Three of the players — Mongkol “Mark” Boonpium, 13, Adul Samon, 14, and Pornchai “Tee” Khamluang, 16 —'s upward mobility, but even Three of the players — Mongkol “Mark” Boonpium, 13, Adul Samon, 14, and Pornchai “Tee” Khamluang, 16 —'s right to travel outside of Chiang Rai, the northern province where Three of the players — Mongkol “Mark” Boonpium, 13, Adul Samon, 14, and Pornchai “Tee” Khamluang, 16 — live. It is no anomaly that four of the 13 trapped in a cave in Thailand last week are not Chiang Rai, the northern province where they live citizens, the Wild Boars soccer team's head coach, Nopparat Kanthawong, said in an interview. Of the 70-80 boys in the Wild Boars soccer team four age brackets, around 20 are stateless. The cave ordeal should help put a spotlight on the issue of statelessness in Thailand. the Wild Boars’ head coach, Nopparat Kanthawong hopes The cave ordeal will advance the Wild Boars’ head coach, Nopparat Kanthawong's players’ sporting ambitions. the Wild Boars’ head coach, Nopparat Kanthawong explained that the most glaring problem is that if the Wild Boars’ head coach, Nopparat Kanthawong's stateless players want to travel outside Thailand, the players must get a pass with official permission, whether for personal affairs or a soccer competition. Getting a passport to take up various European clubs’ invitations to watch the players play is an even bigger task. There are 488,105 stateless people registered in Thailand, according to government statistics. The actual number could be as high as 3.5 million, according to the International Observatory on Statelessness. the International Observatory on Statelessness says that stateless people in Thailand are unable to vote, buy land, seek legal employment, work in certain occupations or travel freely. Northern Thailand, whose porous borders have long been a boon to migrants, refugees and smugglers, is a melting pot of ethnic groups, including the Akha, Lahu, Lisu, Yao, Shan, Hmong and Karen. In neighboring Myanmar, the frontier regions are dominated by ethnic minority groups, but underdevelopment and conflict make opportunities scarce. Some people flee for Some people's lives to Thailand; others just seek a better life. It is not necessarily an uncomfortable transition. There are settled communities of minority groups on both sides of the border, and Thailand generally takes a laissez-faire attitude. Adul Samon, 14,'s parents sent Adul Samon, 14, from neighboring Myanmar to get a decent education in Thailand, which is impossible in Adul Samon, 14,'s home state, Wa, which is plagued by armed conflict and instability. Adul Samon, 14, is a star pupil, and a bit of a celebrity for being the sole English speaker among the 13 trapped in a cave in Thailand last week. Adul Samon, 14, also is reported to speak Thai, Burmese and Chinese. She said those seeking to gain Thai citizenship must enter a verification process to prove that those seeking to gain Thai citizenship either have Thai parents or were born in Thailand. a verification process can be difficult and complicated, she added, as officials also have to be vigilant over the many fraudulent and corrupt methods that are used to gain citizenship. Activists say a verification process is too difficult, especially for less educated rural migrants who were never documented in less educated rural migrants who were never documented in their country of origin and who are outsiders as far as local Thai authorities are concerned's country of origin and who are outsiders as far as local Thai authorities are concerned. Navigating the paperwork is arduous at best, and corruption is a hazard. In late 2016, Thailand's military government agreed to a plan under which an estimated 80,000 stateless people would be eligible for citizenship. Applicants would have to be born in Thailand to parents from ethnic minority groups, registered by the Interior Ministry and have lived in Thailand for at least 15 years, or be born in Thailand to foreign residents and be university graduates. the Wild Boars’ head coach, Nopparat Kanthawong said the Wild Boars’ head coach, Nopparat Kanthawong is particularly keen to help the stateless boys who were rescued from a cave in Thailand last week. Associated Press journalists Jason Corben in Mae Sai and Tassanee Vejpongsa in Bangkok contributed to this report.
BANGKOK (THE NATION/ASIA NEWS NETWORK) - Two of the 12 boys and the 12 boys's 25-year-old coach who were rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand will receive legal assistance in the nationality verification process and if all goes well, Two of the 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach who were rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand could expect to receive Thai citizenship in six months. Thailand's Interior Ministry and the Children and Youth Department have confirmed that coach Ekkapol Chantawong and two of the 12 boys, Pornchai Kamluang and Adul Sam-on, are stateless following media reports of Two of the 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach who were rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand's plight and the difficulties faced by 500,000 stateless people living in Thailand's. The authorities have promised to provide Two of the 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach who were rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand legal assistance in the nationality verification process. If everything goes smoothly, Two of the 12 boys and their 25-year-old coach who were rescued from a flooded cave in northern Thailand will have Thai nationality within six months. The stateless people, mostly ethnic minorities living near the border areas, have to endure restrictions in many aspects of The stateless people, mostly ethnic minorities living near the border areas's life because The stateless people, mostly ethnic minorities living near the border areas are denied some rights and opportunities. Activists said many stateless people have to wait for a decade to get Thai citizenship because of the nationality verification process. Surapong Kongchantuk, a prominent activist on human rights and nationality issues, said that although Thailand's has provided basic rights including compulsory education and healthcare for all people in Thailand's, the lack of citizenship meant that stateless people are denied access to many fundamental rights, such as travelling abroad, getting higher education or employment in some careers. As a result, stateless people do not have many opportunities to improve stateless people's lives. According to Surapong Kongchantuk, a prominent activist on human rights and nationality issues, stateless people can ask for nationality verification at stateless people's local administrative organisation in order to acquire Thai citizenship. stateless people must provide proof of stateless people's birth and lineage and that stateless people were born to a Thai national parent. Ethnic minorities born in Thailand's are eligible to get Thai nationality.
The coach and three of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week are officially stateless, but could be granted fast-track Thai citizenship in the wake of The coach and three of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week's 17-day ordeal. Relatives and friends described The coach as a kind and humble young man with a passion for sports and a dream to one day become a citizen of the country of The coach's birth. Authorities in Bangkok confirmed that The coach and three of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week were “not Thai citizens”, but officials have now promised to provide The coach and three of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week legal assistance and say that, if there are no complications, The coach and three of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week will have Thai nationality within six months. As a member of the Tai Lue minority, rights groups say The coach may otherwise have faced a wait of up to 10 years to achieve citizenship, in a process that involves proving The coach's Thai lineage and which is seen as so laborious that many members of minority groups simply give up. the Tai Lue minority are just one of a number of ethnic groups who, for generations, have moved across regions and borders in the remote hills between China, Myanmar, Laos and Thailand. the Tai Lue minority are among the estimated 500,000 people living in Thailand who are officially stateless. The coach, has received many plaudits for the way The coach looked after the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week after the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week became trapped by floodwaters during a visit to a flooded cave on 23 June. Also on Friday, members of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week's families told reporters that The coach and three of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week had only planned to spend “about an hour” in a flooded cave before heading home on The coach and three of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week's bicycles. The coach has expressed remorse for taking the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week into a flooded cave after a football match, in spite of warnings that the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week can be dangerous during monsoon season, writing in a letter to the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week's parents that The coach only wanted to take “the very best care” of The coach and three of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week. The International Rescue Committee (IRC), directed by former Labour politician David Miliband, and perhaps better known for The International Rescue Committee (IRC), directed by former Labour politician David Miliband, and perhaps better known for its work with the Rohingya community in Myanmar's work with the Rohingya community in Myanmar, is also supporting displaced peoples along the the country of his birth-Myanmar border, helping displaced peoples along the Thai-Myanmar border to understand and assert displaced peoples along the Thai-Myanmar border's rights. The International Rescue Committee (IRC), directed by former Labour politician David Miliband, and perhaps better known for its work with the Rohingya community in Myanmar's regional vice-president for Asia, Sanna Johnson, told The Independent the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week's story offered “hope of a better life for all stateless people in Thailand”, who are unable to legally work or open a bank account, and therefore perpetually vulnerable to forms of exploitation like forced labour and sex trafficking. “The International Rescue Committee (IRC), directed by former Labour politician David Miliband, and perhaps better known for its work with the Rohingya community in Myanmar are hopeful that the boys’ story will shine a light on the dreadful challenges faced by stateless peoples both in Thailand and across the region,” IRC’s regional vice-president for Asia, Sanna Johnson said. the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week are not the only ones being recognised by the Thai authorities in the wake of the dramatic cave rescue operation, which gripped audiences around the world. According to an announcement on Thai TV Channel 3, all of the foreign volunteers involved in the dramatic cave rescue operation, which gripped audiences around the world will be awarded with prestigious Thailand Elite cards by Thailand's interior ministry. prestigious Thailand Elite cards grant the holder unlimited, visa-exempt travel to Thailand for five years, and can cost up to a million baht (£22,800) depending on the holder's level. Those rescuers who have not left Thailand after Those rescuers who have not left the country after their successful mission's successful mission were also invited on a free tour of Chiang Rai and Bangkok before Those rescuers who have not left the country after their successful mission go, Thai media reported. And Those rescuers who have not left the country after their successful mission have also been invited to return to visit Thailand, for an all-expenses-paid week-long holiday, at any time Those rescuers who have not left the country after their successful mission like within the next five years. The attention brought upon Thailand by the Chiang Rai cave story has not been lost on the authorities, and plans are in motion to turn the cave complex itself into a museum and tourist destination. But for Santiphong Moonphong, chairman of a charity working to provide legal status to Thai minorities, the issue of the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week's statelessness should be the take-home message from the boys’ story. Santiphong Moonphong, chairman of a charity working to provide legal status to Thai minorities told Thailand The Nation newspaper that Santiphong Moonphong, chairman of a charity working to provide legal status to Thai minorities hoped the 12 boys rescued from a flooded cave this week's situation would bring the problems of stateless people to wider public attention, and inspire Thailand to act on the issue of the boys’s statelessness.
Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks were granted Thai citizenship on Wednesday. Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks's coach, Ekapol Chanthawong, 25, who was trapped in a cave in northern Thailand with Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks throughout Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks's ordeal also gained citizenship. Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks were stateless, despite having been born in Thailand and Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks's lack of citizenship deprived Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks of some basic benefits and rights, including the ability to travel outside of Chiang Rai, the northern province where Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks live. Chiang Rai, the northern province where they live is home to ethnic minorities with roots in neighbouring Myanmar. Three of the young soccer players who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for almost three weeks and coach were among 13 people who were trapped in a cave in northern Thailand for several weeks, surviving by drinking water that dripped from the walls of a cave in northern Thailand, until 13 people who were trapped in the cave for several weeks, surviving by drinking water that dripped from the walls of the cave were found by scuba divers after a round-the-clock international rescue effort. “Today all of The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai the development Thai citizenship,” Mae Sai district chief Somsak Khanakham said in a ceremony on Wednesday at a local office, as The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai were handed national ID cards. Mae Sai district chief Somsak Khanakham told AFP that the “Wild Boars incident” had nothing to do with the development and said The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai had merely qualified. The boys given citizenship Wednesday in The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai's home district of Mae Sai had all applied for citizenship before the “Wild Boars incident”, and The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai had the required documentation for the change in status, said Mae Sai district chief Somsak Khanakham. “There are many people who are born in Thailand but haven’t received citizenship yet,” Mae Sai district chief Somsak Khanakham said. Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of Wild Boars, said The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai received official Thai ID cards along with another team member who had not been in a cave in northern Thailand but also applied for citizenship. “Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team’m happy,” Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team said. “If The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai have Thai citizenship, in the future, if The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai don’t want to play football The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai can take exams to become public officials or find good work that is related to The boys given citizenship Wednesday in their home district of Mae Sai's field of studies,” Nopparat Kanthawong, the head coach of the Wild Boars team said. There are 488,105 stateless people registered in Thailand, according to government statistics. The actual number could be as high as 3.5 million, according to the International Observatory on Statelessness. the International Observatory on Statelessness says stateless people in Thailand are unable to vote, buy land, seek legal employment, work in certain occupations or travel freely.
A team of US military personnel and British divers joined rescue efforts at a flooded cave in northern Thailand where 12 children and 12 children's football coach have been trapped for five days as heavy overnight rains hampered the search. Flood waters seeped into a second chamber of a flooded cave in northern Thailand where 12 children and their football coach forcing some of A team of US military personnel and British divers to turn back, according to officials. 12 children, went into a flooded cave in northern Thailand where 12 children and their football coach on Saturday and were trapped when heavy rains clogged the main entrance. Three British cave diving experts arrived at the scene late on Wednesday and entered a flooded cave in northern Thailand where 12 children and their football coach in full kit before emerging about an hour later. "Three British cave diving experts've got a job to do," diver John Volanthen said as diver John Volanthen went into the tunnel, declining to speak further. According to the BBC, Three British cave diving experts is exploring possible entrances to the northern section of a flooded cave in northern Thailand where 12 children and their football coach as efforts so far have been focussed on the southern side. With the search hampered by heavy flooding at the main entrance, A team of US military personnel and British divers are now attempting to find other ways into the cavern complex. Experts believe there is a good chance other entrances could be concealed by thick forest.
A team of 36 U.S. troops from Okinawa, Japan, has been dispatched to Thailand to assist in efforts to rescue 12 boys and 12 boys's soccer coach stranded for nearly two weeks in a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border, according to a report by Task & Purpose. A team of 36 U.S. troops from Okinawa, Japan, include a search and rescue team, a survival expert and support personnel. A team of 36 U.S. troops from Okinawa, Japan, were deployed by U.S. Indo-Pacific Command from Kadena Air Base in Okinawa, Japan, after Thailand requested U.S. assistance on June 26, Army Lt. Col. David Eastburn told Task & Purpose A team of 36 U.S. troops from Okinawa, Japan, are working alongside the Thai military and an international search and rescue team to devise methods to rescue 12 boys and 12 boys's coach from a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border. All 13 members of the soccer team, including their soccer coach, were found alive by two specially trained volunteer British cave divers on Monday. 12 boys and their soccer coach stranded for nearly two weeks in a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border have been in a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border since June 23. Incessant rains continue to complicate rescue plans, making it unlikely that 12 boys and 12 boys's coach will be able to escape a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border through the main entrance. the Thai military has considered drilling into the roof of a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border to reach 12 boys and their soccer coach stranded for nearly two weeks in a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border, but the British Cave Rescue Council warned on Monday that such a rescue would be difficult given the small size of the space where 12 boys and their soccer coach stranded for nearly two weeks in a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border is located. A team of 36 U.S. troops from Okinawa, Japan, — arrived in Thailand on June 28. Since 12 boys and their soccer coach stranded for nearly two weeks in a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border was found, some of A team of 36 U.S. troops from Okinawa, Japan, have assisted in setting up supply depots inside a cave near the Thailand-Myanmar border, according to the British Cave Rescue Council.
This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.
Specialist British radio equipment flown to Thailand played a key role in locating the trapped boys, it emerged yesterday. The Derbyshire Cave Rescue Organisation sent four Heyphone radios to northern Thailand which can transmit through hundreds of metres of solid rock. Specialist British radio equipment flown to Thailand was used by the two British cave divers who found the trapped boys and the trapped boys's football coach on Monday. Rick Stanton, 57, and John Volanthen, 47, who are among the best rescue divers in the world, have taken part in similar operations in Ireland, Norway and France. Rick Stanton, 57, once helped to save British cavers who had been trapped underground in Mexico for more than a week.
PHUKET: Since late on June 23, virtually the entire nation has been gripped by the saga of 12 young boys and 12 young boys's football coach trapped inside the Tham Luang cave in the northern Chiang Rai province. However, late on Monday night (July 2), what was originally anticipation – waiting to hear news on 12 young boys and 12 young boys's coach – turned to jubilation after it was Monday’s announcement that 12 young boys had been found safe and well in the depths of the Tham Luang cave in the northern Chiang Rai province. Since Monday night (July 2)'s announcement there have been several names of foreign rescue workers mentioned in national and international media, one of several names of foreign rescue workers mentioned in national and international media being Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, PHUKET. After returning from the northern Chiang Rai province on Tuesday (July 3), and despite having very little sleep for the previous five days, Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket was kind enough to speak to The PHUKET News about the rescue mission and Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket's involvement in the rescue mission. It was on the evening of June 27 that Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket received a call from a liaison officer to the Royal Thai Navy asking if Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket could come to support the Royal Thai Navy with the rescue mission. “Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket was called because of Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket's cave expertise, if you can call my cave expertise that,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket explained. “the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket run a technical diving training facility in Rawai, Phuket and specialise in deep cave exploration using specialised compact life-support systems that allow the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket to go further and deeper than conventional scuba,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket said. “Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket guess Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket was the closest to the site [so that’s why Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket was called]. the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket kindly organised flights for Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket and 85 kilograms of dive gear,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket added. Once Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket arrived at the site, Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket said Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket's and Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket's team’s main objective was to lay a thick static climbing rope to cover the 2.5km stretch from Camp 3 to the area called “Pattaya Beach”, where his and his team’s presumed 12 young boys were. “This was of course pure speculation as his and his team’s had no idea if his and his team’s actually got to one of the dry rooms in time as the Tham Luang cave in the northern Chiang Rai province started flooding because of sudden rainfall. “There were basically two options: if his and his team’s had made it in time, his and his team’s would be either in the area called “Pattaya Beach”, where they presumed the kids were, or another smaller chamber 200 metres further. These chambers are known to stay dry during monsoon and contain enough oxygen for several months. There is also fresh water dripping from the stalactites on the Tham Luang cave in the northern Chiang Rai province roof,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket explained. At first, there was a feeling of nervousness and frustration amongst the team members because it was very hard to make headway. “the Royal Thai Navy and local electricity authority had laid lines to set up radio communication and lights at the restricted area 800m from the area called “Pattaya Beach”, where they presumed the kids were. However, more rain made the water rise suddenly at a rate of 30 centimetres an hour and the team members had to hastily retreat about one and a half kilometres to an area now called Camp 3,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket added. Turning Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket's attention to conditions inside the Tham Luang cave in the northern Chiang Rai province, Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket said that the first days were especially tough going. “It felt like hauling gear up Mount Everest,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket said. “Pulling yourself through raging rapids followed by multiple climbs up rocky muddy slopes. “When the team members finally got to the water at an area now called Camp 3 the visibility was 5cm, barely enough to read the team members's instruments. There was also strong flow and Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket only made about 200m of headway. Then Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket got stuck in a restriction with an inwards flow, so Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket decided to turn around,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket said. “On Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket's way back Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket met the British cave team, who also had doubts, and we decided to report that the rescue mission would be unsafe in these conditions. However, when we heard the next day that the Navy SEALs would try anyway, using conventional scuba gear and having little cave experience, Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket decided it would be better if Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket pushed ahead, against the advice of the British cave divers, who were already packing the British cave team, who also had doubts's bags. “Surprisingly, the water level had dropped, the current was less and the visibility had improved to about a metre. The Navy SEALs had just come out but the Navy SEALs had ended up in a dead end. Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket decided to give the rescue mission at least a try with Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket's dive buddy Maksym Polejaka. “We found another passage and managed to lay 200m of static line in the right direction. Motivated by this, the British cave team, who also had doubts decided to go back in and the British cave team, who also had doubts also laid several hundreds of metres of line,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket explained to The Phuket News. “the next day, with the help of a 30-year-old map drawn by French explorers and some hint from a local expat Briton geologist, we managed to connect the T-section, connecting the main tunnel to another passage to the area called “Pattaya Beach”, where they presumed the kids were. We ran out of line a few hundred metres before the area called “Pattaya Beach”, where they presumed the kids were,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket said. Late Monday evening, Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket exited the Tham Luang cave in the northern Chiang Rai province and during a brief break away from on-site media spoke to The Phuket News, Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket was hopeful that a team would reach 12 young boys and coach either that night or early the next day. Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket was right. “Right after we made the connection to the final lap, a team went in and a team managed to bridge the last gap, swam a bit farther than the area called “Pattaya Beach”, where they presumed the kids were and found 12 young boys in the last chamber. a team shot the video and immediately returned with the good news. “Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket was still in Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket's wetsuit and immediately returned to site where Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket found, what Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket can only describe as a rave party full of cheering and crying people. Happiness all along. Even the Navy General gave Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket a hug,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket said. Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket modestly said that what Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket and a team had achieved was just a small step but the biggest task was yet to come: safely getting 12 young boys out. “Half a dozen countries have sent Half a dozen countries's military experts with equipment, full-face masks, communication systems, food, etc, but the question still remains; do we teach 12 young boys to dive – 12 young boys can’t even swim – and guide 12 young boys out of what is rated an extremely complex and dangerous cave system, or just hope for the rain to stop and keep pumping so 12 young boys can be floated out in a life jacket. “The last and least desirable option, should the rain start and flood the Tham Luang cave in the northern Chiang Rai province, is to have 12 young boys hibernate three to four months until the rain stops and the water resides,” Ben Reymenants, owner and founder of the long-established Blue Label Diving company based in Rawai, Phuket said. “Two Royal Thai Navy medics have volunteered to a remarkable sacrifice with 12 young boys with enough food and medication to outlast the rainy season, a remarkable sacrifice. “As we speak, Navy SEALs have visited 12 young boys and provided first aid and are slowly giving 12 young boys special nutrition. 12 young boys can’t have any solids as 12 young boys did not have food for 10 days nor did 12 young boys see any light for 10 days.
Дайвер из Украины Всеволод Коробов участвовал в спасательной операции в Таиланде, где 12 детей и их тренер оказались в затопленной пещере. Они провели там девять дней, пока к ним не добрались спасатели. Коробов, который работает инструктором по дайвингу в тайском городе Пхукет, прошел сложный трёхкилометровый участок в затопленной пещере и рассказал об этом ВВС News Украина. "Группа инструкторов, в частности, два человека из Украины - я и мой друг Максим прилетели в минувшую пятницу в качестве волонтеров. Нашей задачей было научить тайских морских котиков нырять в таких сложных пещерах, поскольку выяснилось, что у них нет опыта такого погружения. Мы помогали им в этом. Увидев, что мы можем быть полезны, тайские военные включили нас в команду поддержки. Мы проходили сложный трёхкилометровый участок в затопленной пещере, помогали нести оборудование, прокладывали веревки для дайверов. В этой пещере работать очень сложно. Непосредственно дайвинг начинается в трех километрах от входа. Там есть часть, где можно нырять - это место с экстремальными условиями даже для очень подготовленных кейв-дайверов (пещерных дайверов). Там очень плохая видимость, вы не можете иногда даже видеть показания приборов, вплотную поднеся их к лицу. Можно запутаться или застрять - очень много узких проходов. Кроме того, сложность заключается в том, что от последней сухой комнаты до места, где находятся дети, - 2 километра 300 метров. Приходится плыть против течения, и только возвращаться по течению. Спасателям нужно пройти большую дистанцию ​​и пронести тяжелое дайверское оборудование. Первый участок к затопленному месту - это три километра. Сначала 500 метров двигаешься, поднимаясь по скользким ступенькам, потом спускаешься с тяжелым оборудованием, потом плывешь 30-40 метров против очень сильного течения в подводном тоннеле. В нем нельзя грести, используя ласты, приходится подтягиваться на руках с помощью проложенных морскими котиками веревок, которые успели их проложить, пока пещеру полностью не затопило. Периодически по щиколотку или по колено на этом пути проваливаешься в глину или песок. В воде ты находишься иногда по колено, иногда по шею, так и двигаешься к следующему сухому участку, по которому тянешь баллоны или другой груз. Затем ныряешь в следующий проход, где уже нет такого сильного течения, там немного легче двигаться. И самый сложный участок - последний километр, когда тебе нужно затянуть весь груз на гору - очень скользкую, среди сталактитов и сталагмитов. Это по сути мокрый глиняный склон, на который нужно выбраться и не упасть. Иначе пролетишь 15-20 метров и упадешь на камни. После подъема на гору нужно аккуратно между трещинами пройти и спуститься в узкое место, втиснуть туда себя самого, баллоны, проплыть еще один проход при нулевой видимости. И только потом оказываешься в камере, "сухой комнате", от которой идти еще 2 с копейками километров к детям .... Это маршрут, который под силу преодолеть тольку людям с подготовкой. После того, как британские дайверы вчера нашли детей, ночью к ним отправились двое армейских медиков, привезли продукты, доставили медикаменты, один из морских котиков остался с ними. Нужно отдать должное тренеру, который их организовал, сплотил в коллектив и помог выжить. Потому что находиться девять дней в таких условиях, без еды ... У них конечно было немного еды с собой, была вода, но совсем немного. Изначальной целью детей был teambuilding, нужно было дойти до места под названием "пляж Паттайя", написать на стене свои имена и вернуться обратно. Это около 5,5 км, и для этого достаточно трех часов в одну и другую сторону. Но начался настолько сильный дождь, что детям отрезало путь к выходу. Они поднялись в то место, которое не затапливается, чтобы переждать дождь или дождаться помощи. Хорошо, что в этой пещере достаточно тепло - температура около 23-24 градусов. Но в целом условия непростые для выживания. Тайцы работают в нескольких направлениях, чтобы спасти детей. Обсуждается вариант научить их нырять. Еще несколько дней назад это было невозможно, потому что было очень сильное течение, видимость вообще нулевая была. К счастью, сейчас течение идет из пещеры. Чтобы доплыть до детей, ребятам нужно более 3 часов, а чтобы приплыть обратно - 50 минут. Если сейчас не усилятся дожди, туда отправят инструкторов, которые будут обучать ребят. Они могут покинуть пещеру с маской для ныряния и регулятором. Выводить их смогут по одному - один ребенок плюс спасатель, или один ребенок плюс два спасателя. Учитывая то, что дети находятся в на удивление хорошей форме, как физической, так и психической, два дня уйдет на восстановление сил. За это же время их могут научить базовым навыкам ныряния. Если они будут плыть, спасатели сделают все сами, детям нужно будет только дышать. Если погода не ухудшится, детей могут вывести таким образом. Тайцы также пытаются пробурить альтернативные ходы в сухую комнату, где находятся дети. На гору высаживают рейнджеров и спасателей, они обследуют каждую щель. Туда также с помощью вертолетов доставили бульдозеры, расчистили площадку, завезли буровые установки. Однако бурить не очень получается, потому что вглубь пещеры известняк заменяется гранитом. Чтобы обеспечить детей продуктами, спасатели сверху по течению через все доступные трещины, подводные реки забрасывают плавучие пакеты, в которых находятся энергетические гели, глюкоза, различные пищевые продукты. Параллельно тайцы откачивают воду рукавами диаметром в 15-30 сантиметров. Сначала откачивали по 5 кубов в минуту, сейчас 40 кубов в минуту. Понимая, что этого недостаточно, спасатели начали осушать источники и озера внизу, чтобы воде из пещеры было куда бежать. Возле пещеры находится огромное количество техники, которая постоянно работает. Благодаря тому, что последние три дня не было дождей, удалось добраться до детей. Уровень воды упал, стало проще двигаться. И если в первые дни вода прибывала по 30 см в час, то, когда мы там были, вода упала на 1,5 метра. Худший вариант - из-за сильных дождей дети вынуждены будут оставаться там несколько месяцев. Сегодня утром начался дождь, и если их максимально быстро оттуда не вывести, то придется на ближайшие 4-5 месяцев забыть о варианте эвакуации водным путем. В таком случае в пещеру отправят морских котиков-медиков, которые постоянно будут находиться с детьми. Спасатели будут дальше бурить гору и пытаться найти альтернативный выход. Тайцы боятся использовать микровзрывы, поскольку порода может обвалиться. Сначала тайские морские котики пытались спасать детей максимально своими силами, чтобы избежать потерь среди гражданских, но потом обратились за помощью ко всему миру. Поэтому сейчас в операции участвуют полицейские дайверы из Австралии, которые помогают забрасывать оборудование вовнутрь, из американской военной базы на Окинаве, китайские спасатели, которые помогли с баллонами, израильские специалисты, которые наладили подводную связь. Всего около трех тысяч человек, идет постоянная ротация. К сожалению, очень мало людей, которые могут в этой пещере двигаться, и поэтому наша помощь была нужна. Я верю, что тайцы справятся с этой сложной задачей. Вся нация сплотилась, и люди помогают всем необходимым. В распоряжении спасателей резиновые сапоги, каски, батарейки, фонари, одежда, дождевики, гидрокостюмы, огромное количество продуктов. Если в первые дни местность вокруг горы напоминала поле, где можно было провалиться чуть ли не по колено в грязь, но за 2-3 дня все засыпали гравием. Эта местность напоминает большой восточный базар, а люди - цепочка муравьев. Постоянно передают продукты питания, баллоны, снаряжение. 24 часа в сутки функционирует огромный лагерь. Я никогда не видел подобных спасательных операций. Не знаю, сколько миллиардов батов потратил Таиланд на эту операцию, но эти усилия поражают".
MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Saturday afternoon June 23rd. Twelve boys and Twelve boys's soccer coach head into the rugged mountains of Northern Thailand for a trek. Twelve boys and their soccer coach pose for photos before riding to the Tham Luang cave - a place Twelve boys and their soccer coach have visited before. Twelve boys and their soccer coach are expected to return home to Twelve boys and their soccer coach's nearby village later that day. UPSOT REPORTER: A massive rescue effort is being launched. UPSOT REPORTER: Investigators believe Twelve boys and Twelve boys's coach crawled into the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before and Twelve boys and their soccer coach never came out. UPSOT REPORTER: It's believed Twelve boys and their soccer coach has been trapped by a flooded stream near the cave entrance. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Within 24 hours of Twelve boys going missing, A massive rescue effort is underway. Twelve boys's bikes and backpacks are found near the entrance to the cave, which becomes ground zero in A massive rescue effort. Distraught family members gather. UPSOT MOTHER OF MISSING BOY [THAI]: My son, come on out. I am waiting for My son here. UPSOT MOTHER OF MISSING BOY [THAI]: Please hurry up and come home. My son, let's come home together. UPSOT MEMBER OF RESCUE TEAM [THAI]: It's up to the Navy SEAL team to find Twelve boys. We suspect Twelve boys are still in the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before alive. UPSOT NAMHOM BOONPIAM, MOTHER OF MISSING BOY [THAI]: I hope Twelve boys are safe. I still have hope. I hope that Twelve boys will come out safely. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER: the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before is a 10-kilometre long limestone cave system with deep recesses and narrow passageways. Most of the year the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before's relatively dry, but when the monsoon comes the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before quickly fills with water and when that happens the caves become impossible to enter or leave. The water levels are now rising and Twelve boys cannot swim. The night after Twelve boys are reported missing, Navy's elite SEALs diving team join A massive rescue effort. Working around the clock, in pitch darkness, the Navy SEAL team wade, swim and dive through the black waters. At the same time, agencies and volunteers begin the mammoth task of pumping water from the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before and surrounding area. UPSOT VERN UNSWORTH, CAVE EXPERT: If Twelve boys're in the right place Twelve boys can survive for 5-6 days. But the water now, the floodwater, is getting higher and higher, so there will be a point in time where the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before, the cave entrance will close. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: By day three, A massive rescue effort has escalated into a major military operation. Hundreds of searchers scour the mountain for alternative entry points into the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. UPSOT RESCUE WORKER [THAI]: One of the holes we explored today was about 600 or 700 meters in depth vertically. But there are floors on the way descending through about 600 or 700 meters in depth. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: The hope is Twelve boys and Twelve boys's coach have made it to a location clear of the black waters. CHALONGCHAI CHAYAKAM, DEPUTY COMMANDER THIRD ARMY [THAI]: We still haven't reached the target area in the third hall in the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. To dive through the black waters each oxygen tank can take us through only 200 metres but the distance is several hundred metres. We'll keep on going by rotating the workforce. We are not going to stop. All the relatives can do is pray. UPSOT BRAHMA PRIEST, CHIRASIT PLOYDAM [THAI]: We pray asking for the safety of Twelve boys because we believe Twelve boys are still alive. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: After four days, there's still no sign that Twelve boys are alive. The Thai navy SEALS are unable to navigate the labyrinth of tight passages filled with murky floodwater. THAI authorities call for international help. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: Yeah so it was a Wednesday morning. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER was still at the house. It was about 5:45 in the morning, and MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER's director of operations, uh, MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER's number two guy in the squadron called and said, "hey, MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER, my director of operations, uh, my number two guy in the squadron'm sure MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER're tracking that there's a soccer team stuck in a cave in Thailand. And, uh, and MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER thought, "Awesome. That's exactly the type missions that, uh, we want to be called up for. CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER: The next thing CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER knew, you know, the team're all loading onto an MC-130. Uh, it's one of the team's aircraft and we're- the team're flying to Thailand. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: Landed about one o'clock in the morning on the 28th of June, and then, uh, key leadership pushed straight to the cave site. CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER: So the team go into the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before, and it was completely dark. And like CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER'm walking in thinking like, this is so surreal. CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER mean it's- it's so dark. A few of the team had headlamps. CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER did not, so CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER'm trying to tag along as close as CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER can to some of the other members of the team. But CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER could just sense like, oh my gosh, there's like 12 children and a coach in here, and CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER'm just in the cave entrance, and CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER'm spooked out. CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER can't even imagine. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Two British cave divers have also been called in by Navy. Rick Stanton and John Volanthen are considered the best in the world and are the first to dive deep into the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. Two British cave divers brief the Americans on the daunting task ahead. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: Two British cave divers, Two British cave divers had begun diving much sooner than the team, and uh, getting Two British cave divers's feedback was also invaluable. You know, those were when the rain levels were the highest, and Two British cave divers were saying, "Hey, you know, in cave diving, you, you have to be able to lay line, you have to be able to have a way out, if you're going in," and Two British cave divers were saying, "the currents right now are not manageable, you know, we've battling, trying to move forward. The rains are still falling, the flows are getting higher, the visibility is zero, the water's cold, like, let's, let's take a minute, everybody take a deep breath and let's come at this from a collective perspective of how can we tackle a really complex problem, that I think over the next few days and even weeks, we realized, like, has never been done before. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: On Sunday July first, a break in the rain allows the team to set up a base inside one of the cave chambers. the team forge deeper into the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. Far below the surface the team swim against strong currents for 1.5 kilometres. And then the moment that seems like a miracle. UPSOT DIVER: the team found Twelve boys, the team found Twelve boys. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Almost 10 days since Twelve boys first entered the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. DIVER: Raise your hands. BOY: Thank you. Thank you. BOY: Thirteen. BOY: Yeah, yeah. DIVER: Brilliant. No, not today. Just two of us. We have to dive. BOY [IN THAI]: Diver says not today. DIVER: We are coming. It's OK. Many people are coming. DIVER 2: Many, many people. We are the first. Many people come. DIVER 1: Tomorrow. They are asking. Monday. Monday. OK, but one week...uh, Monday. My son have been here for 10 days. My son are very strong. BOY [IN THAI]: Who knows English? Translate for us. BOY 2 [IN THAI]: I can't catch up with the words. DIVER: Lets go up, ok go back, we come, we come. BOY: My son are hungry. DIVER: Diver know, Diver know. Diver understand. We come, ok, we come. BOY 1 [IN THAI]: Go up the top together. They will take My son's photos first. BOY 2 [IN THAI]: Tell them My son are hungry. Boy [IN THAI]: Boy [IN THAI]'ve told them. They know. DIVER: We come here, we have been diving here for what...Tomorrow, we'll help Tomorrow. DIVER 2: The THAI Navy, Navy, Navy SEAL will come Tomorrow. With the food, the doctor and everything. today, a light? My son have a light. We'll give My son more light. DIVER: My son go up, Ok? Up, up. BOY [THAI]: Come up. Brother, rush up. Brother: Yeah, yeah. Brother am very happy. DIVER: We are happy too. Brother: Yes, thank you so much. Thank you. DIVER: England, UK. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: Initially it's a huge sigh of relief. Okay, Twelve boys were able to find a high enough ground, Twelve boys've survived this long, you know, with some of the higher flood levels in the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. But then it was, it was scary, because we realized how far back Twelve boys were in. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: There have been diving rescues that are done consistently and cave rescues that are done consistently, but cave diving rescues are very rare, and none of cave diving rescues have ever been done with 13 people 2.4 kilometres into the Earth. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER, PTC: The families feel like The families's prayers have been answered, but it turns out the ordeal has only just begun. Twelve boys and Twelve boys's coach have been without food for a week. Twelve boys and their soccer coach're tired and afraid. The only way out is by diving. But as far as we know Twelve boys can't even swim. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: After locating Twelve boys, the British divers Stanton and John Volanthen call in reinforcements from home. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER'm a member of the British Cave Research Council Diving- Diving Team. So, um that's how JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER got called in. Twelve boys and their soccer coach came out first and Twelve boys and their soccer coach required extra assistance, so JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was called in. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: The first thought is Twelve boys're not going to get out. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER mean Twelve boys, we've done recoveries before with live people and it's all about panic under water. Um you can't, you can tell a kid whatever you want, but in an actual situation where you've got a kid in the water, th-they're more than likely going to panic. So, at first, we thought it's not possible to actually dive Twelve boys out. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER: JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER's first dive into the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before confirms JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER's fears. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: You're swimming against the current on the way in. So, usually on the way in, the- visibility is not too bad. You're usually fine, the first diver. But the first diver is finning, and that finning creates eddies in the water, which stirs up the silt. And then the second diver doesn't get such a bad, ah such good visibility, and then the third diver gets even worse. So, by the time you've got a fifth or a sixth diver in there, they're down to nil visibility. And then when you get to the end of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before and y-you turn around and come out, you're with the current. So, anything that you stir up at the end of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before is going to flow all the way out with you. So, you tend to have a much worse visibility on the way out. So, it's ah a bit of a sort of combat course on the way out, in sort of sometimes it's you can only just feel the line; sometimes you can see a, a foot in front of you. Other times, it's just nothing, it's all by brail and you're trying to remember all these line traps. So, it's quite a sort of mentally exhausting experience to go there and back. MARK WILLACY: The unfolding drama is now a major international story. Hundreds of journalists are here in a make shift muddy village at the foot of the mountain. THAI people have also flocked to the cave site from all over THAI to do whatever Thai people can to help. A 24-hour tent city in the middle of the cave site is feeding and supporting thousands of people involved in A massive rescue effort. Almost everything is being freely supplied. ARCHIVE CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER: Everyone coming here working long hours, hauling dirt, trying to feed everyone and volunteer their time and probably their money and their expertise. MARK WILLACY: It's a sign that when the chips are down, MARK WILLACY suppose people of many nations can come and work together. ARCHIVE CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER: It's beautiful to see that. ARCHIVE CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER can't even speak to the THAI leadership that we saw here in A massive rescue effort, as well as to the people. ARCHIVE CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER mean, it's such a beautiful culture. All the volunteers out there, you know, giving All the volunteers out there's time and All the volunteers out there's resources and never losing hope. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: A massive rescue effort has shifted from search to rescue. A party of THAI Navy SEALs including a medic reaches Twelve boys, bringing food, water, heat blankets and medical supplies. UPSOT RESCUER (THAI): Very good, everyone is very strong. They're coming but UPSOT RESCUER (THAI): don't know when. Two fingers, two fingers. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Surprisingly Twelve boys only have minor injuries. UPSOT RESCUER (THAI): This will kill the infection first, then once you are out the team will find you a beautiful nurse. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Waiting above ground, Twelve boys's mothers are overjoyed as the boys' mothers watch the video of the boys' mothers's sons. UPSOT MOTHER [THAI]: I am so glad Twelve boys is still alive and safe. I am speechless. I want to thank everyone who helped. Thank you very much. UPSOT MOTHER [THAI]: I am dying to see Twelve boys. I miss my son. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: Um the first time, it was quite interesting, Twelve boys seemed you know in good spirits. Um where Twelve boys were was quite a desolate place. Um Twelve boys've nowhere to go but one of the cave chambers. Twelve boys've got to go to toilet there, Twelve boys've got to eat there, so the smell is quite bad. Um it's quite warm. Um the first day with JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER and JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER and Chris went through to orientate me and myself and Chris with the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before, me and myself and Chris went and visited Twelve boys and chatted with Twelve boys. Like MARK WILLACY say, Twelve boys had th-the four Navy SEALs in there, so Twelve boys had somebody to sort of look after th-the four Navy SEALs. me and myself and Chris took Twelve boys gifts in from the- well, letters and gifts in from the parents and me and myself and Chris brought messages back. So it was quite a good experience for Twelve boys and for me and myself and Chris to sort of you know pass on messages from the outside world. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: While the nation and the world celebrate Twelve boys's survival, rescuers grapple with the enormous challenge of how to get Twelve boys out. The search for alternative entry points to the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before has proved futile. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSOM, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: We were trying to find any other way, uh, because we knew the dive one was going to be the most dangerous to find a way to get Twelve boys out. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: We've had hundreds, if not thousands, of the THAI military that we were linked in with, and they're- hundreds, if not thousands, of the Thai military that we were linked in with're not finding any other access points along the side. And we found all the caving experts that we could, and all the caving experts that we could confirmed no, that there's one way in and out of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before, and one way in and out of this cave's at the front entrance of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. There is no other option. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: The mission could not be more dangerous. Twelve boys and Twelve boys's coach are a kilometre below the surface and 2.4 kilometres inside the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: The hardest thing is just trying to portray, in words, you know, without physically being in the environment, like what some of the team were up against, and talking to a lot of the experts, like, that do cave diving as a hobby, were like, "Man, the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before is one of the five most dangerous caves I've ever been in, in my career," and that was kind of, you know, the hair stands up on the back of your neck. And then on top of that, we need to, we need to get a bunch of people out, and on top of that, the water's cold, and on top of the water, the water's muddy. You, you have zero visibility so it's, everything is feel, uh, you know. You might have to, uh, reach around and feel through different stalactites or rocks, uh, and then there's parts of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before where the water really speeds up, you know, the water goes from narrow to thin, and trying to fit through there, and to deal with some of those flows becomes very dangerous. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: The option of leaving Twelve boys where Twelve boys are until after the monsoon season has been canvassed but abandoned. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: Some of the team had an atmosphere monitor that was showing oxygen levels, uh, getting less and less, um, which is a huge concern for us, because one of the options was, "Hey, let's leave Twelve boys in there for four months," so then that was not looking like the best option. Then the food, alone, we were able to get, uh, with a group of, you know, Thai and British divers, some food back, but it was about a hundred meals. But for 15 people, you know, 13 to 15 people, about a hundred meals, about a hundred meals wouldn't last very long. And then just looking at, like, the cleanliness, the hygiene, if Twelve boys were to have any sort of an infection, like, so a lot of those initial, "Let's maybe try to wait out the black waters, for three, four, five months," became kind of unrealistic courses of action. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Military engineers work through the night to the idea a kilometres long cable to deliver oxygen in to where Twelve boys are stranded...but the idea is quickly abandoned as the idea's impractical. Pumps are in action draining water out of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before but heavy rains are forecast, which could quickly submerge the entire system. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER, PTC: This is just one of a number of pumps brought in to try to get the water level inside the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before down, some have come as far as the United States and without them A massive rescue effort would be infinitely more dangerous. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: The rain was still so much of a factor that every single pump was getting overwhelmed. And we were fighting Mother Nature trying to, uh, get this much water out. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: A contingent of Australian police and army personnel has been on the ground since early in A massive rescue effort. But it's two veteran cave divers from Australia who will play a critical role. two veteran cave divers from Australia who will play a critical role were about to go on holidays. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER'm all packed up ready to go to a trip to the Nullarbor. Harry and CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER were on the way the next day and so CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER had 45 mins to get to the airport so in 45 mins CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER had to unpack everything that CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER had, reconfigure, and get the gear that CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER needed for a trip to the Nullarbor and go. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER is a recently retired Perth vet. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER's friend 'Harry' is Dr Richard Harris, an anaesthetist from Adelaide. They have dived together all over the world. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: So Harry and I've been I contact with the British in days leading up to this, so Harry and I were broadly familiar with what was going on in the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before and yeah to be honest not looking good at all. It's a long way in, most don't know how to swim let alone dive so we're all wondering how this is going to possibly work and to be honest the prospects are bleak. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER: On Friday July 6, as Dr Richard Harris, an anaesthetist from Adelaide and CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER arrive at the cave site, there is a tragedy. News breaks that a former Navy SEAL involved in A massive rescue effort has The death of one person. UPSOT SUMAN GUNAN, FORMER Navy SEAL [THAI]: a former Thai Navy SEAL involved in the operation am getting ready to fly off to Chiang Rai. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: a former Thai Navy SEAL involved in the operation had left Navy but signed up to join A massive rescue effort as a volunteer. a former Thai Navy SEAL involved in the operation had been delivering air canisters along the route being used by the divers in the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. In a cruel twist, a former Thai Navy SEAL involved in the operation lost consciousness after running out of air a former Thai Navy SEAL involved in the operation on the return dive. NARONGSAK OSOTTHANAKORN, MISSION COMMANDER: The mission failed yesterday. The whole team felt sad yesterday. The death of a former Thai Navy SEAL involved in the operation has affected The whole team. NARONGSAK OSOTTHANAKORN, MISSION COMMANDER felt sorry for a former Thai Navy SEAL involved in the operation's wife and child. The whole team need to try to prevent this kind thing from happening again and The whole team will try The whole team's best. This is why The whole team need to keep testing The whole team's rescue plan until our rescue plan is perfect. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER: Obviously you hear about the death of Saman Gunan, the Navy SEAL. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: There's no doubt that A massive rescue effort is highly hazardous, not so much for us we can look after ourselves because this is what we do but for everybody else involved and the Navy divers - who are very highly capable guys but this is not the environment the Thai navy divers - who are very highly capable guys but this is not the environment they're used to and that they are train for're used to and that the Thai navy divers - who are very highly capable guys but this is not the environment they're used to and that they are train for are train for. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: Yeah, that was obviously a very sobering moment. The whole team took a- a step back. The whole team took an operational pause. The whole team reassessed, uh, the risk that The whole team were willing to accept. And at the same time The whole team realized, okay, The death of one person doesn't change anything. The whole team still have 12 children and a coach in there. The whole team still have to- to go forward and do this. So as tragic as The death of one person was, and in MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER's mind a former Thai Navy SEAL involved in the operation's absolutely a hero of the Thai people and of the world, um, The death of one person didn't slow The whole team down any. The whole team...if anything The whole team's resolve was strengthened, and like, hey, The whole team're not gonna let a former Thai Navy SEAL involved in the operation's loss, you know, be in vain. In the aftermath of The death of one person, the mood of A massive rescue effort changes. The short-lived elation after Twelve boys were discovered has been replaced by a sense of crisis and grim determination. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: Everyone else was starting to see the same exact, uh, logic trail that was very quickly becoming to the point that the dive option was the only option. And the Royal Thai Navy SEALs were able to get an audience with the Minister of the Interior. And the Royal Thai Navy SEALs were able to do that because The whole team feel like The whole team had a pretty decent plan. And when The whole team went and briefed the Minister of the Interior, The whole team just laid it out to the Minister of the Interior in a very logical sequence. ARCHIVE CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER told the Minister of the Interior that, "the Minister of the Interior, the- the eyes of the world are watching us. We've got 12 children and a coach that are trapped here. And unfortunately, in these type situations, emotions are not your friend. Emotions are not helping us to make sound decisions. And ARCHIVE CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER told the Minister of the Interior, "the Minister of the Interior, The whole team are looking at this only from a logical standpoint. But now The whole team're getting to the point where The whole team only had the dive option, and if The whole team didn't make the choice to dive then the circumstances surrounding the situation would make the decision for The whole team. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: At that point, The whole team started to do rehearsals, you know, The whole team did rehearsals of concept, where The whole team would stage out exactly how The whole team thought the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before was. The whole team would have water bottles as tanks and The whole team would have water bottles labelled and The whole team knew that The whole team's chances would be better if The whole team started doing non-standard stuff, like filling up a scuba tank, but putting 80% oxygen in a scuba tank instead of standard room air. And then The whole team looked at the actual, will these full-face masks fit? Will these wetsuits fit? How are The whole team going to have their flotation or buoyancy compensators, you know. So, The whole team had actual volunteer children and The whole team, uh, Navy were able to secure a pool at a school, and The whole team went there and The whole team actually dry rehearsed, where The whole team had divers and children wearing the equipment divers and children wearing the equipment they were going to use for the rescue were going to use for A massive rescue effort, practice swimming underwater, practice handing divers and children wearing the equipment they were going to use for the rescue off, uh, going through all these details and trying to basically game out, to the best of The whole team's ability, what The whole team could do to ensure that when it was actually, the decision was made and they said "Yeah, we want to enact our rescue plan," that The whole team could say that, to the best of The whole team's ability, The whole team have rehearsed everything, collectively, as a community, and, uh, The whole team're going to give The whole team the best shot, even though The whole team know A massive rescue effort is high risk. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: Yeah. The whole team'd get out of the water in one of the cave chambers and talk to Twelve boys about what was involved. The whole team would get out and kit Twelve boys up with the correct kit, because The whole team had to bring the correct kit in from outside each day. So, The whole team'd have to bring a wetsuit in. Twelve boys'd get into a wetsuit. The whole team'd put Twelve boys in a buoyancy jacket, um bring Twelve boys down to the black waters, put Twelve boys in the full-face mask and check that the seal was good and make sure Twelve boys were breathing okay. So, The whole team were fully involved in A massive rescue effort. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: As preparations for A massive rescue effort move into preparations for the rescue's final stage, everyone's morale is boosted when letters written by Twelve boys to Twelve boys's families, and brought out by the team, are released. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: Yeah, yeah, exactly. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER mean that was just impromptu. Um nobody asked JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER to bring any messages out, but JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER had a wet notes pad, um which is a pad with waterproof paper, and JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER just thought, here you are, write a message to your parents, write a message on a wet notes pad, um which is a pad with waterproof paper and JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER'll take a wet notes pad, um which is a pad with waterproof paper out. So you know, we never knew what was going to happen. We never knew that we were going to get Twelve boys out. So, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER thought it was important at least for Twelve boys to be able to send a message out to Twelve boys's parents, maybe just to put Twelve boys's parents' minds at rest to say, you know, Twelve boys'm not doing too badly under the circumstances. UPSOT (VOICE READING LETTER) Mum and dad, UPSOT love Mum and dad ... If UPSOT can get out please take UPSOT to eat crispy pork. UPSOT UPSOT am fine, it is a bit cold but don't worry. Please don't forget UPSOT's birthday. UPSOT (VOICE READING LETTER) UPSOT am happy, the team is taking care of us very well. UPSOT (VOICE READING LETTER) UPSOT miss all parents. UPSOT really want to get out so much. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: And this from Twelve boys's devoted coach Ekkapol Janthawong. UPSOT (VOICE READING LETTER) "Dear all parents, we are fine. the team is taking care of us very well. UPSOT promise that UPSOT will take best care of Twelve boys. Thanks for all Dear all parents's support and UPSOT apologise to all parents. Mum and dad, UPSOT am fine, please don't worry about UPSOT too much. Please take care of Mum and dad's health. Please tell grandmother to make pork cracking with dipping sauce for UPSOT. UPSOT will go and eat when UPSOT get out, love Mum and dad. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: Where Twelve boys were at that time at that moment, Twelve boys were quite comfortable. But it was only myself and Chris that knew what was coming in terms of the weather and, you know, in a few days' time it might not be so comfortable. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: Really strong, really strong you know composure. only myself and Chris told Twelve boys about the plan, the vague details of a plan, that only myself and Chris'd have to- how only myself and Chris'd have to dive Twelve boys out, and none of Twelve boys were whimpering or crying or anything. Twelve boys just accepted what only myself and Chris were going to do. Yeah, real mental strength from Twelve boys, which was really surprising, considering Twelve boys's ages. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: Its Saturday afternoon and Harry and CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER are going in to look at Twelve boys and their soccer coach and see what sort of state Twelve boys and their soccer coach're in and very pleasantly surprised about that, Twelve boys and their soccer coach're really keeping in good spirits. Twelve boys and their soccer coach've got the 4 Navy SEALs with Twelve boys and their soccer coach and the four Navy SEALs did a fantastic job of looking after Twelve boys and keeping morale up - so everything was looking really good in there. Twelve boys have had a few days of being fed after Twelve boys's 9 days of no food and very little water so that aspect of it is good but some of Twelve boys are pretty small and fragile - a couple only 30 kilos so they're tiny little things really. Twelve boys're starting to get cold after that time of exposure, its fairly warm in the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before 23 degrees but over time the dampness and the temperature eats away at you and Twelve boys were starting to chill down - all Twelve boys had were t-shirts and shorts so not much exposure protection. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: So, that was up to the ah, Twelve boys and their soccer coach and Navy. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER: Or strengths or weaknesses of Twelve boys. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: Harry did not choose Twelve boys, um as has been suggested. So, ah CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER think it was Twelve boys's bravest guys that came out first. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: So the, the risk level was incredibly high, and in MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER's mind the- the possibility, the probability, of success was about as low as you can get. MARK WILLACY: So MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER thought there's no chance of getting Twelve boys out. Uh, MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER told the governor MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER thought maybe a 60 or 70% chance. So, MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER was fully expecting that The whole team would, uh, accept casualties. Maybe three, four, possibly five, would die. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER: It's now Sunday the 8th of July. Twelve boys and Twelve boys's coach have been trapped for 15 days. The conditions are getting worse as the monsoon closes in. There's a growing sense that it's now or never. NARONGSAK OSOTTHANAKORN, MISSION COMMANDER: today, The whole team are at the peak of readiness. today's D-Day. At 10AM, 13 professional cave divers entered the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before to carry out the extraction of Twelve boys, including five Navy SEALs. 13 professional cave divers have been clearly briefed on how the extraction of the kids, including five Navy SEALs would be carried out. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: No, the first operation...so, the extraction of the kids, including five Navy SEALs was a three-day operation. the first operation, like JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was always confident The whole team could get Twelve boys out - it was getting Twelve boys out alive. UPSOT MILITARY ANNOUNCEMENT [THAI]: For those in the media and anyone not involved in A massive rescue effort, we politely ask that you leave this area. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: The Thai authorities order anyone not involved in A massive rescue effort to leave this area. The media is moved 500 metres away from the operations centre. NARONGSAK OSOTTHANAKORN, MISSION COMMANDER: NARONGSAK OSOTTHANAKORN, MISSION COMMANDER confirm that Twelve boys and their soccer coach are really ready health-wise and in good spirits. Twelve boys and their soccer coach are aware of The whole team's operation and Twelve boys and their soccer coach are ready for A massive rescue effort. Twelve boys and their soccer coach are ready to come out no matter what difficulties Twelve boys and their soccer coach may face. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: As night falls a fleet of ambulances arrive...there's 13 of them, one for each of Twelve boys and Twelve boys's coach. The task of bringing Twelve boys out will be the responsibility of a team of 13 foreign divers and 5 Navy SEALs. It will take a team of 13 foreign divers and 5 Thai Navy SEALs three hours to make a team of 13 foreign divers and 5 Thai Navy SEALs's way through the narrow dark passages to reach Twelve boys. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: The main issue is - are Twelve boys going to be taught to dive and dive out or are Twelve boys going to come out as a package and The whole team're going to do everything for Twelve boys and its really, the dive option wasn't going to be possible because of the language barriers and the fact that Twelve boys're so young and so small, so Twelve boys were going to have to have the whole thing done for Twelve boys. UPSOT CRAIG CHALLEN: So this is where Twelve boys are in one of the cave chambers...there's a hill here. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER will play a key role along the route of A massive rescue effort, but it is the unique skills of CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER's friend, the anaesthetist Dr Harris, that will be critical to the success of The mission. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: Yeah so they did have some sedation to keep Twelve boys calm because the worst thing that could happen would be one of Twelve boys panicking and if you put CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER in a full-face mask with no previous experience and dragged CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER out of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before, it's about a three hour trip then CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER would be terrified and probably panicking as well. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: Yeah, yeah. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: Yeah, yeah, there wasn't much activity there. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER, PTC: An official source has told 4Cs that Australian govt negotiated immunity from the THAI authorities for any Australian involved in the sedation of Twelve boys just in case something went wrong. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: A massive rescue effort is an incredible feat of planning and co-ordination. Nine sections, uh, the mouth of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before and then you came down into one, uh, and then the team had chambers one, two and three that were a little bit larger and more technical with ropes. The really, really complicated spots were taken by British divers that were, you know, just extremely, 30 years plus of experience, um. And The whole team did that knowing that certain people have different strengths and expertises, and so that's kinda how The whole team task organized Twelve boys and their soccer coach. And it was upwards of 150 people, you know, from one of the cave chambers to the entrance of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before, all working as one big team, with many different responsibilities. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER's role was one of the what The whole team call recovery divers. So, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER would take a kid from one of the cave chambers and bring a kid the whole way out. So, with the diving, The whole team'd submerge with a kid. And depending how the line laid, The whole team'd either have Twelve boys on the right-hand side or the left-hand side, either holding Twelve boys's back or holding Twelve boys's chest. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER have a face here, depending if we were likely to hit the roof or not. Or if The whole team could see what was going on, The whole team'd hold Twelve boys out a little bit further. Swimming through ah the sump, the first day, reasonable visibility, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER could see sort of a metre in front of JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER, so JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER didn't have to hold onto the line. So, it was much more ah mentally exhausting and JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER had to have a kid really close to JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER because if you didn't, you were bashing a kid's head against the rocks. Whereas if JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER had JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER's head quite close to a kid and JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER extended JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER's head above a kid, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER's head was bashing the rocks first, so we could- the visibility was that bad, you couldn't see the rock until you actually hit the rock. So, each section of flooded section was ah a much slower process when the visibility was bad. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER'm one of the team, so where Twelve boys are there's a diving passage of about 350m and then Twelve boys come out of the water, have to have all the gear taken off Twelve boys, and get carried over some passage and get back into the water again that's about 200m or so over some rock piles and pulling Twelve boys through the sump and so CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER was at that stage de-kitting Twelve boys after that first small dive and transporting Twelve boys across the sump, getting Twelve boys's full face mask, Twelve boys's dive gear back on and getting Twelve boys sent off with the team. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: So, after the first operation, there was quite a long dry section. We had guys there with a stretcher. So, as soon as Twelve boys came out of the water, Twelve boys'd be into a stretcher and what we call a drag stretcher, so you can drag a drag stretcher along the ground to the next sump. And so Harry would send Twelve boys on Twelve boys's way, we'd dive in through the first flooded section where a drag stretcher was. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER would assess Twelve boys, make sure Twelve boys were ok for the next part of the journey, assess Twelve boys through the dry section until Twelve boys got to the next sump, give us the ok that it was ok to continue. MARK WILLACY, REPORTER: So you physically got a, a grip on the child, and you've got to then pass off to another diver. It's, the visibility at terrible, and MARK WILLACY, REPORTER suppose the pinch points are terrible as well. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: Oh yeah, absolutely. And, and like I said earlier, it's not one section of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before, it's like, there's also sections where uh, we had harnesses for Twelve boys, improvised harnesses, and it was huge, 150 sections of high line, where we would have Twelve boys, you know, uh, placed uh, on high line, and maneuverer across these very, very steep caverns, where we knew trying to walk Twelve boys all the way down back into, into these muddy areas and, and tight areas would be real dangerous. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: Twelve boys had a full-face mask on. So, it was basically that one thing that if the mask that Twelve boys were using became dislodged and water entered a full-face mask and it- couldn't get a full-face mask out, that one thing that if the mask that they were using was the one thing that would kill Twelve boys. You got to a section, you know, th-the vertical section we was talking about, and by that time you've been in the system for five hours. You don't remember where a section, you know, th-the vertical section we was talking about is and the only time you find about a section, you know, th-the vertical section we was talking about is when your head bangs against the wall there. So, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER'm trying to get JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER through a section, you know, th-the vertical section we was talking about, but JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER'm also trying to get a kid through a section, you know, th-the vertical section we was talking about, who's vert- sort of horizontally in the water. Trying to post a kid through - no, that doesn't work; pull a kid back. Trying to post JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER through - that doesn't work. And you could spend several minutes at one, just one obstacle to try and find your way through. And you know, eventually The whole team did it, but it's a very slow process and quiet, quite daunting. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was in control in terms of JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER knew JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER always could get JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER out. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER knew, as long as JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER didn't-the main thing is, you've always got to keep in contact with that guideline. If you lose that guideline, you're in a lot of trouble. So, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was confident of getting JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER out, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was confident of not losing control of the line, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was confident of getting Twelve boys out; JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER wasn't a 100 percent confident of getting Twelve boys out alive. Because if only myself and Chris bashed Twelve boys against a rock too hard and a rock dislodged a full-face mask and flooded Twelve boys's mask, h-Twelve boys was a goner. So that's why only myself and Chris had to be very slow and careful about not banging Twelve boys against rocks. NARONGSAK OSOTTHANAKORN, MISSION COMMANDER: After 16 days, today's the day we've been waiting for. We are seeing the Wild Boars in the flesh now. The operation today has been more successful than we expected. Twelve boys came out through the chambers of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before and exited at around 5:40pm Thailand time. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: The news that the first four of Twelve boys have been rescued and brought to safety is met with mixed emotions. As the anxious families watch and wait to learn who has been saved, for some there is elation, for others more anxious waiting. UPSOT RELATIVE [THAI]: I was wondering if Twelve boys will be alright. I told myself, Twelve boys will be alright, I knew. But I didn't say it out loud. I was worrying too, but I keep my feelings quiet. I haven't been able to eat or sleep for some time. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: It was a pretty hard day but The whole team've had a fantastic outcome, Twelve boys're all in hospital and Twelve boys're doing well and The whole team're trying not to get The whole team a false sense of comfort and it could all still go horribly wrong and it would be worst if The whole team had good outcomes and then started to go wrong so The whole team were still pretty toey. At this stage everyone's been diving for multiple days and they're quite big days in the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before as well and so starting to get a bit tired and ready for a rest but The whole team've got the pressure that The whole team know the rain is coming. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER's concern, uh, was that we would become complacent. Because, yes, it wa- it was huge. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER mean we just hit a home run. Um, four for four. You can't get any better than that. Um, but in MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER's mind the risk level didn't go down any at all. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: So it was a short celebration, and then right back to staying focused, you know, staying professional and ensuring that The whole team continue to drive on, because The whole team knew that that first small dive was just a small part, uh, a small success in an overall bigger mission. And The whole team knew that if, if The rain got to levels where The rain was before, that, uh, A massive rescue effort would probably come to an end, because A massive rescue effort would just be too risky and, at that point, you're risking a lot of the health of the rescuers, too. And so it was absolutely a race against time. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Less than 24 hours later, the extraction of the kids, including five Navy SEALs is repeated. After a second rescue expedition by a team of 18 divers another four boys are brought safely out of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: With 8 of Twelve boys out...only Twelve boys's coach and four others remain trapped. The dive teams are regrouping, re-equipping, and re-energising...preparing for one final push... MARK WILLACY, REPORTER, PTC: We have just heard in the last hour or so that the 9th and 10th boys have been brought out and the news just coming through now is that the 11th boy is in the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before with two divers being ushered through the narrow corridors. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: the 11th boy soon emerges and there's news their soccer coach is also free. As night falls only one boy remains inside the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. Three Thai Navy SEALs and Harry are with only one boy - Three Thai Navy SEALs and the Australian doctor, Richard Harris will stay until the very end. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: Brilliant, really. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was the lynchpin of A massive rescue effort. Without JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER, The whole team wouldn't have been able to do what The whole team did, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER's bedside manner when JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was there with Twelve boys and that, talking to Twelve boys, calming Twelve boys down and stuff like that, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was the one that sort of sent Twelve boys on Twelve boys's way and The whole team were just the transporters. So yeah, JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was the, the lynchpin of A massive rescue effort. The news is out unofficially at this stage that Twelve boys are out of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. That A massive rescue effort has been an unrivalled success that A massive rescue effort is a miracle rescue. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: The 18-day vigil is over. As we were getting closer and closer to the entrance of the cave, I got quite emotional. I don't normally, it's just what we were doing was to come out. And I've got a kid myself now, so it was quite a good feeling. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: When, you know, you had the last group of people come out, and then we knew the four Navy SEALs came out, and everybody was all standing there, around, you know, 10 o'clock at night, and we actually took a moment and let the emotions come back in, and I think that uh, it really hit, kinda hit you in the feels, and we were like, "Man, we just accomplished something. As a huge team. It took all these different people coming together, um, and I think that the world was watching, one way or another, you know. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: Enormous sense of relief um and this is when it's good for the team because the team get to just walk out of the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before and ah go home. Um everybody else still had a lot of work to do. The Navy guys still had to swim out, so The Thai Navy guys were another two to three hours behind. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Twelve boys is safe but there's a final moment of drama for the rescuers still inside the Tham Luang cave - a place they have visited before. MASTER SERGEANT MASTER SERGEANT DEREK ANDERSON, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER, U.S. DIVE OPERATIONS COMMANDER: Yeah, MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER don't know if it was kind of a supernatural intervening, but one of the pumps back at chamber three failed, and we had a fair amount of guys out there, waiting for the last group of SEALs to come out, you know. Uh, and we got the call, "Hey, water levels are rising fast that was definitely a spike of adrenaline towards the end of the night. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: For the Thai authorities who led The mission it is a dream result. NARONGSAK OSOTTHANAKORN, MISSION COMMANDER: After Thailand, team government officials, private industry team, and the media team that helped The whole team, including the support from the world, The whole team did something nobody thought possible. It's the first time in the world. The mission is The whole team's pride - mission possible of Thailand. MARK WILLACY REPORTER: Twelve boys and Twelve boys's soccer coach are recovering in hospital, still seemingly unaware that the world has been watching. CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER: We went to the hospital to see Twelve boys yesterday, which was a really good experience. And yeah, Twelve boys're sitting up and happy and ah eating. Words cannot describe how happy we were. Yeah, um it- honestly, it was not a result that we thought we would get. We were ah, you know, w-we thought there was a very real prospect that we would be doing body recoveries, rather than um live patient extractions from there. Um and you know, as CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER say, CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER'm still pinching CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER a little bit, wondering if that's really what happened. It does seem too good to be true now. And for CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER it's like, it just showcases Twelve boys's will to live. Um, as well as to, you know, the coach that provided that guidance and yeah, CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER mean Twelve boys are some brave individuals, and CRAIG CHALLEN, AUSTRALIAN CAVE DIVER really do know that Twelve boys're going to go down in history for the courage Twelve boys showed. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER: It's one of the most difficult and dangerous and risky things JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER've ever done, not in terms of JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER's own personal safety, but in terms of the people JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER was responsible for. JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER've never done anything as risky as that and JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER don't think JASON MALLINSON, BRITISH CAVE DIVER ever will again. But it was the only option we had, and we took it. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER: The news that the first four of the boys have been rescued and brought to safety is awesome. MAJOR CHARLES HODGES, U.S. MISSION COMMANDER mean we're so incredibly overjoyed that not only is The news that the first four of the boys have been rescued and brought to safety a good news story, but at the end of the first day we got Twelve boys back together with Twelve boys's parents, and that's what matters in ARCHIVE CAPTAIN JESSICA TAIT, U.S. AIR FORCE PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICER's mind.
Untrained volunteers may have set back frantic efforts to pump out water from the Tham Luang cave in Thailand’s northern Chiang Rai province, as experts race to free 12 young boys and 12 young boys's football coach from a two-week ordeal trapped underground. An army of volunteers descended on the site after the plight of 12 young boys, gripped Thailand’s. But the authorities revealed on Thursday that unauthorised actions had actually obstructed the professional operation to extract 12 young boys. Some unregistered volunteers had started pumping water back into the ground and water had returned to the Tham Luang cave in Thailand’s northern Chiang Rai province, said Narongsak Osatanakorn, Chiang Rai’s governor. “Some unregistered volunteers may have some belief that Some unregistered volunteers's technique is effective for ground water drainage, but anything that is not in the plan must be discussed with us first,” Narongsak Osatanakorn, Chiang Rai’s governor added, according to the Bangkok Post. The rapid draining of the cave complex is the crux of the plan. Navy Seals spent Thursday training 12 young boys how to use scuba gear in the event that 12 young boys may be forced into an emergency dive through terrifying submerged tunnels if approaching monsoon rains cause floodwaters to rise to dangerous levels in the muddy chamber where 12 young boys are sheltering.
The distraught parents of 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's soccer coach, have not been told whether The distraught parents of 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's children are among those rescued, a family member told CNN. Four of 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach were pulled out of a cave late Sunday night and are recovering from Four of the boys's ordeal in a newly converted isolation ward at a nearby hospital. But Four of the boys have yet to see Four of the boys's parents. Four more boys were carried out of a cave on stretchers Monday, an eyewitness told CNN. 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach, were found last Monday after going missing more than two weeks ago. Operations to their rescue 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach from a narrow shelf of rock deep within the flooded Tham Luang Nang Non cave complex are still underway. Instead of being reunited with The distraught parents of 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's children, 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's families have agreed to remain at the cave site until all of 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach and 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's soccer coach are brought out of a cave, a relative of one of 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach told CNN. Last week, ahead of Sunday’s complex operation to their rescue 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach, Thailand’s Health Secretary, Dr. Jessada Chokedamrongsook, warned that 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach would have to be their quarantine for a short period of time before being allowed to see 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's families. Doctors are monitoring 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach for any illnesses 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach may have picked up in a cave and 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's quarantine will reduce the risk of infection. Following Thailand’s Health Secretary, Dr. Jessada Chokedamrongsook's visit Last week to the Chiang Rai Prachanukroh hospital, where 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach have been taken, Thailand’s Health Secretary, Dr. Jessada Chokedamrongsook said that 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach would “be kept away from their parents for one to two days and will stay in the care room,” before a further evaluation by doctors for five to seven days. While attending to 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's physical health is currently the priority, 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach are also likely to develop short-term psychological symptoms after 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's rescue. Dr. Jennifer Wild, associate professor of experimental psychology and consultant clinical psychologist at the University of Oxford, said that it will be important for 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach to focus on the fact that 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach’ve gotten out safely, that 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's teammates still in a cave are being helped and that 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach will soon be reunited with 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's families. Authorities have refused to confirm names reported in local media, but speculation about the identities of the four boys who have been successfully evacuated from a cave is rife in surrounding areas. In the small town of Mae Sai where a cave is located, it’s all anybody is talking about it, along with details of the second search – which began at 11 a.m. local time (midnight ET). On Saturday, 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach were able to write letters to 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's parents. In letters, many boys told many boys's parents many boys loved their parents. The youngest member of the team, 11-year-old Titun, said in The youngest member of the team, 11-year-old Titun's note that The youngest member of the team, 11-year-old Titun wanted to eat fried chicken. The youngest member of the team, 11-year-old Titun's father told CNN that when The youngest member of the team, 11-year-old Titun comes home The youngest member of the team, 11-year-old Titun can have anything The youngest member of the team, 11-year-old Titun wants. In the short term after 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's escape, 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach may develop one of many psychological symptoms, said Dr. Andrea Danese, head of the Stress & Development Lab at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience at King’s College London in the UK, in a statement. “12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach may become fearful, clingy, or jumpy; 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach may fear for 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's safety; 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach may become very moody or easily upset (or, in contrast, 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach may become detached or numb); or 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach may develop headache and stomach-ache related to the intense distress,” Dr. Andrea Danese, head of the Stress & Development Lab at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience at King’s College London in the UK said. A wide range of factors might influence how 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach cope with their ordeal, and return to normalcy, added Dr. Neil Greenberg, professor of defence mental health at King’s College London in the UK, in a statement. “It is also likely, given 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's age, that the nature of 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's communication with 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's families will also affect 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach; anxiety expressed by 12 Thai boys, who have been stranded in a cave for weeks with their soccer coach's families could easily erode a child’s resilience,” Dr. Neil Greenberg, professor of defence mental health at King’s said.
Two volunteer British cave divers who are believed to be the first to the mission 12 Thai boys and 12 Thai boys's coach after nine days of searches are world leaders in cave rescue, and have frequently worked together on major search and rescue operations around the globe. The group, who went missing during an excursion with 12 Thai boys's football team coach, were found on Monday night on a small ledge inside a vast cave system in northern Thailand. In footage of the moment Two volunteer British cave divers who are believed to be the first to locate 12 Thai boys and their coach after nine days of searches arrived in the chamber, a rescuer with an English accent is heard trying to reassure 12 Thai boys that help is coming. Bill Whitehead, vice chair of the British Cave Rescue Council (BCRC), said Rick Stanton and Rick Stanton's colleague Volanthen spearheaded the mission. “Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen were pushing ahead with the other divers following on behind, creating dumps of air bottles,” Bill Whitehead, vice chair of the British Cave Rescue Council (BCRC) said. Stanton, aged in Rick Stanton's mid-fifties, is a firefighter who hails from Coventry and is regarded as one of Britain’s foremost cave divers, with more than 35 years experience. Rick Stanton combines expertise in dry caving and technical diving. In 2013 Rick Stanton described Rick Stanton's numerous search and rescue missions as “Rick Stanton's hobby”, telling divenet that Rick Stanton's participation on missions had been on an “entirely voluntary” basis. Rick Stanton was awarded an MBE in 2012 for services to cave diving, and is often described as the face of British cave diving, and the best cave diver in Europe. his colleague Volanthen, started out as a dry caver who has helped pioneer new equipment that allows cave divers to stay underwater for longer and at greater depths. his colleague Volanthen's technical skills include pushing the limits of rebreather technology, thought to be used by Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen as Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen navigate the six-mile (10 kilometres) Tham Luang Nang Non network in northern Thailand. his colleague Volanthen is a computer engineer who runs marathons in his colleague Volanthen's spare time and lives in Bristol. In 2010, Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen attempted the rescue of accomplished French diver Eric Establie, who was trapped by a silt avalanche inside the Ardeche Gorge, near Marseille. It is believed the French government requested Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen by name. Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen received medals from the Royal Humane Society for Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen's eight-day effort to save Establie, whose body Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen recovered from the cave. British diver Neil Bennett of NZ Diving said Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen were brought together in northern Thailand because of Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen's technical skills and experience using rebreathers; a type of diving equipment that allows air to be recirculated and reused. “In this situation where it is completely extreme and hostile you have to work with a partner who you know well, and is trained to a similar level as yourself. You can’t go down on your own – that would be suicide – you work as a team,” said British diver Neil Bennett of NZ Diving. the British Cave Rescue Council (BCRC) said Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen were working in northern Thailand in a voluntary capacity, and were “experts in low-visibility cave dives within small passages”. A third British cave diver, Robert Harper, was also sent to northern Thailand by the British Cave Rescue Council (BCRC), and the team has been joined by Vern Unsworth, a British cave explorer based in Chiang Rai, Reuters reported. Diving lines laid down by the team will now allow essential supplies to be ferried to 12 Thai boys, the British Cave Rescue Council (BCRC) said. In February 2014, Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen were asked by the Norwegian police to help the rescue mission the bodies of two cavers who died more than 100 metres underground in a caving network know as Steinugleflaget in Norway. Rick Stanton told the BBC at the time that despite the team trying the team's best; the rescue mission was too dangerous and could not be safely executed. “It was evident that the rescue mission was going to be quite a protracted affair, lots of dives, down deep and cold – and that was really beyond Rick Stanton and his colleague Volanthen's remit,” Rick Stanton told the BBC, recounting the rescue mission.
John Volanthen, from Bristol, was one of a number of foreign expert divers drafted in for the rescue of 12 boys and 12 boys's football coach who had been trapped in a Thai cave for nine days. John Volanthen, from Bristol tells BBC Points West about the moment John Volanthen, from Bristol and John Volanthen, from Bristol's fellow divers first discovered 12 boys alive. John Volanthen, from Bristol, said he and his fellow divers knew he and his fellow divers had found 12 boys due to the smell in a Thai cave.
CHIANG RAI, Thailand (Reuters) - Rescuers battled intensifying rain to furiously pump water from a cave in Thailand on Tuesday, as officials thrashed out plans to extract a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days. Seven members of a Thai navy SEALS unit, including a medic and a counselor, were staying with a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days after a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days's dramatic discovery on an elevated rock late on Monday by divers. News of the survival of a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days sparked jubilation in Thailand, with news websites, social media and the prime minister celebrating the survival of the “Wild Boar” team and hailing Seven members of a Thai navy SEALS unit, including a medic and a counselor as heroes. “Thank you all Thais, thank you all foreigners, everybody is a hero and everybody helped each other,” the prime minister told reporters. A video shot by Seven members of a Thai navy SEALS unit, including a medic and a counselor in flickering torchlight 4 km (2.5 miles) from the mouth of the cave in Thailand's northernmost province showed a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days sitting or standing on the rock above an expanse of water. “Thank you,” responded one of a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days. Aged between 11 and 16, a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days and a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days's 25-year-old coach went missing on June 23, after a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days set out to explore the caves in a forest park following a training session. Rear Admiral Apakorn Yuukongkaew, commander of a Thai navy SEALS unit, said rain was still a challenge but a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days would be taken out safely as soon as sufficient water could be pumped out of a cave in Thailand. “But if that doesn’t work, with the seasonal rain, a Thai navy SEALS unit’ll do it another way,” Rear Admiral Apakorn Yuukongkaew, commander of the SEALS unit, told reporters. a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days have been given a gel with high calorie and mineral content to sustain a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days while rescue plans are worked out. Officials declined to say what plans ‘A’ and ‘B’ were, but said Officials aimed to bring a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days out the same way a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days had entered. Options included teaching a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days to use smaller diving apparatus and guiding a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days out of the caves, from which 120 million liters of water had been pumped continuously for 75 hours by Tuesday evening. a Thai navy SEALS unit tried to get phone lines into a cave in Thailand to allow a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days to speak to parents and families staying at a nearby shelter throughout what could be Thailand most high-profile rescue mission. At the Tham Luang cave complex in Chiang Rai, security personnel turned away scores of people who came to show support, while more journalists joined hundreds of media representatives who have covered the drama blow-by-blow. Two British divers experienced in cave rescues, John Volanthen and Rick Stanton, were first to reach a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days, accompanied by a Thai navy SEALS unit. Two British divers experienced in cave rescues, John Volanthen and Rick Stanton's search targeted an elevated mound Two British divers experienced in cave rescues, John Volanthen and Rick Stanton believed could have provided a refuge, but an elevated mound they believed could have provided a refuge was already flooded, so Two British divers experienced in cave rescues, John Volanthen and Rick Stanton went 400 meters (1,312 ft) further, and found a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days. News of the survival of the “Wild Boar” team sparked jubilation among relatives and rescuers and spread swiftly enough to figure on the front pages of Tuesday's newspapers. “Found a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days, safe and preparing to come out,” was the headline in Thailand's biggest daily, Thai Rath. Caricatures of smiling volunteers, rescue workers and media spread on social media and messaging platforms, applauding a search mission that involved citizens of Australia, Britain, China, Japan, Myanmar and the United States, among others. “Take our hearts - thank you,” read one cartoon, while another read “You are our heroes,” followed by “Thank you,” in eight languages. His deputy, Passakorn Bunyalak, dismissed rumors that a search mission that involved citizens of Australia, Britain, China, Japan, Myanmar and the United States, among others could last up to four months, but said a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days's safety was paramount and a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days's extraction should not be rushed. Sura Jeetwatee, a doctor involved in the operations, said a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days survived by staying put and drinking water that dripped from stalactite formations. SEALS commander Apakorn said the flow of a cave stream had slowed and water once at head level was now at shin level. SEALS commander Apakorn said a young soccer team located by divers after being trapped and incommunicado for 10 days were in relatively good condition.
The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and The 12 young members of a youth soccer team's coach, moments after The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach were found inside the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand, on July 3. Still wearing The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach's soccer uniforms and huddled on a rock ledge in the dark cave, The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach didn’t know what day it was and seemed uncertain that the men who’d emerged from the water were there to rescue The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach. The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach said The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach were hungry, one chanting “Eat, eat, eat” in English. The dramatic discovery late Monday in northern Thailand of The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach and The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach's soccer coach brought cries of relief from relatives who had gathered at the mouth of the dark cave, and ended a desperate and often frustrating search that drew international help and captivated Thailand. The discovery of The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach was captured on video and posted on the Thai Navy SEAL Facebook page. The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach appeared alert, chatty even and seemed anxious to see daylight again. But The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach's ordeal is not over. Officials said The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach and The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach's 25-year-old coach need to first be examined by navy doctors and fed before The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach can be extricated from the dark cave, and even that could pose difficulties if the water level begins to rise, as the water level did earlier in a desperate and often frustrating search that drew international help and captivated the nation. “First we need to drain the water and then we need to send the doctor to assess The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach's health before we can take The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach out,” said the governor of Chiang Rai province, Narongsak Osotthanakorn. the governor of Chiang Rai province, Narongsak Osotthanakorn offered no time frame for when The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach might be brought out the dark cave. The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach have so far been given energy gels and basic medication. the governor of Chiang Rai province, Narongsak Osotthanakorn said The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach was found by a pair of British divers about 300 yards from the patch of elevated dry land that has been at the center of a desperate rescue mission that drew experts from the United States, Australia, Israel, Britain and other nations. Upon hearing the news, relatives of The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach leaped from makeshift beds in a room where relatives of the missing have been sleeping about 150 yards from the mouth of the dark cave. Some wept and hugged one another. The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach went missing June 23. The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach and The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach's coach roamed through a lush mountain range near the Mae Sai river before entering the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand. the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand is a popular site among locals but one that is considered treacherous during the rainy season, which runs from May to October. It is thought that The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach walked deep inside the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand before heavy rain partially flooded the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand and prevented The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach from turning back. Rescue teams led by elite navy divers pumped out muddy water and set up lights to illuminate the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand, while locals and Buddhist monks flocked to say prayers and give offerings to spirits believed to watch over the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand. The rescue mission was delayed by rainfall that continued to fill up the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand, forcing divers to turn back repeatedly. With no signs of The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach except bicycles by the entrance and a few handprints and footprints inside the cave complex in Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park, Thailand, many were beginning to fear the worst. Chaiyon Sirsamott, a local politician who has observed the drama since the second day, said even some experts Chaiyon Sirsamott, a local politician who has observed the drama since the second day spoke with on-site were pessimistic that The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach would be found alive. As the week progressed and experts arrived from international agencies — including U.S. military search-and-rescue personnel based in Okinawa, Japan — some officials voiced a sense of progress. But it wasn’t until Sunday, after several days of dry weather, that the water inside began to recede and become clearer, making it easier for divers to navigate. Chaiyon Sirsamott, a local politician who has observed the drama since the second day said that Chaiyon Sirsamott, a local politician who has observed the drama since the second day spoke to divers earlier Monday who said divers had finally been able to pass a T-junction that was just before the area where The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach were thought to have taken refuge. Thai Rear Adm. Arpakorn Yookongkaew said The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach appeared to be in good spirits, some jumping into the water when divers approached them. But Thai Rear Adm. Arpakorn Yookongkaew said that “it will take time” before The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach can leave. Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha issued a statement hailing “the tremendous efforts of all international units” involved in a desperate and often frustrating search that drew international help and captivated the nation, the Associated Press reported. Styllis is a special correspondent. Times staff writer Shashank Bengali in Islamabad, Pakistan, contributed to this report. 8:50 p.m.: this report has been updated with additional comments from the governor of Chiang Rai province. 4:45 p.m.: this report was updated with details from a video of The dramatic discovery late Monday in northern Thailand of the 12 missing boys and their soccer coach. 1:35 p.m.: this report was updated throughout with staff reporting. 10 a.m.: this report was updated with additional details about a desperate and often frustrating search that drew international help and captivated the nation and reports from Narongsak. 9:15 a.m.: this report was updated with a quote from Chiang Rai provincial Gov. Narongsak Osatanakorn, and the ages of The 12 young members of a youth soccer team and their coach. this report was originally published at 9 a.m.
Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses, poses with the Moo Paa football team at Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital in Chiang Rai province. The picture is among many pictures Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses posted on Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses's Facebook page together with a message about the football team who had been trapped in flooded Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province, for more than two weeks. The army doctor who stayed with 12 young footballers and 12 young footballers's coach trapped in Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province, after 12 young footballers and their coach trapped in Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province had been found praised 12 young footballers and their coach trapped in Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province for 12 young footballers and their coach trapped in Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province's optimism and good morale, spirits and discipline. "The qualities of the Moo Paa football team that impress Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses are 12 young footballers and their coach trapped in Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province's optimism and great morale in the wake of the ordeal," Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses, wrote on Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses's Facebook page Monday. Dr Pak, who had been chosen to stay with the Moo Paa football team due to Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses's medical and diving skills, also wrote that 12 young footballers were well disciplined -- 12 young footballers always put garbage in black plastic bags after every meal. Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses also praised their coach, for devoting their coach to protecting the young. "Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses saw from the first day that their coach waited for 12 young footballers to satisfy 12 young footballers's hunger first. their coach gave their coach's meal to 12 young footballers," Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses wrote. their coach had taken good care of 12 young footballers before rescuers met 12 young footballers because the physical and mental health of 12 young footballers was much better than expected, Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses wrote. their coach always told 12 young footballers not to take anything from flooded Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai, Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses added. "All the boys of the Moo Paa football team are aware of all rescuers' dedication to the search for 12 young footballers. And Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses am confident that the Moo Paa boys will grow to become excellent citizens, contribute to the country and bring good reputation to the country in the future," Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses said, recalling the 17-day attempts to save the Moo Paa football team. Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses had been with 12 young footballers and their coach trapped in Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province since rescuers had found 12 young footballers and their coach trapped in Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province in flooded Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai on July 2. Lt Col Pak Loharachun, wearing eyeglasses was the last one to dive out of flooded Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai after the extraction of 12 young footballers and their coach trapped in Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai province at the Tham Luang-Khun Nam Nang Non Forest Park in Mae Sai district completed. The 12 boys, aged 11-16, and The 12 boys, aged 11-16, and their 25-year-old coach's 25-year-old coach had visited flooded Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai after The 12 boys, aged 11-16, and their 25-year-old coach's regular football practice on June 23 and been trapped by floodwater. The 12 boys, aged 11-16, and their 25-year-old coach's extraction started on July 8 and took three days to finish. The 12 boys, aged 11-16, and their 25-year-old coach was expected to be discharged from Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital in Chiang Rai province on Thursday. Authorities organised a religious ceremony at flooded Tham Luang cave, Chiang Rai to boost spirits and morale and pray for good luck Monday.
Wrapped in emergency blankets and appearing visibly frail, 12 boys and 12 boys's adult coach said hello to the outside world in a brief video message Wednesday from deep inside a cave in northern Thailand where 12 boys and their adult coach have been trapped for eleven days. A video shared by the Thai Navy SEALs leading the rescue mission shows 12 boys and their adult coach introducing 12 boys and their adult coach and stating 12 boys and their adult coach's age. “Sawadee krap,” each boy says with each boy's palms together in wai, the traditional Thai greeting. A second video shows a medic treating 12 boys and their adult coach's feet and gaunt legs. One boy asked if One boy could have some food. “12 boys and their adult coach are about to get a meal,” the cameraman assured One boy as a medic checked a medic's watch. Cheers erupted at a camp outside a cave in northern Thailand where they have been trapped for eleven days entrance when 12 boys and their adult coach had all been found alive. Relatives, who had been sleeping on plastic chairs and cots under a tarpaulin tent since 12 boys and their adult coach's disappearance, burst into tears. For a few short hours the nation rejoiced that the search had ended, but the rescue is only beginning. Authorities are racing to find a way to get 12 boys and their adult coach out of a cave in northern Thailand where they have been trapped for eleven days before monsoon season, which began in May, hits full swing. Heavy rains are expected to resume this week. A Belgian diver assisting the search said none of 12 boys know how to swim, yet teaching 12 boys to dive is one option for 12 boys's escape. Narongsak Osottanakorn, the governor of Chiang Rai province where a cave in northern Thailand where they have been trapped for eleven days is located, said 12 boys are in stable health condition and that a communications system is being installed to allow 12 boys to speak with 12 boys's families soon for the first time since 12 boys's disappearance. 12 boys are believed to have entered a cave in northern Thailand where they have been trapped for eleven days after practice on June 23 with 12 boys's assistant coach, Ekkapol Chantawong, on what was meant to be a half-day trek. But monsoon rains flooded several chambers and blocked 12 boys's exit. The saga of 12 boys and their adult coach has gripped the nation as search efforts snowballed from a small local team to a multinational emergency response. U.S. and Australian military personnel came to support the nation authorities, as well as technical experts from the U.K., China, Japan and elsewhere. Rescuers initially believed 12 boys and their adult coach had likely taken shelter in a large chamber known as Pattaya Beach, roughly 3.5 miles from a cave in northern Thailand where they have been trapped for eleven days entrance. A pair of British divers assisting the Thai Navy SEALs leading the rescue mission found 12 boys and their adult coach some 1,300 feet further into the complex after discovering Pattaya was also flooded. A video shared by the Thai Navy captured 12 boys and their adult coach's first contact. “How many of 12 boys and their adult coach?” a man’s voice asked as a flashlight scanned 12 boys and their adult coach. “Thirteen,” a voice rang out. Contact us at letters@time.com.
Authorities are now working to get a 5km (3 mile) cable into the cave to supply the group with air. They are also trying to feed a fibre optic cable through to the group, to connect the group to the group's families for the first time in nearly two weeks.
On Saturday, the governor of the Chiang Rai region, where the cave is located, said the next three to four days were "the most favourable time for the operation in terms of the water, the weather and the boys' health".
One of the British divers who helped the rescue the Thai soccer team just confirmed what many suspected about Elon Musk's somewhat bizarre attempt at helping: Elon Musk's somewhat bizarre attempt at helping was never going to work. Unsworth, who according to CNN played a "pivotal" role in the rescue, appeared exasperated when asked about Elon Musk's. Elon Musk's caused a stir on social media last week, when Elon Musk's essentially live-tweeted Elon Musk's's plans to aid with the rescue. his plans to aid with the massive rescue effort that notion with a kid-sized submarine, which Elon Musk's delivered to officials in Thailand. Unsworth, a local cave expert who was one of the first on the scene, shot that notion down. Unsworth, a local cave expert who was one of the first on the scene said the Musk-designed metal tube was far too big and inflexible to make it around the narrow passages of the cave. "the Musk-designed metal tube wouldn't have made the first 50 meters into the cave," Unsworth, a local cave expert who was one of the first on the scene said. Ouch.
