Video evidence suggests “it is extremely likely” that the same person was responsible for the three deadly shootings at massage parlors in the metro Atlanta area, police said Tuesday.
Eight people were killed and one person was wounded in the attacks. Two of the shootings were at spas across the street from each other in northeast Atlanta and the other happened about 30 miles away in Cherokee County to the northwest of the city. Officials in each jurisdiction said there were no immediate indications of motive.
The suspect in the Cherokee County shootings was taken into custody in Crisp County, about 150 miles south of Atlanta, around 8:30 p.m. – about 3 1/2 hours after the killings. The Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office identified him as Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock. In a video on the Crisp County Sheriff’s Department Facebook page, Sheriff Frank Reynolds said the agency and the highway patrol were alerted Long was headed their way.
After his vehicle was spotted, a chase ensued on Interstate 75 and a state trooper performed a maneuver that sent the SUV out of control. “The suspect was taken into custody without incident … and transported to the Crisp County jail,” the official said.
Deputies were called to Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, Georgia, for reports of a shooting, Cherokee County Sheriff’s spokesperson Jay Baker said. Responding deputies found five people with gunshot wounds. Two people were pronounced dead at the scene and three were transported to a hospital, where two died, Baker said.
The massage parlor is about 30 miles from the sites of the Atlanta shootings, which took place about an hour later. Atlanta police said they responded to a robbery call at the Gold Massage Spa on Piedmont Road in Atlanta and found three people dead. While there, police received another call of shots fired directly across the street at the Aroma Therapy Spa, where they found one person dead, Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said.
The four victims were female and appear to be Asian, Bryant said, adding it was too early to say what their connection was to the spas. Authorities in Atlanta’s Zone 2 said they were increasing patrols around similar businesses. In New York, members of the police department’s critical response command deployed to Asian communities throughout the city in response to the shootings, a spokesman for the NYPD told CNN. The FBI is assisting law enforcement with the shooting investigations, according to FBI spokesman Kevin Rowson.

ATLANTA—A Georgia man who professed a passion for guns and God was in custody on Tuesday night after a string of shootings that police said appeared to target Asian women at massage parlors and left eight people dead.
Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia, was caught on video at the crime scenes and later nabbed on a highway two hours south of Atlanta following a police chase, authorities said. Police stressed that it was too early to announce a motive—but at least four of those killed were of Korean descent, and the horrific attacks come amid a wave of targeted violence against the Asian-American community. A trickle of details about the suspect, who went by his middle name, offered few clues. “Pizza, guns, drums, music, family, and God.
This pretty much sums up my life. It’s a pretty good life,” read the tagline on an Instagram account that appeared to belong to Long.
The rampage began at Young’s Asian Massage in Acworth in Cherokee County, where two people were killed, one other person succumbed to their injuries en route to a nearby hospital, and one died while in treatment, according to the sheriff’s office. The victims were two Asian women, a white woman, and a white man, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. A Hispanic man was also injured in the shooting and was rushed to a hospital for medical treatment, a spokesman for the sheriff said.
About an hour later and 30 miles away, two spas on the same Atlanta street—Gold Spa and one in Aroma Therapy Spa—were targeted by gunfire, and four Asian women were killed. Officers had just arrived at one of the spas to find the victims when they were summoned to the second.
“While at [the first location] we received another call across the street of shots fired, and responded to find another individual shot at that location,” Atlanta Police Chief Rodney N. Bryant told reporters. Two men who live just across from Gold Massage Spa who refused to give their names said their neighbors started asking them about the incident around 6:15 p.m. They said the area was very diverse, but that the spa was known to be an Asian-owned business.
Cherokee County Sheriff ’s Capt. Jay Baker told reporters: “Nothing is going to be ruled out.
Wherever the investigation leads us, that’s where we are going to go.” Atlanta police said video surveillance of Long’s car at all three massage parlors captured Tuesday night made it “extremely likely” he was the main suspect in all three shootings.
Baker said that Long was arrested by Crisp County Sheriff’s officers who performed a PIT maneuver, or a pursuit intervention technique, in which police force another car to plow sideways and stop. Long’s family did not respond to calls for comment. His youth pastor at the Crabapple First Baptist Church confirmed he was the suspect and said elders would be releasing a statement.
A 2018 video on the Crabapple Facebook page features Long discussing his Christian journey toward baptism. “As many of you may remember, when I was 8 years old I thought I was becoming a Christian, and got baptized during that time. And I remember a lot of the reason for that is a lot of my friends in my Sunday school class were doing that,” Long says in the clip.
He goes on to say that when he was in seventh grade he attended a youth group and a speaker was discussing the biblical story of the prodigal son. The FBI joined the investigation late Tuesday, and President Biden was also briefed on the massacres. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is in South Korea, mentioned the killings before a meeting with officials said. “We are horrified by this violence which has no place in America or anywhere,” he said, according to the Associated Press.

CORDELE, Ga. (WALB) -
A man wanted in Cherokee County following deadly shootings at Atlanta-area massage parlors was caught and arrested in Crisp County Tuesday night, according to the Crisp County Sheriff’s Office (CCSO). CCSO told WALB News 10 that an alert was put out by the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office for Robert Aaron Long and that it was believed he was heading towards Crisp County. Georgia State Patrol spotted the suspect’s vehicle on I-75 South and followed him until mile marker 93, just south of Cordele, where troopers pulled a PIT maneuver and stopped his vehicle. Long was taken into custody without incident. He was transported to the Crisp County Jail. The FBI and the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office have come down to Crisp County and are expected to take Long back to Cherokee County some point tonight or early morning.
Copyright 2021 WALB. All rights reserved.

The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Long, will appear in court Thursday. The man suspected of killing eight people in three separate shootings at spas in the Atlanta area on Tuesday has allegedly admitted to the killings and blamed his "addiction to sex" as the motive, authorities said.
The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long, of Woodstock, Georgia, was taken into custody Tuesday night following a police pursuit, authorities said. He was charged Wednesday afternoon with four counts of murder by the Atlanta Police Department and four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault by the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office.
"Long told investigators that he blames the massage parlors for providing an outlet for his addiction to sex," the sheriff's office said in a statement on Wednesday. He may have "frequented these places in the past," Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said.
"Long told investigators the crimes were not racially motivated," the sheriff's office added. The first shooting was reported at about 5 p.m. at Young's Asian Massage in Acworth, Georgia. Deputies found two people shot dead and three others injured, according to a spokesman from the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office. The three injured were taken to a hospital, where two died, said Capt. Jay Baker, director of communications from the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office.
About 47 minutes after that incident, Atlanta police responded to a 911 call of a robbery in progress at Gold Spa on Piedmont Road and found three women dead from gunshot wounds, a spokesman told ABC News in a statement. While on the scene, the officers were advised of shots fired at a spa across the street, identified as Aromatherapy Spa. When they went to investigate, police found a woman inside dead from a gunshot wound, Sgt. John Chafee of the Atlanta Police Department said in a statement.
All four deaths in the Atlanta shooting were identified as women and "it appears that they may be Asian," police said at a press conference. Several victims in the Acworth shooting were Asian. The Acworth victims were identified by authorities as: Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Xiaojie Yan, 49; and Daoyou Feng, 44.
Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, was shot and injured in the Acworth shooting and was the sole survivor, authorities said. Rita Barron, owner of Gabby's Boutique, which is next door to the location of the first shooting, told ABC News that she first heard one loud pop between the businesses' shared wall and became concerned. "I have two customers in my store and I heard what sounded like a pop
and I thought, 'Oh my god, something is wrong,'" Barron said. Long's phone was tracked to find his location, authorities said. His car was spotted around 8 p.m. in Crisp County, which is about three hours south of Atlanta, and deputies performed a PIT maneuver to spin out the car, the Crisp County Sheriff's Office said.
Long was arrested without incident. A 9mm gun was recovered at the traffic stop, authorities said.
Prior to Long's arrest, the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office had shared photos of the suspect leaving Young's Asian Massage in Acworth. In Cherokee County, Long is charged with four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault, the sheriff's office said.
Authorities said it appeared the suspect acted alone. In the Atlanta suburb of Lawrenceville, the police department said Wednesday that it's providing "extra patrols in and around Asian businesses, particularly spas," in the wake of Tuesday's shootings. "Although there are no known threats at this time, these patrols will continue for the foreseeable future for the safety and comfort of the community," police said. "While the motive for last night's terrible violence remains under investigation, I express my love and support for and stand in solidarity with the Asian-American community, which has endured a shocking increase in violence and harassment over the last year," Ossoff said.

ATLANTA (AP) — Shootings at two massage parlors in Atlanta and one in the suburbs Tuesday evening left eight people dead, many of them women of Asian descent, authorities said. A 21-year-old man suspected in the shootings was taken into custody in southwest Georgia hours later after a manhunt, police said.
The attacks began around 5 p.m., when five people were shot at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor in a strip mall near a rural area in Acworth, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of Atlanta, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Capt. Jay Baker said.
Two people died at the scene and three were transported to a hospital where two of them also died, Baker said. No one was arrested at the scene.
Around 5:50 p.m., police in the Buckhead neighborhood of Atlanta, responding to a call of a robbery in progress, found three women dead from apparent gunshot wounds at Gold Spa. While they were at that scene, they learned of a call reporting shots fired at another spa across the street, Aromatherapy Spa, and found a woman who appeared to have been shot dead inside the business.
“It appears that they may be Asian,” Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said. South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said in statement Wednesday that its diplomats in Atlanta have confirmed from police that four of the victims who died were women of Korean descent. The ministry said the office of its Consulate General in Atlanta is trying to confirm the nationality of the women.
The killings came amid a recent wave of attacks against Asian Americans that coincided with the spread of the coronavirus across the United States. “Our entire family is praying for the victims of these horrific acts of violence,” Gov. Brian Kemp said Tuesday evening on Twitter.
A man suspected in the Acworth shooting was captured by surveillance video pulling up to the business around 4:50 p.m. Tuesday, minutes before the attack, authorities said. Baker said the suspect, Robert Aaron Long, of Woodstock, was taken into custody in Crisp County, about 150 miles (240 kilometers) south of Atlanta.
Baker said they believe Long is also the suspect in the Atlanta shootings. Police said video footage showed the suspect’s vehicle in the area of the Atlanta spas about the time of those attacks as well.
That, as well as other video evidence, “suggests it is extremely likely our suspect is the same as Cherokee County’s, who is in custody,” Atlanta police said in a statement. Atlanta and Cherokee County authorities were working to confirm the cases are related. FBI spokesman Kevin Rowson said the agency was assisting Atlanta and Cherokee County authorities in the investigation.
Crisp County Sheriff Billy Hancock said in a video posted on Facebook that his deputies and state troopers were notified around 8 p.m. that a murder suspect out of north Georgia was headed toward their county. Deputies and troopers set up along the interstate and “made contact with the suspect,” who was driving a 2007 black Hyundai Tucson, around 8:30 p.m., he said.
A state trooper performed a PIT, or pursuit intervention technique, maneuver, “which caused the vehicle to spin out of control,” Hancock said. Long was then taken into custody “without incident” and was being held in the Crisp County jail for Cherokee County authorities who were expected to arrive soon to continue their investigation. Due to the shootings, Atlanta police said they dispatched officers to check nearby similar businesses and increased patrols in the area. Associated Press writer Kim Tong-hyung in Seoul contributed to the this story.

A man suspected of killing eight people at three Atlanta-area spas was headed to Florida “perhaps to carry out additional shootings” when he was arrested Tuesday night, Atlanta’s mayor said Wednesday, citing investigators. “It’s very likely there would have been more victims,” Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said in a news conference at Atlanta police headquarters.
And preliminary information indicates that the killings – of six Asian people and two White people – may not have been racially motivated, but instead could relate to the suspect’s claim of a potential sex addiction, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said at the joint news conference. Still, it was too early to know a motive, Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said.
“There’s still a lot more work to be done. … We’re just not there as of yet,” Bryant said.
Because of the victims’ backgrounds, some public officials had raised fears before Wednesday’s police news conference that ethnicity had come into play, amid rising concerns nationwide about anti-Asian violence during the coronavirus pandemic. Police say Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia, is suspected of opening fire at the spas late Tuesday afternoon and early evening, first at a business about 30 miles northwest of Atlanta, followed by two more at spas in northeastern Atlanta.
Long was being held Wednesday in Cherokee County on four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault, the sheriff’s office said. He is also facing four counts of murder in Atlanta, according to city police.
“Sex” is a hate crime category under Georgia’s new law. If Long was targeting women out of hatred for them or scapegoating them for his own problems, it could potentially be a hate crime. The shootings don’t have to be racially motivated to constitute a hate crime in Georgia.
Long was arrested Tuesday night about 150 miles south of Atlanta, in a traffic stop on Interstate 75, authorities said. After his arrest, Long indicated to investigators he believed he had a sex addiction and “an issue with porn,” and claimed to see the spas as “a temptation … that he wanted to eliminate,” Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker said at Wednesday’s news conference.
Long “may have frequented some of these places in the past,” Reynolds said, without specifying whether he meant exactly those businesses, or spas like them. Long also told investigators the killings were not racially motivated, Reynolds’ office said in a news release. Long legally purchased the gun used in the shootings at a local gun store, Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, Georgia, an attorney for the company told CNN. Baker, like the Atlanta mayor, said Long told investigators he was headed to Florida and was “going to do more acts” there. The spas were “legally operating businesses” which were not on the authorities’ radar, the mayor said.
South Korea’s foreign ministry, which had been in touch with its consulate in Atlanta, has said that four of the victims were of Korean ethnicity. The six Asian victims were women, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported, citing authorities. Shortly before 5 p.m. Tuesday, deputies were called to Young’s Asian Massage between the Georgia cities of Woodstock and Acworth after reports of a shooting, Cherokee County sheriff’s officials said.
That shooting left four people dead – two Asian, and two White – and one person injured, Baker said. Two of the victims were pronounced dead at the scene, while the other two died at a hospital.
Killed were Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44. The injured survivor was Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, authorities said.
About an hour later and 30 miles away, Atlanta police responded to what was described as a robbery at the Gold Massage Spa on Piedmont Road in Atlanta. Police said they found three people dead. While there, police received another call of shots fired across the street at the Aroma Therapy Spa, where they found one person dead, Bryant said.
Investigators found surveillance video of a suspect near the Cherokee County scene and published images on social media. Long’s family saw the images, contacted authorities and helped identify him, Reynolds said Wednesday.
“(The family members) are very distraught, and they were very helpful in this apprehension,” Reynolds said. Investigators were able to track Long’s phone, and Reynolds reached out to the sheriff in Georgia’s Crisp County, well to the south, to let him know Long appeared to be heading in that direction, the Cherokee County sheriff said Wednesday. Around 8:30 p.m. Tuesday, the highway patrol about 150 miles south of Atlanta was alerted that a suspect in the Cherokee County shooting was heading its way, Reynolds said in a video on the Crisp County Sheriff’s Department Facebook page. After Long’s vehicle was spotted, a chase ensued on Interstate 75 and a state trooper performed a maneuver that sent the SUV out of control, authorities said. Police confiscated a 9 millimeter gun from his vehicle, according to Baker, the Cherokee County sheriff’s captain.
Video evidence – including that showing Long’s vehicle in the area of the Atlanta shootings – suggests that Long is responsible for the killings in Atlanta, police there said. Long has claimed responsibility for the shootings in Cherokee County and in Atlanta, the Cherokee County sheriff’s office said. One law enforcement source told CNN that the suspect is on suicide watch and was wearing a vest intended to protect him from self-harm in the mug shot.
A Facebook spokesperson told CNN Wednesday that it removed an Instagram account the company believed was linked to Long. CNN went to the home of Long’s grandparents in Morristown, Tennessee, on Wednesday.
“All I want to say is that he is our grandson and we still love him very much,” said Long’s grandmother, Margaret Long, who was visibly upset. Long’s grandfather interrupted the conversation, saying they’d been told not to speak to anyone and gave no further comment.
Long spent time in rehabilitation for sexual addiction last year, a former roommate told CNN Wednesday. The roommate, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he lived with Long for several months in summer 2020 at a transition house for people exiting rehab. The roommate called police that night, identifying the suspect as Long, according to records from Cherokee County’s emergency dispatch office. Tyler Bayless said he shared a housing unit with Long at Maverick Recovery, a rehab facility in Roswell, Georgia, between August 2019 and February 2020.
Bayless told CNN that Long felt “tortured” by an addiction to sex and had gone to massage parlors for sex. “It was something that absolutely would torture him,” Bayless said. He said Long was a “deeply religious person – he would often go on tangents about his interpretation of the Bible,” and was distraught about his addiction to sex.
A law enforcement source told CNN Wednesday that Long was recently kicked out of the house by his family due to his sexual addiction, which, the source said, included frequently spending hours on end watching pornography online. An incident report from the CCSO said an anonymous caller to 911 told dispatch Long was “kicked out of his parents’ house last night,” adding that he “was emotional,” the incident report says.
President Joe Biden was briefed overnight about the shootings, and White House officials have been in touch with the Atlanta mayor’s office and the FBI, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Wednesday. Mayor Bottoms told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer Wednesday people need to stand in solidarity with Asian Americans like they did with Black Americans last summer. Bottoms added that she thought “it would be appropriate” if Long was charged with a hate crime.
“In this particular case, where the victims were Asian women, we see the intersections of racism, xenophobia and gender-based violence,” Nguyen said. Younghoe Koo, Atlanta Falcons placekicker and South Korea native, released a statement on Instagram explaining the shooting’s affect on him and how hate crimes against all races needs to stop.
“As an Asian American, I have heard the jokes and name calling. I often dealt with it by ignoring what was said and minding my own business. I don’t have all the answers, but I realize now more than ever that this is an issue that needs to be addressed and that ignoring it won’t help us do that.
I know this one post won’t solve the problem, but I hope to help raise awareness on hate crimes against all. #stophate” Koo’s post read.
Georgia state Rep. Sam Park told CNN that he urges Asian Americans facing discrimination and hate to make their voices heard by reaching out to community members, elected officials and law enforcement. “Raise those concerns so that we can do as much as we can to provide support and hopefully prevent tragedies like this from happening moving forward,” Park said.
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly spelled the names of shooting victim Delaina Ashley Yaun. The story also misspelled Xiaojie Tan’s last name based on information provided by the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office.

Christian mass shooter Robert Aaron Long, 21, told police he was addicted to pornography and was trying to eliminate “temptation” when he shot up three massage parlors in the Atlanta area, killing eight people who were mostly Asian women Tuesday evening, and was planning to shoot up more parlors in Florida.
Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Department said Long, who attended Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia, a Southern Baptist congregation, “did take responsibility for the shootings” and dismissed reports that his actions were racially motivated. Baker explained that investigators handling the case said Long understood the gravity of his actions on Tuesday.
Authorities say four people died in Long’s shooting spree during his first attack at Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, a northwest suburb of Atlanta, which was reported around 5 p.m. A Hispanic man was also injured there. Atlanta police officers then responded to what was reported as a robbery at Gold Spa (open 24 hours a day) in the northeast part of the city at 5:47 p.m., where they found the bodies of three women with gunshot wounds. While officers were at that scene, they received a call about shots fired at the Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where they found another woman's body. Police confirmed Wednesday that two of the eight people killed are white.
“We don’t know additional information on what his motives were, but we certainly will not begin to blame victims. And as far as we know in Atlanta, these are legally operating businesses that have not been on our radar, not on the radar of APD,” Lance Bottoms said.
Baker said Long, who appeared to have used a 9mm firearm in his attack on the massage parlors, told police he was on his way to Florida to shoot up more massage parlors. Thanks to the help of his family, they were able to track him through his cellphone and stop him before he was able to take more lives.
“We are really appreciative of the family. Without them, this would not have happened as quickly as it happened. They are very supportive and certainly, this was difficult for them,” Baker said.
Long, who was twice baptized at Crabapple First Baptist Church, most recently in 2018, previously attended services with his mother, father and younger sister. Police said that at the time of the shootings, Long was not living with his parents.
“We pray that Lord, our leaders, our first responders, our teachers, our business leaders to have their eyes and hearts drawn toward you. You’d make Yourself known in this community in a very powerful, personal way. We ask that you use Crabapple Church to bring this to pass,” he said.

Three shootings took place Tuesday evening at three separate spas—the first in Acworth, Ga., north of Atlanta, and the others across the street from each other within the city. The shootings happened within about an hour of each other.

After the first shooting Tuesday afternoon, at a Cherokee County spa, officials released surveillance footage.
They soon got a call from a couple. They recognized their son. While Cherokee County deputies were meeting with Robert Aaron Long’s parents, Atlanta police were responding to a call at Gold’s Spa on Piedmont Road. They arrived to find three bodies at Gold’s and another across the street, at Aromatherapy Spa.
Hours later, Long, 21, would be apprehended in South Georgia. He now faces multiple murder charges and an aggravated assault charge. Atlanta police said they were able to use video footage to identify Long’s car parked outside both locations at the time of the shootings. Meanwhile, his parents informed deputies that a tracking device could lead authorities to his Hyundai Tucson. Long told police Tuesday he was overwhelmed by what he described as a sexual addiction at odds with his religious beliefs, authorities said.
Victims of the Cherokee County shooting were Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44, of an unknown address. A fifth victim, Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, was in stable condition Wednesday. Atlanta authorities were still working to notify next of kin on Wednesday, and had not released identities of the victims killed in the spa shootings there.
Though authorities say Long, who is white, denied race was a motive, the question will be asked in the investigation underway by federal, state and local officials. Gov. Brian Kemp said he wasn’t yet sure if the shooting would fall under Georgia’s hate crime law.
Rosalind S. Chou, a Georgia State University sociology professor, said it would be an oversimplification to say the shootings weren’t hate crimes just because the suspect said race hadn’t motivated him. Chou said she was horrified to think of a possible narrative emerging of a man, trying to stamp out his own sexual desires, choosing to kill women – mostly Asian – who he saw as too tempting. Long, a 2017 graduate of Sequoyah High School who lived near Milton, had no previous criminal record.
He and his parents were active members at Crabapple First Baptist Church, and social media posts, since deleted, show religion played a large role in Long’s life. He was on the youth ministry team at the church and, in 2017, visited Costa Rica on a mission trip. In a statement, church elders said they grieved for all involved; they declined interview requests.
Long had other interests. “Pizza, guns, drums, music, family, and God,” read a tagline from an Instagram account believed to be Long’s. But in 2018, he spoke of unspecified troubles in a video posted on the church’s Facebook page. He said he was helped by the Biblical story of the prodigal son.
Susan Shaw, a professor of gender studies at Oregon State University, said she was struck by Long’s comments about eliminating temptations. Shaw, who was raised in a Southern Baptist Church in Rome, said his words echo a “purity culture” popular within that denomination. The Georgia State Patrol and Crisp County Sheriff Bill Hancock, contacted by Cherokee Sheriff Frank Reynolds, were waiting for Long by the time he crossed the county line.
After a short chase, troopers performed a PIT maneuver, in which they force a fleeing car to turn sideways abruptly, causing the driver to lose control and stop. Long was arrested without further incident. In his possession, police found the 9mm believed to have been used in the shootings. Long had purchased it hours earlier at Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, the store confirmed, declining to comment. Georgia doesn’t have a waiting period for buying guns. Long told investigators he was headed to Florida, which he considered to be a hub for the porn industry, authorities said. Staff writers Wilborn P. Nobles III and Chris Joyner contributed to this report.

ATLANTA (AP) — Police said Thursday that “nothing is off the table” in the investigation of the deadly shootings at two Atlanta massage businesses, including whether the slayings were a hate crime.
Those attacks and a third one near the suburban town of Woodstock killed eight people and prompted President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris to change their plans for a previously scheduled trip to Atlanta. The pair postponed a political event in favor of meeting Friday with Asian American community leaders.
A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, is charged with murder in Tuesday’s slayings. Six of those killed were women of Asian descent. “Our investigation is looking at everything, so nothing is off the table,” Deputy Atlanta Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said at a news conference.
The Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said it also was investigating whether the killings were hate crimes. Georgia lawmakers last year passed a hate crimes law that allows additional penalties to be imposed for certain offenses when motivated by a victim’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender or disability. A hate crime is not a standalone crime under the law, but it can be used to add time to a sentence once someone is convicted of another crime.
Investigators believe Long had previously visited two of the Atlanta massage parlors where four of the women were killed, Hampton said. Long told police that the attacks were not racially motivated. He claimed to have a sex addiction, and authorities said he apparently lashed out at what he saw as sources of temptation.
Sheriff Frank Reynolds released a statement Thursday acknowledging that some of Baker’s comments stirred “much debate and anger” and said the agency regrets any “heartache” caused by his words. Baker was replaced Thursday as spokesman for the investigation, according to a statement from a county spokeswoman who said she would be handling future media inquiries about the slayings. The sheriff’s statement did not address a 2020 Facebook post that appeared to have been written by Baker promoting a T-shirt with racist language about China and the coronavirus. Baker has not commented on the post, which was taken down Wednesday.
Meanwhile, lawyer J. Daran Burns issued a statement saying he had been appointed to represent Long. He offered condolences to the victims’ families and said he was working on Long’s behalf “to investigate the facts and circumstances” surrounding the slayings. Long waived his right to an initial hearing in Cherokee County Magistrate Court on his lawyer’s advice, the statement said.
Biden and Harris had already been scheduled to travel to Atlanta to tout the $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill, but the trip took on new meaning after the shootings. The visit also comes amid an intense debate over voter rights in Georgia.
Biden and Harris, the first vice president of Asian descent, will instead meet with Asian American leaders to discuss threats against the community, meet with other local leaders and visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for an update on the pandemic. Also Thursday, Biden directed that flags be flown at half-staff through sunset Monday in honor of the dead. At a congressional hearing on violence against Asian Americans that was scheduled before the shootings, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler called for the government to “investigate and swiftly address” growing tensions but did not call for a specific course of action. Lawmakers in the House and Senate have introduced legislation that would assign a person at the Justice Department to expedite the review of hate crimes related to COVID-19 and provide additional support to state and local authorities to respond to those crimes.
But it is unclear if the bill by Rep. Grace Meng, a New York Democrat, and Sen. Mazie Hirono, a Hawaii Democrat, will get a vote. Testifying at the hearing, Meng urged Democratic leaders to move the legislation and said lawmakers “cannot turn a blind eye” to people who are living in fear.
There was some tension as a Republican on the panel, Texas Rep. Chip Roy, charged that Democrats were trying to control speech. Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick, Zeke Miller, Jonathan Lemire and Nancy Benac in Washington contributed to this report.

State and federal investigators are scrambling to learn more about Robert Aaron Long, the suspect in a string of deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area Asian spas, and his alleged motive. Not much information has surfaced about the 21-year-old from Woodstock, about a half-hour drive north of Atlanta.
He is being held without bond in Cherokee County, where he faces four counts of murder and a charge of aggravated assault, according to the county sheriff’s office. He also has been charged with more four counts of murder, Atlanta Police Department said.
Tuesday’s shootings took place at two spas in Atlanta and another in Acworth, about 10 miles west of Woodstock – which left eight people, at least four of them Asian women, dead. The four killed in the shooting near Woodstock were Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44. The injured survivor was Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, authorities said.
Authorities located Long about 150 miles south of Atlanta in Crisp County. State troopers took him into custody after using a special pursuit maneuver to spin his car out of control. The suspect “did take responsibility for the shootings,” Capt. Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said.
Reynolds said those issues could be the motivation behind the shooting. A law enforcement source said the suspect was recently kicked out of the house by his family due to his sexual addiction, which, the source said, included frequently spending hours on end watching pornography online.
According to an incident report from the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office, a 911 caller said the suspect could possibly be his son and “does have a tracker on his phone.” Another anonymous caller to 911 told dispatch the suspect was “kicked out of his parents’ house last night,” adding that he “was emotional,” the incident report says.
It is not clear whether the businesses affected were places of sex work. During a news conference on Tuesday, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms stated the businesses were “legally operating” and had not previously been on the Atlanta Police Department’s radar.
Tyler Bayless said he shared a housing unit with Long at Maverick Recovery, a rehab facility in Roswell, Georgia, between August 2019 and January or February 2020. He said that most residents were suffering from drug or alcohol addiction, but Long was being treated for sex addiction. “It was something that absolutely would torture him,” Bayless said.
He said Long was a “deeply religious person – he would often go on tangents about his interpretation of the Bible,” and was distraught about his addiction to sex. After hearing Long was the suspect in the shootings, Bayless said he was shocked that his former roommate would do such a thing. He recognized Long from the surveillance footage disseminated by authorities, he said, and Cherokee County dispatch records indicate the ex-roommate called police Tuesday night.
A Facebook spokesperson confirmed to CNN they removed an Instagram account the company believed was linked to Long. The account had been inactive for some time, the spokesperson said.
According to two law enforcement sources involved in the investigation, Long attempted to justify his actions when he told police he thought about killing himself, but decided instead to “help” others with sexual addictions by targeting spas. Investigators believe that when he was captured, Long might have been en route to Florida to perpetrate more shootings, Lance Bottoms told reporters.
Long had a 9 mm firearm in his car when he was arrested, Baker said. Long purchased his gun legally at a local gun store, Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, Georgia, an attorney for the company confirmed to CNN. In a brief statement to CNN, Matt Kilgo said the company is fully cooperating with law enforcement and there is no indication that there was anything improper with the transfer on Tuesday.
It was Long’s family who turned him in Tuesday, Reynolds said, indicating the parents called police after seeing surveillance footage that authorities posted to social media. Once investigators identified Long, the sheriff said, they tracked his phone and anticipated his movements, leading to his arrest in Crisp County. CNN went to the home of Long’s grandparents in Morristown, Tennessee, on Wednesday.
“All I want to say is that he is our grandson and we still love him very much,” said Long’s grandmother, Margaret Long, who was visibly upset. Long’s grandfather interrupted the conversation, saying they’d been told not to speak to anyone and gave no further comment. In his mugshot, Long is wearing a suicide prevention suit as a precautionary measure, which is customary, Crisp County Sheriff’s Office spokeswoman Haley Little said. Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled Xiaojie Tan’s last name based on information provided by the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office.

The Baptist church that admitted Georgia spa murderer Robert Aaron Long belonged to condemned "his evil actions" on Friday and said it didn't preach hatred against Asian Americans or women. While investigators have downplayed suggestions that the murders were motivated by racial hatred, six of the victims were of Asian descent and the killings happened at a time when violence against Asian Americans, particularly Asian American women, has been on the rise.
In its statement, the church addressed this concern directly. "We deeply regret the fear and pain Asian Americans are experiencing as a result of Aaron’s inexcusable actions," the church said. The tragic chain of events that ended with eight deaths and Long in custody started around 5 p.m. Tuesday when four people were killed near Acworth in Cherokee County, authorities said. Less than an hour later, four women were killed in two shootings in Atlanta in Fulton County.
Long was arrested as he was driving south to Florida after his parents saw a photo of him released by the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office as a suspect and notified the authorities. His arrest stunned the tight-knit congregation he belongs to in Alpharetta, Georgia, and where his father is an important lay leader. The elders at Crabapple First Baptist quickly released a statement of condolence. But as questions swirled about the practices and teachings of the mostly-white, socially-conservative church, the elders released an expanded statement that specifically addressed some of the issues that have been raised.
Prior to Tuesday, Long seemed on the surface be like legions of other young men spread out across the South — involved in his church, devoted to his family, and a hunter. The secret he considered shameful came spilling out after he was arrested. In an interview with CNBC's Shepard Smith, Reynolds said it doesn't appear Long had any prior brushes with the law and they're not aware if he's ever been treated for sex addiction. "I know he’s gone through a mental health evaluation here at the jail, that’s just standard protocol, but anything prior to that is still part of the investigation and, quite frankly, I don’t know," he said. “It’s clear to me that his targets were no accident,” Rep. Judy Chu, D-Calif., said Thursday on MSBNC.
Baker himself came under fire for promoting T-shirts with anti-Asian themes in the past. And on Friday the responsibility for keeping the public informed about developments in the case was taken from Baker and handed over to Cherokee County spokeswoman Erika Neldner. Long, who went by his middle name Aaron and is from Woodstock, Georgia, was described on the church website as a member of the Student Ministry Team. His former youth minister, Brett Cottrell, told The Washington Post that Long was part of a high school group that met for Bible study once a week and that he helped run a backyard Bible club with songs and games for children. Cottrell, who has not led the youth ministry since 2017, said he's not sure how involved Long has been with the church of late. Long's former classmate at Sequoyah High School in Canton recalled that he brought a Bible to school every day and would walk around holding it in his hands.
But Long also had an interest in bow hunting and a photograph of him posing with a freshly killed deer was posted on the website of Backwoods Bowstrings, an archery business located in Woodstock. Business owner Shannon Gott, 54, said Long came into the store about once a year to buy arrows and other gear. He said that his photo wound up on the site last year because they encourage customers to send them shots of successful bow hunts. “I don’t want to be associated with this idiot in any way, nor my people associated with him,” Gott said. “We have now taken it down and we will post nothing else from this person,” he said.
The apology went up Thursday. “Backwoods Bowstrings sincerely regrets the loss associated with one of our previous customer's actions, and apologizes for any grievance had from having this deer harvest photo in our social media galleries,” the statement, in part, read.

Six of the eight victims were women of Asian descent, prompting fears the killings were racially motivated.
A murderous rampage by a 21-year-old white man that left eight people dead – most women of Asian descent – in the US state of Georgia has sent shockwaves through Asian American communities already reeling from increased discrimination during the coronavirus pandemic. But the investigation has so far raised more questions than answers.
Police have charged Robert Aaron Long with the killings, which took place at three separate massage and spa businesses in the Atlanta area. He will be arraigned on Thursday.
Long told police the attacks were not racially motivated and were instead related to his “sex addiction”. Six of the eight victims were of Asian descent.
At least one official, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Captain Jay Baker, also sought to downplay the racial component. That has prompted a groundswell of backlash, with many expressing dismay that Long has not immediately been charged with a hate crime. Baker’s own anti-Asian Facebook posts have also raised concerns over the integrity of the investigation.
Georgia State Representative Bee Nguyen said the killings sit at the “intersection of gender-based violence, misogyny and xenophobia” in the United States. She also noted that as the attacks are being framed as “a sex addiction killing spree”, Georgia’s hate crimes statute also protects against violence motivated by gender. Meanwhile, US Representative Marylin Strickland, a Korean American Democrat, accused investigators of making excuses for the murder spree.
The attacks began on Tuesday just before 5pm (21:00 GMT), when five people were shot at Young’s Asian Massage business near Woodstock, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Atlanta, authorities said. Four people died there: 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun, 44-year-old Daoyou Feng, 49-year-old Xiaojie Tan and 54-year-old Paul Andre Michels. A fifth victim, an Hispanic male, was wounded but survived the attack.
Yaun’s mother, Margaret Rushing, told WAGA-TV that Yaun and her husband had visited the spa for a date. Yaun leaves behind a 13-year-old son and eight-month-old daughter. Her half-sister, Dana Toole, said Yaun’s husband survived by locking himself in a room and was not injured. Tan was a licensed massage therapist and reportedly owned the establishment and a second spa in the area.
Andre Michels was a local business owner, according to the Daily Beast. Family members described him as an Army veteran who owned an electric company.
His brother said he was interested in opening massage businesses. No details have so far emerged on Feng.
About 45 minutes later, the gunman attacked the Gold Spa in Atlanta, where three women were shot to death. Another woman was fatally shot at the Aromatherapy Spa across the street. The identities of the victims in the last two attacks have not yet been released.
Long was arrested at about 8pm (00:00 GMT) after police blocked his vehicle about 240km (150 miles) south of Atlanta. A 9mm gun was found in Long’s vehicle, which he had reportedly purchased legally before the attack. The FBI is aiding local authorities in the investigation.
Long told police the killings were not racially motivated, instead saying he had a “sexual addiction”. Authorities said the targeted businesses appeared to symbolise “temptation” for Long, who was apparently heading to Florida to attack “some type of porn industry”.
“He apparently has an issue, what he considers a sex addiction, and sees these locations as something that allows him to go to these places, and it’s a temptation for him that he wanted to eliminate,” Cherokee County Sheriff’s Baker told reporters. Long was also a member of the Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia. A former pastor at the church told the New York Times that Long was one of the most committed members of the church’s youth groups.
Meanwhile, CNN reported that Long had previously been in rehab for sex addiction, citing a man who shared a housing unit with Long at the facility in Roswell, Georgia, between August 2019 and January or February 2020. The roommate, Tyler Bayless, told the network that Long struggled with his conflicting religious views and his addiction. So far, no manifesto or social media posts have emerged to give further insights into what motivated Long.
On Wednesday, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms warned investigators against “victim blaming, victim shaming”. “We don’t know additional information about what his motives were. We will not begin to blame victims, and as far as we know in Atlanta these are legally operating businesses that have not been on our radar, the radar of [the Atlanta Police Department],” she said.
Many have been outraged that Long has not been immediately charged with a hate crime, with the hashtag #StopAsianHate trending on social media in the wake of the killings. Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds told reporters on Wednesday it was too early to tell if the attack was racially motivated – “but the indicators right now are it may not be”.
Margaret Huang, the president and CEO of the Southern Poverty Law Center, said law enforcement needs “some training understanding what a hate crime is”. Long “was very clearly going after a targeted group of people,” she told the Associated Press.
The attack comes as the wider Asian American community has seen increased discrimination and attacks amid the coronavirus pandemic, which many say has been stoked by former President Donald Trump, who often gave the virus anti-Asian names like the “China flu”. Hate crimes motivated by anti-Asian sentiment in New York City surged by 1,900 percent in 2020 , with only one instance reported in 2019 and 20 reported in 2020, according to the NYPD.
Meanwhile, the Stop AAPI Hate group, which documents instances of discrimination and assault against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders across the country, has reported 3,795 instances between March 19, 2020, and February 28, 2021. The xenophobia towards Asians appears to have been perpetuated by at least one official aiding in the investigation, with recently surfaced Facebook photos showing Cherokee County Sheriff’s Captain Baker last year promoting a T-shirt with racist language about China and the coronavirus.
The Facebook account, belonging to a “Jay Baker” and featuring numerous photos of Baker going back months, including a photo in which he is in uniform outside the sheriff’s office, was deleted on Wednesday night. Baker has also stoked concerns that Long would receive preferential treatment, appearing to strike a sympathetic tone when he told reporters on Wednesday that Long was “pretty much fed up and had been kind of at the end of his rope”. “Yesterday was a really bad day for him, and this is what he did,” he said. Asian American activists said Baker’s comments and the Facebook post undermine public confidence that investigators are adequately addressing Tuesday’s atrocity.
“To see this post is both disturbing and outrageous. It speaks to the structural racism that we’re all up against,” said Vincent Pan, co-executive director of Chinese for Affirmative Action, a civil rights organisation working to address anti-Asian hate crimes. “Coupled with the comments coming out of the news conference, it does not give community members confidence that our experiences and the pain and the suffering that we’re feeling are being taken seriously, at least by this particular person,” Pan told the Associated Press.

Washington — President Biden on Thursday ordered flags at the White House and on federal grounds in the U.S. and abroad to be flown at half-staff after eight people, including six women of Asian descent, were fatally shot at spas near Atlanta. The president directed the flags be lowered until sunset on March 22 "as a mark of respect for the victims of the senseless acts of violence" on Tuesday.
Police believe Robert Aaron Long, 21, is responsible for the rampage, and he was arrested 150 miles south of Atlanta after his family recognized him on surveillance footage posted online and alerted law enforcement. Long was charged Wednesday with eight counts of murder in the shootings. Long, of Woodstock, Georgia, told police the attack was not racially motivated and instead perpetrated in an attempt to eliminate the temptation of his "sex addiction." The Atlanta police said Wednesday night they have "not ruled anything out" regarding the suspected shooter's motive and are taking a "hard look" at his motivation for carrying out the rampage.
But the shooting has sparked outrage and fear in the Asian-American community, which has faced a surge in violence during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. A new report by the group Stop APPI Hate found Asian Americans were subjected to nearly 3,800 hate incidents in the past year, including harassment, shunning, slur and physical violence.
Mr. Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris were poised to travel to Atlanta on Friday as part of their tour to promote the benefits of the $1.9 trillion COVID relief package signed into law last week. While they will go to Atlanta as planned, the White House said the president and vice president will postpone an event to tout the rescue plan and instead meet with Asian-American leaders "to discuss the ongoing attacks and threats against the community" and meet with other local leaders. They are also set to visit the Centers for Disease Control to receive an update on the pandemic.

WASHINGTON, March 18 (Yonhap) -- President Joe Biden on Thursday instructed all public facilities, including the White House and military installations, to honor the victims of deadly shootings in Atlanta by flying the U.S. flag at half-staff over the next five days. "As a mark of respect for the victims of the senseless acts of violence perpetrated on March 16, 2021, in the Atlanta Metropolitan area ... I hereby order that the flag of the United States shall be flown at half-staff at the White House and upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia and throughout the United States and its Territories and possessions," said the proclamation released by the White House.
Flags will be flown at half-staff until sunset on Monday, it added. The order comes two days after the shootings at three spas in Atlanta and Cherokee County in Georgia left eight people dead, four of them of Korean ancestry.
"The recent attacks against the community are un-American. They must stop," he wrote on a Twitter post on Thursday. A 21-year-old suspect, identified as Robert Aaron Long, has been arrested and charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault. The local police have yet to identify a clear motive in the case, but many believe the shootings may have been directed at Asian Americans.
Six of the eight victims were people of Asian descent, according to police reports. The U.S. has seen a spike in the number of hate crimes targeting Asian Americans since the COVID-19 pandemic began early last year. White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki has noted such a rise in hate crimes followed "inaccurate or unfair" descriptions of the new coronavirus by the former Trump administration. "I think there's no question that some of the damaging rhetoric that we saw during the prior administration ... calling COVID the Wuhan (China) virus or other things that led to perceptions of the Asian American community that are inaccurate or unfair, has elevated threats against Asian Americans and we're seeing that around the country," she told a press briefing on Wednesday. The White House said Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris will travel to Atlanta on Friday to meet with Asian-American leaders there.
"Given the tragedy in Georgia on Tuesday night, President Biden and Vice President Harris will postpone the evening political event in Georgia for a future date," it said in a press release. Biden and Harris were earlier scheduled to visit Georgia on a trip to promote the recently enacted American Rescue Plan.

President Joe Biden on Friday condemned rising hate crimes against Asian Americans in the wake of the mass shooting in the Atlanta area that left eight people dead, including six women of Asian descent. Biden said hate crimes against Asian Americans have been “skyrocketing” since the coronavirus pandemic began more than a year ago and that the country cannot be silent in the face of the hate and violence.
“Our silence is complicity. We cannot be complicit. We have to speak out.
We have to act,” Biden said, speaking from Emory University in Atlanta. Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to Atlanta on Friday to meet with Asian American leaders in the wake of the deadly shooting.
They had originally planned to travel to Atlanta to tout the benefits of the $1.9 trillion Covid-19 economic relief package that Biden recently signed into law, but the White House scrapped plans for a rally after the shooting. Biden urged Congress to pass the Covid-19 Hate Crimes Act, which he has said would expedite the federal government’s response to hate crimes that have risen during the pandemic, support state and local governments to improve hate crimes reporting and make information on hate crimes more accessible to Asian American communities.
Biden and Harris did not explicitly state that they considered the shootings earlier this week a hate crime. But they noted that whatever the motivation of the shooter, the killings come amid rising hate crimes against Asian Americans in the United States.
“Racism is real in America and it has always been. Xenophobia is real in America and always has been – sexism too,” said Harris, who is America’s first Black and South Asian vice president.
During a meeting with leaders of the Asian American Pacific Islander – sometimes shortened to AAPI – community, Biden echoed Harris in condemning the rhetoric from powerful political leaders, according to one attendee. Stephanie Cho, the executive director for Asian Americans Advancing Justice, said former President Donald Trump’s name came up repeatedly during Biden’s hourlong meeting with the group. Biden acknowledged Trump’s contributions to a rise in hate against Asian Americans, Cho told CNN’s Jeff Zeleny.
Biden said he would work as “much as possible” to roll back that rhetoric. “He definitely said that they were definitely harmful,” Cho said of when the topic of Trump’s statements came up in the meeting. “And it’s his position and his administration to completely roll back all of that,” Cho added.
Cho described the meeting as “very somber” but said that Biden was “trying to understand” the issue and to hear directly from AAPI leaders. Biden would not describe the shootings as a hate crime yet, and Cho said she understood why he has to take that position, although she feels differently.
Democratic Sen. Tammy Duckworth of Illinois sent two letters to Attorney General Merrick Garland and FBI Director Christopher Wray this week asking for a review of hate crimes against Asian Americans, as she lobbies the Biden administration to prioritize the issue. She asked for them to review why some hate crimes against the AAPI community are not reported as such. Duckworth also called Harris this week, a source familiar with the call told CNN.
The source declined to provide details of the pair’s conversation, but added broadly, “The administration is keeping an open line out to everyone. We want to keep talking and figure out ways to engage with the AAPI community.”
The call was first reported by Politico. Prior to meeting with the AAPI leaders, Biden and Harris visited the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is headquartered in Atlanta, and received an update on the pandemic from health and medical experts.
The visit came as the Biden administration reached its goal of 100 million shots in arms. Georgia has emerged as a key political state for Democrats.
Biden narrowly won there in the presidential race and Democrats subsequently won two Senate seats there earlier this year, which gave the party control of the chamber – enabling passage of Biden’s sweeping Covid-19 law. Biden and Harris met with those Democrats, Georgia Sens. Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, during their trip, White House deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said, as well as Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms and former Democratic Georgia gubernatorial candidate and voting rights champion Stacey Abrams. “If anyone ever wondered if voting can change your country, Georgia just proved it can.
Because when you elected two new United States senators, it made it possible to pass the American Rescue Plan – landmark legislation to not only meet the emergency we’re in but transform this nation,” he said. Both Warnock and Ossoff narrowly won their seats from incumbent Republicans in runoff elections, flipping the balance of control in the Senate and paving the way for passage of the administration’s American Rescue Plan, which cleared the Senate without any Republican support. In a statement following the meeting, Warnock and Ossoff pointed to the American Rescue Plan as a bright point in a tough week.
They said the meeting consisted of discussions about how the legislation will affect Georgians – from free vaccines to direct payments to Peach State residents who qualify – and looked toward investing in infrastructure as a next step. “As Georgia unites in grief after this week’s massacre, the President and Vice President made clear today that they are here for Georgia, and that together we will defeat Covid-19, rebuild our economy, and re-unite our country,” Ossoff said.
Abrams has devoted years to expanding the electorate and boosting turnout in Georgia, a typically reliable red state. Biden was the first Democratic presidential candidate to win Georgia since 1992.
Georgia is ground zero for one of the country’s biggest fights over voting rights. Georgia Republicans are trying to pass new laws to make voting more difficult – an expansive new voting bill unveiled on Wednesday would give the state broad powers over local election officials, set limits on weekend early voting and add voter ID requirements for absentee ballots. This story has been updated with additional reporting Saturday.

The South Korean ministers of foreign affairs and defense also expressed their regrets about the attack.
Eight people, all but one of them women, were killed at three Atlanta spas on Tuesday in a shooting spree believed to be carried out by Robert Aaron Long, who has been charged with eight counts of murder. Long’s motivations are not yet clear, but the victims’ backgrounds have raised fears that racial bias may have come into play. Violence against Asian Americans has been high in recent months amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, Long told investigators the killings were not racially motivated.
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms also condemned the attack on Wednesday and acknowledged the ethnicity of the victims. “We know [violence against Asian Americans] is an issue that’s happening around the country; it is unacceptable, it is hateful, and it has to stop,” she said. Long was arrested Tuesday night about 150 miles south of the city.

Suspect arrested, says the killings were not racially motivated; police state it is too early to declare this a hate crime.
At least eight people, including six Asian women, were killed in shootings at three different spas in the US state of Georgia on Tuesday, with a 21-year-old white man in custody on suspicion of staging all three attacks, police have said. The shootings came with many Asian Americans already on edge following a recent spike in hate crimes against the community and triggered immediate fears that Asian-run businesses may have been deliberately singled out.
The bloodshed began around 17:00 EDT (21:00 GMT) on Tuesday when four people were killed and another was wounded in a shooting at Young’s Asian Massage in Cherokee County, about 64km (40 miles) north of Atlanta, Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s office said. The Atlanta police department separately confirmed that four women were found dead at two business establishments in northeast Atlanta, identified as the Gold Massage Spa and Aroma Therapy spa.
Authorities have identified Robert Aaron Long as a suspect in all three shootings and say he acted alone. “The suspect did take responsibility for the shootings. He said that early on, once we began interviews with him,” Baker said at a news conference on Wednesday.
“He does claim that it was not racially motivated”, Baker said, explaining that Long has a “what he considers a sex addiction” and saw the parlours as “temptations he wanted to eliminate”. Local newspaper the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported Long bought a gun from a local shop the same day the shootings occurred. Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said it is too early to definitively say whether this was a hate crime.
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms added that there has not been “a significant uptick in formal complaints” of violence from the city’s Asian American community but recognised the spike in reports of violence against Asian Americans across the country, calling it “unacceptable”. Long was taken into custody after a “brief pursuit” about 240km (150 miles) from Atlanta, according to a statement by the Georgia Department of Safety on Facebook.
While on the scene, officers were advised of shots fired across the street, where they found a fourth female victim. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was assisting in the investigation, a spokesman told the AFP news agency.
South Korea’s foreign ministry said in a statement that its diplomats in Atlanta have confirmed from police that four of the victims who died were women of Korean descent. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is in South Korea meeting with Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong, mentioned the killings during an opening statement.
“We are horrified by this violence which has no place in America or anywhere,” he said, noting that four of the women were believed to be of Korean descent. The shootings come as reports of attacks against Asian Americans, primarily elders, have spiked in recent months – heightened during the COVID-19 pandemic, activists believe, by talk of the “Chinese virus” by former President Donald Trump and others.
Vice President Kamala Harris told reporters before a meeting with Prime Minister Micheal Martin that she stands with the Asian-American community. “We are not yet clear about the motive. But I do want to say to our Asian-American community that we stand with you and understand how this has frightened and shocked and outraged all people, knowing the increasing level of hate crime against our Asian-American brothers and sisters”, she said.
“Our entire family is praying for the victims of these horrific acts of violence,” Governor Brian Kemp said Tuesday evening on Twitter. The New York police department’s counterterrorism bureau said it was “monitoring the shooting of Asian Americans in Georgia” and deploying officers “to our great Asian communities across the city out of an abundance of caution”, though it added there was no known link to the city.
While racial motivation can be hard to establish, a study by the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at CSU San Bernardino found that reported anti-Asian hate crimes nearly tripled from 49 to 122 cases last year across 16 big US cities including New York and Los Angeles – even as overall hate crime fell 7 percent. Georgia is home to nearly 500,000 Asian residents, or just more than 4 percent of its population, according to the Asian American Advocacy Fund.
The Democratic party in Georgia called Tuesday’s shooting spree “horrifying”. “As details continue to emerge, this attack sadly follows the unacceptable pattern of violence against Asian Americans that has skyrocketed throughout this pandemic,” said Congresswoman Nikema Williams, who is also the state party’s chairwoman. “Today’s tragic killings in #Atlanta reaffirm the need for us to step up and protect ALL of America’s marginalized minorities from racism,” tweeted Ben Crump, a lawyer known for representing several high-profile Black victims of police brutality in the United States in recent years.
In an address to the nation last Thursday, President Joe Biden forcefully condemned what he called “vicious hate crimes against Asian Americans who have been attacked, harassed, blamed and scapegoated”. “It’s wrong. It’s un-American. And it must stop,” he said.

At least eight people were killed March 16 after shootings at three spas in the Atlanta area.
Police say video evidence led them to believe one suspect, Robert Aaron Long, was responsible for all three shootings. He was arrested on the night of March 16, about 150 miles south of Atlanta.
The first shooting happened shortly before 5 p.m. March 16 at Young’s Asian Massage near Woodstock, Georgia, about 30 miles northwest of downtown Atlanta. That shooting left four dead – two were pronounced dead at the scene, and two others died at the hospital.
One person was also wounded, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said. Authorities had responded to the scene for reports of a shooting.
About an hour later, three people were found dead at the Gold Massage Spa on Piedmont Road in Atlanta, Police Chief Rodney Bryant said. One person was also found dead at the Aroma Therapy Spa, directly across the street.
The two Atlanta spas are on a stretch of Piedmont Road, just off Interstate 85. About a dozen other spas are located within a mile of Gold Massage and Aroma Therapy.
Of those who died, six were Asian and two were White, Cherokee County sheriff’s officials said in a joint news conference with Atlanta police on March 17. The four killed in the shooting near Woodstock were Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44. The injured survivor was Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, authorities said.
The four Atlanta victims were: Soon C. Park, 74; Hyun J. Grant, 51; Suncha Kim, 69; and Yong A. Yue, 63, according to the Fulton County Medical Examiner’s Office. Of those four, three died of gunshot wounds to the head, and one died of a gunshot wound to the chest, the medical examiner’s office said. Four of those killed were of Korean ethnicity, according to South Korea’s foreign ministry, which said it was in contact with its consulate in Atlanta.
The Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office identified Long, 21, of Woodstock, as a suspect. Before identifying him, Cherokee County investigators found surveillance video of a suspect near the first scene and published it on social media. Long’s family saw the image and helped authorities identify him, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said March 17.
Investigators tracked Long’s phone, and Reynolds reached out to authorities in Crisp County, well to the south, to let them know he appeared to be heading in that direction, Reynolds said. Long’s vehicle was spotted, a chase ensued on Interstate 75 in Crisp County, and a state trooper performed a maneuver that sent the SUV out of control, authorities said. Police arrested Long and confiscated a 9mm gun from his vehicle, Cherokee County authorities said.
Video evidence – including that showing Long’s vehicle in the area of the Atlanta shootings – suggests that Long is responsible for the killings in Atlanta, police there said. Long has claimed responsibility for the shootings in Cherokee County and in Atlanta, the Cherokee County sheriff’s office said.
He was being held March 17 in Cherokee County on four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault, the sheriff’s office said. He is also facing four counts of murder in Atlanta, according to city police.
Authorities have said the motive is under investigation. Long told police he believed he has a sex addiction and that he saw the spas as “a temptation … that he wanted to eliminate,” Cherokee County Sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker said March 17.
But Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said it was too early to know a motive. “There’s still a lot more work to be done. …
We’re just not there as of yet,” Bryant said March 17. Some public officials have raised concerns that ethnicity had come into play, amid rising concerns nationwide about anti-Asian violence during the coronavirus pandemic.
Reports of anti-Asian hate crimes more than doubled during the pandemic, according to the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, Bernardino. The crimes surged amid racist rhetoric during the pandemic; many Asian Americans have been subjected to vitriol about the “China virus” or the “kung flu” – even those who have never been to Asia.
The Atlanta spas were “legally operating businesses” that were not on the authorities’ radar, Bottoms said. Long previously had frequented the two Atlanta spas, and he bought the gun used in the shooting the day of the incident, Atlanta Deputy Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said March 18. Long told investigators the killings were not racially motivated, the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office said.
Before he was stopped, Long was headed to Florida “perhaps to carry out additional shootings,” Bottoms, the Atlanta mayor, said March 17, citing investigators. “It’s very likely there would have been more victims,” Bottoms said.
Long told investigators he was headed to Florida and was “going to do more acts” there, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker said March 17. Long spent time in rehabilitation for sexual addiction last year, a former roommate told CNN on March 17.
The roommate, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he lived with Long for several months in summer 2020 at a transition house for people exiting rehab. He declined to identify the transition house or say which state it was in.
Long seemed to have “self-hatred,” the roommate said. “It just doesn’t make sense to me,” the roommate said of the shooting.
Tyler Bayless said he shared a housing unit with Long at Maverick Recovery, a rehab facility in Roswell, Georgia, between August 2019 and February 2020. “It was something that absolutely would torture him,” Bayless said. He said Long was a “deeply religious person – he would often go on tangents about his interpretation of the Bible” and was distraught about his addiction to sex. Long “may have frequented some of these places in the past,” Reynolds said, referring to the shooting sites.
It’s not clear whether any of the three businesses offered sexual services in addition to massages. But authorities have given no indication any of the sites was operating illegally.
CNN went to the home of Long’s grandparents in Morristown, Tennessee, on March 17. “All I want to say is that he is our grandson and we still love him very much,” said Long’s grandmother, Margaret Long, who was visibly upset. Long’s grandfather interrupted the conversation, saying they’d been told not to speak.
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story misspelled Xiaojie Tan’s last name based on information provided by the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office.

Authorities have named all of the victims of the Atlanta spa shootings, as Joe Biden and Kamala Harris visited in Atlanta to meet with local Asian American leaders and offered support to a grieving community.
Three of the women named on Friday died at the Gold Spa in Atlanta, while the fourth woman died across the street at Aromatherapy Spa. The medical examiner didn’t immediately say which woman died at Aromatherapy.
Cherokee county authorities had earlier identified those who were killed at Youngs Asian Massage, near Woodstock in Atlanta’s north-western suburbs, as Yaun, Michels, Feng and Tan, who was the spa’s owner. Another person, identified as Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, was also shot, but survived. Robert Aaron Long, 21, has been charged with the killings. Details about the victims’ lives have continued to emerge this week.
Hyun Jung Grant’s son, Randy Park, wrote that his mother “was one of my best friends and the strongest influence on who we are today” in a post on the GoFundMe website. Family and friends of Xiaojie Tan told USA Today that she was “a curious, hard-working and caring woman who was always filled with joy”.
In a visit to Atlanta on Friday, Biden and Harris condemned this week’s attack as well as the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes over the past year. “Whatever the killer’s motive, these facts are clear,” Harris said: six of the eight people killed were of Asian descent, seven were women, and “the shootings took place in businesses owned by Asian Americans”.

"She was full of smiles and laughter. She was just a pleasure to be around," said Mr Webb, who brought his wife to the US in 2006 and legally adopted her daughter Jami. The couple split up in 2012 but remained close.

One was a newlywed bride getting a massage with her husband. Another was an immigrant from China who proudly built her business from nothing.
The youngest was 33. The oldest was 74. In three deadly shootings Tuesday at Atlanta-area spas, eight people lost their lives, leaving behind family members — one an infant daughter — and friends, including longtime customers.
Seven of the eight killed were women. Six people were of Asian descent. Two were White.
The alleged gunman, Robert Aaron Long, 21, was charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault. Here is what we know about those who died in the shootings.
Thursday would have been Xiaojie Tan’s 50th birthday. Instead, Tan, of Kennesaw, Ga., was remembered by her friends who left flowers at her business, Young’s Asian Massage, the scene of a shooting that killed her and three others.
Tan, or Emily, as she was known by some friends, was dedicated to her job and workers, according to her husband, Jason Wang. The couple ran Young’s Nail Salon, Young’s Asian Massage and Wang’s Feet and Body Massage.
She was also proud of her daughter, a recent graduate from the University of Georgia. Her daughter, Jami Webb, 29, told USA Today that her mother was her best friend.
Webb and Tan’s ex-husband, Michael Webb, did not respond to requests for comment. Tan sometimes hosted Lunar New Year and Fourth of July parties with food and fireworks at her spa, said friend and customer Greg Hynson, 54.
Hynson said they met six years ago. “She was a very good friend, a kind, sweet person,” Hynson said.
Hynson said Tan’s business was unfairly stigmatized by some who associated her store with sex work. After he heard about the shooting, Hynson rushed to the scene, shocked to see police cars. Before moving to Georgia about a decade ago, she and her ex-husband lived in Port St. Lucie, Fla., where their family befriended Xiaohua and Gary Pettit, who have a daughter who is younger than Jami Webb.
Xiaohua Pettit, who grew up in Nanning, the same city in China as Tan, recalled how her friend taught her the ins-and-outs of nail care when she was looking for a new profession in the United States. While she was also working 60 hours a week, Tan hosted lessons at her house, teaching other women the business. In the same period, she trained and became licensed in massage therapy.
She forwarded money to her family in China, and even sent back other gifts for her parents with the Pettits when they visited Nanning. “She didn’t do much for herself, but she helped everyone else,” Gary Pettit said.
On Tuesday, as soon as she saw the news of the shooting, Xiaohua Pettit reached out to her friend to check on her. But no reply came.
She considered maybe Tan was working late hours, as she did so often. A mutual friend in China told her she had just talked to Tan that morning.
“I kept calling and texting,” Pettit said. Instead, the friend later heard from Tan’s family that she was among the victims and called Pettit to break the news. Pettit burst into tears.
At a two-story townhouse in Kennesaw listed in Tan’s name, neighbors who recalled her friendly nature said she moved out two years ago. Ken Butler, who lives two doors down, said Tan had lived at the house with her husband, whom he identified as Jason.
Butler said they were “really very nice people” who took interest in their indoor aquarium, summer plants and their pet Chihuahua. Butler said he is highly skeptical of the reports that Long had frequented Young’s in search of sexual encounters.
Butler, who moved into the neighborhood in 2015, said Tan rarely had any guests over but she, Jason and their daughter were social with other neighbors. “She always so nice always said hello and waved,” added Butler’s wife, Taylor, 25.
Delaina Yaun, 33, and her husband had decided to treat themselves Tuesday. They booked a couples massage and were in separate rooms when the gunman entered and started shooting, according to DeLayne Davis, a relative. Yaun was killed.
Her husband escaped. The past year had been momentous for Yaun.
Over the summer she gave birth to her second child, a daughter. Shortly after, she and her husband, Mario Gonzalez, were wed in a small ceremony in Ringgold, Ga.
Gonzalez told the news website Mundo Hispanico that moments after the horrific shooting, when he was anguished by the uncertainty of what had happened to his wife, he was briefly arrested and handcuffed by police officers who had arrived there. The Cherokee County Sheriff’s office, who responded to the event, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Friends and relatives said Yaun put her family above all else. When a divorce upended her sister’s family a couple of years ago, Yaun took in two of her sister’s preteen children to live in her home. She was close with her mother, who also lived with her.
Marie remembered getting misty-eyed seeing the two of them dance to Boyz II Men at her wedding. “They were inseparable,” she said.
When she wasn’t with family, Yaun worked hard, covering the third shift at a local Waffle House. She had been a server at the restaurant chain since 2013 and was recently cross-trained as a grill operator, Waffle House said in a statement.
Yaun’s friend Rose Cross, 23, also recalled her affection for others, telling the Post that Yaun let her stay with her when she lost her job due to the coronavirus pandemic. Yaun’s Facebook page was sprinkled with pictures of her wedding and her children, along with loving messages from her husband. “It’s you who occupies all of my heart,” he wrote in one of their last exchanges.
Paul Andre Michels, 54, had started working as a handyman at Young’s Asian Massage only in recent months. After his business installing security systems faltered, Michels, an Army veteran, struggling to find a new job during the pandemic, appreciated getting to build again, his longtime friend Kikiana Whidby said.
“He enjoyed work and seeing the results of his work,” Whidby, 27, said. When he wasn’t working, he fished or spent time with his wife of 24 years, Bonnie.
Although the couple didn’t have any children, Whidby said Michels treated everyone like he was their uncle. He came from a large family in Detroit, the seventh of nine children.
It was only natural when Whidby had her son, Joey, that she asked Michels to be his godfather. Michels went above and beyond in his role.
He and his younger brother, John Michels, went shopping and set up a nursery for Whidby’s son, who did not survive a congenital breathing problem. Michels was fond of gift-giving, with Christmas being one of his favorite holidays,
Whidby said. Daoyou Feng, 44, began working at Young’s Asian Massage in recent months, according to Tan’s friend Hynson. She was kind and quiet, he said.
Her relatives could not be reached for comment. Yong Ae Yue, 63, was among the four workers killed in Atlanta. She was also a mother, according to her family’s attorney BJay Pak.
“We are devastated by the loss of our beloved mother, and words cannot adequately describe our grief,” they said. One son, Robert Peterson, 38, told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution she was laid off amid the pandemic and excited to return to work.
She frequently spent her time cooking Korean food, visiting friends and watching movies and soap operas or reading. Working long hours at Gold Spa in Atlanta, Hyun Jung Grant, 51, was a single mother who did all she could to support her sons, according to son Randy Park, 23.
Park told the Daily Beast that Grant loved dancing, electronic music and her sons. He said she hid her job from them, saying instead that she worked at a makeup store. Before she moved from South Korea, she was an elementary school teacher, she told her sons.
Co-workers of Park remembered Grant visiting her son at the Tree Story Bakery and Cafe in Duluth, Ga., where he worked. Park started a GoFundMe fundraiser after he and his younger brother were told they would be forced to move from their home.
“Losing her has put a new lens on my eyes on the amount of hate that exists in our world,” he wrote on the page. In an update the same day the fundraiser surpassed $1 million, Park said he was grateful for the outpouring of aid.
“My mother can rest easy knowing I have the support of the world with me,” he wrote. Soon Chung Park, 74, spent most of her life in the New York metropolitan area and moved to Atlanta several years ago to be closer to friends, said Scott Lee, her son-in-law. She helped manage one of the spas and prepared lunch and dinner for the employees, according to Lee and local community members.
Outside of the spa, Park was fit and active, Lee said. Lee said he had grown close to Park since marrying her daughter a decade ago.
They lived under the same roof in Lyndhurst, N.J., before she relocated to Georgia. Sometimes the two of them would dance together.
When they spoke, she made a point to refer to him by his given name rather than his in-law title in Korean — a reflection of their deep bond, he said. Park missed opportunities to visit the family last year because of the coronavirus pandemic. She was planning to move back into Lee’s home in June when her apartment lease in Atlanta ended, according to Lee.
Most of her family still lived in the Northeast. Suncha Kim, 69, worked at one of the spas in Atlanta. Her family could not be reached for comment. Kim, a grandmother, was married for more than 50 years, a family member told the Times.

Tran Wills couldn’t talk Wednesday about the shootings at Atlanta spas a day earlier without breaking down sobbing.
Many Asian-American and Asian business owners like Wills – who founded the nail salon chain Base Coat Salon – feel similarly this week in the wake of the shootings. Eight people were killed at three metro Atlanta massage parlors. Six of the victims were Asian. Local authorities have said it is too early to know for sure the motive behind the shootings. Nonetheless, they have sparked fresh fears among owners and employees at Asian-owned businesses already grappling with a wave of racism and with hate attacks driven by the pandemic. Non-profit coalition Stop AAPI Hate, which has been tracking reports of racism, harassment and discrimination against Asians, said it received at least 3,795 firsthand complaints since 2020 from all 50 states with at least 503 anti-Asian hate incidents logged between Jan. 1 and Feb. 28 of this year. Asian business owners across industries say they are feeling vulnerable.
James Dong, owner of Last Minute Gear, a San Francisco-based outdoor gear and camping equipment provider, moved his store to a new location two months ago and said the windows have been smashed twice since then. “There’s no way of knowing for sure if this happens because I’m Asian,” he said, adding that he feels ‘lucky’ to not personally have been victiminized in this environment. Nonetheless, Dong said the anti-Asian attacks, especially a fatal incident in January where an 84-year-old San Francisco resident who emigrated from Thailand was violently shoved to the ground, plays heavily on his mind. “I’m not accepting walk-ins at my store, it’s by appointment only or people can shop online,” he said.
Yong Zhao, CEO and co-founder of Junzi Kitchen, a fast-casual Chinese restaurant chain in New York City, said he’s troubled by the indiscriminate attacks against Asians. “It’s disappointing. I’m keeping my daughter in China right now because of this,” he said. “Attacks against Asians aren’t new. The long-term goal is for all communities to acknowledge that although we are all not the same, we can respect each other and live together,” said Zhao.
One nail salon owner in Long Island, New York, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she worries about being targeted, fears for her own life and her employees’ safety. She is angry that she has to worry. Lisa Fu, executive director of California Healthy Nail Salon Collaborative, an advocacy group for nail salon workers in the state, said her group is in the process of creating a curriculum for its members, who are predominantly of Vietnamese descent, on what to do when they are victims of harassment, hate crimes or violence. “First, we are training our staff and then will hand out pamphlets and offer Zoom training,” she said.
Wills said she, too, is doing whatever she can to keep her employees safe at work. Wills, who closed two salons in California during the pandemic and still operates two in Colorado in addition to 13 locations inside of Nordstrom (JWN) stores, said she now fears for her life and those of her employees, many of whom are Asian.

Asian Americans and their allies are calling for solidarity and a push against discrimination and racist violence after a gunman killed eight people at three Atlanta-area spas Tuesday. Most of the victims were women of Asian descent.
Authorities said it's too early to declare the attacks a hate crime – prompting a debate over when that label should be used and how to present the gunman's explanation. In an incident report filed by the Atlanta Police Department, officers checked "no" under whether the attacks were a suspected hate crime.
But police said Thursday they are still investigating the attacker's motive. The suspect, Robert Aaron Long, 21, has confessed, according to police, who said Long denied being motivated by racial animus.
Officials in Cherokee County cited sex addiction and a "bad day" as possible explanations for the crime. Police suspect Long was under the influence of alcohol, according to the Atlanta incident report.
He is being held in Cherokee, the county northwest of Atlanta where the shootings started. Atlanta's Deputy Chief Charles Hampton told reporters on Thursday afternoon that Long had purchased the weapon the day of the attack. He also confirmed Long had frequented at least two of the spas.
"We were quite disappointed to hear the narrative that is being pushed by law enforcement, especially through the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office, that this ... was not racially motivated," Aisha Yaqoob Mahmood, executive director of the Asian American Advocacy Fund, based in the Atlanta area, said in an interview with NPR. On Atlanta's Piedmont Road, people have been laying flowers outside Gold Spa, where three women were killed Tuesday.
The crowd included Kat Bagger, who told reporter Lisa Hagen of NPR member station WABE that she's frustrated police haven't called the shootings a case of racist violence. "I think we can really use our platform as Black people to push for the Asian community and support them in the way that we need to," Bagger said. "The Asian American community was dreading this day, and we were preparing for it," Texas state Rep. Gene Wu of Houston told NPR member station KUT. "I don't want to say, 'I told you so,' but I am out of anything else to say," Wu said.
"It's meant to be derisive. It's meant to be mocking.
And [Asian communities] know that this puts a target on our backs," he said, according to KUT. The group Stop AAPI Hate said it has received nearly 3,800 reports of what it described as hate incidents — including verbal harassment and physical assault — since the COVID-19 pandemic began a year ago. On Wednesday, Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta issued a statement saying that although details are still emerging, the broader context of racial tension in the United States cannot be ignored. "While anti-Asian violence is woven throughout our nation's history, the Trump administration's relentless scapegoating of Asians for the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has increased" those incidents, said the advocacy group, an affiliate of a national organization.
Official definitions of hate crimes vary widely depending on cities' and states' laws, making it difficult to arrive at a national tally. The method the United States uses to aggregate hate crime data is also being criticized as inconsistent and slow – and those observations come from the man who wrote the first federally mandated report on hate crimes 30 years ago. It will take two years for verified national data about hate crimes against Asian Americans during the pandemic to emerge, McDevitt said. But there are already signs of a spike, he added.
Officials must not ignore the racial aspect of the Atlanta case, sociologist and author Nancy Wang Yuen told NPR member station KQED. News of the killings rippled through Asian communities in the United States, including Korean Americans who noted that four of the victims were reportedly of Korean descent.
"Our community is horrified — there's a lot of fear, anger, just appalled at what's happened," Inhe Choi, executive director of Chicago's HANA Center, a Korean American community organization, told NPR member station WBEZ. Even before Tuesday's attacks, Choi said, her community was already alarmed by blatant anti-Asian incidents. She cited reports of Asian people being yelled at in stores or on public transportation.
Someone threw a rock at a woman outside a grocery store, she said, and an Asian delivery worker was assaulted. "The Asian American community here in Philadelphia, they're on edge," John Chin, executive director of the Philadelphia Chinatown Development Corp., told NPR member station WHYY. Chin described speaking to parents who are afraid to send their kids to school, and workers who are leery of taking public transit, concerned by the chance of a violent assault. In San Francisco, David Chiu, a member of the California Assembly, called the attacks horrifying.
Amid the grief and suspicion over what could have prompted the violence in Georgia, there is also frustration over how officials in Cherokee County are describing the attacks. "Was this racially motivated?" a reporter asked Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds in Wednesday's news conference about the attacks.
Lt. David Barone, with the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office of Professional Standards and Conduct, said Thursday that Baker is no longer the spokesperson for the shootings investigation. To many people, the notion that sex addiction, or simply having a "bad day," could be seen as a motivator for someone to carry out a string of deadly shootings did not ring true. They questioned whether the officials were giving too much credence to the suspect's claims.
To them, the "bad day" explanation quickly joined a list of lame excuses for racist behavior, from taking Ambien to having diabetes. Critics are calling Tuesday's shootings yet another symptom of America's core sickness: racism. And they note that in the U.S., white supremacy has long been linked to sexism and violence.
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said the businesses targeted in Atlanta had not been on the city's radar as potential sites of crime or trouble. And while she agreed that the inquiry was still in its early phase, Bottoms also acknowledged that people of Asian descent were targeted, at a time when racist acts against Asians have increased during the COVID-19 pandemic. Moments after the mayor made that remark, Baker emphasized that Cherokee County had identified two of the victims as white.
Criticism of Baker grew when a Twitter user posted screenshots of his Facebook profile in which the spokesman promoted T-shirts with messages that played on racist perceptions of the coronavirus. The shirts are reportedly sold by a company whose founder is a former Cherokee County sheriff's deputy.
The company that made the T-shirts Baker promoted is called Deadline Apparel. The business, which is reportedly owned by a former sheriff's deputy, sits on the same road as Young's Asian Spa, where Tuesday's shootings began just nine miles away. As of Thursday morning, several social media accounts associated with both Baker and Deadline Apparel had been either deleted or restricted.

Eight people have been killed in shootings at massage parlours in and around Atlanta, Georgia. A 21-year-old man suspected of carrying out all three shootings has been arrested.
The attacks began around 5pm local time, when five people were shot at Youngs Asian Massage Parlour in a strip mall near a rural area in Acworth, about 30 miles north of Atlanta, Cherokee County Sheriff's Office spokesman Captain Jay Baker said. Two people died at the scene and three were taken to hospital where two more succumbed to their injuries. Captain Baker said two of the dead were Asian women, along with a white woman and a white man.
Around 50 minutes later, police called to reports of a robbery at the Gold Spa in the Buckhead neighbourhood of Atlanta found the bodies of three women. While at the scene, they learned of a call reporting shots fired at another spa across the street, Aromatherapy Spa, and found a woman who appeared to have been shot dead inside the business. Atlanta police's Chief Rodney Bryant said all the victims of the two attacks in the city appeared to be Asian.
Surveillance cameras picked up the same vehicle at all three shootings. Around two hours after the last attack, police in Crisp County, 150 miles (241km) south of Atlanta, were informed that the suspect, Robert Aaron Long, was heading in their direction. Crisp County Sheriff Billy Hancock said deputies and troopers set up along the interstate and "made contact with the suspect," who was driving a 2007 black Hyundai Tucson, around 8:30pm.
A state trooper performed a PIT, or pursuit intervention technique, manoeuvre, "which caused the vehicle to spin out of control," Hancock said. Long was then taken into custody "without incident" and was being held in the Crisp County jail. The killings came amid a recent wave of attacks against Asian Americans that coincided with the spread of the coronavirus across the United States. In New York an NYPD spokesperson told Sky News they are deploying counterterrorism officers to Asian communities throughout the city out of an abundance of caution following the Atlanta shootings.

The US president links rise in attacks on Asians to fears stoked by the coronavirus pandemic. President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris on Friday called for an end to anti-Asian violence in the United States after meeting with Asian-American community leaders in Atlanta following spa shootings that killed eight.
“There are simply some core values and beliefs that should bring us together as Americans,” President Biden said in remarks at Emory University in Atlanta. “One of them is standing together as Americans. One of them is standing together against hate, against racism,” Biden said.
Biden linked the Atlanta shootings to a broader wave of anti-Asian attacks that spiked during the coronavirus pandemic in the US. At the same time, the US president sounded a note of confidence as he marked the distribution of 100 million vaccine doses under his administration and enactment of a $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief package.
“Too many Asian Americans have been walking up and down the streets and worry, waking up each morning this past year fearing for their safety, the safety of their loved ones,” Biden said. “They’ve been attacked, blamed, scapegoated, harassed. They’ve been verbally assaulted, physically assaulted, killed,” he said.
Police have charged a 21-year-old man with murder in the slayings. Authorities have now released all of the victims’ names.
Seven of the slain were women, and six of them were of Asian descent. Law enforcement officials said the suspect, an Atlanta-area resident who is white, suggested that frustration with sex addiction led him to commit the shootings.
Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris met privately with Asian-American and Pacific Islander community leaders and Georgia politicians to hear concerns about the killings which sent shockwaves through the US Asian-American community. Stephanie Cho, executive director, Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta, Victoria Huynh, vice president, Center for Pan Asian Community Services, and Bianca Jyotishi, Georgia organiser, National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum were among the participants.
Since the coronavirus pandemic began, Asian Americans have seen rising incidents of physical assaults, racial slurs and verbal abuse. Stop AAPI Hate, a group formed to combat the rise in attacks during the pandemic, said it had documented more than 2,800 first-hand accounts of anti-Asian hate in 2020.
Biden gave his support on Friday to COVID-19 hate crimes legislation introduced in Congress on March 11 by Senator Mazie Hirono and Representative Grace Meng. The bill would direct the US Department of Justice to focus on hate crimes against Asians and establish better reporting of such crimes as well as a public education campaign. Biden had issued an executive order in his first week in office directing federal agencies to combat anti-Asian hate arising from the pandemic.
Statements by former President Donald Trump calling the coronavirus the “China virus” or “Kung flu” perpetuated stigmas about Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and contributed to bullying, harassment and hate crime, the Biden order said. The president’s visit to Atlanta was previously scheduled and initially designed to promote the Biden administration’s progress in combating the coronavirus pandemic. Biden heralded the delivery of 100 million vaccine shots on the 58th day of his presidency.
A pledge he had made following the 2020 election was to deliver 100 million vaccine shots within the first 100 days of his presidency. The president and vice president visited the US Centers for Disease Control, based in Atlanta, where the president thanked scientists for their work to control the virus.
Trump had sidelined the CDC in the early months of the pandemic. Georgia, meanwhile, has emerged as an important state for Biden after his unlikely win in the 2020 presidential election and the successes of two Democratic candidates for the US Senate.
Biden and Harris were scheduled to meet with Stacey Abrams, a leading advocate for voting rights in Georgia where Republicans in the state legislature are advancing new laws to curtail voting in the state. Biden stumbled on Friday climbing the stairs to board Air Force One for a flight to Atlanta. The president, who is 78 years old, tripped three times about halfway up the steps.

On Tuesday night, a 21-year-old man named Robert Aaron Long allegedly went on a deadly rampage at three Atlanta spas, killing eight people, including six Asian women. Long’s shooting spree, police say, began at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor on the city’s outskirts, where he killed four people, two of whom were Asian, and injured one; he then allegedly fled the scene and proceeded to Gold Spa, killing three more people, all Asian women; and then he entered a spa right across the street, Aromatherapy Spa, where he killed his final victim.
Following an interview with authorities, the Cherokee county sheriff, Frank Reynolds, maintained that Long “gave no indicators” that his crimes were racially motivated. “We asked him that specifically and the answer was no,” Reynolds said on Wednesday. This idea is ludicrous to many who have observed the surge in racist violence against Asian Americans during the pandemic: in the past year, there have been 3,800 reported incidents of anti-Asian violence, roughly 503 of which took place during 2021 alone, according to the group Stop AAPI Hate.
Women make up the vast majority of those attacked. And some argue that it is equally absurd to exclude discussion of anti-sex-work sentiment from the conversation about these most recent attacks on the Asian community. Though it is not yet known whether any of the victims of Tuesday’s shooting provided sexual services at their workplaces, Long told police that the spas he opened fire on represented a “temptation he wanted to eliminate”, suggesting that he at least believed that they did. Advocates say this reveals the way racism, sexism and anti-sex-work sentiment work together to produce anti-Asian violence: no matter what, they say, his crime was ultimately one against sex workers. “Even if they were providing non-sexual massages, this ends up being a sex work issue,” said Esther K, a co-director of Red Canary Song, which describes itself as being “the only grassroots Chinese massage parlor worker coalition in the US” and also as organizing “with Asian sex workers across the diaspora in Toronto, Paris and Hong Kong”.
Red Canary Song was founded in the wake of the death of Yang Song, a massage parlor worker in Flushing, Queens, who fell four stories on to the sidewalk in November 2017 during a New York police department vice sting. Two months earlier, she had been arrested and charged with prostitution; during the November raid, police were attempting to arrest her again for allegedly engaging in sex work. Before her death she told her family that she had been sexually assaulted by a man posing as an undercover police officer. Song’s death fueled a sex work decriminalization movement in the city, advocating for sex work to be treated like other kinds of work, and for sex workers to receive equal protection under labor laws. The movement also focuses on reducing policing in immigrant communities, an issue that organizers say can’t be separated from sex workers’ rights advocacy.
Song’s case highlighted police violence against sex workers, but advocates have long argued that over-policing begets other forms of violence perpetrated by individuals: if sex workers fear being arrested or fined by police officers, it leaves them unable to go to the police if they are victims of a crime. Advocates say it also fuels the stigma and moralization directed toward their work, which often results in targeted violence.
In Toronto, for example, a law forbids owners and workers at body rub parlors from locking doors to individual rooms and cubicles. Lam said this has left some workers vulnerable to robbery, harassment and assault, as well as hesitant to call the police for fear of being criminalized themselves. A 2020 report published by Butterfly found that over half of workers at these businesses have experienced some kind of threat to their safety at work. Despite sex workers and their allies sounding alarm bells over the way their communities are policed, officials’ response to the Atlanta shootings has been to push for more policing. On Wednesday, the NYPD announced it would send officers to Asian communities “out of an abundance of caution”.
Last year, the city also formed an Asian hate crime taskforce, leading many people to fear that increased policing would result in the criminalization of other marginalized communities. As more details about the victims’ identities come out, Lam agreed that the outcome should be the same, regardless of their line of work.

At least two of the eight people killed at Atlanta-area Asian massage spas Tuesday lived in the same spa where they worked, Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen said.
“This one fact alone highlights the vulnerability, the invisibility, and the isolation of working-class Asian women in our country,” Nguyen said at a Thursday news conference. “When they go missing, or when they die, the loss of their lives will not incite the same kind of rage. And they won’t even be treated with the same humanity,” she said.
Authorities have not yet confirmed a motive for the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas, which killed eight people – including six Asian women. A suspect is in custody. Atlanta Deputy Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said Thursday the suspect, Robert Aaron Long, frequented the two Atlanta spas and bought the gun used in the shooting the day of the incident.
President Joe Biden ordered flags to be flown at half-staff Thursday to honor the victims. Biden also plans to visit Atlanta on Friday to meet with Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, as well as Asian American and Pacific Islander leaders, according to Georgia State Rep. Bee Nguyen.
Among the issues they will bring up is the concern that the shootings be “taken seriously” and seriously considered as a hate crime against Asians and not dismissed as the suspect having a “bad day,” Nguyen said. Across the US, Asian Americans are riddled with fear as unprovoked attacks against them intensify. Anti-Asian hate crimes have more than doubled during the pandemic, according to the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino.
The violence has surged amid racist rhetoric during the coronavirus pandemic – some popularized by ex-President Donald Trump. Many Asian Americans have been subjected to vitriol about the “China virus” or the “kung flu” – even those who have never been to Asia.
Asian American communities are on edge after Tuesday’s deadly shootings. “I feel like that just took it to a whole other extreme,” said Hanna Kim, a teacher from Novi, Michigan.
Nguyen said as a public official, whenever anyone disagrees with her opinion or policies, the first thing they do is criticize the country her parents came from and, second, her gender. “I have experienced a lot of targeted misogyny, targeted xenophobia, messages of going back to your own country, even though I was born here, raised here, I’ve lived in Georgia almost my entire life. It is very real,” Nguyen said.
Actress Lucy Liu told CNN’s Erin Burnett on Thursday that she believes race relations will get worse before they can get better. “I think culturally, we are not a people that speak out and talk about being victims and I think that’s something that we learn” from previous generations, Liu said.
Bottoms told CNN that nowadays “there seems to be permission now to be hateful.” She’s spent the past days reaching out to members of the Asian community in Atlanta “to make sure we have all of the information we need to make sure that our communities are protected,” adding the dialogue will continue.
Kim, a 24-year-old Korean American, said she often feels like she has a target on her back. Last year, she said a parent wanted to remove one of her students from her second-grade class because Kim was Asian. Yet despite outrage over the shootings, attacks against Asian Americans continue.
An Asian man and woman were assaulted Wednesday by the same suspect in separate attacks, San Francisco police said. Investigators are trying to determine whether bias was a motivating factor in the attack. “While we’re relieved the suspect was quickly apprehended, we’re certainly not at peace as this attack still points to an escalating threat many in the Asian American community feel today,” said Margaret Huang, president and CEO of Southern Poverty Law Center.
Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44, were all fatally shot at Youngs Asian Massage in Cherokee County. Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, was also shot at the spa but survived.
Three more victims were found dead at Gold Massage Spa in Atlanta, and another victim was found dead across the street at the Aroma Therapy Spa. The names of those four victims have not yet been released by authorities. Three of the victims were 52, 75 and 64 years of age, according to birth years listed in an Atlanta police incident report.
“We need to make sure we have a true verification of their identities and that we make the proper next of kin notification,” Hampton said Thursday. Long, 21, faces eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault. Long was on his way to Florida, possibly to take the lives of more victims, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said, citing investigators.
The suspect told police he believed he had a sex addiction and that he saw the spas as “a temptation … that he wanted to eliminate,” Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker said. But Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said it is still too early to know a motive.
It’s not clear whether any of the three businesses offered sexual services in addition to massages. But authorities have given no indication the three businesses were operating illegally.
Baker is no longer the spokesperson for the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office’s case investigating the spa shooting, the Sheriff’s Office confirmed to CNN. CNN has reached out to Baker for comment. Shortly before 5 p.m. Tuesday, deputies were called to Youngs Asian Massage between the Georgia cities of Woodstock and Acworth after reports of a shooting, Cherokee County sheriff’s officials said. That shooting left four people – two Asian and two White – dead and one person injured, Baker said.
About an hour later and 30 miles away, Atlanta police responded to the Gold Massage Spa on Piedmont Road in Atlanta. Police said they found three people dead.
While there, police received another call of shots fired across the street at the Aroma Therapy Spa, where they found one person dead, Bryant said. The names of those four victims have not yet been released by authorities. Investigators found surveillance video of a suspect near the Cherokee County scene and published images on social media. Long’s family saw the images, contacted authorities and helped identify him, Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said Wednesday. “(The family members) are very distraught, and they were very helpful in this apprehension,” Reynolds said.
Long has claimed responsibility for the shootings at the spas, the Cherokee County sheriff’s office said. He is facing four counts of murder and a charge of aggravated assault, according to the county sheriff’s office.
He also has been charged with more four counts of murder, Atlanta Police Department said. A law enforcement source told CNN that Long was recently kicked out of the house by his family due to his sexual addiction, which, the source said, included frequently spending hours watching pornography online. Bottoms, the Atlanta mayor, told CNN’s Anderson Cooper on Thursday she thinks the shootings were a hate crime.
“Sex” is a hate crime category under Georgia’s new law. If Long was targeting women out of hatred for them or scapegoating them for his own problems, it could potentially be a hate crime.
The shootings don’t have to be racially motivated to constitute a hate crime in Georgia. Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled Xiaojie Tan's last name based on information provided by the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office. The story also gave incorrect dates for comments made by officials. It has been corrected.

Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said interviews with the subject revealed that his shootings may not have been racially motivated, but tied to sexual issues.
“The suspect has been interviewed, which indicated he has some issues, potentially sexual addiction. He may have frequented some of these places in the past,” Mr Reynolds said.
Apparently the alleged shooter wanted to “eliminate the temptation” by removing the massage parlors, which provided an outlet for his addiction, according to police. Atlanta police Captain Jay Baker said the shooter had been interviewed by police. Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said the officers “are just not there yet” with regard to any potential racial motivators involved in the shooting.
Most of the victims of the shooting were of Asian descent. Atlanta Mayor Keisha Bottoms said it appeared the shooter was on his way to Florida to attack a porn-related industry when he was intercepted by deputies. Police said it was unclear if the shootings were motivated by religious convictions.
However, The Daily Beast reported that the shooter appeared in a video from Crabapple First Baptist Church discussing the events leading up to his Christian baptism. The video has since been deleted.
A classmate, speaking anonymously, claimed “he was a hunter and his father was a youth minister or pastor” and that he was “big into religion.” An Instagram caption from an account that has since been deactivated read: “Pizza, guns, drums, music, family, and God. This pretty much sums up my life.
It’s a pretty good life”. According to Mr Reynolds, the shooter was identified after police shared surveillance images from the attacks on their social media accounts. The shooter’s parents worked with police to confirm his identity. When asked if the massage parlors were offering illegal sexual services, Ms Bottoms said the city was not going to victim blame and that officials had no indication that the businesses were operating illegally.

Long, a White man from Woodstock, Ga., is not the first high-profile suspect to make such a claim: Harvey Weinstein, serial killer Ted Bundy, and Ariel Castro, who kidnapped three teenagers and held them captive in his Cleveland basement, have all defended their criminal actions by claiming they were addicted to sex or pornography.
But while the world of entertainment has in recent years popularized the idea of “sex addiction” through films and TV shows, researchers who study human sexuality and addiction say it is far from an established psychiatric diagnosis. As HuffPost has reported, the American Psychiatric Association in 2012 removed sex addiction from the DSM-5, the nearly 1,000-page guidebook used by psychiatrists to diagnose mental disorders. Some scientists question if it is merely a mask for or symptom of other behaviors.
Long, who has been charged with murder after allegedly confessing to the killings, called the spas he targeted “a temptation for him that he wanted to eliminate,” according to police. Given that six of the victims were Asian women, many advocates said they were both dubious of and angered by that statement. Even with the presence of other factors, some said it would be difficult to extricate the victims’ race and gender — or Long’s — from the deadly shootings.
For researchers like Nicole Prause, there is another reason to be skeptical of his self-described “sexual addiction”: There is no scientific consensus that such a diagnosis exists. In a peer-reviewed study at the University of California at Los Angeles, Prause found significant differences in the brain’s response to sex when compared to behaviors like smoking cigarettes, drinking alcohol or gambling. While people addicted to these things often demonstrate neurological “cues” upon viewing their drug of choice, no such brain waves appeared in people who said they were addicted to sex, her team’s research found. Sex also fails to follow the trajectory marked by other addictive behaviors over time, which start out as pleasurable but become a necessity for avoiding negative emotions, Prause added.
The debate over whether sex addiction is real has not stopped other high-profile men accused or convicted of a wide range of impropriety from seeking out treatment for such a condition. As their sexual transgressions came to light, Anthony Weiner, Weinstein, and Tiger Woods all checked themselves into rehab centers with that goal in mind.
Reportedly, Long may have done the same. From late 2019 to early 2020, he stayed for about six months at a rehab center in Georgia, his roommate at the center said. While Long was seeking treatment for sex addiction, all other patients were suffering from addiction to drugs or alcohol.
Ley, the psychologist and author, argued that treatment like the kind reportedly received by Long — a devout Christian — may in fact exacerbate the issues at hand. Self-identification as a sex addict is most closely linked to growing up in a conservative or religious environment, he said. One peer-reviewed study, for instance, found that attempting to suppress sexual thoughts and fantasies among religious people only increased the presence of those thoughts.
Rob Weiss, the chief clinical officer at Seeking Integrity Treatment Programs in Los Angeles, disputes the notion that sex addiction — or its cousin, compulsive sexual behavior disorder — is not diagnosable, or that it cannot be treated. Weiss told The Post the long-term program reportedly undergone by Long differs from the treatment he and some other mental health practitioners around the country might provide. But he also cast doubt on Long’s claims for a different reason: The patients he treats in Los Angeles show there is no connection between sex addiction and violence, he said.

He listed off some of the most recent incidents of attacks against Asian New Yorkers, including a woman who required stitches after being shoved to the ground in Flushing and a woman who had acid thrown in her face in Sunset Park. The rise of hate crimes has been attributed to incendiary rhetoric from former President Donald Trump and others amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Trump has referred to the novel coronavirus as the “China virus” and the “Kung Flu” — including another reference Tuesday night during an interview on Fox News. Yang has noted on numerous occasions the issue of unreported incidents of hate crimes and called on the city to ramp up its outreach to areas with dense Asian populations. “We should be reaching out to our communities in foreign language media and different languages. People can tell when you’re invested and trying to reach them,” said Yang, noting that he has seen various city helplines that don’t offer enough languages. Yang has addressed Asian hate crimes multiple times on the campaign trail. He hosted a February town hall with Public Advocate Jumaane Williams, Assemblymember Ron Kim, Asian American Federation executive director Jo-Ann Yoo and Center for Anti-Violence Education program manager Rej Joo. The NYPD on Wednesday deployed teams of officers to areas of the city with large populations of Asian-descended New Yorkers. Janaki Chadha contributed to this report.

As details emerge about Robert Aaron Long, the man accused of killing eight people in the Atlanta area — six of them Asian women — discussions have reignited around the ways women of Asian descent are vulnerable to violence. While it's unclear whether the businesses had any ties to sex work, experts and activists said it was nearly impossible to divorce race from the discourse — regardless of whether Long will be charged with a hate crime — given the historical fetishization of Asian women, which has made them uniquely susceptible to sexual and physical violence.
Catherine Ceniza Choy, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California, Berkeley, said that to disregard race in the acts of violence would erase the harassment and violence Asian women have faced for more than a century, since they first came to the country. Although most violence toward Asian American women doesn't get elevated to the national spotlight, experts say it's not an uncommon occurrence, and it has been amplified during the coronavirus pandemic. A report on hate incidents released Tuesday by the reporting forum Stop AAPI Hate revealed that among 3,800 incidents were reported over the course of about a year during the pandemic, 68 percent of respondents were women. A far lower share, 29 percent, were men.
"Killing Asian American women to eliminate a man's temptation speaks to the history of the objectification of Asian and Asian American women as variations of the Asian temptress, the dragon ladies and the lotus blossoms, whose value is only in relation to men's fantasies and desires. This is horrifying.
Stop fetishizing us," said Catherine Ceniza Choy, an ethnic studies professor at the University of California, Berkeley. Even apart from the pandemic, research shows that 21 percent to 55 percent of Asian women in the U.S. report having experienced intimate physical and/or sexual violence during their lifetimes, according to the Asian Pacific Institute on Gender Based Violence.
The range is based on a compilation of studies of disaggregated samples of Asian ethnicities in local communities. About a third of women in the general U.S. population experience sexual violence.
Sung Yeon Choimorrow, executive director of the nonprofit National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum, said what's often lost in the discussion is how Asian women experience a very specific form of sexism, which she said shouldn't be conflated with the misogyny that other groups, like white women, may confront. Choimorrow said many of the attacks and much of the sexual misconduct can be traced in part to the rampant perpetuation of stereotypes around Asian women as exotic, hypersexualized and submissive. Such stereotypes create a perception that Asian Americans are therefore less of a threat and easier to take advantage of and that they aren't going to fight back.
Echoes of other archaic beliefs can be found in statements authorities attributed to Long, Choy said. Such ideas are particularly dangerous, experts said, as they put the onus on women to avoid violence, further fueling society's "misogynistic mentality about women," Choimorrow said.
The beliefs have been shaped by legal code, America's history of imperialism and the prevailing culture, said historian Ellen Wu, the author of "The Color of Success: Asian Americans and the Origins of the Model Minority." One factor that helps explain the toxic environment for Asian women is the type of labor they were relegated to in the U.S. beginning in the 19th century, she said.
"Fast-forward, then, through the 20th century. These associations that Americans already have of Asian women being engaged in this 'lewd and immoral' type of behavior gets amplified as the United States begins a series of imperial excursions, essentially, or wars in the Asia Pacific region," Wu said. As the U.S. indulged in its imperial ambitions and fought wars in the Philippines, Japan, Korea and Vietnam, local communities bore the brunt of the devastation, and women suffered heavy losses, Wu said. To deal with U.S. militarization and the havoc wreaked by war, some women resorted to sex work, as many think of it in the traditional sense, in exchange for money, but they also cohabitated with American GI boyfriends, for example.
"Really, by that time, really all the capital they have is their bodies," Wu said. Phi Nguyen, litigation director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice — Atlanta, said the hypersexualization of Asian women, which has been normalized, in part helped create the conditions for white supremacy, aggression and violence.
Advocates are calling for public safety nets and support for families in such situations, as well as for more public leaders to speak out against violence, particularly in Georgia. "People living in that community and, frankly, American women across the country are living this trauma in some ways.
There's the idea that 'this could have been me,'" Choimorrow said. For now, Nguyen said, Atlanta's Asian American community is feeling the grief and anger tied to the shootings. But many are also in "rapid response mode" to make sure they can assess what the victims' families and the community need.

The only time I was ever in Atlanta, where six Asian women were shot dead on Tuesday, a young white man shouted "Me so horny" to me at the airport.
And as the only Asian woman in the space, I knew he was talking to me. I locked eyes with him for a second and then rushed off to catch my flight back to Los Angeles.
I was in Atlanta to attend the annual meeting of the Association of Asian American Studies, presenting a paper there for the first time. It was a big deal for me professionally.
But what I remember most about that trip were a white man's racist, sexist words. The only time I was ever in Atlanta, Ga., a young white man shouted "Me so horny" to me at the airport.
Based on the reported statement, investigators have so far concluded that the attacks did not appear to have been motivated by race. As an Asian American woman who has endured sexualized racism all of my life, such ignorance enrages me.
Asian women, along with Black and Indigenous women and other women of color, endure racism and sexism in intersectional ways constantly, and they have throughout history. As lawyer Jaemin Kim argued in 2009, prosecutors and police may be even less likely to add "hate crime" charges in cases of rapes and sexual assaults targeting Asian women.
The multiple wars with, and various occupations of, Asian countries have contributed to the exploitation and fetishization of Asian women. Furthermore, the multiple wars with, and various occupations of, Asian countries have long contributed to the exploitation and fetishization of Asian women. In World War II, the unknown numbers of so-called Asian comfort women kidnapped by Japanese soldiers from China, Korea and the Philippines were transferred not to freedom but to the U.S. military.
To this day, sex work in "camptowns" around U.S. military bases throughout Asia gives "U.S. GIs the illusion of access and perennial permission to Asian women's bodies," Jane Hong, an associate professor of history at Occidental College, told me. Too many Asian American women have endured strangers' yelling "me so horny" and "love you long time" at them thanks to American pop culture.
Perhaps the worst offender is the 1987 film "Full Metal Jacket," which imagines a Vietnamese prostitute approaching two white American soldiers and saying: "Me so horny. Me love you long time.
Me sucky sucky." The casual racism of this scene has haunted Asian American women for decades.
💬Verbal harassment makes up 68% of hate incidents. Physical assault makes up 11%. 👩🏻Women are 2.3 times more likely to report hate incidents.
Indeed, contrary to the insinuations and assumptions made by Georgia law enforcement officials, I can't remember ever having experienced racism separate from sexism. When I turn into a lane too slowly on the streets of Los Angeles, I am not surprised if someone rolls down the window to call me a "c---- b-----."
When I reject or ignore sexual propositions from white men, some come back at me with racial slurs and even threats. Even the perception that I will not fight back if I am attacked racially is a form of racism intersecting with sexism.
This is the lived reality for too many Asian American women. Since the pandemic began, Asian American women are 2.3 times more likely to report hate incidents than men, according to data compiled by the reporting forum
Stop AAPI Hate. In total, the organization received nearly 3,800 reports of anti-Asian hate incidents from March 19, 2020, to Feb. 28.
The mass shootings in Georgia seem to be part of a nationwide pattern of Asian women's being disproportionately targeted in hate incidents. We are more vulnerable to attack precisely because of the intersection of racism and sexism. And to immediately remove racism from the equation neglects how racism has always intersected with sexism for Asian American women in this country.

Some Asian Americans are describing Tuesday's deadly shootings in Georgia as hate crimes that left them fearful and in shock in a year when anti-Asian violence has risen on both sides of the border.
On Tuesday night, 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long entered three massage parlours in the Atlanta area and killed eight people, many of them Asian woman. The suspect has been charged with eight counts of murder and one count of assault.
Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen and other advocates are urging authorities to prosecute Long under the state's hate crime law, which imposes additional penalties for crimes motivated by a victim's race, religion, sex, national origin or mental and physical disabilities. "We have evidence that the three businesses that he targeted were Asian-owned businesses that have Asian employees and as a result, six out of the eight people who died were Asian women," Nguyen told Canada Tonight host Ginella Massa.
Asian American community calls attacks in Georgia a hate crime Duration 0:39 Featured Video Christopher Chan of the Asian American Fund's Georgia Chapter says some members of the Asian American community say the Atlanta-area attacks were 'racially motivated,' and the suspect should be prosecuted under the state's hate crime law. Six of eight of the victims were identified as Asian, and seven were women.
"People are worried and are praying for their families and themselves. They are heartbroken and devastated by this act," Nguyen said.
The virus was first identified in China and former president Donald Trump and others have used anti-Chinese rhetoric to describe it. Nguyen said in the last year Asian Americans have seen a spike in violence against them, which she believes began when Trump first used the phrase "Chinese virus" to describe COVID-19. "That ... put a target on the backs of Asians in America," she said. Christopher Chan, advisory chair of the Asian American Fund's Georgia Chapter, says Asian Americans have experienced a difficult year since Trump politicized the origins of the virus and used racially charged terms to describe COVID-19.
Racism towards Asian Americans 'not a new thing,' says state representative Duration 0:53 Featured Video Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen says the Asian American community has been increasingly targeted during the coronavirus pandemic. But the U.S. has a history of racism against the community, beginning with the Chinese railroad workers.
Nguyen said even if the Atlanta-area attacks were not racially motivated, the gunman should still be charged with a hate crime because he specifically targeted women. The Atlanta shootings were the latest in several attacks against Asian Americans in the last year.
In San Francisco, an 84-year-old Thai man was killed in January after a young man shoved him to the ground while he was on a morning walk. The elderly man's head struck the pavement and he died two days later in hospital. Prosecutors charged a 19-year-old with murder and elder abuse.
In the past year, anti-Asian violence has spiked north of the border as well. Data released by Vancouver police in February showed a surge in anti-Asian hate crimes last year. The data showed anti-Asian hate crimes rose from a dozen in 2019 to 142 incidents in 2020, a 717 per cent increase, while general hate incidents doubled.

Jeremy Lin spoke out on Wednesday against the rise in targeted attacks against Asian-Americans in the wake of shootings at three Atlanta-area massage parlors that left eight people dead, the majority of them women of Asian descent, leading to fears the killer had a racial motive. Lin, who plays for the Golden State Warriors’ G League affiliate, the Santa Cruz Warriors, was speaking in an interview with CNN’s Anderson Cooper on Wednesday night.
The 32-year-old point guard made headlines in February after revealing that he was called “coronavirus” on the court without saying when or where it happened. The first American-born player of Chinese or Taiwanese descent to play in the NBA, Lin said the violence in Georgia was the natural progression of an escalating trend he’s observed over the past year. Lin went on to criticize the inflammatory rhetoric of Donald Trump, whose use of racist terms in reference to the coronavirus has been credited with stoking anger and violence against the Asian-American community. He continued: “Asians have always been projected as being others or outsiders.
We’re starting to see a lot of those microaggressions turn into actual acts of violence and it is really hard to watch. So I encourage people to watch these videos to see this is actually happening. These are real stories, real lives.
Lin’s remarks came three weeks after he went public about an act of racism he experienced while playing with the Warriors’ team in the NBA’s developmental G League at its bubble venue in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. The G League launched an investigation after Lin said he was called “coronavirus” on the court, prompting the veteran to speak up about the incident in a heartfelt Facebook post. Lin played 29 games for the Warriors as a rookie in 2010-11, then went to the New York Knicks and gained the popularity that spawned the nickname “Linsanity”.
A Taiwanese American, Lin was born in the Southern California city of Torrance but grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area. Lin, who last year pledged up to $1m to coronavirus relief efforts, said there was a generational shift in Asian Americans.
“Something is changing in this generation of Asian Americans. We are tired of being told that we don’t experience racism, we are tired of being told to keep our heads down and not make trouble. We are tired of Asian American kids growing up and being asked where they’re REALLY from, of having our eyes mocked, of being objectified as exotic or being told we’re inherently unattractive. We are tired of the stereotypes in Hollywood affecting our psyche and limiting who we think we can be. We are tired of being invisible, of being mistaken for our colleague or told our struggles aren’t as real.
Lin followed that post with another the next day, saying he did not plan on publicly outing the player who used the term. In addition to his stints with the Warriors and Knicks, Lin has also played for the Houston Rockets, Los Angeles Lakers, Charlotte Hornets, Brooklyn Nets and Atlanta Hawks and in 2019 became the first Asian-American to win an NBA championship, doing so with the Toronto Raptors.

In the wake of Tuesday's mass shooting in Atlanta, which took the lives of six women of Asian descent and eight people altogether, several athletes have used their platforms to denounce the brazen violence and condemn racism against Asian-Americans. The shooter, a white man, was charged on Wednesday with eight counts of murder in connection with the attacks. Investigators have said they have not ruled out racial bias as a motivating factor for the killings even as the suspect denied racial animus being part of his motivation once in custody.
Over the last year, hate incidents against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders have dramatically increased. A report released Tuesday by Stop AAPI Hate, a group formed in March of 2020 to document and prevent discrimination against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders during the COVID-19 pandemic, said nearly 3,800 incidents had been recorded between March 19 and Feb. 28. The number, the group said, could be higher because not all incidents are reported.
Kyle Kuzma, LeBron James' teammate with the Los Angeles Lakers, quote tweeted James' message with praying hands and went on to make several of his own posts reflecting the history of race in America. Jeremy Lin, who is of Chinese and Taiwanese descent, had previously shared multiple incidents in which he was the victim of anti-Asian racism in the past, including being called "coronavirus" during a recent stint in the G League. Lin commented on the Atlanta shootings on Twitter as well, calling them "heartbreaking," and advocating for everyone to rally together and fight for change. Lin also urged media to focus on telling the victims' stories, not the murderer's, in response to comments from an Atlanta police officer who said the shooter had "a really bad day" before committing the violence that left eight people dead.

After a white gunman killed eight people — including six Asian women — in Atlanta on Tuesday night, many Asian Canadians are speaking out, calling for an end to anti-Asian racism here at home and for more to be done to protect sex workers and migrants.
On Wednesday, hours after the deadly shootings, community groups across the country issued a joint news release voicing outrage and heartbreak over the killings, saying the violence at three Atlanta-area massage parlours is only a symptom of a much larger problem. "What happened in Atlanta is not an isolated incident, but a horrific example of a large rising tide of anti-Asian racism," said the statement released by the Chinese Canadian National Council's (CCNC) Toronto Chapter, Butterfly Asian and Migrant Sex Workers Network and SWAN Vancouver and Toronto's Nail Technicians' Network, among other groups. Police have said the suspect in the shootings, Robert Aaron Long, 21, told them his actions were not racially motivated.
But for Asian communities that have experienced an uptick in hate since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, the violence is yet another painful blow in a pattern that's been all too familiar in recent months. According to a September 2020 report prepared by the CCNC in partnership with the Vancouver-based grassroots group Project 1907, Canadians have reported more anti-Asian racist incidents per capita than the U.S. since the start of the pandemic. In Vancouver, anti-Asian hate crimes rose by 717 per cent in the span of one year, climbing from 12 cases in 2019 to 98 in 2020, according to Vancouver Police Department numbers.
When it comes to sex workers and migrants, Kong said that a lack of rights and stereotypes held by governments and law enforcement make these communities even more unsafe. A 2018 report by the Toronto-based Butterfly network's executive director, Elene Lam, surveying massage and holistic practitioners found almost half of all respondents experienced violence in their workplace, but less than seven per cent reported these incidents to law enforcement.
The report says that's because 60 per cent of respondents had negative perceptions of police. Forty per cent said they felt officers did not respect them as workers and treated them like criminals, it said. More than one-third of those surveyed reported that they had been abused or harassed by bylaw enforcement or police officers, with 12 per cent reporting they were physically or sexually assaulted by law enforcement officers.
Alison Clancey, executive director of SWAN Vancouver, an organization that promotes the rights, health and safety of immigrant and migrant women engaged in indoor sex work, says there's little to no legal or labour protection for migrant or immigrant women working in indoor sex work in Canada. "Anti-trafficking laws, prostitution laws and immigration policies impede these women from coming forward to report violence," she said.
Clancey's organization has served about 500 women this year. She says Asian and migrant women who engage in sex work have never been protected from discrimination, racism and violence, pointing to a Toronto massage parlour attack in February 2020 that left a 24-year-old woman dead.
Clancey said migrant sex workers often don't turn to authorities to report violence fearing they'll become the target of a prostitution or trafficking investigation herself, or be arrested and deported under immigration policy. Most police officers also don't distinguish between migrant sex work and human trafficking, she said, adding that enforcement actions are often based on racist stereotypes, such as Asian women in sex work needing to be saved from their situation.
Atlanta shooting rampage fuels fear of racially motivated attacks Duration 2:03 Featured Video A shooting rampage at three Atlanta spas killed eight people, seven of them of Asian descent and though police won’t yet call it a hate crime, it has fuelled fears across the country of more racially motivated attacks. In their joint statement, the CCNC, the Butterfly Asian and Migrant Sex Workers Network along with other organizations said Asian women working in massage parlours and the sex industry are often violently targeted. "This violence is not isolated and stems from a long history of fetishizing, hypersexualizing and marginalizing Asian women. Anti-migrant and anti-sex worker legislation promote and encourage hate towards Asian migrant sex workers, labelling them as undeserving and unworthy of rights and protection," their statement reads.
Many cities have excessive regulations against massage parlours that are often harmful and dangerous to women's physical safety, it goes on, such as prohibiting the locking of doors on individual workrooms — a bylaw in place in Toronto, for example. The City of Toronto said it has heard from workers in body rub parlous, where locking individual rooms is prohibited, who say they are concerned about this provision.
The concerns are related to health and safety issues and fears among workers, according to the city. "Recognizing the importance of their concerns, Municipal Licensing and Standards (MLS) has suspended the enforcement of the relevant sections of the bylaw.
This was done on August 28, 2020," the city said in a statement to CBC News. The city said it has provided grants to some community groups and partners to assess migrant sex workers' needs, develop resources for sex workers, and promote harm reduction practices for those in the industry. In the statement, the city also said it recognizes that Asian communities have been "scapegoated" and have been facing increasing incidents of racism and discrimination since the pandemic started. Meanwhile, the groups are also calling on the federal government to ensure migrant workers are granted legal status in Canada.
For Jan Wong, co-founder of the Asian Canadian Women's Alliance, the responsibility to discourage and dismantle anti-Asian sentiment falls on all Canadians. Wong said she has been encouraged, however, to see people shutting down victim blaming on social media amid the news of the shootings. And as investigators continue to piece together what led to the violence, she says calling out anti-Asian racism in Canada is one step in the fight to end it.

Authorities said the suspect in the deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area spas admitted to carrying out Tuesday evening's rampage and was on his way to Florida, where officials feared he would harm more people. "As tragic as this was … this could have been significantly worse," Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms told reporters.
Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office said during a Wednesday morning press conference the 21-year-old suspect claimed the shootings weren't racially motivated, even though six of the eight people killed were of Asian descent. The suspect has been charged with eight counts of murder, four in Cherokee County and four in Atlanta, officials said.
The suspect indicated he "has some issues, potentially sexual addiction," Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said. The suspect also indicated he may have frequented some of the spas in the past, Reynolds said. Baker said the suspect saw the spas as a temptation that he wanted to eliminate.
The sheriff's office identified the suspect as 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long, who was taken into custody 150 miles south of Atlanta. Investigators believe he was acting alone. The suspect is being held without bond, the sheriff's office said. The suspect also faces an aggravated assault charge.
A Hispanic man shot in Cherokee County was in stable condition at a hospital, Baker said. The targeted businesses were not on the Atlanta Police Department's radar, Bottoms said, describing the spas as "legally operating."
Six of the victims were identified as women of Asian descent, CBS affiliate WGCL-TV reports. Four of the victims are of Korean descent, South Korea's Foreign Ministry confirmed to CBS News.
The other victims were identified as a White woman and a White man, WGCL-TV reports. Police wouldn't say whether any of the slain victims worked at the spas. The victims of the Cherokee County shooting were identified as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Xiaojie Yan, 49; and Daoyou Feng, 44.
Waffle House released a statement Wednesday in memory of Yaun, who the company said worked at the chain as a server. The company described Yaun as "well-liked," and said "There simply are no words that can adequately convey the deep sense of loss and grief" the company feels over her death.
Baker said he didn't know if the suspect expressed remorse to investigators, but Baker said they got the impression he understood the gravity of his alleged actions. "He was pretty much fed up and had been kind of at the end of his rope, and yesterday was a really bad day for him, and this is what he did," Baker said.
The string of shootings started Tuesday evening at a spa in Cherokee County, 30 miles north of Atlanta. In Atlanta, police later responded to shootings at two spas across the street from one another.
Police were able to track the suspect's phone, Reynolds said. A Georgia State Patrol trooper saw the suspect's vehicle traveling south on Interstate 75, and troopers and sheriff's deputies performed a maneuver to get the suspect off the highway. Baker said the suspect made a comment that he was heading to Florida to "go do some similar act" on "some type of porn industry."
Baker didn't provide additional details. Mr. Biden said he would speak more about the shootings when the investigation was completed. Li Cohen, Jen Kwon, April Siese and Mark Strassmann contributed reporting.

Untangling the suspect’s motive isn’t easy when race and sex are competing to dominate the narrative. Six of the dead are women of Asian descent, yet the suspect told police he wasn’t motivated by racial bigotry.
Did the suspect visit Asian spas because he had some kind of hang-up about Asians, or is America more Asian than we realize? Surely our presence in every aspect of American life increases the likelihood that people from all backgrounds now interact with Asian America on a regular basis. His visits to Asian-run spas might be unremarkable had he been less violent or less white. In the U.S., interactions and relationships involving Asian women and non-Asian men sometimes attract prurient attention.
It’s happening as we speak, inspiring clickbait, eye rolls, perhaps even a cottage industry of analysis and accusation. One accusation making the rounds is that the suspect, 21 years old and white, is in denial about race. I think this misses the point.
His goal was primarily sexual, not racial purity. According to law enforcement and a former roommate, he spoke of porn and the end of temptation. His language, apocalyptic yet banal, sets a familiar tone.
Despite my Asian background, I find his disavowal of racism strangely credible. Like a lot of people, I’ve experienced bias and ethnic profiling, but I’ve also been a sex worker, and I have encountered more prejudice, more name-calling, more fear, anger and hostility in connection with my sex work than regarding my race.
And because I’m a writer too, the author of novels about a call girl, there’s the hate mail. The most memorable outbursts have been odd letters of denunciation from Asian American readers exposing the underbelly of identity politics.
White supremacy is lately defined as America’s “original sin” — a confusing term that recalls St. Augustine reading Genesis so we won’t have to. Original sin has traditionally reeked of sexual knowledge and desire. Now it’s been laicized and racialized — a moral stain that blots out all others.
Asian identity is not well defined in a country where race has been understood as Black or white, but after a wave of attacks against Asians provoked by the pandemic and the former president, it has become a unifying force both within and outside the community. Atlanta’s Black mayor, a white president and a multiethnic vice president with a South Asian name have tried to unite us in the face of another incomprehensible mass shooting by focusing on the increase in these bias crimes over the past year.
Flags have been lowered to half-staff. There are conventions and common manners for dealing with racial violence, and sometimes they transcend party lines. For most public figures, there’s a sanitizing playbook on race, bloodshed and gun violence.
The impact of sexual distress is harder to discuss — and not only because of puritanism. Sexuality is surprising, unpredictable; part of being an adult is pretending to have sex figured out.
There is sometimes more shame in sex than in race. Race is public and sex private, but the Atlanta shootings have upended this arrangement. Racialized feelings are beginning to look like more of a taboo than sexual obsessions. The killing of an Asian American is described as a hate crime, while killing a sex worker is seen as a mental health issue.
The scarlet R demotes Nathaniel Hawthorne’s scarlet letter A to a venial sin, now standing for (masculine) addiction rather than (female) adultery. Racism is stigmatized, while sex is pathologized.
This new chapter in American life requires a closer reading. “Sex addiction” is seen by many as empty psychobabble, a daft metaphor at best, dangerously weaponized on “a really bad day.”
The rehab center the suspect attended offers “clinically effective and Christ-centered” treatment for this nebulous condition, in essence a medicalization of Christian morality. To me, the doctrine of sex addiction is the erotic equivalent of race science.
And yet the killer’s belief is probably sincere: News accounts portray his spa visits as an addict’s relapse, as if sexual contact were a liver-destroying chemical. He may have been confused by appetites that are normal in 21-year-old males. Robert Aaron Long has something in common with serial killer Ted Bundy (who blamed his own violence on pornography), and his religious faith shouldn’t be ignored. He brings to mind Peter Sutcliffe, known as the Yorkshire Ripper, who thought murdering sex workers was doing God’s will.
We should take the disavowal of racial motives more seriously and reconsider our own assumptions. Mainstream Americans, including many Asian Americans, are quick to blame racism yet unready to discuss an older hatred — what my French friends call “la putophobie” (a term more pleasing to the eye than the clunky compound “whorephobia”). It’s the last acceptable form of hate speech, someone once told me, and persists within minority communities where being a good immigrant is conflated with sexual virtue.
Speculation about the spas where the massacre occurred is fed by prejudice. Amplified by so-called antitrafficking voices, this prejudice is dangerously toxic. Fueled by religious fanaticism and illiberal forms of feminism, by punitive laws and tabloid headlines, this bias breeds self-loathing in young men who should be learning how to nurture, not extinguish, the varieties of human connection.
Will the U.S. flag, flying at half-staff for our Atlanta dead, make a difference? I hope so. Quan, author of three novels including “Diary of a Manhattan Call Girl,” is a regular guest on RTHK Radio 3 in Hong Kong.

The man accused of killing eight people in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas was charged with eight counts of murder Wednesday.
Four of the counts against the man, Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, are related to shootings at two spas in Atlanta. The four others are related to shootings at another spa in Cherokee County.
Long also faces an aggravated assault charge in Cherokee County. The attacks began around 5 p.m. Tuesday, when four people were killed near Acworth in Cherokee County, authorities said. Less than an hour later, four women were killed in two shootings in Atlanta in Fulton County.
The victims in Atlanta were Asian women, as were two of the victims in Acworth, officials said. The two other victims were white, and a man who was injured was stable.
Earlier Wednesday, authorities said the suspect told investigators that he had a sexual addiction and saw the businesses as a temptation he needed to eliminate. The details, shared by law enforcement officers during a morning news conference with Atlanta's mayor and other top officials, were cited as a potential motive for why the gunman went on a two-county shooting spree Tuesday evening. It's unclear whether the businesses had any ties to sex work.
The sheriff's office identified the Cherokee County victims as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44. Feng's address was unknown.
The man who was injured was identified as Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth. Authorities arrested Long after a brief manhunt, Cherokee County sheriff's Capt.
Jay Baker said. Officials said he was arrested in Crisp County, about 125 miles south of Atlanta, and extradited to Cherokee County. Long, who is charged with four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault in Cherokee County, was held without bond and is scheduled to be arraigned Thursday morning.
The FBI is "assisting the local investigations," the agency said early Wednesday. The number of anti-Asian hate incidents has risen significantly. Research released Tuesday by the reporting forum
Stop AAPI Hate revealed that nearly 3,800 incidents were reported over about a year during the coronavirus pandemic and that a disproportionate number of the reports said the attacks were directed at women. Officials said that based on what Long told investigators, the attacks Tuesday did not appear to be motivated by race. "We are still early in this investigation, so we cannot make that determination at this moment," Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said.
Baker said Wednesday that the gunman was likely to have acted alone. Officials said Long told investigators that he was on his way to Florida, perhaps to target more spa-like businesses, when he was captured. "The public as a whole should be grateful that this suspect was quickly apprehended, because it's very likely that there may have been more victims," Bottoms said Wednesday.
Long's family contacted the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office after it released photos of the suspect. They helped police track his phone and eventually helped the Crisp County Sheriff's Office to catch up with him. A 9 mm firearm was found in the car he was driving, police said.
It was purchased legally on Tuesday before the shootings, two senior law enforcement officials briefed on the matter said. Long graduated from Sequoyah High School in Cherokee County in 2017, according to a district official.
Nico Straughan, 21, who went to school with Long, told The Associated Press that he was "super nice, super Christian, very quiet." He said that in high school Long brought a Bible to school every day and would walk around with it in his hands. "He went from one of the nicest kids I ever knew in high school to being on the news yesterday," Straughan said. President Joe Biden was briefed overnight and again Wednesday morning, and the White House was in touch with Bottoms' office and the FBI, press secretary Jen Psaki said.
Vice President Kamala Harris said Wednesday that "our prayers are extended to the families of those who have been killed. South Korea's Foreign Affairs Ministry told NBC News that four of the women who died were of Korean origin, but their nationalities have yet to be verified.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken addressed the shootings during a visit to South Korea, saying this type of violence had no place in America or anywhere. "We will stand up for the right of our fellow Americans and Korean Americans to be safe and to be treated with dignity," he said. Atlanta police said that because all of the shootings were at spas, officers were dispatched to similar businesses and patrols were increased.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

The shooting rampage in the Atlanta area this week received widespread coverage in South Korea on Thursday.
Eight of the 10 biggest South Korean newspapers put the Tuesday attacks on their front page, some accompanied by analysis. The Thursday editions of Chosun Ilbo (left) and Dong-a Ilbo.
Two other victims were also of Asian descent and two were white. In total, the shooter, who is white, killed seven women.
Captain Jay Baker, the spokesman for the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office, said Wednesday that the suspected gunman, Robert Aaron Long, was having a “bad day” on Tuesday when he allegedly opened fire at three Atlanta-area massage parlors. Baker said that Long admitted to the shootings but denied that they were motivated by race.
The shooting spree has put Asian communities across the country on alert, coming amid a rising number of hate crimes targeting Asians in the U.S. since the start of the pandemic. The attack also evoked a history of violence against women and fetishization of those of Asian ethnicities.
The Chosun Ilbo, the most prominent conservative newspaper in South Korea, published four different stories focused on the Atlanta shootings. The outlet stressed that people of Asian and Korean descent were targeted, citing a Korean-language outlet in Atlanta and other U.S. media. Korean media also cited a report by Stop AAPI Hate, which collects data about discrimination against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders, suggesting that Koreans are the second-largest ethnic group that reported experiencing hate incidents from March 2020 to the end of February this year.
President Moon Jae-in of South Korea expressed condolences for the victims’ families, the presidential spokesman said in a briefing on Thursday. On Wednesday, hashtags such as #StopAsianHate, #AsiansAreHuman, #인종차별 (racism), were trending among South Korean users of Twitter.

We’ve removed our paywall from this and other stories about acts of violence and racism against Asian communities. Consider becoming a subscriber to support our journalists.
A gunman killed six Asian women and two others in attacks on spas across the metropolitan Atlanta area on Tuesday evening, a spree that has sent shock waves throughout the country, as it grapples with an apparent surge in violence against people of Asian descent. Officials said they are still piecing together what may have motivated the suspect, Robert Aaron Long, who was charged with eight counts of murder and faces the death penalty if convicted. The horrific attack has been condemned as an act of hate across the nation and from as high as the White House. Below, everything we do know about the shootings so far. As authorities continue to investigate, they have sent mixed messages about what may have motivated Long’s long rampage.
Authorities did not say the businesses were involved in sex work, but USA Today found all three businesses attacked listed on a site that advertises illicit services. The Atlanta spas were previously targeted by police in undercover sting operations where an officer paid for a massage and an employee offered a sex act, according to the Associated Press. Twelve people were arrested at the two spas on prostitution charges, but none since 2013.
On Thursday, police in Atlanta said the suspect “frequented” those same spas. Many pushed back on law enforcement’s characterization of the killings as possibly unrelated to racial bias, while calling for solidarity with Asian Americans. “Racially motivated violence should be called out for exactly what it is, and we must stop making excuses and rebranding it as economic anxiety or sexual addiction,” Representative Marilyn Strickland, a Korean American from Washington state, said on the House floor on Wednesday, echoing sentiments that ricocheted around social media.
The gunman was seen on surveillance video around 5 p.m. on Tuesday evening exiting Young’s Asian Massage Parlor in Acworth, Georgia, in the northern Atlanta suburbs. According to an eyewitness, he reportedly sat in his car for over an hour outside before entering the business and allegedly shooting to death four people inside: two Asian women, a white woman, and a white man. A Hispanic man was shot outside, steps away from the spa, and is currently in critical condition. The shooter was seen fleeing in a black SUV south to the Buckhead neighborhood of northeastern Atlanta, where he shot to death three women at Gold Spa and one at Aromatherapy Spa, across the street.
All four women were Asian. Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia — which is about five miles away from the first shooting — was arrested on Tuesday evening. Law enforcement issued a bulletin for Long after spotting his SUV and license plate on security-camera footage from the first attack. Three hours after the shooting spree began, he was intercepted on Interstate 75 in Crisp County, about 150 miles south of Atlanta. Crisp County sheriff Billy Hancock said state troopers and sheriff’s deputies trapped Long’s vehicle on the highway where they caused it to “spin out of control” and took him to jail “without incident,” according to the Post.
Officials said Wednesday that Long’s parents identified the suspect as their son to authorities after seeing images of him. The Washington Post reports that Long’s parents and a former roommate described him having a sexual compulsion he said was an addiction, and that he was treated at an evangelical center called HopeQuest located close to the site of the first attack. Long grew up in a conservative Southern Baptist church and was a patient at HopeQuest in 2019 and 2020, according to the former roommate. (After the shooting, his church removed him from its membership.) The center advertises treatment for “sex addiction” and “pornography addiction,” according to the Post, and promoted “ex-gay therapy,” the false idea that people can become heterosexual.
Tyler Bayless, who shared a room with Long at a sober-living facility, described the accused killer to the Post as a man torn between an obsession with sex and his conservative faith that considers sex outside of heterosexual marriage to be immoral. “This was the kind of guy who would hate himself for masturbating, would consider that a relapse,” Bayless said. Before entering treatment, Long was in a relationship with a woman in Tennessee and his parents once called police to report that their son had gone to visit her and refused to return home. Bayless said his understanding was that the relationship ended after Long was found to be frequenting spas for sex. Similarly, Long’s parents kicked him out of the house on Monday for watching pornography and patronizing the spas. The next day, he legally purchased the 9mm handgun and set about killing, authorities say — a rampage that officials said he may have planned to continue in Florida, before being apprehended.
Authorities released the names of all eight people killed: Delaina Ashley Yuan, Paul Andre Michels, Xiaojie Tan, Daoyou Feng, Soon Chung Park, Hyun Grant, Suncha Kim, and Yong Ae Yue. Six of the eight killed were women of Asian descent, several of them immigrants to the United States who worked in the spas. Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, was shot multiple times steps away from Young’s Asian Massage spa but survived.
Roughly 7.6 percent of the population of Georgia’s Fulton County, which includes Atlanta, is of Asian descent. The data, which includes incidents that occurred between March 19 of last year and Feb. 28 of this year, shows that roughly 503 incidents took place in 2021 alone. Verbal harassment and shunning were the most common types of discrimination, making up 68.1 percent and 20.5 percent of the reports respectively. The third most common category, physical assault, made up 11.1 percent of the total incidents. More than a third of incidents occurred at businesses, the primary site of discrimination, while a quarter took place in public streets.
Across social media, there was an outpouring of grief from the Asian community. JUST IN: Organization ‘Asian Americans Advancing Justice Atlanta’ just released this statement following the deadly shooting at three Asian spas in metro Atlanta. This is a developing story and this post has been updated to include new information.

A moment from the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office press conference on Wednesday quickly went viral: Jay Baker, a spokesperson for the police department handling the investigation into the horrific Atlanta spa murders, said that suspect Robert Aaron Long was having a bad day.
"He was pretty much fed up, kind of at the end of his rope, and yesterday was a really bad day for him and this is what he did," said Baker. A police officer excusing Long's actions as merely the result of him having a "bad day" would indeed be contemptible. But that's not what Baker did.
In fact, many of the people so infuriated about the quote were misled by Rupar's edit of the video. The full video (the relevant section starts at about 13:50) makes clear that Baker was not providing his own commentary, but rather summarizing what Long had told the investigators.
The "bad day" line was proceeded by a clarification that this was Long's own explanation, as related to the police. Baker did not endorse it. Nor did the captain endorse Long's statement that the killings were unrelated to racism.
He makes clear he's relaying comments from Long. "He claims that—and as the chief said this is still early—but he does claim that it was not racially motivated," said Baker.
Again, the police spokesman is telling reporters what Long said, not applying his own spin. Later, when another reporter asked about this, Baker stepped aside so that Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms could explain the efforts being undertaken to protect Asian Americans at this time of heightened concern. It would be naive of the police—or the public, or anyone else—to accept what alleged killers say at face value.
It's similarly naive to assume that the sex and ethnicity of the victims tells us everything we need to know about the crime. The police should investigate the matter dispassionately, and relay to the public whatever information they gather. Too often, law enforcement uses such press conferences to engage in wild speculation; this was a refreshing example of the cops not doing that.

Members of Canada’s Parliament have passed a motion to condemn the rise of anti-Asian racism and racist attacks in North America, and to express its unanimous horror at the shootings in Georgia last week. The motion was introduced by NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh in the House of Commons during question period on Monday.
The move comes after eight people were killed by a white gunman at several massage parlours in Atlanta on Tuesday. Six of the victims were Asian American women. The shootings sparked outrage around the world, putting a spotlight on the rise of anti-Asian racism fuelled by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The government should create and “properly fund” dedicated hate crime units in communities across Canada, the motion reads. It also called for the establisment of “national standards” to identify and record hate crimes and to work collaboratively with non-profit organizations to facilitate the reporting of such crimes.
The motion was carried without opposition. In a tweet Monday afternoon, Singh said “Canada is not immune” to anti-Asian hate. Further, in a statement released on Sunday to mark the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, Trudeau said the COVID-19 pandemic has “propelled Anti-Asian hate and discrimination” in Canada and around the world.

Of the eight victims killed in this week's shooting rampage on massage spas in the Atlanta area, six were women of Asian descent.
The implication that racism and sexism are two separate motivations has prompted outrage among Asian American women who say the two have always been inseparable in their experience — especially so in the context of the recent surge in anti-Asian attacks. Between last March and February, the group Stop AAPI Hate found that Asian women reported 2.3 times more hate incidents than men.
Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociology professor at Biola University who specializes in race and ethnicity in media, told NPR that removing racism from the conversation ignores the history of hypersexualization and fetishization of Asian women in the U.S. Hearing that authorities were not calling the mass shooting as racially motivated, she says, was enraging. "I was just so angry, and I just thought these police officers — and maybe all of America — just doesn't understand how racism and sexism intersect," Yuen tells NPR's All Things Considered. This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
I think submissive. And I've actually gotten — this is, you know, really personal, but — I've actually been asked if my anatomy is different. So, a kind of very fetishized, exoticized, that we're somehow even physiologically different from other women. And I think that goes back to a history of fetishization of women of color in this country.
And servile. What else ...
Exotic lotus flowers. Yes.
Dragon ladies. Temptresses. Yes.
And I think, with the lotus blossom, like death at the end of movies — like, they never survive. So it's the kind of Madame Butterfly, Miss Saigon thing where, you know, you want them, but then you also can't have them. They're taboo, they're forbidden.
And let's not forget Full Metal Jacket. Yes — so the prostitute, the Asian prostitute. And that's a very common stereotype, and the kind of propositions that Asian women get in public all surround Full Metal Jacket quotes.
And they're horrible and everyone knows them, even though the movie is rather old. But it's now part of society or culture in general, like life imitating art — and imitating kind of an imagined life.
First of all, I thought that he completely dehumanized these women. He labeled them as temptations to be excised, to be eliminated. I mean, these are human beings, right?
He is the one — if he has an addiction, he has the problem. Why treat whatever fetish that he has with Asian women, why treat the women as the problem? I mean, this kind of externalization of his own issues — it was so horrible to hear. And as an Asian woman, it felt totally dehumanizing.
So the U.S. military has had many wars with Asia. And and so the kind of, even rhetoric, of thinking of Asia as a place that you want to take over, to dominate. And so there is this kind of fetishization of Asia proper as a country.
And then, of course, when the when the GIs are over there, they're participating in the sex industry. And, as a result, there have been what are called camp towns that pop up around U.S. military bases and those camp towns have sex workers.
And so, the GIs, I think, associate, you know, being in Asia with sex workers, even though Asians are not any more likely to be sex workers than any other race or culture. Exactly. Which only further reinforces attitudes that permission is granted to Asian women's bodies.
That's right. So, the kind of easy access and inexpensive access and continual access through those camp towns contributes to the idea that Asian women's bodies are just for white male pleasure.
I want to talk about with you some of the other ways Asian women have been targeted by specific laws and policies in this country. Let's talk about the Page Act. So the Page Act of 1875 actually predates the Chinese Exclusion Act [of 1882], and it was an act that particularly targeted East Asian women. And it was applied mostly to Chinese women. And they thought of Chinese women as all prostitutes, right.
It was a way to exclude the Chinese population and they were successful in enacting it against women because they perceived that — or they constructed that — they carried venereal diseases and actually that they were temptations for white men. I actually think that Black Lives Matter is part of it. That's because our society is finally having a racial reckoning, that they're becoming aware that racism exists and now we're able to nuance race and nuance race intersecting with sexism, that all of this is America coming to a greater understanding of all the layers of bigotry and discrimination that the various groups of color have experienced in this country.
NPR's Mia Venkat and Courtney Dorning produced and edited this interview for broadcast. Emma Bowman adapted it for the Web.

Of the eight people who were killed when a White man attacked three metro Atlanta spas, six were Asian women. Investigators said it was too early to say whether the crime was racially motivated, and instead pointed to the suspect’s claim of a potential sex addiction.
But experts and activists argue it’s no coincidence that six of the eight victims were Asian women. And the suspect’s remarks, they say, are rooted in a history of misogyny and stereotypes that are all too familiar for Asian and Asian American women.
They’re fetishized and hypersexualized. They’re seen as docile and submissive.
On top of that, they’re often working in the service sector and are subject to the same racism that affects Asian Americans more broadly. The way their race intersects with their gender makes Asian and Asian American women uniquely vulnerable to violence, said Sung Yeon Choimorrow, executive director of the non-profit advocacy group National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum.
And those factors came together this week in a dangerous, and ultimately deadly, way. The perceptions of Asian and Asian American women as submissive, hypersexual and exotic can be traced back centuries. Rachel Kuo, a scholar on race and co-leader of Asian American Feminist Collective, points to legal and political measures throughout the nation’s history that have shaped these harmful ideas. One of the earliest examples comes from the Page Act of 1875.
That law, coming a few years before the Chinese Exclusion Act, was enacted seemingly to restrict prostitution and forced labor. In reality, it was used systematically to prevent Chinese women from immigrating to the US, under the pretense that they were prostitutes.
US imperialism has also played a significant role in those attitudes, Kuo said. American service members, while abroad for US military activities (including the Philippine-American War, World War II and the Vietnam War), have a history of soliciting sex workers and patronizing industries that encouraged sex trafficking.
That furthered denigrating stereotypes of Asian women as sexual deviants, which were memorialized on screen. All of those perceptions “have had the effect of excusing and tolerating violence by ignoring, trivializing and normalizing it,” Kuo said. Those stereotypes also feed into perceptions of “Asian women as cheap and disposable workers,” said Kuo. That’s made them economically vulnerable, too.
Asian American businesses have already been hit especially hard during the pandemic, fueled both by unemployment and xenophobia. Asian women, in particular, made up the highest share of long-term unemployed workers last December, according to a January report from the National Women’s Law Center. And many Asian American women work in service industries, such as beauty salons, hospitality and restaurants. “The narrative gets lost because we’re seen as the ‘model minority,’ where they think we’re all lawyers and doctors and engineers, but look into it a little deeper and many of the women in our community work in frontline service-based sectors,” Choimorrow, of the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum, said.
Other advocates also called attention to the recent victims’ employment situations. “That the Asian women murdered yesterday were working highly vulnerable and low-wage jobs during an ongoing pandemic speaks directly to the compounding impacts of misogyny, structural violence, and white supremacy,” Phi Nguyen, litigation director at Asian American Advancing Justice - Atlanta, said in a statement.
Massage parlor workers and sex workers are especially at risk, according to Esther Kao, an organizer with Red Canary Song, a New York-based collective of Asian and Asian American advocates for massage parlor workers and sex workers. She said those workers not only face stigma, but are also often migrants.
Some may fear they risk deportation should authorities investigate violence or crimes against them. It’s also important to note that not all massage businesses provide sexual services, Kao said.
To suggest as much, as the suspect in the Atlanta area attacks did, is a “racist assumption,” she said. “It ties specifically to the fetishization of Asian woman,” Kao added.
The recent attacks come as Asian Americans are experiencing a rise in incidents of hate and violence since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, echoing a historical pattern that has seen Asian Americans targeted during times of crisis because they are viewed as foreigners. Groups that track violence and harassment against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders say that their data shows that women are disproportionately affected.
Nearly 3,800 hate incidents were reported to Stop AAPI Hate between March 19 last year and February 28 this year. Women were targeted in a disproportionate share of those incidents, making up 68% of the reports while men made up 29%, the report found. Melissa Borja, an assistant professor of Asian/Pacific Islander American studies at the University of Michigan, noted on Twitter that she and another team of researchers observed a similar pattern.
Despite those findings, the degree to which Asian and Asian American women are specifically affected by hate and violence often goes unnoticed, Choimorrow said. “We become invisibilized when we talk about crimes against Asian Americans,” she said.
What’s needed to address this problem is a systemic approach that acknowledges the threats that Asian and Asian American women are facing, Choimorrow and others said. Because as long as Asian and Asian American women are overlooked, the kind of violence seen in these recent attacks could very well happen again.

"It is easier to buy a gun here than it is to vote": Georgia State Senator Michelle Au proposes gun control measure amid wave of violence against Asian Americans On Friday President Biden and Vice President Harris met with community leaders in Atlanta, Georgia, to discuss the recent wave of violence targeting Asian Americans.
Democratic Georgia State Senator Michelle Au was part of those talks. She joins CBSN with more on the meeting and why she says a gun control bill she's sponsoring is the logical next step.

Last Tuesday morning, I wrote in this newsletter about a recent NPR series that used the case of the Capital Gazette, in Annapolis, Maryland, to illuminate the inadequacy of the news cycle that typically follows mass shootings in America: messy breaking news, followed by “thoughts and prayers,” coverage of vigils, stories about the victims and survivors, then, all too quickly, silence.
By Tuesday night, the cycle had started again: a gunman murdered eight people at three spas in the Atlanta area; six of the victims were Asian women. This time, though, the cycle felt different, or at least slowed down.
As I wrote on Friday, we had, to that point, learned astonishingly little about the Asian victims, in particular—four of them had yet to be named officially; observers apportioned blame, too, to newsrooms’ lack of diversity and consequent inability to adequately cover communities across language and cultural barriers. Since then, we have learned more: officials identified the remaining victims as Soon Chung Park, Hyun Jung Grant, Suncha Kim, and Yong Ae Yue, and major national outlets finally published more details about some of the victims’ lives, as well as interviews with loved ones. Still, though, there are gaps—and we knew much more, much sooner, about the gunman than his victims.
In general, though, such stories have not added up to anything approaching a focused, national-level debate about America’s gun laws. Across the agenda-setting Sunday shows yesterday, gun reform was mentioned only in passing on NBC’s Meet the Press and Fox News Sunday, and not at all on ABC’s
This Week, CBS’s Face the Nation, or CNN’s State of the Union, where the word “weapon” was used only to refer to the Senate filibuster; of the first ten articles that appeared in a quick Google News search for “gun control” this morning, six were not at all tied to Atlanta, and two of the other four were right-wing writeups of comments that the Democratic Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock made on Meet the Press. This absence is especially curious given that the gun debate has otherwise been in the news of late.
Five days before the Atlanta shootings, the House of Representatives passed a pair of measures that would broaden and stiffen background checks for gun purchases. These appear doomed in the Senate unless Democrats move to abolish the filibuster—but this is a story in its own right, and in any case, the broader debate is not yet dead.
As BuzzFeed reported on Friday, prominent Democrats are mulling more limited proposals in the hope of attracting some bipartisan support. Both these focuses pretty quickly faded, both in Washington and in the press.
Those two spheres are, of course, connected: journalists are generally much better at reacting to the movements of politicians than using their agenda-setting power to keep intractable problems front-of-mind for the nation. In the wake of the Atlanta shootings, there are plenty of contingent reasons for the lack of focus on gun laws, but it’s hard to avoid the conclusion that both apathy and cynicism about the prospects for change have played a central role.
Normalization probably has, too; in different senses, normalization has also hamstrung coverage of anti-Asian racism, and of the victims. As NPR’s Capital Gazette podcast showed, the typical mass-shooting news cycle is profoundly inadequate, but in the case of Atlanta, it’s arguably its absence that feels most jarring. When it comes to guns, we can’t prolong policy debates beyond the aftermath of a tragedy if those debates never start.
Jon Allsop is a freelance journalist whose work has appeared in the New York Review of Books, Foreign Policy, and The Nation, among other outlets. He writes CJR’s newsletter The Media Today. Find him on Twitter @Jon_Allsop.

We’ve removed our paywall from this and other stories about acts of violence and racism against Asian communities. Consider becoming a subscriber to support our journalists.
There was already ample reason to take initial police accounts with a grain of salt — even before BuzzFeed reported that Baker had shared a racist shirt on Facebook that blamed China for the pandemic — but, as often happens, this uncritical recitation of a postarrest interview allowed the gunman’s words to define the narrative. Reuters initially headlined its piece “Sex addiction, not racial hatred, may have driven suspect in Georgia spa shootings: law enforcement.” As outrage built among a grieving Asian American community already grappling with a rise in hate crimes that have disproportionately singled out women, Reuters revised to a hedging acknowledgment: “Motive in Georgia spa shootings may not be race, but Asian-Americans fearful.” The updated headline wasn’t much better, implying that Asian Americans were overreacting or jumping to conclusions before all the facts were in.
Long could be charged under Georgia’s hate-crimes statute, which was signed into law just last June, meaning that law enforcement and prosecutors don’t have much experience in using it. The law imposes minimum sentences — in the case of a felony, at least two years — if it can be determined beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused “intentionally selected” a target because of “actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender, mental disability, or physical disability.” Practically speaking, a two-year minimum sentence for a man who has confessed to the premeditated killing of eight people in a state that has the death penalty is unlikely to meaningfully affect his sentence.
Interviewing people on the scene may make this a simple case. Local Korean-language media, translated by Congresswoman Marilyn Strickland’s staff, reported that an unnamed eyewitness said Long had uttered the words “Kill all Asians,” although, for reasons that are still unclear, this has not been picked up or independently confirmed by English-language outlets. The criminal-justice system may, in the end, interpret Long’s actions narrowly, either because of its own biases or because there isn’t enough evidence to convince a jury.
In other realms of the law — discrimination in housing, voting, or employment — actions that disproportionately affect one group are understood as discriminatory, although violating these rules won’t put someone in prison or on death row. But the choices and methods of prosecutors need not be our own.
“That the Asian women murdered yesterday were working highly vulnerable and low-wage jobs during an ongoing pandemic speaks directly to the compounding impacts of misogyny, structural violence, and white supremacy,” said Phi Nguyen, the litigation director at Asian Americans Advancing Justice in Atlanta. Just because a lawyer or a jury may not make a full accounting of these forces doesn’t mean the rest of us can’t do so ourselves.

TribLIVE's Daily and Weekly email newsletters deliver the news you want and information you need, right to your inbox.
He was having a bad day. So said Cherokee County Sheriff’s spokesman Jay Baker by way of explaining last week’s mass shootings at three Atlanta-area massage parlors. The suspect, a 21-year-old white man whose name won’t be used here, is said to have told police he suffers a sex addiction at odds with his Christian faith. They say he shot up the massage parlors as a way of removing sexual temptation.
Apparently, the idea of counseling never occurred to this guy. He couldn’t keep his pants zipped, so women had to die. And, in the current climate, it is hardly irrelevant that six of the eight people, he allegedly killed — one person survived — were Asian women. “Yesterday was a really bad day for him,” said Baker, “and this is what he did.”
It was an odd, sympathy-for-the-devil kind of statement that rang blithely oblivious to the fresh trauma of a gun-scarred nation and, in particular, its Asian citizens. Hearing it, was anyone truly surprised by reports that Baker once took to Facebook promoting T-shirts describing covid-19 as an “Imported virus from Chy-Na”?
No. And in so doing, this putative public servant became part of the problem for 22 million Americans of Asian heritage. For them, this tragedy was the all-too-predictable capstone of a year of elders assaulted on the streets, of a woman spat upon, of a boy sent to the emergency room, a pandemic year in which malice toward Asians — “China virus!”
“kung flu!” “Wuhan flu!” — was cheered on from the White House itself. We may reasonably presume, however, that none of those 22 million people will respond by murdering random strangers.
In America that has always been a form of problem-solving reserved almost exclusively for white men. And if some Asian person did go to that horrific extreme, it’s unlikely he
or she would afterward enjoy the solicitude of some sympathetic cop. No, you have to be white to get that, i.e., to benefit from the national myopia that causes many of us to conflate whiteness with innocence.
One is reminded of reporters who treated the Oklahoma City bombing as if it were America’s first act of homegrown terror, like maybe Sixteenth Street Baptist Church was destroyed by a gas leak. Then there are the people in North Carolina who turned Olympic Park bomber Eric Rudolph into some sort of folk hero. “Bless his heart,” one woman said.
And so it goes. Nine years ago, when it was argued in this space that America faced a wave of terror from right-wing white men, the idea was considered preposterous by some. Now it is the official stance of the Department of Homeland Security.
So this myopia, this lazy conflation of whiteness with innocence, cannot continue. It is a luxury America can ill afford. Certainly, every marginalized and put-upon community already knows this, has paid for the wisdom in a currency of tears and blood.
But Baker’s misplaced empathy is a red-flag reminder that some of us still don’t understand. The suspect was having a bad day, he says?
Poor baby. Imagine how his victims felt.

Prominent gun control groups angered by the ease with which the alleged Atlanta spa shooter was able to acquire his weapon are calling on politicians to convert their outrage at the massacre into a renewed push for legislative reforms. The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence and the Giffords Law Center, the advocacy group named for the former congresswoman and gun violence survivor Gabrielle Giffords, say the deaths of eight people, including six Asian American women, merely hastens the need for action in Washington DC and at state level.
The alleged murderer, Robert Aaron Long, purchased a 9mm handgun on Tuesday morning, just hours before Tuesday’s deadly rampage through three Atlanta area spas. According to law enforcement sources, and the gun shop owner, the transaction breached no federal gun laws or procedures. “Hate exists everywhere in the world and America’s unfettered access to weapons makes that hate lethal.
It is tragic that it took the highly public murder of eight people to prompt that conversation, again,” Brady’s president, Kris Brown, told the Guardian. Brown pointed to this week’s reauthorizing by Congress of the Violence Against Women Act, despite substantial Republican opposition, as an example. It followed the passing in the House earlier this month of two gun reform bills seeking to expand background checks.
Peter Ambler, executive director of Giffords, echoed her views. “Congress must continue to act and pass meaningful gun safety legislation into law,” he said in a statement.
Numerous politicians at national and state level condemned the shooting, with several expressing concern that Long, 21, was able to walk into Big Woods Goods gun shop and range in Canton on the day of his killing spree, pass a rudimentary background check, and walk straight out with the weapon in his pocket. He had previously spent six months at a rehabilitation facility in Roswell, Georgia, beginning in 2019, seeking treatment for sex addiction, according to a roommate at the Maxwell Recovery Center, and attended weekly therapy sessions thereafter. There is no waiting period for firearms sales in Georgia, and the basic background check that Long passed would have taken less than 100 seconds to complete, according to the Giffords Law Center.
Igor Volsky, executive director of the advocacy group Guns Down America, pointed to the state’s no-wait law as a significant factor in the shootings. “I would really encourage Georgia and other states to look at what happened here and think about what they could do in order to reduce or prevent such incidents from happening again,” he told Newsweek.
Mike Wilensky, an attorney and Democratic party representative in Georgia’s state house, concurred. “Waiting periods create an important ‘cooling off’ period that can help prevent impulsive acts of gun violence, including gun homicides and suicides,” he said in one of a series of tweets calling for new restrictions. Brown, meanwhile, said she saw new hope of achieving meaningful gun reforms at a national level for the first time in years, following the passage of the House bills intended to expand background checks and close the so-called gun show loophole that exempts event buyers from such checks.
Previous, similar measures that passed the House were kept off the Senate floor by the Republican former majority leader Mitch McConnell. Under Democrat Chuck Schumer’s control, the Senate will get to vote on at least one of this month’s proposals, even though reaching the necessary 60 votes to become law is unlikely. “That is already more than it received in the last Congress under McConnell.
It will be a conversation, but we know that there is bipartisan support for this bill,” Brown said. Joe Biden, a supporter of gun reform efforts, is under pressure from his party to eliminate the filibuster to allow other signature policy measures, such as the John Lewis Voting Rights Act, to become law on a simple majority vote. “President Biden entered the White House with the strongest gun violence prevention platform of any incoming president,” Brown said.

In 2002, the brutal beating of a junior by his classmate at Morehouse College, in Atlanta, made national headlines.
The case marked Georgia’s prosecutorial debut of its hate-crime statute, on the grounds that the perpetrator, 19-year-old Aaron Price, had accused 20-year-old Gregory Love of making a sexual advance toward him in a shower stall, and spouted homophobic rants as he retrieved the baseball bat he used to bludgeon Love. The hate-crime statute could have added five years to Price’s 10-year sentence for aggravated battery and assault.
But the court’s decision not to convict on the additional criminal code came down to the defendant’s word against his victim’s: Price insisted that he feared for his safety and denied having used such slurs. The failure to convict Price on the hate-crime statute was criticized by many LGBTQ-rights advocates, and drew attention to how hate-crime laws work—in that many times they just don’t.
After last week’s mass murder of eight Georgians, six of whom were Asian women, many people across the country are outraged that local and state officials appear hesitant about, if not opposed to, classifying the massacre by the alleged gunman, who is white, as a racist and misogynistic attack. The anger over the exculpatory statements by the law-enforcement spokesperson Captain Jay Baker, who quoted the suspect as saying he’d had “a bad day,” is rightfully placed.
But the public call for hate-crime prosecution would be better served by an understanding that such designations are often purely symbolic. Despite some conservative backlash to anti-hate protections for LGBTQ people, hate-crime bills historically have garnered enthusiastic bipartisan support.
Yet the bills generally do nothing to improve conditions for victimized communities: In cases where they are applied, these laws lengthen sentences for offenses that are already penalized via extant criminal codes, instead of helping prosecute crimes for which perpetrators would otherwise go free.
More injuriously, these laws perpetuate a public imagination about violent discrimination that flies in the face of how violent discrimination actually occurs. They do more to narrow the definitions of racism, xenophobia, transphobia, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, sexism, homophobia, and ableism than they do to expand our legal apparatus and public understanding of what hate crimes are.
Hate crimes are defined as intergroup offenses, typically violent, that are motivated by race, sex, sexual orientation, gender, national origin, religion, or disability. But motivation is a technical legal term that is almost impossible to prove unless an alleged perpetrator is affiliated with a known hate group, is witnessed using epithets during the act, or left physical evidence, such as spray-painted extremist insignia. Both federal and state laws subscribe to this definition, but federal law also holds to a strict “but for” standard, in which the government must prove that the alleged perpetrator would not have committed the crime “but for” the identity of the victim.
FBI Director Christopher Wray said that the suspect’s motive in the Atlanta massacre did not “appear [to be] racially motivated,” and according to investigators, the suspect denied racial animus once in custody. (Recall the Price case: Even though Love had reported hearing Price go on a homophobic rant during the assault, his simple denial of that accusation helped dismantle the hate-crime charge.)
And while it is still possible that officials will label the Atlanta shootings as hate crimes, such a statement from Wray neglects the idea that hate crimes, by definition, also include violence against women and not just racism. Overwhelmingly, intergroup violence in the U.S. is male violence against women. And yet femicide (a term coined by the activist Diana Russell in 1976 to differentiate the killing of women and girls because they are women and girls from other homicides), domestic violence, sexual assault, harassment, and stalking are almost never prosecuted as hate crimes motivated by misogyny.
Take the well-publicized 1944 case of Recy Taylor, a 24-year-old Alabama mother and sharecropper, who was kidnapped, blindfolded, and raped at gunpoint by six white men while walking home from church. She promised her attackers her silence in exchange for her life, but defiantly reported her assault to family members, who enlisted the help of a 21-year-old NAACP organizer from Montgomery named Rosa Parks. Taylor’s case was a familiar experience for many Black southern women: Attacks by white men were always racially motivated, and employment in white households left them particularly vulnerable to sexual exploitation.
(Of the Black women who were lynched, many were rape survivors who had named their white attackers.) After demanding the prosecution of Taylor’s rapists, Parks was physically assaulted by police, who threatened to jail her if she didn’t leave town. No charges were ever brought against Taylor’s assailants.
That legacy of overlooking sexual violence is one of the many reasons that contemporary hate-crime legislation fails to reconcile how people can be simultaneously targeted for their race, gender, sexuality, and other identities. Couple that with the high legal threshold for establishing motivation (as seen in the Price case), and it becomes clear that hate-crime laws at best hyper-punish perpetrators without expanding the law’s capacity to identify and target discrimination.
Instead of encompassing the racial and gendered violence that brutalized Taylor and the Atlanta victims Yong Ae Yue, Xiaojie Tan, Daoyou Feng, Hyun Jung Grant, Suncha Kim, and Soon Chung Park, hate-crime legislation asks that the state decide whether victims were women or people of color in the minds of their attackers. A year after the Price conviction, the Georgia Supreme Court unanimously struck down its hate-crime statute on the grounds that it was “unconstitutionally vague” in specifying protected groups (leaving the courts to wonder if, for example, a sports fan harassing the opposing team was guilty of such offenses).
Upon the 2020 shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery by two white vigilantes, the Georgia legislature resumed a push for a new hate-crime bill. It was signed last June by Governor Brian Kemp and imposed additional penalties for intergroup-bias crimes; it also mandated data collection on these incidents. But just as in the Price trial, proving such biases still hinges on smoking-gun evidence that unmistakably characterizes the perpetrator’s intentions.
Georgia is but one example; hate-crime legislation is nationally ineffective at protecting marginalized groups. Until these statutes are used to expand our understanding of this kind of violence and provide the resources that targeted communities need to be less vulnerable, and until gender violence is recognized as our most prevalent hate crime, then these statutes are little more than an extension of the carceral state.

Andrew Sullivan lambasted the media for their coverage of the recent deadly Atlanta-area shootings for pushing a "narrative" about the violence being driven by anti-Asian bigotry despite the lack of evidence that proves that it was a hate crime. Much of the mainstream media and the Democratic Party have condemned racism against Asian-Americans after it was reported that six of the eight victims who died in a trio of massage parlors were of Asian descent even though an ongoing investigation has yet to determine racism as a motive.
In a piece published in his "Weekly Dish" Substack, Sullivan sounded the alarm on how "narratives" are replacing the news with the media's "grotesquely distorted" coverage of the shootings. While he stressed that the country shouldn't take the killer's confession to police "as definitive" but noted that "his story is backed up by acquaintances and friends and family" that his apparent sexual addiction played a role in the shootings.
"We have yet to find any credible evidence of anti-Asian hatred or bigotry in this man’s history. Maybe we will.
We can’t rule it out. But we do know that his roommates say they once asked him if he picked the spas for sex because the women were Asian. And they say he denied it, saying he thought those spas were just the safest way to have quick sex. That needs to be checked out more.
But the only piece of evidence about possible anti-Asian bias points away, not toward it," Sullivan wrote. Sullivan then took aim at The New York Times and The Washington Post for their nonstop coverage depicting the Atlanta shootings as an anti-Asian hate crime with over two dozen stories combined. He also called out several others including, New York Times Magazine reporter Nikole Hannah-Jones, author Ibram Kendi, "Daily Show" host Trevor Noah for similarly jumping to conclusions. "None of them mentioned that he killed two [W]hite people as well — a weird thing for a white supremacist to do — and injured a Latino.
None pointed out that the connection between the spas was that the killer had visited them. None explained why, if he were associating Asian people with Covid19, he would nonetheless expose himself to the virus by having sex with them, or regard these spas as 'safer' than other ways to have quick sex," the columnist said. "Treating the individual as unique, granting him or her rights, defending the presumption of innocence, relying on provable, objective evidence: these core liberal principles are precisely what critical theory aims to deconstruct.
And the elite media is in the vanguard of this war on liberalism," Sullivan wrote. Sullivan debunked the notion that "white supremacy" is driving the increased hate crimes towards Asian-Americans, pointing to 2020 statistics in New York City that showed 18 of the 20 reported hate crimes were committed by Black and Hispanic Americans. He also pointed out that while there's been a spike in anti-Asian hate crimes, the rate is still far lower than it was back in the 90s, according to the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism. "To run sixteen separate pieces on anti-Asian white supremacist misogynist hate based on one possibly completely unrelated incident is not journalism.
It’s fanning irrational fear in the cause of ideological indoctrination. And it appears to be where all elite media is headed," he concluded.

The massacres at three massage parlors in the Atlanta area this week, leaving eight human beings dead, others injured, and their families scarred, were horrifying.
Read the deeply moving story about the son of one of the women killed to remind yourself of this. It’s brutal. The grief will spread and resonate some more.
Here’s the truth: We don’t yet know why this man did these horrible things. It’s probably complicated, or, as my therapist used to say, “multi-determined.”
That’s why we have thorough investigations and trials in America. We only have one solid piece of information as to motive, which is the confession by the mass killer to law enforcement: that he was a religious fundamentalist who was determined to live up to chastity and repeatedly failed, as is often the case. Like the 9/11 bombers or the mass murderer at the Pulse nightclub, he took out his angst on the source of what he saw as his temptation and committed mass murder. This is evil in the classic fundamentalist sense: a perversion of religion and sexual repression into violence.
We should not take the killer’s confession as definitive, of course. But we can probe it — and indeed, his story is backed up by acquaintances and friends and family.
The New York Times originally ran one piece reporting this out. The Washington Post also followed up, with one piece citing contemporaneous evidence of the man’s “religious mania” and sexual compulsion.
We have yet to find any credible evidence of anti-Asian hatred or bigotry in this man’s history. Maybe we will. We can’t rule it out.
But we do know that his roommates say they once asked him if he picked the spas for sex because the women were Asian. And they say he denied it, saying he thought those spas were just the safest way to have quick sex. That needs to be checked out more.
But the only piece of evidence about possible anti-Asian bias points away, not toward it. And yet. Well, you know what’s coming.
Accompanying one original piece on the known facts, the NYT ran nine — nine! — separate stories about the incident as part of the narrative that this was an anti-Asian hate crime, fueled by white supremacy and/or misogyny. Not to be outdone, the WaPo ran 16 separate stories on the incident as an anti-Asian white supremacist hate crime. Sixteen!
One story for the facts; sixteen stories on how critical race theory would interpret the event regardless of the facts. For good measure, one of their columnists denounced reporting of law enforcement’s version of events in the newspaper, because it distracted attention from the “real” motives. Recently, the NYT ran yet another full-on critical theory piece disguised as news on how these murders are proof of structural racism and sexism — because some activists say they are.
None of them mentioned that the shooter killed two white people as well — a weird thing for a white supremacist to do — and injured a Latino. None pointed out that the connection between the spas was that the killer had visited them. None explained why, if he were associating Asian people with COVID-19, he would nonetheless expose himself to the virus by having sex with them, or regard these spas as “safer” than other ways to have quick sex.
They didn’t because, in their worldview, they didn’t need to. What you see here is social justice ideology insisting, as Dean Baquet temporarily explained, that intent doesn’t matter.
What matters is impact. The individual killer is in some ways irrelevant. His intentions are not material. He is merely a vehicle for the structural oppressive forces critical theorists believe in.
And this “story” is what the media elites decided to concentrate on: the thing that, so far as we know, didn’t happen. Notice how Critical Race Theory operates.
The only evidence it needs it already has. Check out the identity of the victim or victims, check out the identity of the culprit, and it’s all you need to know. If the victims are white, they don’t really count.
Everything in America is driven by white supremacist hate of some sort or other. You can jam any fact, any phenomenon, into this rubric in order to explain it. There’s a reason for this shift.
Treating the individual as unique, granting him or her rights, defending the presumption of innocence, relying on provable, objective evidence: These core liberal principles are precisely what critical theory aims to deconstruct. And the elite media is in the vanguard of this war on liberalism.
This isn’t in any way to deny increasing bias against Asian Americans. It’s real and it’s awful. Asians are targeted by elite leftists, who actively discriminate against them in higher education, and attempt to dismantle the merit-based schools where Asian-American students succeed — precisely and only because too many Asians are attending.
For Trump to give these forces a top-spin with the “China virus” made things even worse, of course. But the theory behind hate crimes law is that these crimes matter more because they terrify so many beyond the actual victim.
And so it seems to me that the media’s primary role in cases like these is providing some data and perspective on what’s actually happening, to allay irrational fear. Instead they contribute to the distortion. The media is supposed to subject easy, convenient rush-to-judgment narratives to ruthless empirical testing. Now, for purely ideological reasons, they are rushing to promote ready-made narratives, which actually point away from the empirical facts. It’s fanning irrational fear in the cause of ideological indoctrination.

Motive for fatal Atlanta shootings unclear.
There's no indication that last night's fatal shooting spree at several Atlanta-area massage parlors was connected to conspiracy theories about sex trafficking at Asian massage businesses. Atlanta police say they showed up at one of the businesses in response to a call about a robbery in progress.
The motive for the shooting, which left eight people dead, is still unclear, despite many in the media attributing it to anti-Asian racism. Seven women and one man were killed in the shootings; six of them were Asian and two were white, police report.
One other man was injured as well. A suspect in police custody, 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long, is thought to be behind the shootings at the two massage parlors in northeast Atlanta (Gold Massage Spa and Aromatherapy Spa) and one (Young's Asian Massage) about 30 miles northwest of the city.
Red Canary Song, a group devoted to Asian sex worker and migrant rights, notes that workers at Asian massage parlors and spas are frequent targets of violence from both customers and police. People speculating about possible motives for this horrific crime probably shouldn't overlook that fact in the rush to portray the shootings as stemming from anti-Asian racism tied to COVID-19. But as of this morning, we simply don't know what drove the Atlanta massage parlor shooter to commit these atrocities. The identities of the victims have also not yet been released.
Ohio city seeks six months in jail for people who pay for sex. Authorities in Columbus, Ohio, are trying to put a social justice spin on ratcheting up penalties for prostitution. City Council members say it's concern for people selling sex that is leading them to consider a new policy—but this policy would keep penalties for selling sex intact and continue to direct police resources to targeting sex work between consenting adults, increasing penalties for people who pay for sex.
Ohio State University professor of women, gender, and sexuality studies Jennifer Suchland has been speaking out against the proposed changes. "When you add more criminalization to the sex trade, it both makes it harder to reach potential victims and worsens the conditions for those who rely on the sex trade for survival," Suchland said in a WOSU interview.
• Trying to protect internet user privacy is now being called an antitrust violation. • Tennessee is trying (again) to limit residents' ability to ship in wine from other states. • Texas' new social media bill is a mess.

In the two mass shootings that unfolded over the past two weeks in the U.S., both suspected shooters purchased weapons shortly before their attacks.
The suspect in the Atlanta-area spa shootings purchased a 9mm semi-automatic pistol hours before he used it to kill eight people on March 16. The suspect in the King Soopers attack in Boulder, Colorado, bought a Ruger AR-556 pistol six days before he killed 10 people on Tuesday, according to the arrest warrant affidavit.
Police recovered a rifle and handgun at the scene but didn't indicate if either was the Ruger. Seamus McGraw, a journalist and the author of “From a Taller Tower:
The Rise of the American Mass Shooter,” which will be released in April, told ABC News the last-minute gun purchase is "absolutely a pattern" in massacres in the United States. McGraw cited the June 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida, where the gunman purchased two guns used in the attack seven and eight days prior; the Las Vegas music festival shooter who purchased 33 guns in the 12 months leading up to the October 2017 attack that killed 61; and the El Paso, Texas, Walmart shooter who purchased an AK-style rifle several weeks before killing 23 people in August 2019.
Shooters "fetishize" heavy duty firearms and give off warning signs of violence, McGraw said. Elizabeth Neumann, a former Department of Homeland Security assistant secretary, told ABC News shooters tend to be “vulnerable individuals that can become radicalized and mobilize to violence" when triggered by a stressful event.
She noted that many who launch these attacks "glorify" past mass shooters and try to "outdo" them. About 40% of mass shooters purchase their firearm legally and “specifically for the purpose of perpetrating the attack," according to a FBI report analyzing mass shootings between 2000 to 2013.
Gun violence led to the deaths of nearly 20,000 Americans in 2020, according to the Gun Violence Archive -- more than any year in the past two decades. The sale of firearms also spiked in 2020, with nearly 40 million firearms sold following a spate of mass shootings in late 2019 and continuing into a year of lockdowns, protests and the presidential election, according to FBI data. It was the largest number of firearms sold in a year since the FBI started tracking background checks in 2000.
Some advocates say waiting periods -- mandatory spans of time between gun purchases and acquiring a firearm -- could have prevented the Atlanta shooting. One study shows that waiting period laws reduced gun homicides by 17%, which would amount to 2,500 lives saved a year, according to the Giffords Law Center, a prominent gun control group in Colorado.
Colorado and Georgia have no waiting periods. In Atlanta, where the gunman purchased a pistol the day of the shooting, it could have prevented spontaneous violence, advocates say.
But in the Boulder case, where he bought the gun six days prior, a waiting period may not have changed the outcome. Advocates are working on a bill to create a waiting period in Colorado, proposing a five-day "cooling off" period.
Currently, 10 states have waiting periods, with some periods spanning around two weeks. California has a 10-day waiting period, and Hawaii has a 14-day period. Eileen McCarron, the president of Colorado Ceasefire Legislative Action, told ABC News the Boulder attack could have been prevented if the suspect's family knew about the state's extreme risk protection order (ERPO) law passed in 2019.
ERPO laws, also known as "red flag" laws, allow family members or law enforcement to ask a judge to temporarily ban a person’s access to guns if they make serious threats or exhibit warning signs of violence. Currently, 19 states and the District of Columbia have red flag laws, according to the Giffords Law Center. In the Boulder shooting, the suspect's family told investigators they believed he was suffering some type of mental illness, including delusions, the Associated Press reported.

We're going to go back now to a major story many of us have been following in the wake of the killings at several Atlanta area massage businesses last week - the national and, many say, long overdue outcry against the violence and other abuse directed at Asian Americans.
But now we want to focus on something else most of the victims had in common, that they were women. Seven of the eight victims were women - one white and six of Asian descent.
And that's not just a national problem; it is a global problem. Earlier this month, the World Health Organization released the startling statistic that 1 in 3 women around the world experiences sexual or physical violence in her lifetime. That's roughly 736 million women.
And the WHO says it is a problem that's devastatingly pervasive. What's more, in the U.S., increasingly, research is showing a link between those who commit violence against women and those who commit mass shootings. Bloomberg News, for example, analyzed 749 mass shootings between 2014 and 2019 and found that, quote, "about 60% were either domestic violence attacks or committed by men with histories of domestic violence," unquote.
We wanted to hear more about this, so we called Deborah Epstein, who spent decades researching and working on issues related to violence against women. She's director of the Domestic Violence Clinic at Georgetown Law, where she's also a professor.
Professor Epstein, thank you so much for joining us. DEBORAH EPSTEIN: Thank you so much for having me.
Soon afterwards, evidence came to light about anti-Asian postings on the sheriff's spokesperson's Facebook page, and the media very appropriately began to cover this incident, as you said, as a race-based hate crime. And that's a critically important lens through which to understand this horrific incident. It is a race-based hate crime.
But here's the thing. The second thing that the shooter said from the outset was that he was a sex addict and that he killed these women out of a deep sense of frustration and an attempt to reduce the temptation that he experienced. That's a clear admission of a gender-based hate crime. The conversation is locked into the racial aspect of the crime to the exclusion of gender rather than being about both.
There is, unfortunately, plenty of room for multiple forms of hate and hate-inspired violence. This man targeted his victims because they were Asian, and he targeted his victims because they were women. And we have to shed the blinders that limit us to seeing the race piece, but not the gender piece of hate.
EPSTEIN: Yeah.
That takes us right back to the nexus between domestic violence and mass shootings, right? It makes sense when you consider what motivates most perpetrators of domestic violence who are using violence in their home as a strategy to create an atmosphere of fear and intimidation and to control the women in their lives, right?
Mass shooters like this one in Atlanta are doing the same thing on a much larger scale. They are subjecting a large group of people they've targeted to this same sense of terror that the motivation is parallel.
It's this need to dominate, intimidate and control other people. And he essentially admitted that that was his motive. EPSTEIN:
Absolutely. It's crucial. The language we use to describe social phenomena is important.
And you're right. In other countries, when a woman is murdered on the basis of her sex, they call it femicide. In the U.S., that term seems like it's just too political for us to stomach.
And so we use the generic term of murder. And I think this failure to name violence against women as women contributes to our failure to recognize it and to understand it. And I think if we started to use the language that more clearly describes the problem of gender-based violence, we might be able to gain greater insight into it and advance our efforts to end it.
EPSTEIN: It's absolutely helpful for two reasons. One is that the Violence Against Women Act is the primary source of funding for so many programs that support victims and survivors of domestic violence across the United States. It's the primary - a major source of funding for shelters and for free legal services.
The second thing that's really important about the Violence Against Women Act is that in its initial incarnation, it included a civil rights remedy that would help the federal government intervene when gender-based violence is a hate crime that isn't really being recognized at the state level or enforced at the state level. I very much hope that now there will be a renewed effort to draft that piece of legislation in a way that can survive constitutional scrutiny because the rates of domestic violence since the Violence Against Women Act was passed in 1994 have not decreased the way that you would think in a 25-year period.
It is still very much a serious social problem. And we need to not only continue to fund services, but find new and creative ways to intervene and end it. MARTIN: That was Deborah Epstein, professor of law at Georgetown University, where she also directs the Domestic Violence Clinic.
Professor Epstein, thank you so much for sharing your insights with us. EPSTEIN: Thank you so much for having me on the show.
Copyright © 2021 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information.
NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future.

ATLANTA (AP) — Members of Congress laid flowers Sunday at the three massage businesses in Georgia where a gunman killed eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, and demanded that prosecutors charge the suspect with a hate crime and the U.S. Department of Justice take a leading role in the probe. The congressional delegation was led by members of the Asian Pacific American Caucus, which said Asian Americans have faced increased hostility since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. The lawmakers said they wanted to experience the shooter’s roughly 30-mile (48-kilometer) trip from Cherokee County, where police say he killed four people at Youngs Asian Massage, to Atlanta, where he is accused of shooting and killing four more people at two businesses across the street from each other. New Jersey Rep. Andy Kim said he came to show solidarity with the local Asian American community and try to understand how it felt after the March 16 attack. Kim later recalled crying the night of the shootings and struggling to explain them to his 3 and 5-year-old boys. “For too long in this country, we have made invisible so much of the history and contributions of Asian Americans, specifically Asian American women in this country,” she said. The lawmakers spoke outside Gold Spa, one of the shooting sites, where the ground was covered with bouquets and tree branches that spelled out, “Love.” Signs read, “Asian Women Are Sacred” and “Stop Asian Hate.” They also held a news conference in an Atlanta suburb and met with the families of two of the victims, Xiaojie Tan and Young A. Yue, and local leaders of the Asian American community. Robert Aaron Long, the 21-year-old white man facing murder charges in the attacks, has told police he had a “sex addiction.” Authorities have said he apparently lashed out at what he saw as sources of temptation. Long told police the shootings were not racially motivated, but those statements have spurred widespread skepticism given the locations and that six of the eight victims were of Asian descent. Mark Takano, another representative from California, said there were “plenty of non-Asian businesses” that the suspect could have hit on his trip from Cherokee County to Atlanta, so his actions “speak louder” than what he has said. He called on the Justice Department to help local prosecutors, who he said may not have as much experience with hate crimes cases.

“I have been shot! Please come!
I need you!” Those were the last words Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz said to his wife on the phone before he passed out steps away from Young’s Asian Massage in Acworth, Ga., on Tuesday night.
Moments earlier, a gunman had opened fire, eventually killing eight people in three different spas in the Atlanta area. Hernandez-Ortiz, a 30-year-old man from Guatemala who works as a mechanic and owns an auto repair shop, is now battling for his life after surviving the deadly attacks that have shocked the nation and raised alarms of a recent surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans. The 21-year-old suspect, Robert Aaron Long, has been charged with eight counts of murder and homicide and one count of aggravated assault, police said Wednesday.
After hanging up the phone, Hernandez-Ortiz’s wife, Flor Gonzalez, 27, rushed to the scene with their 9-year-old daughter Yoseline from their nearby home. She saw her husband’s body lying on the floor, surrounded by police and ambulances. “It was the most horrible thing,” Gonzalez said in an interview with The Washington Post.
Hernandez-Ortiz may have been heading to a shop next to the spa to send money to their parents in Guatemala, as they had talked about it the night before, when he ran into the attacker, Gonzalez said. It wasn’t until midnight that she was able to finally see her husband of 10 years.
His face and eyes were covered in gauze, tubes coming out of his mouth, as Gonzalez held his hand. She reminded him of what he always used to say, with pride: “That nothing and no one could make him fall apart or take him down,” a testament to his tenacious spirit, Gonzalez said.
“This is the time for you to prove that to me, this is the time for you to show me and get over this,” she recounted, crying. “I know he was hearing what I was saying because he moved and because I told him his daughter was waiting for her dad at home and that her 10th birthday is coming up soon,” she said. Doctors said Hernandez-Ortiz had been wounded in his forehead, throat, lungs and stomach, and remains in critical condition.
There is at least one bullet inside his stomach, and at the moment it is too risky for doctors to remove, Gonzalez said. But despite the severity of his wounds, doctors have told Gonzalez there are positive signs that he will recover.
When doctors have asked him to squeeze their hand, he has responded. “It will be a long journey ahead, but I thank God for giving him a chance,” Gonzalez said.
On Wednesday, doctors called Gonzalez and told her Hernandez-Ortiz’s condition is evolving positively. She will not be able to see him again for days, because of his heavily sedated state and coronavirus restrictions. With many questions unanswered about the suspect’s motivations, Gonzalez said her family is devastated by the deaths of the other victims.
“I just can’t understand why anyone would do something like this,” she said, adding that she believed her husband was in the wrong place at the wrong time. Like many others, Hernandez-Ortiz left Guatemala 10 years ago in search of a better life and a way out of poverty.
Through years of hard work, he managed to open his own business. Meanwhile, every time his daughter asks about him, she tells a white lie.

While the U.S. has seen mass killings in recent years where police said gunmen had racist or misogynist motivations, advocates and scholars say the shootings this week at three Atlanta-area massage businesses targeted a group of people marginalized in more ways than one, in a crime that stitches together stigmas about race, gender, migrant work and sex work.
“In some ways this is another manifestation of the targeting of marginalized people in the U.S.,” said Angela Jones, an associate professor of sociology at Farmingdale State College, State University of New York, whose research has focused on race, gender, sexuality and sex work. The killings in Atlanta follow a wave of recent attacks against Asian Americans since the coronavirus first entered the United States, with the majority of reports coming from women.
The 21-year-old suspect denied his attack was racially motivated and claimed to have a “sex addiction,” with authorities saying he apparently saw the businesses as sources of temptation. Police told a news conference Thursday that investigators believe the gunman previously visited two of the spas, but it’s not yet clear if any the businesses offered sexual services. The Atlanta mayor said police hadn’t previously been there beyond a minor potential theft.
Still, the suspect equated the businesses to sex, and that drove him to kill, police said. “There’s this assumption of sexuality and fetishization of Asian women’s bodies that is unique to this kind of crime,” she said. At least one of the victims was a patron, not an employee.
Thirty-three-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun and her husband had gone to the spa on a date, her mother, Margaret Rushing, told WAGA-TV. Yaun leaves behind a 13-year-old son and 8-month-old daughter.
The shootings follow high-profile instances of race and gender-based killings in recent years by white men. In 2014, a 22-year-old who had railed against women online killed six people and wounded 14 near the University of California, Santa Barbara.
The following year, eight Black church members and their pastor were shot and killed in a racist attack in South Carolina. In 2018, a Florida gunman with what police called a “hatred towards women” killed two and injured five at a yoga studio.
The year after that a shooter targeting Latinos opened fire at an El Paso, Texas, Walmart, killing 22 people. “This is a thread that is woven through the histories of these gunmen.
Toxic masculinity is truly a problem in this country,” said Shannon Watts, founder of the gun-control group Moms Demand Action. The fact the Georgia shooter targeted the businesses because he linked them to commercial sex is a nightmare scenario for those who work in erotic industries and are increasingly subjected to online harassment and attempts to report massage businesses to the IRS, said Kate D’Adamo, an organizer and advocate for sex worker rights. “At its core it’s about going out and targeting sex workers as fallen women, blaming them for social ills,” she said.
Prostitution laws mean women also fear reporting harassment or violence to police, afraid of being arrested themselves or their pleas ignored, she said. Those fears are even more pronounced for women of color, those who are immigrants or those with few language skills.
Researchers who spoke to more than 100 Chinese and Korean workers at illicit massage businesses for a 2019 study found that while some women did say they felt deceived or coerced into jobs that involved sex work, many more chose the profession after having bad experiences in the few other types of generally low-paying jobs available to them, like restaurants and nail salons. While there were some reports of exploitation or mistreatment by managers, an “alarming” 40% of women told researchers that a client had forced them to have sex in the last year, the study said.
In the Atlanta shooting, the suspect’s claims of sex addiction, meanwhile, ring hollow for some. It is not a condition recognized by the American Psychiatric Association, said David Ley, a clinical psychologist and author of “The Myth of Sex Addiction.”
And while it was cited by celebrities for a time, the Harvey Weinstein case became an emblem of how it can be used as an attempt to avoid taking responsibility for abuse and assault, he said. There’s also a disturbing thread of racism in some online discussions of sex addiction, he said.
“They hold other people — the porn industry, sex workers, even women in general — responsible for triggering these sexual desires in them they are afraid of,” he said. Moral views can shape beliefs about sexuality, and friends described the Atlanta shooting suspect as being deeply Christian.
He also told police he had planned to go to Florida to target the porn industry. The sex-addiction claim is a way to redirect blame, Kao said. “He’s absolutely taking no responsibility and putting all of that on the workers themselves and it also distracts from the race issue,” she said.
Meanwhile, the suspect, Robert Aaron Long has been arrested on charges of murder and assault. It wasn’t clear yet if he had a lawyer who would represent him. Whitehurst reported from Salt Lake City and Price from Las Vegas.

Metro Atlanta was gripped by shock and anger on Wednesday, the day after a deadly shooting spree killed eight people - most of them Asian women.
Robert Aaron Long, 21, apprehended in South Georgia Tuesday night, has been charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault. He has been returned to Cherokee County, where the first shootings took place on Tuesday.
Long also told investigators his plan was to drive to Florida. He was caught late Tuesday about 150 miles south of Atlanta, thanks in part to his parents, according to police.
The FBI is assisting with the investigation. Communities around metro Atlanta reacted swiftly to Tuesday’s violence. The Doraville City Council announced it would pass a resolution condemning the violence, while the Gwinnett Police Department said it would step up patrols around Asian-owned businesses.
As stricken loved ones grieved the sudden loss of the victims taken Tuesday night, investigators continued to piece together what happened. Hours before the shootings started, Long bought a gun from Big Woods Goods in Holly Springs, an employee told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Now the store is cooperating with law enforcement. A 9mm firearm was found when Long was arrested.
The first incident happened around 5 p.m. Tuesday at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor in Acworth, according to police. Surveillance cameras captured a man entering the business, then leaving after shots were fired.
Four people died from their injuries, according to police. They were identified Wednesday as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44, of an unknown address. A fifth victim, Elcias Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, of Acworth, was in stable condition Wednesday.
Tan was the owner of the business, according to records on the Georgia Secretary of State’s website. About an hour later, Atlanta police responded to a report of a robbery at the Gold Spa on Piedmont Road. In the first of two 911 calls within 11 minutes, a woman inside the business said she was reporting a robbery.
Speaking softly, she said she was hiding inside the business and that she needed police on Piedmont Road. ”They have a gun,” she tells the dispatcher.
When officers arrived, they found three women shot to death inside the business. While police were investigating those deaths, shots were fired at the Aromatherapy Spa across the street.
There, investigators found a fourth woman dead. The names of the four killed in Atlanta were not released Wednesday pending notification of family members, according to police. While Atlanta officers were investigating the back-to-back shootings, the Cherokee sheriff’s office released surveillance images.
Long’s parents contacted investigators after seeing the photos, authorities said. Cherokee and Atlanta investigators were immediately in contact to discuss similarities in the shootings, Atlanta interim Chief Rodney Bryant said.
From there, investigators tracked Long by his cellphone, Reynolds said. Bottoms said during a Wednesday morning press conference that investigators believe Long may have been attempting to drive to Florida and possibly commit additional crimes.
But he didn’t make it that far. Crisp County deputies, along with the Georgia State Patrol, were waiting for Long as he entered the county. After a PIT maneuver, a technique sometimes employed by authorities pursuing a suspect who won’t stop, Long was arrested without further incident. He was later returned to Cherokee, where he was being held without bond late Wednesday. — Staff writers Joshua Sharpe, Greg Bluestein, Jennifer Peebles and Wilborn Nobles contributed to this article.

ATLANTA — Robert Aaron Long's family had finally had it.
Long, 21, was so obsessed with sex — watching hour upon hour of pornography online, visiting the kinds of spas where the customers bought "massages with happy endings" — that on Monday night, his parents kicked him out of the house, according to police and a friend who confirmed the account. The next day, police said, Long bought a handgun.
And then, as dusk fell over metropolitan Atlanta on Tuesday evening, Long launched himself on what authorities say was a premeditated trail of terror. He drove to three Atlanta-area Asian spas, where he shot nine people, killing eight of them.
He was on a mission, he would later tell police, to stem his addiction to sex. The spas were “a temptation for him that he wanted to eliminate,” said Capt. Jay Baker, a spokesman for the Cherokee County sheriff’s office.
That restatement of the confessed shooter’s motive was meant to allay fears that Long had embarked on a racially motivated campaign of terror against Asian women, but it instead raised disturbing questions about his animus toward women and the racial attitudes that fueled his decision to target Asian spas. Long was on his way to Florida to continue his massacre when police cornered him on Interstate 75 and arrested him Tuesday night, authorities said.
Long’s journey from membership in a religious social club at his suburban high school to a murderous rampage, ostensibly driven by his addiction to sex, remains fuzzy. What is already clear is that this latest in a seemingly never-ending series of mass shootings hit the country where it hurt most — in its anguished struggles over race, gender and the allure of gun violence.
Sometime earlier on Tuesday, Long got into his black 2008 Hyundai Tucson and drove from his hometown of Woodstock, Ga., about 12 miles north to the city of Canton, where he bought a 9mm pistol at Big Woods Goods, a shop devoted mainly to hunting supplies, an attorney for the store confirmed. Around 4 p.m. on a chilly, damp day in Acworth, a suburb of 20,000 people about 45 minutes north of Atlanta, a man dressed in black pants and a magenta-and-black hoodie parked his car outside Young’s Asian Massage.
The man — later identified as Long — sat in his car for upward of an hour, according to Alex Acosta, whose wife owns a boutique next door to the spa. The shops are part of a small commercial strip that also includes a vape store, a record shop, a beauty salon and a tool store.
About 4:50 p.m., surveillance cameras caught Long entering Young’s, according to the Cherokee County sheriff’s office. At Gabby’s Boutique next door to Young’s, Rita Barron was helping customers when she heard a “pah-pah-pah” noise and women screaming, she said. “Oh, my God, what is that?”
she said. Later she would learn that a bullet had punched through her wall. But in the moment, Barron, 47, didn’t think it was a shooting.
She thought maybe the spa workers next door had dropped something heavy. Coming out of the bathroom, Acosta, Barron’s husband, wondered if perhaps an animal had gotten inside, causing a ruckus.
Acosta went outside to check and ran into three spa workers with whom he struggled to communicate. He said they did not speak fluent English and that he is most comfortable speaking Spanish. But a few terrifying words made it through: A man with a gun.
People shot. Acosta urged the women not to go back inside. He rushed back into the boutique and told his wife to call 911.
At 4:54 p.m., Cherokee County dispatched police to Young’s after receiving calls about gunshots and injured people. Yet several owners of nearby shops said they heard nothing and had no idea anything was amiss until police and ambulances swarmed the area. Officers walked into a bloody scene, bodies on the floor and the wounded staggering about.
Outside the shop, moments after police arrived, Acosta saw a man who looked like he had been shot in the face: There was blood between his eyes, and he made it only five steps before falling. Authorities carried two Asian women out of the spa and laid them on the pavement, Acosta said. He couldn’t tell if they were alive — one was bleeding from her head, the other from her neck or chest.
A White man and woman who were shot seemed to be treated inside the spa, he said. One of the bleeding women carried out was the spa’s owner, he said.
He didn’t know her name, though he had once visited her house to do some construction work. The owner, Xiaojie Tan, who would have turned 50 on Thursday, died in the attack. She was a licensed massage therapist, according to Georgia state records.
Within minutes, ambulances arrived and hurried the three survivors down Interstate 75 to Wellstar Kennestone Hospital, where two of them later died. The dead ranged in age from 33 to 54.
Two were Asian and two were White, police said. The lone survivor, 30-year-old Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, an immigrant from Guatemala, was apparently outside the spa, near a money exchange shop that he frequented, when he was shot, his wife told The Washington Post.
Delaina Yaun, a 33-year-old waitress at a Waffle House, was inside with her husband, Mario, receiving a couple’s massage when she was shot and killed, according to a GoFundMe page set up to support her family. Her husband escaped.
The other people killed at Young’s were Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta, and Daoyou Feng, 44, said police, who declined to say which of the victims were employees of Young’s. In Acworth, word spread quickly that the victims included several Asian women.
Adrian Lopez, owner of Big Savings Tool & Liquidation, five doors down from Young’s, concluded that the attack was racially motivated. Before the shootings, Lopez’s big worry was that someone might rob his store.
Now, he said, Latinos needed to be on guard and express unity with their Asian neighbors. “I feel as a Spanish man, if that happens to them, we are going to be next,” said Lopez, who emigrated from Mexico 18 years ago.
Three of the six businesses on the strip are owned by Latino merchants. Shortly after they arrived, police began collecting images of the shooting suspect recorded by nearby surveillance cameras.
Acosta shared the boutique’s surveillance footage with authorities. He realized that the shooter’s car had been parked outside the spa for almost an hour before the man entered Young’s. After the shootings, the man who had gone into the spa got back in the Hyundai and sped away.
Police posted photos from the surveillance footage online in hopes of crowdsourcing the shooter’s identity. It worked with remarkable speed.
According to police, Long’s father called 911 and said it might well be his son whom they were seeing on TV and on social media. An anonymous second caller said Long had been tossed out of his parents’ home the previous evening and warned that he was “emotional,” according to a police incident report. The parents described their son as a young man who had struggled with his sex addiction, even spending time in a rehab program.
Long had visited massage parlors and “sees them as an outlet for him, something that he shouldn’t be doing — an issue with porn,” said Baker, the spokesman for the sheriff’s office. One more thing, the family told the sheriff:
Long had a cellphone with him, and its tracking program was turned on. Police took off after the fleeing suspect.
As Cherokee County officers zoomed down I-75, back at their headquarters, word arrived from Atlanta. More people had been shot, also at Asian spas.
5:47 p.m.: About 30 miles south of Young’s, in the Piedmont Heights neighborhood of Atlanta, a woman who worked at the Gold Spa called 911. For nearly two minutes, the caller, who spoke with a heavy accent, and the 911 operator struggled to understand each other.
“Repeat the address,” the operator said. “Yeah, we’re in a robbery right now, so, can help please come?”
the caller replied. They went back and forth about the location, the name of the business and description of the bad guy. “They have a gun,” the caller said, sounding strained, almost breathless.
“Where is he at in the building?” the operator replied.
They established that the shooter was a White man. “What is he wearing?”
the operator asked. “I don’t know — please come, okay?”
the caller replied. Police were dispatched even as the call was ongoing.
Gold Spa — and another, Aromatherapy Spa — sit atop a hill on a heavily traveled street where a strip club and several other spas, all on the same block, are open 24/7, coexisting with a Cathedral of St. Philip Thrift Store and a Champ’s Chicken. Anthony “Ant” Smith, an employee at Studio 219 Ink, a piercing shop next door to Gold Spa, said Tuesday was especially busy for him. It was Studio 219’s weekly special, offering customers basic piercings for $10.
Smith said neither he nor his half-dozen customers who had been waiting in the parking lot for their turn heard any gunfire. Instead, his clients “just started coming in saying something must be going on because the police and firetrucks had pulled up,” Smith said.
By the time Smith finally looked outside, about 5:30 p.m., he saw police searching the area, appearing to be especially interested in the foliage that lines the parking lot behind Gold Spa. Smith pulled out his phone and tapped on the Citizen app, which delivers real-time information on police movements.
The app reported a possible armed robbery at Gold Spa. Smith returned to his customers.
Gold Spa never attracted much attention from its neighbors, shopkeepers said. Occasionally, Smith saw an Asian woman in the parking lot feeding stray cats. Javan Young, a manager at Studio 219, also heard nothing.
He was about to take his 6 p.m. break when he saw “all the officers pull up and jump out guns blazing,” he said. At night, Young said, the spa usually had an armed security guard on-site, but he had never seen one during the day. 5:49:
Responding to the 911 call about a “business robbery in progress” at Gold Spa, Atlanta police found three dead women, all apparently shot and killed. As officers started to document the scene at Gold Spa, at 5:57, a second 911 call came in from just down the road, at Aromatherapy Spa. “Everybody heard the gunshots, and some ladies got hurt,” Nina said.
The women in the spa were hiding behind desks, in the back of the facility, wherever they thought they might not be found. As the four-minute call continued, police and paramedics made their way to Aromatherapy Spa, arriving at 6 p.m., according to police dispatch records. Inside, officers found another woman dead from gunshot wounds.
By the time Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant heard the details of the two homicide scenes in his city, his investigators knew about the similar incident in Acworth. Three Asian spas, eight deaths, and now video footage showing that the same car seen at the Acworth scene was present at the two spas on Piedmont Road in Atlanta.
As bulletins flashed across the Internet, Asian American organizations and politicians began raising the alarm about what appeared to be attacks on one already-anxious community. In Atlanta, New York, Seattle and other cities, police fanned out to check on Asian spas and Asian American-owned businesses.
And on I-75 south of Atlanta, Long was speeding toward Florida. Shortly before 8 p.m., Reynolds, the Cherokee County sheriff, told his counterpart and buddy in Crisp County, a couple of hours south of Atlanta, that a possible homicide suspect was heading toward his territory.
Crisp Sheriff H.W. “Billy” Hancock radioed his deputies: Watch out for a black Hyundai Tucson with Georgia tags, according to an incident report. About 150 miles south of Atlanta, Crisp deputies and state troopers saw the Hyundai. A state trooper moved into position to execute a PIT — “precision immobilization technique” — a controversial method of stopping a suspect’s car by using the police vehicle to bump against it, forcing it to spin out.
Long came to a halt and gave up without a fight, police said. He was placed in the rear of a state trooper’s car and handcuffed. Police said they found a 9mm firearm in Long’s car.
By 8:30 p.m., Long had been booked into the Crisp County Detention Center and changed into a jail uniform. As he waited to be put in a cell, he “asked if he was going to be here for the rest of his life,” according to the police report. Long was taken to a padded cell and placed on suicide watch, the report said.
Investigators from the Cherokee County sheriff’s office arrived and interviewed Long. They said he confessed to the shootings and insisted that the killings were not racially motivated.
Rather, he said that the spas were a temptation to him. Long told police he had been heading to Florida, where he intended to attack more spas.
“This could have been significantly worse,” Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms (D) said. Across the country, Asian American advocates called for the shootings to be investigated as hate crimes. Four of the slain women were of Korean descent, according to a statement from South Korea’s Foreign Ministry.
On Wednesday morning, Long was transported back to Cherokee County and placed in its detention center. He was charged with four counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault in the killings in Cherokee County and then four homicide counts in the bloodshed in Atlanta. If convicted, Long could face the death penalty.
A scheduled hearing for Long in Cherokee County was canceled when he waived his right to an initial appearance, according to his attorney’s law firm. He is being held without bail.

ATLANTA (AP) — When he heard the first two gunshots, Marcus Lyon dove behind the bed where moments earlier the massage therapist had been rubbing his neck.
He was hiding when the third shot rang out. The woman who had been kneading the FedEx worker’s sore muscles suddenly dropped to the floor.
Lyon could see her, shot in the head, lying just a couple of feet from where he had taken cover. Lyon waited in the room, less than a minute, he figures, until he heard the sound of bells signaling someone had opened the front door at Youngs Asian Massage.
Hearing no more gunfire, he hurried back into his clothes and ran outside, grabbed a gun from his vehicle and made the first 911 call. Dispatchers took the call at 4:54 p.m.
Lyon’s eyewitness account and police reports released Tuesday reveal a closer look at the carnage of March 16. After killing four people and critically wounding another at the massage business in suburban Cherokee County, the lone gunman drove to neighboring Atlanta and opened fire inside two other spas, police say.
Eight people died altogether — seven of them women and six victims of Asian descent. All were slain within about an hour.
Security camera footage shows the young man sat in the shopping center parking lot for an hour before getting out of the SUV. His right hand in his back pocket, he walked into Youngs Asian Massage through the front door.
Police say the man captured on the security camera video was 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long. The footage shows he entered the spa more than an hour before the shooting started. Police haven’t said what he was doing the rest of the time.
Rita Barron told deputies she heard screams and loud thumps coming from Youngs Asian Massage. Coats fell from the wall inside Barron’s boutique next door.
She found a small, metal object on the floor, possibly a bullet. She and her husband called 911.
According to an incident report, Cherokee Sheriff’s Office Cpl. Tommy Thompkins was patrolling nearby and rushed to the spa after hearing over his radio that there had been a shooting with multiple victims.
He found Lyon, unharmed, holding the door open. Other deputies arrived and swept the business, opening doors one at a time as they crept down a long hallway.
Two women were lying partially in the doorways of separate rooms on the left side of the hall, both with gunshot wounds to the head but still breathing. Peering into a room on the right, officers saw a dead woman slumped against the back wall.
In a back room, deputies found a dead man who had been shot in the head. Behind another closed door, deputies found Mario Gonzalez sitting on a bed.
He looked scared and confused, but obeyed as deputies with guns drawn ordered him outside. Detained in the back of a patrol car, Gonzalez told deputies he didn’t see the shooter.
He and his wife were nearing the end of hourlong massages, in separate rooms, when the shooting began. He said he didn’t know what happened to her. Gonzalez’s wife, Delaina Ashley Yaun, was among those found dead.
After the shootings at Youngs, the man police have identified as Long walked briskly to his vehicle, backed out of a parking space and headed south. The killing was just beginning.
A half-hour after being called to the scene in Cherokee County, authorities had a description of the suspect from security video. The white man wore a gray and red jacket, and drove a black Hyundai SUV.
But before they could catch him, the shooting started again, this time in Atlanta, roughly 30 miles (50 kilometers) away. It was 5:47 p.m. when a woman called 911 from Gold Spa, reporting what she thought was a robbery. Ten minutes later, dispatchers received another 911 call from a business across the street. The caller said a man walked into Aromatherapy Spa and fired a gun, hurting at least one person.
Officers who arrived at Gold Spa found three women dead from gunshot wounds. Officers arriving at the second spa found one woman dead from a gunshot wound.
Police were aided in their capture of the suspect by Long’s parents, who called authorities offering to help after recognizing their son in still images from the security video that the Cherokee County sheriff posted to social media. Using cellphone information provided by the parents, authorities tracked the suspect to rural Crisp County about 140 miles (225 kilometers) south of Atlanta.
State troopers and sheriff’s deputies spotted his SUV on Interstate 75, and one of them forced Long to spin to a stop by bumping his vehicle. Once stopped, Long surrendered without a fight. Once in custody, Long told investigators that he has a sex addiction and lashed out at businesses he viewed as a temptation.
But many people, particularly in the Asian American community, believe the victims were targeted because of their race. Police say they are still trying to determine a motive. The killings tore eight people from their families.
Yong Ae Yue, 63, cooked homemade Korean dishes for her family. Suncha Kim, 69, volunteered for charities. Soon Chung Park, a former dancer, remained youthful and fit at age 74.
Xiaojie “Emily” Tan, 49, was an entrepreneur who owned Youngs Asian Massage and other businesses. Daoyou Feng, 44, was one of her employees. Delaina Yaun, 33, was a new mother.
Paul Michels, 54, installed security systems. Hyun Jung Grant, 51, worked at Gold Spa to support two sons. “She loved me and my brother enough to work for us, to dedicate her whole life,” said Grant’s son, 22-year-old Randy Park.
The story summary has been edited to correct a name. The correct name is Robert Aaron Long, not Robert Aaron Lyons. ___ Bynum reported from Savannah, Georgia.

The suspect in the shootings at three Atlanta-area spas entered Young’s Asian Massage more than an hour before gunfire was reported at the business, the beginning of a rampage that left eight people dead, most of them Asian women, surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post shows.
The video shows that Robert Aaron Long first spent an hour sitting in the parking lot outside the shop. He then entered, and an hour and 12 minutes elapsed before he was seen leaving the establishment and getting into his car. Several minutes later, people appear in the parking lot and police arrive.
The length of time that Long spent inside Young’s was previously unknown. It’s unclear what he was doing for the hour after he was seen entering the spa and before the shooting began.
Through visual analysis of the surveillance video, The Post determined that the man seen in the footage is Long, as the images match photos of the suspect released by the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office. During the 1 hour and 12 minutes after Long entered the building, the video shows cars driving up, and people coming and going. The video does not appear to be manipulated.
The timing of Long’s departure in the footage came four minutes ahead of the first reports of gunshots to 911, which came at 4:54 p.m., according to a 911 call log and the Cherokee Sheriff’s office. (The time codes that appear in the upper left corner of the surveillance video are four hours off. Four hours is also the time difference between Eastern and Coordinated Universal Time or UTC.)
At the time of those reports, a separate video obtained by The Post, shot by Marcus Lyon, a 31-year-old customer of the business, shows several victims lying motionless on the ground in front of the shop. When asked about the surveillance video, the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office declined to provide details to The Post about when Long was shown to have entered Young’s and what is known about what preceded the shooting. “We are unable to give out that information,” an official told The Post, before being directed to Capt. Jay Baker, the spokesman for the sheriff’s office.
Baker, who is no longer the spokesman for the case after he was widely criticized for saying the shooting suspect was having “a really bad day,” did not immediately return a request for comment. Police arrived at the scene Tuesday at a time when Young’s regularly had more customers, according to business metrics tracked by Google.
Authorities have so far released only limited details about Long’s movements on the day of the shooting. Some details have emerged, including from an attorney for a store in Canton, Ga., who confirmed that Long bought a 9mm pistol there the same day.
Multiple messages left for Young’s were not immediately returned. Lyon, a delivery driver in Kennesaw, Ga., who was at Young’s for the first time, said nothing felt out of the ordinary when he arrived around 4:40 p.m. Tuesday. He said that while he didn’t notice Long in the spa, the trauma of what happened has left him wondering if he just didn’t see him. Hannah Knowles, Jorge Ribas and Mark Berman contributed to this report.

Outrage is growing following a shooting spree at three metro Atlanta spas that left eight people, including six Asian women, dead within the span of 45 minutes Tuesday.
The FBI arrived Wednesday morning in Crisp County, where 21-year-old shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long was captured Tuesday night at the end of a police chase. According to an agency spokesman, federal agents are assisting local authorities in a sweeping investigation into the killings in Cherokee County and the city of Atlanta.
Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms commended law enforcement for their quick work in apprehending Long, who is from Woodstock. Long was first identified as the suspect in the shooting at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor in Cherokee County that left four people dead and one person injured, according to the sheriff’s office. He is also a suspect in two more shootings at similar businesses in northeast Atlanta that resulted in four more deaths, according to a sheriff’s office spokesman. Long was captured Tuesday night on the side of I-75 in Crisp County, about 150 miles south of Atlanta, when a state trooper performed a PIT maneuver on his SUV, causing it to spin out. He was taken into custody without incident and charged with murder. “It does appear that it’s the same suspect,” Capt. Jay Baker of the Cherokee sheriff’s office told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
He confirmed that surveillance images indicate that Long is the suspect in all three shootings. Based on the pattern of the video evidence, “it is extremely likely our suspect is the same as Cherokee County’s,” Atlanta police spokesman Sgt. John Chafee added.
The deadly shooting on Ga. 92 near Acworth took place just before 5 p.m., according to the Cherokee sheriff’s office. Five people were shot, with two declared dead at the scene and three taken to the hospital with injuries.
Two of those injured later died at the hospital, according to the sheriff’s office. The victims were two Asian women, a white woman and a white man, Baker said.
They were identified as 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun of Acworth, 49-year-old Xiaojie Tan of Kennesaw, 54-year-old Paul Andre Michels of Acworth and 44-year-old Daoyou Feng, whose address was unknown. Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, a 30-year-old Hispanic man from Acworth, was injured and taken to a hospital.
Hernandez-Ortiz was stable Wednesday, according to authorities. It appeared all five victims were shot inside the business, Baker said.
Surveillance footage showed the suspect pulled up about 4:50 p.m., minutes before the shooting. Homicides are not common in Cherokee, where the sheriff’s office investigated just one in both 2020 and 2019. While Cherokee officials were closing a shopping center and handling a congested road during their investigation, Atlanta police officers were responding to a shooting about 30 miles away.
Around 5:45 p.m., four more people were killed in shootings at two separate spas across the street from each other on Piedmont Road near the intersection with Cheshire Bridge Road, according to interim Atlanta police Chief Rodney Bryant. Police first responded to Gold Spa, where they found three women dead from gunshot wounds inside the business, Chafee said.
While investigating the scene, officers were called across the street to another shooting at Aromatherapy Spa, where they found another woman dead from a gunshot wound inside. Atlanta police said that all four victims appeared to be Asian women.
Officers were dispatched to check nearby similar businesses and patrols were increased in the area, Chafee said. While the names of the Atlanta victims were not released, South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement Wednesday that its diplomats in Atlanta have confirmed that four were women of Korean descent.
The ministry said its Consulate General in Atlanta is trying to confirm the nationality of the women. Their deaths have sparked outrage among officials and advocacy groups in Georgia and across the country. Crisp County officials were notified about the suspect’s movements on I-75 around 8 p.m. and deputies and GSP troopers eventually made contact with the black Hyundai Tucson about 30 minutes later, according to Sheriff Billy Hancock. The troopers performed a PIT maneuver, which caused the vehicle to spin out of control, Hancock said.
Long was taken to the Crisp County jail. Gov. Brian Kemp thanked law enforcement officers for “the quick apprehension” of Long in a tweet. He also sent condolences to the shooting victims.
“Our entire family is praying for the victims of these horrific acts of violence,” he wrote. — The Associated Press contributed to this article.

The Senate voted 92-6 to advance a bill Wednesday that would address the surge of hate crimes against Asian Americans, signaling broad bipartisan support and momentum for the measure.
The bill, which would assign a Justice Department official to expedite reviews of potential Covid-19-related hate crimes and establish an online database, initially received pushback from some Senate Republicans as an ineffective, messaging vote. But Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, suggested on Tuesday that they could support the legislation if there’s an agreement with Democrats on amendments.
Republican senators including Chuck Grassley of Iowa, John Cornyn of Texas and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin then indicated they would vote to advance the anti-Asian hate crime bill, which was proposed by Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono, so long as they got a chance to amend it. The Republicans have since filed 20 amendments to the bill, according to Hirono. “I think there are some real problems with it, but maybe we can get on it and fix it,” Johnson said.
The no votes on Wednesday came from six Republican senators: Tom Cotton of Arkansas, Ted Cruz of Texas, Josh Hawley of Missouri, Roger Marshall of Kansas, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Tommy Tuberville of Alabama. The shootings of six Asian women in Atlanta last month drew even more attention to the rise of anti-Asian violence across the United States.
Afterwards, Hirono and Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth publicly charged that the Biden administration lacked enough Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in top roles. Of the 23 Cabinet-level positions requiring Senate consideration, President Joe Biden nominated two Asian Americans: Katherine Tai for trade representative and Neera Tanden for Office of Management and Budget director. Tai, the daughter of immigrants from Taiwan, was confirmed as the first woman of color to be the top US trade negotiator.
Tanden’s nomination failed after West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat, announced his opposition to it due to her long string of comments attacking Republicans. In March, Hirono and Duckworth threatened to vote against any of Biden’s nominees who aren’t minorities, and Duckworth said she felt insulted by the White House’s attempts to brush off her concerns.
They later backed down from their threats after the White House agreed to add a senior Asian American and Pacific Islander liaison. Hirono said this week that AAPI leaders – including her and Duckworth – will meet with Biden on Thursday, when the position could be named. This story and headline have been updated with additional developments Wednesday.

On March 17, the day after the Atlanta spa shootings that killed eight people — six of whom were women of Korean and Chinese descent — the Asian American Journalism Association (AAJA)’s website crashed. “We’re troubleshooting @AAJA website, which is crashing from the traffic after we released guidance on covering the Atlanta shooting. It’ll be back up shortly, but please share these screenshots in the meantime,” AAJA president and Washington Post reporter Michelle Ye Hee Lee tweeted.
If the AAJA’s website crashing was anything to go by, it was clear that mainstream newsrooms were struggling to effectively and ethically cover the elements of misogyny, racism, and class that were entangled in the Atlanta mass shootings. It was also clear, from much of the resulting coverage, that mainstream media needs that guidance. Within the first few hours after the shootings, there was a noticeable difference between mainstream media news outlets and local Asian news outlets in their approach to covering the Atlanta mass shootings. Most visible was the lack of community-driven and critical reporting from the mainstream media, even by big publications with the resources to deploy reporters on the ground.
Instead, many national outlets parroted law enforcement officials (who appeared to take the shooter’s denials of any racial motive at face value) and focused on digging into his identity. After officials dismissed the notion that the attacks were likely race-based hate crimes, headlines like “Atlanta shooting suspect told investigators that killings of Asian women weren’t racially motivated, police say” (Washington Post) and “Georgia spa shootings: Suspect confesses, claims he was not racially motivated, sheriff says” (WSBTV Atlanta) dominated mainstream news feeds. The predominant media narrative cast doubt on racist intent behind the mass shootings — despite the facts that the businesses attacked were Asian-owned, the majority of victims were of Asian descent, and the shootings took place amid an uptick in anti-Asian hate crimes across the country.
By comparison, reports from Korean news outlets centered on interviewing locals, community leaders, and government entities like the Korean Consulate in the immediate aftermath of the shootings. The Korea Daily learned the Korean victims’ ages by speaking with people from nearby stores, and the Korea Times Atlanta cited a witness account that alleged the shooter had yelled “I’ll kill all the Asians” before the attack. Jeong Park, a reporter for The Sacramento Bee, began compiling a thread on Twitter with news reports by Asian news outlets in Atlanta.
He noticed a difference in reporting right away. Mainstream media outlets rushed to publish stories on the gunman’s life. The Daily Beast’s first report on the Atlanta slayings was headlined “Massage parlor massacres suspect said he loved guns & God” and featured an interview with the gunman’s former classmate who described him as someone who “wouldn’t even cuss.”
CNN published a report containing an in-person interview with the shooter’s grandmother. Most mainstream outlets didn’t publish pieces about the Asian victims (two other victims were identified as white) until days later. By then, information about the victims and their families had been trickling out of Korean news outlets.
“I think it took a day or two before the English [language] media caught up to that,” Park said. The U.S. has the highest rate of mass shootings in the world, but despite that unenviable distinction, the media is still covering the violence without a playbook. The absence of standardized rules on how to document mass shootings is a potentially dangerous oversight. DeFoster cited evidence that highly publicized mass shootings increase the likelihood of “copycat” killings; indeed, less than a week after the Atlanta massacre, another mass shooting in Boulder, Colorado, killed 10 people.
It’s important for news outlets to cover large-scale attacks in a way that doesn’t aggrandize the perpetrator. Besides the lack of a standardized approach, mainstream media faced other challenges when covering the Atlanta mass shootings. Many newsrooms did not have reporters who could speak the languages of the communities affected.
But some believe that excuse is an oversimplification of the media’s flawed coverage of racialized communities. In other words: mainstream media’s lack of ties to some communities hinder their ability to cover them effectively, even if they employ reporters who speak the community’s language.
Park doesn’t think that the Korean media’s coverage of the Atlanta shootings was perfect. It used anonymous quotes and rapid-pace publishing. But these outlets played a critical role in not only serving the communities affected by the Atlanta shootings but also in shaping our conversation around the tragedy.
Natasha Ishak is an international journalist from Indonesia based in New York City. She has had stories published in Fortune, Vice, Gothamist, The Nation, the Women’s Media Center, The Jakarta Post, and others.
On March 17, 2021, Jessica Lang pauses and places her hand on the door in a moment of grief after dropping off flowers with her daughter Summer at Youngs Asian Massage parlor where four people were killed in Acworth, Ga. Curtis Compton/Atlanta Journal-Constitution via AP.

On March 16th — just one day after the Korean American film Minari clinched six Oscar nominations — shootings at three greater-Atlanta-area spas claimed the lives of eight victims, including four women of Korean descent: Hyun-Jung Grant, 51; Yong-Ae Yue, 63; Sun-Cha Kim, 69; and Soon-Chung Park, 74.
Yet perhaps just as shocking as the incident itself were the stark differences between Korean-language and English-language media coverage of the mass shootings. Both Atlanta-based Korean newspapers and South Korea’s top news outlets immediately labeled the massacre as a racially motivated hate crime, with multiple news sources reporting that the shooter was heard saying, “I’m going to kill all Asians,” as he gunned people down. Within a couple of days, Korean-language media revealed that all four Korean victims were in their fifties to seventies and that three of the women did not provide any massage services but opened doors and cooked food.
By the end of that week, Korean-language media had also reported key statements from people with knowledge of the incident and from the victims’ families and acquaintances that have yet to be revealed in English-language media. By contrast, however, English-language media outlets seemed content to take the killer at his word that his motive was a “sex addiction” and that race did not play a role in his crime.
Many were quick to assume that these massage parlors provided illicit sexual services, even though Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms had stated that the spas were “legally operating businesses that have not been on our radar” and no evidence was shown that these were places of prostitution. And while English-language media quickly published detailed profiles of the shooter, its coverage of the victims, in large part, remained vague and often inaccurate, butchering the Asian victims’ names (so much so that the Asian American Journalists Association released this pronunciation guide) and even mixing up their faces (as in this local news video that showed Xiaojie Tan’s picture while reporting on Yong-Ae Yue’s funeral).
The often cringeworthy news reports illustrated that Asian Americans unfortunately continue to be othered and dehumanized by U.S. media today. Although ongoing police investigations have not yet ruled the incident as a hate crime, a number of congressional representatives, community leaders, and local officials, including Mayor Bottoms, have already called it as such. Many members of the public outside of greater Atlanta’s AAPI (Asian American and Pacific Islander) communities also seem to agree.
E-Chia Chihade, a Taiwanese American mother of two who resides in Georgia, is part of a Facebook group for Decatur-area mothers that boasts about 5,000 members. She noted that the group’s members — which include mothers of all races — see the shootings as an anti-Asian hate crime.
Some skeptics have pointed out on social media that such statements from Korean witnesses and other members of Atlanta’s Korean American community cannot be trusted since their names have not been fully revealed in Korean-language media. But in a highly charged case that has made national and even international headlines, it would be perfectly understandable if they wanted to protect their identities for fear of retribution. Mainstream media now seems to be providing more nuanced coverage of the tragedy that is more aligned with Korean news coverage, perhaps partly because more Korean-speaking journalists from U.S. newsrooms have finally been able to cover the story, after many of them seemed to be prevented from doing so for fear of possible bias.
According to both Connie Jee and Sarah Park, the Korean American community in greater Atlanta wants the killer to be charged with a racially motivated hate crime. Only time will tell whether the community’s wish will come true. But as Jeong Park points out, whether the incident is “legally called a hate crime or not,” the trauma that it has wrought within the Korean American community — and the Asian American community as a whole — is the same.
In the days and weeks following the shootings, a number of rallies, runs, panel discussions, and vigils were organized in the greater-Atlanta area, including a worldwide vigil held on March 26th that saw more than 400 organizations and 2,000 people across the globe coming together to remember the victims. Park also mentioned that local communities in Atlanta — including black, Jewish, and other minority groups — are now banding together in solidarity with the Asian American community against anti-Asian hate crimes, forging new and stronger alliances. On March 20th, a march and rally took place near Georgia’s state Capitol, where more than 3,000 attendees — which included Sens. Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, other elected officials, religious and community leaders, and people of all ages and races — gathered at Liberty Plaza and marched through the streets of Atlanta to the CNN Center.
Another major rally was held on Palm Sunday at Gwinnett Place Mall, where local black, Jewish, and AAPI organizations jointly spoke out against racism. Leaders of various Jewish groups have voiced their support for the AAPI community since the shootings, and Asian Americans Advancing Justice–Atlanta and the Georgia NAACP have issued a joint statement denouncing anti-Asian hate crimes as well as violence and racism against all communities of color.
If the momentum and cross-cultural solidarity continue, Georgia’s AAPI communities, which have long been invisible, might finally become visible. Regina Kim is a communications director for a global-media agency and a freelance writer based in Queens, New York. Her writing has appeared in “The Washington Post,” MTV News, NBC News Asian America, “The Korea Times,” “The Korea Herald,” and on her website reginakim.com.

Police in Georgia have arrested a 21-year-old white man, identified as Robert Aaron Long, after shootings at three Atlanta massage parlours on Tuesday evening left eight people dead.
Mr Long was wanted by police in connection to the worst of the three shootings, at Youngs Asian Massage Parlour in a strip mall near a rural area of Acworth about 50km north of Atlanta. But police also said they are working on the basis that the three shootings are linked. The attacks collectively killed eight people, including six Asian-American women, one white man and one white woman.
Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Captain Jay Baker said Mr Long, of Woodstock, was taken into custody in Crisp County, about 240km south of Atlanta, after a manhunt of a few hours. According to the Crisp County Sheriff, Billy Hancock, his deputies and state troopers used a pursuit intervention technique causing the suspect’s black Hyundai Tucson car to “spin out of control”, following which he was then into custody “without incident”. FBI spokesman Kevin Rowson said the agency was assisting Atlanta and Cherokee County authorities in the investigation.
Though the exact motive behind the shootings is not yet known, police were asked at a press conference whether the attacks could be connected to a broader rise in hate crimes against Asian-Americans in the aftermath of the Covid pandemic. Only a day before the shooting, Georgia state senator Dr Michelle Au spoke out about the rise in such incidents and said attackers were referring to the “China virus” during recent assaults - the term used by former president Donald Trump to describe Covid-19.
President Joe Biden, on the other hand, has spoken out to condemn anti-Asian hate crimes, calling such acts “un-American”. Atlanta police said it was too soon to ascribe motive to Tuesday’s shooting, but confirmed a high number of the victims were Asian-American and said other similar massage parlour businesses would be visited by officers to provide reassurances.
Mr Long was described as “big into religion” and “sorta nerdy” by a former classmate at Sequoyah High, where he graduated in 2017. Mr Long and his family have a long association with the Crabapple First Baptist Church in Milton, Georgia, according to social media posts dating back several years reported by The Heavy. A statement from the church said it was “grieved to hear the tragic news about the multiple deaths in the Atlanta area”.

In the 2018 Polaris report, the group claimed there were more than 9,000 “illicit massage businesses.”
However, when my reporting partner, Emma Whitford, and I attempted to substantiate the figure at the time, it was unclear which massage businesses Polaris was referring to. The group used it variously to refer to massage businesses where sex was sold, or where labor law violations may be present, or where human trafficking had occurred, according to reports Polaris had gathered from hotline calls, massage business review sites, and other sources. Years later, the number still circulates widely in connection to efforts to eradicate massage businesses: In 2020, it was cited in a Missouri news story about an attorney general’s campaign to shut down parlors, along with stories about closing massage businesses in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina; in Austin, Texas; and in the suburbs of Columbus, Ohio; as well as a story about a proposed anti–sex work law in Richmond, Virginia, among others.

correction A previous version of this article misspelled Sen. Mazie Hirono’s name. The article has been corrected. The Senate overwhelmingly passed legislation Thursday designed to more forcefully investigate hate crimes, particularly those against Asian Americans after the March 16 shootings at three Atlanta spas and a wave of violence following the spread of the coronavirus from China last year. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight “To our Asian American friends: We will not tolerate bigotry against you. And to those perpetrating anti-Asian bigotry: We will pursue you to the fullest extent of the law. We cannot — we cannot — allow the recent tide of bigotry, intolerance and prejudice against Asian Americans go unchecked,” Senate Majority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a floor speech just before the vote.
The vote was 94 to 1. Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) was the lone no vote.
Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) introduced the bill last month, officially titled the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act, based on a year’s worth of rising attacks after the pandemic began in Wuhan, China. Five days after Hirono introduced the legislation, eight people were killed, including six Asian women, in mass shootings at three Atlanta spas. The crimes heightened the pressure on Congress to respond to the rise in attacks against the Asian American community.
“I cannot tell you how important this bill is to the AAPI community, who often has felt very visible in our country, always seen as the other. And for them to experience that kind of hatred against them,” Hirono told reporters after the legislation passed.
With Rep. Grace Meng (D-N.Y.) as the lead House sponsor, the legislation would assign an official in the Justice Department to review and expedite all reports of hate crimes related to the coronavirus, expand support for local and state law enforcement agencies responding to these hate crimes, and issue guidance on mitigating the use of racially discriminatory language to describe the pandemic. Meng, in a statement after Thursday’s vote, said the House is expected to take up the legislation next month.
President Biden has vowed to sign it when it reaches his desk. Republicans at first hesitated to adopt a position on the legislation, which carefully avoids any mention of former president Donald Trump’s comments about the “Kung Flu” and “the China virus” as possible inspiration for attacks on Asian Americans — but the inference is easily understood.
In a rare bipartisan compromise, negotiators agreed to add a broader bill, the No Hate Act sponsored by Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), to provide federal funding to conduct broader studies about the number of hate crimes every year. That decision cleared the way for last week’s initial vote to begin debate on the legislation, with 92 senators in support. Hirono and Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) then spent several days negotiating the final details of the bill, which ended up more expansive than its original design and drew more support.
“Senator Collins, I really appreciate your work on this bill. We would not be here without your support,” Hirono said during her speech.
“Crimes motivated by bias against race, national origin, or other characteristics simply cannot be tolerated. Our amendment both denounces these acts and marshals additional resources toward addressing and stopping these despicable crimes,” Collins said in her floor speech.
Their deal also assured that the Senate would reject three amendments offered by conservatives that would have been considered poison pills and brought down the entire legislation. Supporters of the legislation cited one study in 16 major cities, where hate crimes decreased overall in the past year but those crimes against Asian Americans soared 145 percent. At a news conference with Hirono and Schumer afterward, Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) recalled regularly hearing the same phrase — “Where are you from, really?” — even while serving in the Army.

ATLANTA (AP) — A man accused of killing eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, in shootings at three Atlanta-area massage businesses was indicted Tuesday on murder charges by two separate grand juries, and one prosecutor filed notice that she’ll also seek hate crime charges and the death penalty.
A Fulton County grand jury indicted Robert Aaron Long, 22, in the March 16 slayings of Suncha Kim, 69; Soon Chung Park, 74; Hyun Jung Grant, 51; and Yong Ae Yue, 63. A separate grand jury in Cherokee County indicted Long for a separate shooting there that resulted in the killings of Xiaojie “Emily” Tan, 49; Daoyou Feng, 44; Delaina Yaun, 33; and Paul Michels, 54.
Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis also filed notice that she intends to seek a hate crime sentence enhancement and the death penalty against Long, who is white. The hate crime charges are based on the actual or perceived race, national origin, sex and gender of the four women killed, the notice says. The charges and the decisions to seek the death penalty and a sentencing enhancement under the hate crime law “send a message that everyone within this community is valued,” Willis said during a news conference Tuesday.
“Today we have taken another step forward in seeking justice for the victims of this crime and for their family members,” Cherokee County District Attorney Shannon Wallace said in a news release. Wallace said she will make a decision on whether to seek the death penalty before Long’s arraignment, which has not yet been scheduled.
Georgia’s new hate crimes law does not provide for a stand-alone hate crime. After a person is convicted of an underlying crime, a jury must determine whether it’s motivated by bias, which carries an additional penalty.
The 19-count Fulton County indictment includes charges of murder, felony murder, aggravated assault and domestic terrorism. The charges in the 23-count Cherokee County indictment are related to the shooting at a spa near suburban Woodstock in which four were killed and one person was wounded. Six other people were inside the spa when the shooting happened, Wallace said.
The Cherokee County charges include malice murder, felony murder, attempt to commit murder and aggravated assault. Willis’ decision to seek the death penalty is a departure from her stance during her campaign to be district attorney last year.
The killings are eligible for the death penalty because each was committed while Long was in the act of committing another capital offense, namely the killings of the victims, Willis’ notice of intent says. Each killing was also “outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible, or inhuman in that it involved depravity of mind” and was committed during an act of domestic terrorism, the notice says.
Police have said Long shot and killed four people, three of them women and two of Asian descent, at Youngs Asian Massage near Woodstock just before 5 p.m. on March 16. He also shot and wounded a fifth person, investigators said.
He then drove about 30 miles (50 kilometers) south to Atlanta, where he shot and killed three women at Gold Spa before going across the the street to Aromatherapy Spa and fatally shooting another woman, police have said. All of the Atlanta victims were women of Asian descent.
After the shootings at the two Atlanta spas, Long got back into his car and headed south on the interstate, police said. Long’s parents called authorities to help after recognizing their son in still images from security video that the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office posted on social media.
They provided cellphone information that allowed authorities to track their son to rural Crisp County, about 140 miles (225 kilometers) south of Atlanta. State troopers and sheriff’s deputies spotted his SUV on Interstate 75, and one of them forced Long to spin to a stop by bumping his vehicle. Long then surrendered to authorities. In an initial interview with investigators, Long claimed to have a “sex addiction,” and authorities said he apparently lashed out at businesses he viewed as a temptation. But those statements spurred outrage and widespread skepticism given the races of the victims.

Not long before the deadly Atlanta-area shootings spread fear and anger through Asian American communities nationwide, police say the attacker made a legal purchase: a 9 mm handgun. Within hours, they say, he had killed eight people, seven of them women and six of Asian descent, in a rampage targeting massage businesses.
If Georgia had required him to wait before getting a gun, lawmakers and advocates say, he might not have acted on his impulse. The purchase was a normal transaction at Big Woods Goods, a shop north of Atlanta that complies with federal background check laws and is cooperating with police, said Matt Kilgo, a lawyer for the store. “There’s no indication there’s anything improper,” he said.
The vast majority of states are like Georgia, allowing buyers to walk out of a store with a firearm after a background check that sometimes can take minutes. Waiting periods are required in just 10 states and the District of Columbia, although several states are considering legislation this year to impose them.
Gun control advocates say mandating a window of even a couple of days between the purchase of a gun and taking possession can give more time for background checks and create a “cooling off” period for people considering harming themselves or someone else. Studies suggest that waiting periods may help bring down firearm suicide rates by up to 11% and gun homicides by about 17%, according to the Giffords Center. Georgia Democrats plan to introduce legislation that would require people to wait five days between buying a gun and getting it, said Rep. David Wilkerson, who is minority whip in the state House.
“I think a waiting period just makes sense,” he said. A 2020 analysis by the Rand Corp., a nonprofit think tank, also found that research links waiting periods to decreased suicide and homicide rates but determined that the effect on mass shootings was inconclusive because the sample size was too small.
California has one of the country’s longest waiting periods — 10 days. That did not stop more than 1.1 million people from buying guns last year, which was just shy of the record number sold in 2016.
Gun sales nationwide, meanwhile, surged to record levels last year amid pandemic-related uncertainty. Against that backdrop, lawmakers in at least four states — Arizona, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont — have proposed creating or expanding waiting periods.
New gun laws will not fix deep-seated problems such as racism, misogyny and violence, said Seo Yoon “Yoonie” Yang, a leader with Students Demand Action, a gun violence prevention group. But they can help keep guns out of the hands of people who would do harm in the meantime, she said.
In Colorado, Democratic state Rep. Tom Sullivan ran for office after his son, Alex, died along with 11 others when a gunman opened fire in an Aurora movie theater eight years ago. Sullivan said he hopes a waiting period in legislation he’s planning to sponsor could help curb domestic violence and suicide.
Gun rights groups, including the National Rifle Association, oppose waiting periods. The group points to 2018 federal firearm-tracing data that shows the average time between first retail sale of a gun and involvement in a crime was nearly nine years.
They also argue that waiting periods create a delay for people buying legally, while leaving illegal weapons transfers unaffected. “A right delayed is a right denied,” Second Amendment Foundation founder Alan Gottlieb said.
Gun control legislation also is making its way through Congress. The Senate is expected to consider a bill to expand background checks, but it faces a difficult road — Democrats would need at least 10 Republican votes to pass it.
While the House approved two bills to strengthen the checks this month, Congress has not passed any major gun control laws since the mid-1990s. In Georgia, the Republican-controlled Legislature may resist new firearms laws before it concludes business at the end of the month. But Wilkerson pointed to recent long-sought victories that once seemed improbable, including passage of a hate crimes law and the likely repeal of a citizen’s arrest law a year after the death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man pursued by armed white men while jogging.
Whitehurst reported from Salt Lake City. Associated Press writers Mary Clare Jalonick in Washington; Don Thompson in Sacramento, California; and Jim Anderson in Denver contributed to this story. Friends, loved ones remember victims of deadly metro spa shootings Memorials grow by the day to honor the victims.

Eunji Lee had been napping in the break room at Gold Spa, while her co-worker Eun Ja Kang was waiting for a ride, when she heard a “tick, tick” sound.
She would later discover it was the sound of a gun; a white man had just shot three of their co-workers in complete silence, both survivors said. “He didn’t say a word.
I think that alone shows how premeditated and bent on a motive he was,” Lee exclusively told NBC Asian America. Lee, 41, and Kang, 48, are the two employees who were on staff at the time who survived the shooting at Gold Spa.
Three of their colleagues were killed March 16, along with five others in a string of attacks at three spas in the Atlanta area. Six of the eight victims were women of Asian descent.
The four women killed in the Atlanta spas were Hyun Jung Grant, 51; Suncha Kim, 69; Soon Chung Park, 74; and Yong Ae Yue, 63. The remaining victims, who were killed at a spa in Cherokee County, about 25 miles north of the city, were Xiaojie Tan, 49; Daoyou Feng, 44; Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; and Paul Andre Michels, 54. Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia, has been charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault in Cherokee County.
Burns Law Group, P.C., based in Canton, Georgia, which is representing Long, did not respond to a request for comment. The Atlanta Police Department did not provide additional statements on any of the allegations, saying updates on the case would be posted as they become available.
Lee, who said she sleeps and eats at the spa, said she had just dozed off when the gunshots began. Kang heard co-worker Park rush out of the kitchen and ask, “What’s that?” She and Lee heard another colleague, Kim, scream and then fall silent.
Kang said she stuck her head out of the break room and saw Park lying flat on the ground in the hallway, before making eye contact with a white man holding a gun. Kang ducked back into the lounge and brought Lee into hiding with her, with Kang taking cover under a blanket while Lee hid behind a large box once used to store charcoal for their now unused sauna.
The shooter took aim into the room and then fired two shots at Kang, who screamed after the second, she said. The bullets missed the two women.
Kang believes the shooter didn’t check if they were dead in order to leave and quickly go to Aromatherapy Spa across the street, where he killed Yue. Both survivors said they found it particularly unsettling how the shooter had carried out the killings without making a sound.
Lee said she thought he seemed like a “resolute” killer with a “target” in mind. Lee said she had kept her eyes shut in hiding, silently praying for him to leave.
After what the survivors said felt like an eternity, the police arrived, banging on the doors. The survivors realized the suspect had locked both the front and back doors of the spa.
Lee said it gave her “goosebumps” seeing how meticulous the suspect was. “We were already so terrified and didn’t understand why the police weren’t just coming in,” she said.
The spa, which is surrounded by other spas, 24-hour businesses, adult entertainment venues and nightclubs, usually leaves its front and back doors open during the day, for visitors, foot traffic and the occasional stray cat to drop by. A security guard was on duty at the spa from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., according to Kang.
The attacks began around 5 p.m., when four people were killed near Acworth, a suburb north of Atlanta, authorities said. At 5:47 p.m., officers responded to a robbery at Gold Spa, according to APD’s call sheet. At 5:57 p.m., they received a report of shots fired at Aromatherapy Spa across the street.
Lee said she worked an average of 12 hours a day, seven days a week, alongside four other workers, who rotated shifts as they slept, ate and worked at the 24-hour massage parlor where she had been employed for about six years. She took five days off every three weeks. Lee, who was mugged at gunpoint a few years before the shooting, pointed out how different the shooter’s behavior was compared to “traditional” robberies, which usually involved a suspect shouting orders for cash or preventing calls to police.
The shooter did not make any requests nor orders, according to both survivors. “So how is this not a hate crime?”
Lee said, stressing how the suspect targeted Asian-run spas. Lee said she is terrified by the increase in violence toward Asians in America.
Hate crimes against the community increased by nearly 150 percent in 2020, mostly in New York and L.A., while they decreased for the general population. Advocates are pushing the Justice Department to pursue hate crime charges in the shootings.
Authorities said Long told investigators he was motivated by “sexual addiction,” and while police said the suspect denied having racial motivations, critics say race must be considered, given the historical hypersexualization of Asian women. There has been an outcry online that mainstream media is ignoring reports of allegations published in Korean-language media, which state that a local taxi driver told reporters he heard from nearby workers that the shooter said, “I will kill all Asians,” before committing the crime.
The taxi driver repeated this account to NBC Asian America, but NBC was not able to independently verify these reports with the business managers. Both survivors said they did not hear the shooter say anti-Asian statements at their spa. Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said Long "may have frequented some of these places in the past."
Both survivors said they did not recognize him. Kang said she still assumed the incident was a robbery until she saw blood near colleague Park’s mouth once the police arrived. Based on the victims’ wounds, Lee said she believes the suspect seemed to have aimed for the victims’ heads, and not their limbs.
She saw blood in the back of Grant’s head as she tried shaking her awake. But even then, she said she didn’t realize her co-workers were dead. She had urged the police to call the ambulance to escort her colleagues to the hospital.
They ignored her pleas for help and only steered her away from the scene, Lee said. “The police officers didn’t even inform us that our colleagues died,” Lee said.
James Na, the chair of the Asian Community Advisory Committee of Gwinnett County, appointed by the district attorney, helped organize Lee’s GoFundMe page. He said Lee told him she struggles with bouts of insomnia each night, envisioning the footsteps of the suspect as she shut her eyes in hiding. Na said he’s known Lee’s longtime friend for years and she had reached out to him for help.
Kang lives with her husband and daughter, who has recently set up a GoFundMe page for her mom. Kang, who was the only surviving victim at Gold Spa who witnessed the suspect attempt to shoot her, said she’s still haunted by making eye contact with him. The slightest noise startles her, and the sound of honking cars evokes memories of the shooting. Fundraising profits for both victims will go to professional mental health counseling for post-traumatic stress disorder, they said.
“I am alive, but why are they dead? Nothing I say would bring my friends back to life.
I lost my close friends. The children lost their mothers," Kang said.
Kang said Grant was her “cherished” friend for 14 years. Her daughter and Grant’s youngest son are the same age. “It definitely shouldn’t have been the case,” he said.
“No one needs to work that much just to live.” She worked tirelessly but also found time to unwind with late nights, disco music, Korean dramas, horror films and cooking for her two sons. “Everyone says their mom's cooking is the best, but there isn’t a better kimchi jjigae out there than my mom’s,” said Park, who would easily finish three big bowls of his mother’s kimchi stew when it was around.
Grant spent her very last days working. Kang recalled her moaning about another day of work before entering a room inside the salon to begin her shift. Kang’s last words to her were to “work hard.”
It would be the last time they would. The day of the shooting, Kang and Lee’s colleague Park wanted to head home for the day and had asked Kang to call her husband, Gwangho Lee. He previously told NBC Asian America he arrived on the scene after receiving texts from Kang, who said the store was getting robbed.
Gwangho Lee remembered his wife’s upbeat spirit. Park had worked several jobs at delis, restaurants, a farm to help earn citizenship and a jewelry business, before Gold Spa.
She would return home after long hours with sore, swollen wrists but always checked in to see if he hadn’t skipped his meal. “My wife had told me how hard it was for her to make it in the U.S.,” Gwangho Lee said. Kang and Eunji Lee said they replay the last moments with their co-workers at the spa and they’re devastated for their families and community. Follow NBC Asian America on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

AUSTIN (KXAN) — Tuesday night’s fatal shooting of six Asian Americans in several Atlanta-area spas and businesses has shed light on the rise in anti-Asian sentiment in recent years — particularly throughout the past year due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
While the shooter has so far told police the killings were not racially motivated, six of eight victims being Asian left many to question that response. While support for the victims poured out immediately, so too, did calls for Americans to pay attention to boiling tensions against Asian Americans — which some believe were stoked by former President Donald Trump, his administration and some within the Republican Party. Trump referred to COVID-19 throughout his tenure as president as the “China Virus” the “Wuhan coronavirus” and similar names, appearing to blame Asian countries for the disease even as many warned about the impact and potential for a rise in hate crimes.
Chosun Ilbo, a top South Korean newspaper, reported Wednesday that the shooter reportedly yelled, “I’m going to kill all Asians!” They cited a surviving witness.
From March 19, 2020 to Feb. 28, 2021, there were almost 3,800 reported hate incidents against Asian Americans nationwide, according to Stop AAPI Hate, which the center says is only a fraction of incidents that actually occur. Chinese Americans reported receiving the most amounts of hate, with 42.2% saying they have experienced it.
Korean, Vietnamese and Filipino followed. California, New York, Washington and Texas claimed the most instances of hate.
On Twitter, the conversation about a possible racial motivation by a white shooter continued throughout Wednesday. Devastated by the murder of 8 people in Atlanta, including 6 Asian-American women. There have been 3,800 anti-Asian incidents in the last year, almost all against women. Last night’s unspeakable act of terror in Atlanta is a direct result of the rise in anti-Asian racism and hate over the last year.

A photo allegedly posted by Capt. Jay Baker, a public information officer at the Cherokee County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office, shows shirts with a racist and anti-Asian message about Covid-19. “Covid 19 imported virus from Chy-na,” the racist shirt in the photo posted April 2, 2020, reads.
Although the account that posted it has been deleted, CNN was able to access the photos through a cached copy. The name on the Facebook account matches Jay Baker, and it claims that the individual is an employee of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s office.
The Daily Beast was first to report on the racist shirt photo. They also reported the account posted photos of Baker in uniform, with his name tag visible. “Love my shirt,” the photo caption of the shirt reads.
It goes on to encourage others to buy their own shirts saying, “get yours while they last.” CNN reached out to the store selling the shirts, but did not immediately receive a response.
CNN also reached out to Facebook to see whether it deleted the account, or whether it was the user who did, but did not receive a response. This allegation comes as criticism over Baker’s description of spa shooting suspect Robert Aaron Long’s actions on Tuesday continued to grow. Thursday, the sheriff’s office told CNN that Baker was no longer the spokesman on the spa shooting case. CNN has reached out to Baker for comment.

Getting the gun was as simple as going to a local sporting goods store. Passing the background check took a matter of minutes.
Then it was a short drive to Young’s Asian Massage, where surveillance video obtained by The Washington Post shows a suspect spent more than an hour before opening fire. Within hours of purchasing a handgun on Tuesday, police allege Robert Aaron Long, a White man, had shot and killed eight people – six of them of Asian descent and all but one of them women.
Demonstrations unfolded across the country on Saturday as activists and officials linked the massacre in Atlanta to a surge in violence against Asian Americans amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In San Francisco’s Chinatown, children drew chalk butterflies on sidewalks to symbolise the people killed. Meanwhile, a growing chorus of advocates has called for a renewed federal effort to fight gun violence, arguing that, amid rising racism, lax gun laws make it too easy for someone to act on their hate.
The victims – Soon Chung Park, Hyun Jung Grant, Suncha Kim, Yong Ae Yue, Delaina Ashley Yaun, Xiaojie Tan, Daoyou Feng and Paul Andre Michels – ranged in age from 33 to 74. They included a business executive two days from her 50th birthday.
A single mother striving to support her sons. An army veteran. A woman who loved to dance.
Yet activists say the attacks fit a pattern of racism and misogyny directed at Asian American women, as well as a broader trend of hate-fueled gun violence. “Time and time again you’ve seen some of the most vulnerable communities in this country threatened by this lethal nexus of hatred and unregulated access to firearms,” said Peter Ambler, executive director of the gun control advocacy group launched by former congresswoman Gabby Giffords. He listed the targets of recent mass shootings motivated by prejudice: Latinos at a Walmart in El Paso, Texas.
A synagogue in Pittsburgh. A gay night club in Orlando, Florida. A Black church in Charleston. A Sikh temple in Wisconsin.
Using data collected in the National Crime Victimization Survey, Mr Ambler’s organisation has found that 10,000 hate crimes involving guns occur in the United States each year. Georgia has some of the country’s loosest gun laws. There is no waiting period for firearm purchases, a policy adopted by 10 states and the District of Columbia. Like most states, it does not bar people convicted of a hate crime from buying a weapon.
In Georgia, State Senator Michelle Au, a Democrat, has proposed a bill that would close the loophole for background checks to include private gun sales and transfers, but has not been able to get a hearing in committee, she tweeted. In a private meeting with Joe Biden and Kamala Harris on Friday, Senator Au said she also raised the need for universal background check legislation. Georgia State Representative Sam Park, a Democrat and the state’s only Korean American legislator, expressed outrage on Saturday that many of his constituents waited in line to vote for longer than it took Tuesday’s massacre to unfold.
More than a year into a global pandemic that has sparked record gun sales as well as racist rhetoric and attacks against Asians in the United States, lawmakers are now debating the best way to stem future violence. Representative Grace Meng, and Senator Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, have introduced a bill that would require the Justice Department to appoint an official to review all pandemic-related incidents that are reported to federal or local officials.
But previous legislative attempts to bolster hate-crime tracking have been blocked by Republicans, who have said existing laws are adequate to punish crimes. The House of Representatives passed legislation this month that would require background checks for all gun buyers and give law enforcement agencies more time to inspect people who are flagged by the check system. This would close the “Charleston loophole”, which enabled a White supremacist to buy the weapon used to kill nine Black people at Mother Emanuel AME church in that city. The bills face an uphill battle in the Senate, where they are unlikely to receive the 60 votes needed to overcome a filibuster.
Those rules would not necessarily have prevented the shooting in Atlanta. A lawyer for Big Woods Goods – the store where the suspect is alleged to have purchased his gun – said there was no indication of “anything improper” in the transfer of the weapon. The store is cooperating with law enforcement.
Experts have found that active shooters typically purchased their guns legally, including, in many cases, buying them specifically to carry out the attacks. But stricter gun laws can prevent future racially motivated shootings, said Vanderbilt University sociologist Jonathan Metzl, whose book “Dying of Whiteness” examines the intersection of White supremacy and gun violence.
At the demonstrations on Saturday, protesters voiced a desire to turn grief into action. “We have a tendency to internalize our struggle,” said Jennifer Chan, 27, one of the three women who co-organized the event in Chicago.
She invoked the colloquial Chinese expression of “eating bitterness” – the notion of virtuously enduring hardship. Ms Chan said she was surprised not only by the turnout at the rally – which drew an estimated 250 people – but by its diversity. She underscored the importance of building solidarity not only with other racial groups but within the broad and diverse ranks of the Asian diaspora. She spoke of traditional rivalry between groups like Koreans, Chinese and Japanese, or how the American experience varies among Southeast Asians and South Asians, or immigrant Asians compared to ones who are American-born.
Tracy Wang, who attended the protest with several of her relatives, including her older sister, said she felt a sting of familiarity during the past week as the discourse turned to the twin threats of sexualized and radicalised violence that Asian women so often face. She said she endured name-calling and sexual harassment as a law student in rural Ohio decades ago but that Asian women in the United States are still “disrespected” and stereotyped as hypersexual yet submissive.

ATLANTA (AP) — Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week had been repeatedly targeted in police prostitution investigations over the years, raising questions about the mayor’s earlier comments that the spas operated legally.
Police records show officers went to the businesses repeatedly in the past 10 years, which appears to contradict Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms’ statement that officers in her city had not been to the businesses beyond a minor potential theft and that they were not “on the radar” of police. Bottoms added that she did not want to blame the victims. Robert Aaron Long, 21, is charged with killing four women at the Atlanta spas and four other people inside a massage business about 30 miles (50 kilometers) away in Cherokee County.
Long, who is white, told investigators the attacks were not racially motivated and claimed to have a sex addiction, which caused him to lash out at what he saw as sources of temptation. Police in both Atlanta and Cherokee County said they were investigating if the killings could be considered hate crimes.
Seven of the victims were women — six of Asian descent — and the gunman targeted the massage businesses despite a strip club and lingerie stores nearby. According to a 2019 report written by a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers, employees in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex often ended up working there because they had few options to pay off the tens of thousands of dollars they owed smugglers or to support parents or children back home in countries like China and South Korea. The authors of Illicit Massage Parlors in Los Angeles County and New York City Stories from Women Workers interviewed dozens of women who provided sex at the businesses. They said their employers sometimes offered them a place to live and eat in the businesses, which also made the work difficult to turn down. The authors stressed not all massage businesses are involved in the sex trade.
And the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work didn’t see themselves as being trafficked, instead feeling they were helping their families or themselves, said author Lois M. Takahashi, who heads the USC Price School of Public Policy in Sacramento. But 40% of them reported that a client forced them to have sex while 18% said a client hit them or physically hurt them.
Takahashi said that for many of the women, getting arrested was an extremely traumatic process. A lot of times the women were thrust into a legal system that they didn’t understand and in a foreign language. “They had a lot more fear of being arrested than they did of being robbed,” she said.
Police records released by the city Friday show 10 people were arrested at the two Atlanta massage businesses on prostitution charges, but none since 2013. Almost all the arrests came in undercover stings where an officer paid for a massage and an employee offered sex or a sex act for more money.
The reports were first obtained by The Washington Post. A spokeswoman for the mayor said Friday the shootings were an ongoing investigation and she expected new evidence to be discovered.
All three businesses where people were fatally shot Tuesday have detailed recent reviews on an online site that leads users to places that provide sexual services. Authorities released the names of the Atlanta victims hours before President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris arrived in Atlanta to meet with Asian American community leaders.
Soon Chung Park, 74; Hyun Jung Grant, 51; and Yong Ae Yue, 63, were shot in the head, the Fulton County Medical Examiner’s Office said. Family members identified Grant by her maiden name, Hyun Jung Kim. Suncha Kim, 69, died from a gunshot to the chest, authorities said.
Three of the women died at the Gold Spa in Atlanta, while the fourth woman died across the street at Aromatherapy Spa. The medical examiner didn’t immediately say which woman died at Aromatherapy.
Four people were killed and a fifth wounded at Youngs Asian Massage near Woodstock, in Atlanta’s northwestern suburbs. Cherokee County authorities earlier identified the dead there as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Daoyou Feng, 44; and Xiaojie Tan, 49, who owned Youngs.
The South Korean Foreign Ministry said it helped police identify the four slain women of Korean descent and inform their families. Officials said they would help arrange funerals and asked U.S. authorities for a swift investigation to find the reason for the shooting amid an increase in violence against Asian Americans.
Georgia lawmakers last year passed a hate crimes law that allows additional penalties to be imposed for certain offenses when motivated by a victim’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender or disability. A hate crime is not a standalone crime under the law, but it can be used to add time to a sentence once someone is convicted of another crime.
Investigators believe Long had previously visited two of the Atlanta massage businesses where four of the women were killed, police said. The church said its teaching does not condone violence against Asian Americans or women and it’s improper to view women as somehow responsible for male sexual urges. Long waived his right to an initial hearing in Cherokee County Magistrate Court.
This story was first published on March 19, 2021. It was updated on March 20, 2021 to correct that there were 10 prostitution-related arrests at the two Atlanta businesses, and police were called to them repeatedly.
Collins reported from Columbia, South Carolina. Rebecca Santana in New Orleans contributed to this report.

ATLANTA (AP) — Two Atlanta area massage businesses where a gunman waged a deadly assault this week had been repeatedly targeted in police prostitution investigations over the years, raising questions about the mayor's earlier comments that the spas operated legally.
Police records show officers went to the businesses repeatedly in the past 10 years, which appears to contradict Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms' statement that officers in her city had not been to the businesses beyond a minor potential theft and that they were not “on the radar” of police. Bottoms added that she did not want to blame the victims. Robert Aaron Long, 21, is charged with killing four women at the Atlanta spas and four other people inside a massage business about 30 miles (50 kilometers) away in Cherokee County.
Long, who is white, told investigators the attacks were not racially motivated and claimed to have a sex addiction, which caused him to lash out at what he saw as sources of temptation. Police in both Atlanta and Cherokee County said they were investigating if the killings could be considered hate crimes.
Seven of the victims were women — six of Asian descent — and the gunman targeted the massage businesses despite a strip club and lingerie stores nearby. According to a 2019 report written by a group of academics, public health experts and community organizers, employees in massage businesses that illicitly offer sex often ended up working there because they had few options to pay off the tens of thousands of dollars they owed smugglers or to support parents or children back home in countries like China and South Korea. The authors of Illicit Massage Parlors in Los Angeles County and New York City Stories from Women Workers interviewed dozens of women who provided sex at the businesses. They said their employers sometimes offered them a place to live and eat in the businesses, which also made the work difficult to turn down. The authors stressed not all massage businesses are involved in the sex trade.
And the majority of the women they interviewed who did sex work didn't see themselves as being trafficked, instead feeling they were helping their families or themselves, said author Lois M. Takahashi, who heads the USC Price School of Public Policy in Sacramento. But 40% of them reported that a client forced them to have sex while 18% said a client hit them or physically hurt them.
Takahashi said that for many of the women, getting arrested was an extremely traumatic process. A lot of times the women were thrust into a legal system that they didn’t understand and in a foreign language. “They had a lot more fear of being arrested than they did of being robbed,” she said.
Police records released by the city Friday show 10 people were arrested at the two Atlanta massage businesses on prostitution charges, but none since 2013. Almost all the arrests came in undercover stings where an officer paid for a massage and an employee offered sex or a sex act for more money.
The reports were first obtained by The Washington Post. A spokeswoman for the mayor said Friday the shootings were an ongoing investigation and she expected new evidence to be discovered.
All three businesses where people were fatally shot Tuesday have detailed recent reviews on an online site that leads users to places that provide sexual services. Authorities released the names of the Atlanta victims hours before President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris arrived in Atlanta to meet with Asian American community leaders.
Soon Chung Park, 74; Hyun Jung Grant, 51; and Yong Ae Yue, 63, were shot in the head, the Fulton County Medical Examiner’s Office said. Family members identified Grant by her maiden name, Hyun Jung Kim. Suncha Kim, 69, died from a gunshot to the chest, authorities said.
Three of the women died at the Gold Spa in Atlanta, while the fourth woman died across the street at Aromatherapy Spa. The medical examiner didn’t immediately say which woman died at Aromatherapy.
Four people were killed and a fifth wounded at Youngs Asian Massage near Woodstock, in Atlanta’s northwestern suburbs. Cherokee County authorities earlier identified the dead there as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Daoyou Feng, 44; and Xiaojie Tan, 49, who owned Youngs.
The South Korean Foreign Ministry said it helped police identify the four slain women of Korean descent and inform their families. Officials said they would help arrange funerals and asked U.S. authorities for a swift investigation to find the reason for the shooting amid an increase in violence against Asian Americans.
Georgia lawmakers last year passed a hate crimes law that allows additional penalties to be imposed for certain offenses when motivated by a victim’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender or disability. A hate crime is not a standalone crime under the law, but it can be used to add time to a sentence once someone is convicted of another crime.
Investigators believe Long had previously visited two of the Atlanta massage businesses where four of the women were killed, police said. The church said its teaching does not condone violence against Asian Americans or women and it’s improper to view women as somehow responsible for male sexual urges. Long waived his right to an initial hearing in Cherokee County Magistrate Court.
This story was first published on March 19, 2021. It was updated on March 20, 2021 to correct that there were 10 prostitution-related arrests at the two Atlanta businesses, and police were called to them repeatedly.
Collins reported from Columbia, South Carolina. Rebecca Santana in New Orleans contributed to this report.

In the best case scenario, police were attempting to provide clarity: Since anti-Asian incidents have surged in the last year as people have scapegoated Asian Americans for the coronavirus pandemic, officials likely wanted to make it explicit that this attack may have been prompted by something different.
Their statements, however, wound up obscuring just how much racism and misogyny were tied to the shootings, which Long framed as a way to reduce the “temptation” he faced at the spas. That perception alone relies on longstanding tropes about businesses like these and about Asian American women who have been exoticized and fetishized as sexual partners as far back as the 1800s. In other words, the suspect’s choice of victims and the rationale he gave are telling in themselves: He may explicitly state that race was not a factor, but his actions and his reasoning clearly suggest a very different interpretation. Officials have yet to reveal more information about the victims: Those who have been identified are Delaina Ashley Yaun, Paul Andre Michels, Xiaojie Tan, and Daoyou Feng, while four other women of Korean descent have not been named. Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz was also injured but experienced wounds that were not life-threatening.
It’s still not yet known whether all the victims worked at these spas and what relationship, if any, they had to the shooter. But it does seem unlikely that his choice of business and who it employs was random given the makeup of the state.
In Georgia, Asian Americans are about 4 percent of the population, according to a 2019 census report. Although their presence in the state and in the Atlanta area have grown significantly in the past two decades, Asian Americans are still a relatively small proportion of area residents. As the New York Times reported, Asian Americans are about 2 percent of the population in Cherokee County, where one of the shootings took place.
The Atlanta attacks also echo a chilling dynamic that has been observed in the data about anti-Asian incidents overall, which have found that women are twice as likely to report experiencing such attacks and harassment as men, and that elderly people and children comprised nearly 20 percent of the reports. This data seems to indicate that attackers across the board have sought out those who they perceive to be more vulnerable, a perception that’s inextricably linked with gender and race.
In the Atlanta shootings, the suspect claims to have carried out attacks on businesses he saw as cause for “temptation.” According to police statements, Long aimed to remove this temptation from his life by using violence.
That impression, both of these establishments as venues for “temptation” and of the people who were on site, stems from entrenched tropes about spas and Asian American women, who have been depicted as hypersexualized beings. The perception of sexualized Asian women was informed by a long tradition of the Western male writing and controlling that perception, leaving the women with no agency and no control over their own representation. Asian women in the media have been few and far between; what few there were often had no choice but to take on the archetypal roles of Asian females. The central problem with this stereotype is that it dehumanizes Asian American women and reduces them solely to sexual objects.
That dehumanization, in turn, perpetuates violence toward these groups, and condones it. This dynamic, coupled with the pervasiveness of the “model minority myth,” which seeks to drive a wedge between minority groups and treats the Asian American experience as an exceptional and homogenous one, renders the pain and violence that Asian American women endure invisible. The conversation surrounding Tuesday’s shootings has some similarities to the one surrounding violence toward Asian American elders as well.
Although recent attacks on senior citizens who have been pushed to the ground or robbed might not be tied to the coronavirus, the decision to attack them specifically could still be a racialized one. Asian Americans are often viewed as easy marks for crimes like mugging, for instance, because they may be less likely to report such incidents, and because some members of the community don’t speak English fluently. Several of the recent attacks have also been concentrated in Chinatowns across the country, which include many immigrant residents who are likely to be lower-income and less visible. In other words, they’re profiled and attacked specifically because of their ethnicity and vulnerability. When it comes to the Atlanta shootings, the suspect’s claims about his actions ultimately highlight just how connected they are to race and gender, issues that can’t be divorced from these crimes and the efforts to understand the motivations behind them.

It seems likely that a viper’s nest of different toxic impulses lay behind the shooter’s actions, but according to Samuel Perry, an associate professor of sociology at Oklahoma University who studies sex, race, gender and faith, and author of three books about modern evangelical culture including Addicted to Lust, the confusing rhetoric of the evangelical church about sex can lead to despair over a perceived sex addiction and a feeling that one must go to extremes to avoid it. He spoke to TIME about his research.
It’s not recognized as a thing in the psychiatric literature, even though it is talked about quite frequently. Some kind of a sexual compulsive disorder will be included in another forthcoming manual for mental health professionals, but it’s different from the traditional sex addiction idea; it’s describing more of a compulsion or an impulse-control kind of issue.
Oftentimes these things are difficult to disentangle from how somebody feels about their sexual behavior because there’s very morally charged responses to it. There are all kinds of cultural values that are entangled with how one is evaluating one’s own sexual behavior.
There is an entire subculture around this idea of sex addiction and pornography addiction. We have data collected in February where we asked adults how often they look at pornography, and we asked them whether or not they think they’re addicted to pornography.
Men who identify as evangelical Christians are considerably less likely to look at porn on a regular basis than men who are not evangelicals, but they are a third more likely to say that they’re addicted to porn. That suggests that evangelicals are working with a very expansive definition of addiction that is basically shaped by this idea that if I’m doing something regularly that I’d rather not do, I can call myself an addict. And that’s a core aspect of their identity: I’m a porn addict or I’m a sex addict.
It works differently among white liberal Protestants or white Catholics or secular people. There’s a subculture around evangelicalism that kind of throws around that term addiction.
I’m not a porn apologist. I don’t think there’s much good that comes from it. And yet white evangelical Christians are the most likely group of all the religious traditions to say that they are depressed when they look at porn, and that they look at porn more often than they want to and they hide their porn use.
What all of that suggests to me is that there is an anxiety and distress around someone’s moral violation of their sexual ethic or values that leads to a really negative self-characterization as somebody who is powerless. One of these interesting paradoxes among conservative Christian men is that sexual sin is a really bad sin and that you can reduce your entire spiritual life to how you’re doing sexually. It’s something I call sexual exceptionalism in my book, the idea that for evangelicals oftentimes sexual sin is the worst sin, not racism, not greed, not lack of love for your neighbor.
It’s what you’re lusting over. But on the other hand, the culture of white evangelical masculinity says it’s normal. This is something that is very, very normal for a guy to wrestle with.
And in fact, if you weren’t struggling with it, as a guy, you’d be kind of weird. And so, on the one hand, it’s a really bad thing. And on the other hand, it’s kind of what makes you a guy.
It’s normalized that way and people have conversations about it and you get into accountability groups and this is where you get affirmed as a man. I don’t mean to say you are patted on the back for sexually sinning; they feel horrible about it.
But on the one hand, it’s condemning; on the other hand, it’s kind of affirming. The rhetoric of addiction obscures more than it helps because a lot of what these men are struggling with is shame and guilt. About 70% of white evangelical men say they hide their porn use. Again, I’m not advocating pornography, but there is another level of self-flagellation and self-condemnation and negatively defining one’s own identity as a porn addict that doesn’t help these men and sometimes women find healing and a sense of empowerment that they can direct their sexual urges in more positive ways.
Now do I think that drove this guy to commit murder? There are mental health issues, there’s racism. There’s all of these kinds of different factors mixed in there.
And yet this kind of rhetoric surrounding sex addiction, I think it escalates it. I think it was racialized, obviously.
By frequenting these establishments, he’s already expressing a racialized fetish for Asian women. He walked in that door, knowing that they would be Asian faces he would be shooting.
He had dehumanized this entire group of people. I don’t know if there’s any evidence to suggest that it was like, “I hate all Asian people and so I’m going to attack these women.”
Would he have killed a business establishment full of white women? Would he have dehumanized them in that way? Would he have gone to that establishment in the first place, because he wouldn’t have fetishized them in that way?
There are racial implications that go beyond just “I hate all Asian people.” He fetishized, objectified and dehumanized Asian women in particular, and that plays a role.
What I suggest in my book Addicted to Lust is that there has got to be a culture built around just having conversations about what is going on in that department and destigmatizing it. I’m not saying that they should be O.K. with [porn or sex work], but there’s got to be a better culture surrounding talking about it, so that people don’t feel like they have to bury that so far down.
The original version of this story misstated the college at which Samuel Perry teaches. It is the University of Oklahoma, not Oklahoma University. Contact us at letters@time.com.

