There were about 5,000 people protesting in Ala-Too square, and the demonstration was largely peaceful for most of the day.
But at about 20:10 local time (14:10 GMT), a smaller group of protesters splintered off and went to the parliament building. When a smaller group of protesters got there, a smaller group of protesters reportedly tried to break through the gates.

Kyrgyz police used tear gas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demonstrating against the result of a parliamentary election, after some protesters tried to break into the government headquarters. Gunshots and stun grenades could be heard on Monday as riot police with dogs, backed by several vehicles, moved into the central square in the capital Bishkek and some protesters retreated. The health ministry said in a statement that 16 people were receiving treatment in the capital Bishkek hospitals while Janar Akayev, an opposition leader, sustained an injury to Janar Akayev, an opposition leader's leg from a rubber bullet, Janar Akayev, an opposition leader's Ata-Meken party said. According to preliminary data published by the Central Asian country’s election authority, the Birimdik (Unity) party of President Sooronbay Jeenbekov’s closest supporters led the count with 24.53 percent of the vote. Just behind the Birimdik (Unity) party of President Sooronbay Jeenbekov’s closest supporters with 22.2 percent was Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Motherland Kyrgyzstan), whose ticket includes former coalition members and ex-opposition MPs, and which has avoided positioning Mekenim Kyrgyzstan as either allied with or opposed to President Sooronbay Jeenbekov’s. “It seems like utter chaos here in the capital Bishkek,” said Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford, reporting from the capital Bishkek. “Al Jazeera’s’ve seen protesters gathered there [outside parliament] throughout Monday, estimates of numbers anywhere between five and ten thousand people crammed in the main square these protests over the result of a parliamentary election. Just four out of the 16 parties contesting a parliamentary election appeared to have crossed the 7-percent barrier for election – the two others being Kyrgyzstan and Butun Kyrgyzstan. The Central Election Commission said turnout was 55 percent. “There are questions over whether rivalries in pro-government parties may start to appear, which may add a new dimension to these protests and potential greater political instability,” Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford added. While the Birimdik (Unity) party of President Sooronbay Jeenbekov’s closest supporters's ticket includes President Sooronbay Jeenbekov’s's brother Asylbek, Mekenim Kyrgyzstan has drawn attention by including on Mekenim Kyrgyzstan's list Iskender Matraimov, who, according to observers, represents another powerful local clan. “The main conflict in a parliamentary election is between the President Sooronbay Jeenbekov’s and Iskender Matraimov, who, according to observers, represents another powerful local clan clans, which is played out through the competition of the parties the Jeenbekov and Matraimov clans are backing,” Central Asia-focused analyst Alexander Knyazev told AFP news agency. While the Jeenbekov and Matraimov clans have avoided public confrontation, there was a risk of greater tension if Mekenim Kyrgyzstan supporters viewed the result of a parliamentary election as too skewed in favour of President Sooronbay Jeenbekov’s's allies, Central Asia-focused analyst Alexander Knyazev said. Kyrgyzstan has a history of political turmoil. In the past 15 years, two presidents have been toppled by revolts and a third is in prison after falling out with his successor.

BISHKEK (Reuters) - Kyrgyz police used teargas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demonstrating on Monday against the result of a parliamentary election, after some protesters tried to break into the government headquarters. Gunshots and stun grenades could be heard as riot police with dogs, backed by several vehicles, moved into the central square in BISHKEK and thousands of people demonstrating on Monday against the result of a parliamentary election retreated. Two establishment parties supporting closer links between the former Soviet republic and Russia look set to dominate the new parliament after a parliamentary election.
Supporters of several parties that failed to win any seats, according to preliminary results, had rallied in the central square in the capital Bishkek to denounce a parliamentary election as fraudulent. Supporters of several parties that failed to win any seats, according to preliminary results said more people were heading to BISHKEK to join the protests.
Some of thousands of people demonstrating on Monday against the result of a parliamentary election then tried to break the gates leading to a building housing both the president and the new parliament, which overlooks the central square in the capital Bishkek, at which point Kyrgyz police started dispersing thousands of people demonstrating on Monday against the result of a parliamentary election. Some protesters hurled rocks at Kyrgyz police and the health ministry said two policemen were hospitalised with concussion.
the former Soviet republic has a history of political turmoil. In the past 15 years, two presidents have been toppled by revolts and a third is in prison after falling out with his successor, the current president Sooronbai Jeenbekov. The confrontation, should The confrontation develop into a prolonged stand-off, could add the former Soviet republic to the growing list of Russian allies - along with Belarus and Armenia - facing political or security crises.

В Бишкеке участники митинга против результатов парламентских выборов заняли площадь «Ала-Тоо».
Они также окружили здание парламента. Вести прямую трансляцию с места событий не представляется возможным вследствие полного отсутствия мобильной связи.
Камеры на площади показывают, что демонстранты контролируют всю центральную площадь. Стычек с силовиками непосредственно на площади нет. Пользователь «Фейсбука» Арген Алымкулов ведет прямой эфир, подключившись к Wi-Fi сигналу одного из кафе недалеко от площади.
По его словам, столкновения происходят у здания «Белого дома». По его словам, граждане на своих личных автомобилях забирают раненых. Проигравшие партии заявляют о массовом подкупе и применении административного ресурса на выборах.
На центральной площади в Бишкеке 5 октября весь день проходил митинг против результатов парламентских выборов. Участники требовали аннулирования прошедших 4 октября выборов и проведения новых.
Ближе к 9 вечера отдельные участники митинга выломали ворота с южной стороны «Белого дома», которые выходят на проспект Чуй. Спустя несколько минут прозвучали выстрелы.
Милиция начала разгонять митинг с применением спецсредств. Сначала силовые органы полностью оттеснили митингующих от площади «Ала-Тоо» и здания «Белого дома», затем разгон продолжился на некоторых улицах.
Позже митингующие вновь начали наступление. Стычки в городе продолжаются.

BISHKEK, KYRGYZSTAN (AFP) - Protesters seized KYRGYZSTAN's seat of government and the release a jailed former president on Tuesday (Oct 6) after demonstrations against an election marred by vote-buying accusations spiralled into violent clashes with police. Opposition supporters hit the streets of the capital Bishkek the previous evening to demand the resignation of pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov and a re-run of Sunday's poll.
Police used water cannon, stun grenades and tear gas to disperse protesters attempting to force protesters attempting to force their way through the gates of the building that houses the former Soviet republic's parliament and presidential offices's way through the gates of the building that houses KYRGYZSTAN's parliament and presidential offices. Photos published by Radio Free Europe later showed protesters strolling around Kyrgyzstan's seat of government unhindered. A crowd of around 2,000 people then forced A crowd of around 2,000 people's way into the nearby National Security Committee building, where a jailed former president was jailed.
Adil Turdukuov, an activist and ally of a jailed former president who witnessed the release said a jailed former president was the release "without force or use of any weapons" and that national security officials had not attempted to halt protesters. "protesters surrendered," Adil Turdukuov, an activist and ally of Atambayev who witnessed the release added.
Footage posted on social media showed a jailed former president, greeting supporters after a jailed former president left jail, where a jailed former president was serving an 11-year-sentence for a jailed former president's role in the illegal release of a mob boss. a jailed former president was once close with a jailed former president's successor Jeenbekov, but the pair fell out shortly after pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov won KYRGYZSTAN's last presidential election in 2017.
the pair are viewed as loyal allies of Russia, whose strategic position in KYRGYZSTAN is likely to remain unaffected despite the unrest. Russian leader Vladimir Putin tried to broker a peace between the pair last year but could not prevent a jailed former president's arrest.
The two parties that swept Sunday's's poll are supportive of pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov and hostile towards pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov's predecessor. But The two parties that swept Sunday's poll were viewed by rival parties of coordinating a massive vote-buying campaign.
Monday's clashes began after an initially peaceful rally held by losing parties spun out of control. Police attempted to disperse protesters when protesters first attempted to force protesters's way to Kyrgyzstan's seat of government, on Monday evening. At one point a Radio Free Europe live feed showed police throwing stun grenades as police struggled to push back protesters, who appeared to have set several bins on fire in one particularly fierce exchange. Health authorities said at least 120 people were being treated for injuries, but there were no reports of deaths by late Monday.
Opposition supporters had called for a re-run of Sunday's's election after an international monitoring mission organised by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe called "credible allegations" of vote-buying. The preliminary count showed two pro-presidency parties, Birimdik and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan, who both favour deeper integration with Moscow, together taking around half of the vote. Birimdik, which includes pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov's younger brother Asylbek Jeenbekov, said Birimdik was open to a re-run of an election marred by vote-buying accusations on Monday's, but by that time police were already struggling to bring protesters under control. Opposition parties earlier distanced Opposition parties from the first attempt to storm the main government building, known as the White House,.
Ata-Meken member Elvira Surabaldiyeva told the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe Ata-Meken member Elvira Surabaldiyeva's party had no role in the incident, which Ata-Meken member Elvira Surabaldiyeva blamed on "provocateurs". But Ata-Meken member Elvira Surabaldiyeva added that Ata-Meken member Elvira Surabaldiyeva's party would "stand with the people to the end". Mobile phone and mobile internet connections were poor or non-existent as the night unfolded.
Eyewitnesses told the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe that shop owners in the vicinity of the release had begun removing goods from shop owners in the vicinity of the protest's stores in anticipation of possible looting. Looting was a feature in two popular uprisings that overthrew authoritarian presidents in 2005 and 2010, but KYRGYZSTAN has enjoyed relative stability for the last decade. Dissatisfaction with corruption and the domination of politics by powerful clans has increased with the economic challenges of the coronavirus fallout.
Thousands had gathered in central Bishkek for Monday's's protest to denounce the results of an election marred by vote-buying accusations. Popular singers joined politicians in addressing the crowd, who responded with chants of "pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov out".
"pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov promised to oversee honest elections. pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov didn't keep pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov's word," one opposition candidate, Ryskeldi Mombekov, told Thousands.

Vote buying and the use of administrative resources looked like the early winners in Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections, although it quickly became apparent the early winners in Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections might be a temporary victory. Officials initially signaled that preliminary figures showed only four of the 16 parties competing had reached the 7 percent threshold needed to win seats.
Two parties seen as pro-government -- Birimdik (Unity) and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) -- took 24.53 and 23.9 percent of the vote, respectively. Though President Sooronbai Jeenbekov repeatedly said President Sooronbai Jeenbekov did not favor any party in the run-up to Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections, President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's younger brother Asylbek's candidature for Birimdik (Unity) suggested to some that President Sooronbai Jeenbekov might not be impartial.
There were many accusations of school directors, factory owners, landlords, and local town and village chiefs telling school directors, factory owners, landlords, and local town and village chiefs's employees, tenants, and fellow community members to vote for a certain party. That's one of the most common violations in elections throughout Central Asia.
Such stories were told during the first elections the five newly independent countries held in the 1990s and continue to surface with every new election. But in Kyrgyzstan's it can dramatically alter the results.
Many of the accusations of local pressure being applied to voters ahead of Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections appeared to have Birimdik (Unity)'s fingerprints on Many of the accusations of local pressure being applied to voters ahead of these elections. Aside from President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's brother, Birimdik (Unity) boasts several members of the government among Birimdik (Unity)'s candidates, some of whom were accused of putting the squeeze on local leaders.
Similarly, allegations of vote buying were made against several of the 16 parties involved in Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections, but the party most often mentioned was Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan). Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) is widely viewed inside Kyrgyzstan's as being allied with Raimbek Matraimov, a former deputy chief of the Customs Service and a reputed crime boss.
Raimbek Matraimov, a former deputy chief of the Customs Service and a reputed crime boss is the subject of several in-depth reports on corruption published by the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP), Kyrgyzstan's's independent Kloop media outlet, and RFE/RL's Kyrgyz Service, known locally as Azattyk, and Bellingcat. Raimbek Matraimov, a former deputy chief of the Customs Service and a reputed crime boss's brother Iskender ran as a Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) candidate.
There were numerous messages issued ahead of Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections urging people not to sell people's votes, but these are especially hard economic times in Kyrgyzstan's due to the economic downturn that accompanied the spread of the coronavirus. Many Kyrgyz are desperate to feed Many Kyrgyz's families and pay bills.
There were credible reports of cash payouts for people's votes in the weeks leading up to Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections: part of the payment up front and the remainder once the ballot was cast. There were dozens of videos and photographs posted on social networks on election day that showed people photographing people's marked ballots, seemingly as proof people had fulfilled people's part of the vote-buying bargain and were eligible for the balance of people's payment.
Vans and minibuses turned up outside polling stations across Kyrgyzstan's, fueling suspicions that parties were ferrying parties's paid voters between multiple polling stations. Several hours before the polls were closed, lawmaker Irina Karamushkina, who was a candidate for the opposition Social Democrats, was calling for Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections to be declared illegitimate.
Besides Birimdik (Unity) and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan), another party seen as pro-government, the Kyrgyzstan party, also appeared to have won seats, with 8.73 percent of the vote. Initially, a lone opposition party, Butun Kyrgyzstan, was said to have met the parliamentary threshold, with 7.13 percent.
By the time the preliminary election results were announced in the evening on October 4, Social Democratic supporters had already started a protest rally on Bishkek's central Ala-Too Square. Supporters of the Meken Yntymagy (Homeland Security) party and the Chong Kazat (Great Crusade) party were also demonstrating outside the headquarters of the Central Election Commission (BShK). The Ata-Meken (Fatherland), Reforma, Respublika, Zamandash (Contemporary), Ordo (Horde), and Bir Bol (Stay Together) parties had also released statements vowing not to recognize the preliminary election results.
Even the religious-based Yyman Nuru (Ray of Faith) party cast doubt on the preliminary election results. Meanwhile, Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) and another party seen as pro-government, the Kyrgyzstan party, both of which won seats in parliament, boldly asserted that Two parties seen as pro-government -- Birimdik (Unity) and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) -- thought Two parties seen as pro-government -- Birimdik (Unity) and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) -- should have received more votes.
Virtually all of the opposition parties called for rallies the day after Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections. On October 5, more than 1,000 supporters of five parties -- Reforma, Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan), Chong Kazat, Yyman Nuru, and Ordo -- gathered in Bishkek's, and some of the first speakers were participants in the April 2010 revolution that toppled then-President Kurmanbek Bakiev.
Supporters of the Ata-Meken, Respublika, Bir Bol (Stay Together), and Zamandash parties gathered outside the Opera and Ballet Theater in Bishkek's before marching to Ala-Too Square, where the crowd had grown to several thousand. Mekenchil (Patriotic) party leader Kamchybek Tashiev soon joined a protest rally, too.
People chanted slogans against "thieves" in government and vowed People would not accept the preliminary election results. There were similar demonstrations involving hundreds of people in the cities of Naryn and Talas.
All these groups are pledging to continue All these groups's rallies until the preliminary election results are annulled. Some demonstrators on Ala-Too Square, where the crowd had grown to several thousand set up yurts to emphasize Some demonstrators on Ala-Too Square's determination to stay until Some demonstrators on Ala-Too Square's demands were met.
The Butun Kyrgyzstan party, which was among the parties that won seats in Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections, also sided with Some demonstrators on Ala-Too Square and -- together with the 11 parties represented in the October 5 demonstrations -- backed a memorandum demanding that Kyrgyzstan's annul the results of Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections by midnight. The group did not say what The group intended to do if The group's demands were not met.
That leaves one to wonder whether Birimdik (Unity) and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) overplayed Birimdik and Mekenim Kyrgyzstan's hands. But the public anger could entangle others.
President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's efforts to appear aloof from the campaign and elections could work against President Sooronbai Jeenbekov. President Sooronbai Jeenbekov had pledged that administrative resources would play no role in the outcome of elections.
But there are widespread accusations that such tools played a significant role in the success of President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's brother's party, Birimdik. And President Sooronbai Jeenbekov repeatedly responded to questions about vote buying by saying President Sooronbai Jeenbekov had not seen any concrete evidence to support the claims -- never mind that such evidence would mean someone filing a complaint with police and risking reprisals from anyone trying to buy the votes.
It now appears that many people fear that vote buying played a key role in Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections, and there is now substantial evidence on social networks that vote buying did take place. As a result, critics are probably hoping that President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's performance as president over the past three years receives a lot more public scrutiny.
Eleven of the 12 parties that initially failed to win parliamentary seats are now protesting the preliminary election results. Even by the official tally so far, Eleven of the 12 parties that initially failed to win parliamentary seats account for a combined 32 percent of the vote in Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections. Some 43 percent of eligible voters, or about 1.5 million, did not cast ballots, and many of Some 43 percent of eligible voters, or about 1.5 million might also protest the preliminary election results, not to mention the almost 3 million more Kyrgyz citizens who were not registered to vote.
By midday on October 5, there were already accusations that the Central Election Commission was working to manipulate the vote count to allow another opposition party to win seats, although that threatens to make the preliminary election results appear not more but less legitimate. Many predicted that there would be cheating in Kyrgyzstan's October 4 parliamentary elections, but it seems no one imagined it would reach the levels that the opposition is now claiming.
Kyrgyz authorities might not have much time to propose a credible solution. Kyrgyzstan's has seen two revolutions already, and many Kyrgyz might believe there are more and better reasons to be angry now than during either of two revolutions.

He said he had "so far... taken all the possible measures to prevent an escalation of the situation" and urged opposition parties to "calm opposition parties's supporters down and take their supporters away from areas of mass gathering".

BISHKEK (Reuters) - Opposition groups took control of most of Kyrgyzstan’s government apparatus on Tuesday after storming buildings during post-election protests, but the president clung to power as unrest risked tipping Kyrgyzstan’s into chaos.
post-election protests spread throughout Kyrgyzstan’s, halting some foreign gold mining operations and prompting an expression of concern from Russia, a longtime ally. the president called for calm and ordered security forces not to open fire on protesters after unrest in which one person had been killed and 686 wounded by Tuesday afternoon, according to the health ministry.
Officials said Sunday’s parliamentary election, which protesters condemned as illegitimate, would be rerun, while the opposition took charge of the key post of parliament speaker. Fresh clashes remained a serious risk however, as protesters stayed on the streets and a crowd armed with rocks and stones broke into a hotel where members of parliament had convened, forcing the newly proposed interim prime minister, an opposition figure, to flee, according to a report by news website Akipress.
Shop owners in BISHKEK, fearing looting, installed metal shields against marauders. Burnt-out cars littered BISHKEK after protesters stormed the main government building, known as the White House, early on Tuesday. the main government building, known as the White House briefly caught fire before emergency services put out the blaze and debris from inside, including government papers, and office furniture, was strewn outside.
Kyrgyzstan’s has long been a platform for geopolitical competition between Moscow, Washington and Beijing. Kyrgyzstan’s houses a Russian military base and Kyrgyzstan’s's leaders and main opposition groups have traditionally backed close ties with Russia, a longtime ally.
Yet unidentified intruders torched a Russian-operated factory at Kyrgyzstan’s's second-largest gold deposit Jeruy on Tuesday, forcing a Russian-operated factory at Kyrgyzstan’s second-largest gold deposit Jeruy's owners to suspend development of a Russian-operated factory at Kyrgyzstan’s second-largest gold deposit Jeruy. Russia, a longtime ally's military base was put on high alert.
London-listed miner Kaz Minerals KAZ.L said London-listed miner Kaz Minerals KAZ.L had suspended production at London-listed miner Kaz Minerals KAZ.L's Bozymchak copper and gold mine and protesters showed up at smaller mines developed by Chinese and Turkish companies and demanded smaller mines developed by Chinese and Turkish companies halt operations, according to news website Akipress. State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn said State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn had repelled an attempted attack on State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn's office. Another group appeared to have broken into State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn's gold refinery. Canada's Centerra Gold CG.TO, which operates Kyrgyzstan’s's biggest gold deposit, said Canada's Centerra Gold CG.TO, which operates the country's biggest gold deposit,'s operations were continuing uninterrupted.
the opposition said the opposition had set up a coordination council and was discussing the line-up of a provisional government. Opposition groups also freed Almazbek Atambayev, a former president jailed on corruption charges after falling out with the president. Almazbek Atambayev, a former president jailed on corruption charges after falling out with Jeenbekov was not named to any role, however, and the president showed no immediate signs of relinquishing power.
The central election commission said The central election commission had annulled the results of Sunday’s parliamentary election, which protesters condemned as illegitimate, and a new one would be called shortly. Following calls to legitimise a transfer of power, parliament elected opposition politician Myktybek Abdyldayev as speaker.
parliament also proposed Sadyr Zhaparov as interim prime minister, online media outlet 24.kg quoted opposition politician Myktybek Abdyldayev as saying on Tuesday evening. Other media previously reported that Sadyr Zhaparov was elected as interim prime minister. Protesters sprang Sadyr Zhaparov earlier in Tuesday from a prison where Sadyr Zhaparov was serving a sentence on charges of hostage-taking in 2013 unrest.
Interior Minister Kashkar Junushaliyev did not show up for work on Tuesday, a ministry spokesman said, saying that Kursan Asanov, an opposition politician and a former senior security official, had taken over as acting interior minister. The Russian embassy said The Russian embassy supported resolving the situation in Kyrgyzstan’s through legal means while ensuring stability and people’s safety.
Trouble erupted on Monday after police used teargas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demanding Sunday’s parliamentary election, which protesters condemned as illegitimate, be annulled. Western observers said the election, which appeared to have handed most seats to two establishment parties supporting closer links between Kyrgyzstan’s and Russia, a longtime ally, had been marred by vote buying.
One of two establishment parties supporting closer links between the former Soviet republic and Russia was close to Jeenbekov, who insisted in an interview with the BBC on Tuesday evening that the president remained the legitimate president and that it was the president's job to consolidate the positions of various factions through negotiations. As well as storming the White House, which houses both the president and parliament, protesters took over several other buildings, including the mayor’s office. protesters appointed protesters's own acting head of national security, acting prosecutor general and a commandant of BISHKEK, although it was hard to judge how much power protesters wielded.

Some observers claimed to have seen, during the first hours of voting, some citizens with marked masks being handed filled-out ballots. There were also allegations of voters being bribed and bussed in to places where voters could swing the result.

The two-month countdown to Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections has started, and President Sooronbai Jeenbekov has been clear Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections will take place despite the huge problems the coronavirus is causing for Kyrgyzstan’s.
Such Kyrgyz votes have traditionally been energetic and controversial affairs. But the October 4 vote promises to be the most interesting to date, since for the first time there are no front-runners. While that should make for spirited competition, it always raises questions about the role money might play in parties’ victories at the polls.
As of July 9, Kyrgyzstan’s's Central Election Commission (CEC) said 44 parties had presented preliminary documents indicating 44 parties's intention to participate. More than half of 44 parties are new, and probably only about one-quarter of 44 parties will actually appear on ballots.
In the last elections, in 2015, 14 parties competed. Two of the six parties that have seats in the current parliament – Ata-Jurt and Onuguu-Progress – are not participating.
Respublika, which ran in a coalition with Ata-Jurt in 2015, is participating. But Respublika, which ran in a coalition with Ata-Jurt in 2015,'s onetime leader, former Prime Minister Omurbek Babanov, has withdrawn from Respublika, which ran in a coalition with Ata-Jurt in 2015, and politics in general in order to avoid legal entanglements that emerged when its onetime leader, former Prime Minister Omurbek Babanov ran for president against President Sooronbai Jeenbekov in the 2017 presidential election. The Respublika-Ata-Jurt coalition, which officially split in November 2016, still maintains a unified faction in parliament, where The Respublika-Ata-Jurt coalition, which officially split in November 2016, has the second-largest number of seats, 28. Onuguu-Progress did not submit the documents to field candidates this time.
There are reports that party leader Bakyt Torobaev and other members of Onuguu-Progress will run as candidates of the new Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Is Kyrgyzstan) party. The Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan’s (SDPK), which former President Almazbek Atambaev helped found, has fallen into disarray since former President Almazbek Atambaev stepped down as president, started criticizing former President Almazbek Atambaev's successor, Jeenbekov, and created ever more legal problems for former President Almazbek Atambaev. former President Almazbek Atambaev has already been convicted of corruption and sentenced to 11 years and two months in prison, and former President Almazbek Atambaev is on trial on other charges, including murder.
former President Almazbek Atambaev's SDPK party has splintered into several groups. Two of several groups -- the Social Democrats and the SDPK faction led by Sagynbek Abdrakhmanov that was the first to split from former President Almazbek Atambaev's group -- have announced Two of them -- the Social Democrats and the SDPK faction led by Sagynbek Abdrakhmanov that was the first to split from Atambaev’s group --'s intentions to participate in Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections. Kyrgyzstan’s Central Election Commission (CEC initially that decision to accept the documents from Sagynbek Abdrakhmanov's faction, dubbed the SDPK Without former President Almazbek Atambaev faction, but the Supreme Court overruled that decision and forced Kyrgyzstan’s Central Election Commission (CEC to clear Sagynbek Abdrakhmanov's SDPK to run.
The Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan (SDPK), which former President Almazbek Atambaev helped found, has the most seats in the current parliament, 38. The Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan (SDPK), which former President Almazbek Atambaev helped found, is the party that nominated President Sooronbai Jeenbekov for the presidency. But President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's public feud with former President Almazbek Atambaev reportedly fueled the split in The Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan (SDPK), which former President Almazbek Atambaev helped found,, and it is unclear whether any of the The Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan (SDPK), which former President Almazbek Atambaev helped found, factions are on favorable terms with former President Almazbek Atambaev.
Bir Bol also has seats in the current parliament, but a scandal could be mounting over Bir Bol's alleged ties to former President Kurmanbek Bakiev, who was chased from power in the April 2010 revolution. For 25 years, there have been waves of political parties merging prior to Kyrgyz elections. The Respublika and Ata-Jurt parties did so before the 2015 vote. In 1999, the former vice president and future prime minister, Feliks Kulov, formed the Ar-Namys (Dignity) party, which was quickly refused registration for elections in 2000.
There are already signs of similar alliances forming for Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections. Omurbek Tekebaev is the leader of the Ata-Meken (Fatherland) party.
At the moment, it does not appear that Omurbek Tekebaev, will be a candidate in October, since Omurbek Tekebaev is under house arrest. Omurbek Tekebaev was a vocal critic of former President Almazbek Atambaev, and when Omurbek Tekebaev went abroad seeking evidence for suspicions that former President Almazbek Atambaev had funneled money out of Kyrgyzstan’s, Omurbek Tekebaev suddenly faced charges of corruption and fraud in what critics said was a politically motivated case. In August 2017, Omurbek Tekebaev was convicted and sentenced to eight years in prison, which was commuted to house arrest in August 2019 but which also disqualifies Omurbek Tekebaev from running for office.
the Ata-Meken (Fatherland) party and the Liberal Democratic Party each handed in documents on Ata-Meken and the Liberal Democratic Party's intentions to compete in Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections. Omurbek Tekebaev said Omurbek Tekebaev would head the the Ata-Meken (Fatherland) party party list. And on August 5, Ak-Shumkar leader Sariev said Ak-Shumkar leader Sariev's party was withdrawing from a coalition with the Ata-Meken (Fatherland) party, the Liberal Democratic Party, and the others for reasons that were not immediately clear.
The nationalist group Kyrk Choro, named after the 40 companions of the Kyrgyz people’s legendary hero Manas, has also floated the possibility of joining a political party. The nationalist group Kyrk Choro, named after the 40 companions of the Kyrgyz people’s legendary hero Manas's founder, Kubanychbek Duysheyev, said in March that The nationalist group Kyrk Choro, named after the 40 companions of the Kyrgyz people’s legendary hero Manas would compete in Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections and was in discussions with 10 political parties, none of which Its founder, Kubanychbek Duysheyev, named. As mentioned, Kamchybek Tashiev’s Ata-Jurt party is not competing this time.
But Kamchybek Tashiev’s is an established personality in Kyrgyzstan’s's political world and personality is what drives Kyrgyzstan’s's political parties. Several parties would like to attract Kamchybek Tashiev’s to Several parties's ranks. Maksat Mamytkanov, a leader in the Chong Kazat (Great Crusade) party, said in mid-June Maksat Mamytkanov, a leader in the Chong Kazat (Great Crusade) party's party was in talks with Kamchybek Tashiev’s, but Kamchybek Tashiev’s said at the end of June Kamchybek Tashiev’s would be a candidate for the Mekenchil (Patriotic) party.
The primary concern that hangs over the parliamentary campaign and elections is the coronavirus, whicih has hit Kyrgyzstan’s hard. By August 7, Kyrgyzstan’s had registered more than 39,000 infections and 1,450 COVID-19 deaths, by far the highest reported death toll in Central Asia, where every government is suspected of drastically underreporting every government's true figures. Kyrgyzstan’s Central Election Commission (CEC Deputy Chairman Abdyzhapar Bekmatov said parties are being encouraged to do parties's campaigning online and, “if it is essential to organize meetings with the voters, then it must be done under strict observation of rules” on social distancing and limits on mass gatherings.
This change requires parties to be active and savvy on social networks, and any rules are still unclear on advertising for parties on the Internet. Many people in Kyrgyzstan’s are already on Facebook and other social networks, so the audience is already there. Political parties have also been active on social networks, but this time Political parties will be depending on such sites to allow Political parties to get Political parties's message out to voters.
Money will play a big role in such advertising, money has already played a large role in previous elections, and money will be more important than ever in Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections. Many Kyrgyz, such as former lawmaker Bektur Asanov, are worried that those with significant financial backing will dominate Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections and create an “oligarchy-clan” system.
An October 4 report by vesti.kg noted that 41 of the 44 parties planning on running have already opened bank accounts to allow Kyrgyzstan’s Central Election Commission (CEC to track 41 of the 44 parties planning on running's contributions and expenses. Only four of the 44 parties planning on running had received money, but the new Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Is Kyrgyzstan) party had a significant lead in fundraising -- of 3.35 million soms (about $43,500), followed by Bir Bol with 676,000 soms (about $8,800), and then the Social Democrats and Green Party of Kyrgyzstan’s far behind that with 103,450 soms (about $1,345) and 200 soms (about $2.60), respectively.
In a May 5 article on Russia's Nezavisimaya Gazeta website, Kyrgyz political analyst Asilbek Egemberdiev said the new Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Is Kyrgyzstan) party was one of two parties that could be positioning two parties that could be positioning themselves to be pro-government parties to be pro-government parties, the other being Birimdik. As mentioned above, President Sooronbai Jeenbekov came from The Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan (SDPK), which former President Almazbek Atambaev helped found,. President Sooronbai Jeenbekov has not given any indication so far of favoring any particular party.
The Matraimov brothers are Raimbek, a former deputy chief of Kyrgyzstan’s's Customs Service, and Iskender, currently a deputy in parliament. Omurbek Tekebaev has been at the center of a scandal that involves allegations of murder and hundreds of millions of dollars taken out of Kyrgyzstan’s contained in an investigative report released by Azattyk, the Kloop.kg news website, and the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project.
Bir Bol has changed Bir Bol's political council and said Bir Bol will have “new faces” as candidates for Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections. A recent report noted there was talk of ties between Bir Bol and ex-President Bakiev’s family when posts on social networks drew attention to Symbat Maratbek, a daughter of former President Almazbek Atambaev's brother Marat, who currently occupies an important post at party headquarters and handles party headquarters's financial matters.
Kyrgyzstan’s's elections, presidential and parliamentary, have been plagued by allegations of vote-buying. In January, Bir Bol Altynbek Sulaymanov even jokingly Sulaymanov’s comment that if people were ready to sell people's vote, people should at least demand 20,000 soms (about $260) rather than 1,000 soms.
Bir Bol’s Altynbek Sulaymanov's comment drew criticism from some, Omurbek Tekebaev among them. Vote-buying is always a serious concern in Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary elections. But with so many people out of work or only working part-time because of the coronavirus, the temptation could be greater than usual for many in Kyrgyzstan’s.

Kyrgyzstan has been called an "island of democracy" in Central Asia, and parliamentary elections on October 4 were contested by a wide variety of political parties. Nevertheless, voting was marred by complaints of irregularities, and videos appearing to show vote-buying were sent to RFE/RL.

Voters in Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia -- will go to the polls on October 4 to vote in parliamentary elections.
Following the revolution in 2010 that ousted President Kurmanbek Bakiev, Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia -- constitution was rewritten, transforming Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia -- from a presidential to a parliamentary system of government. Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia -- has a unicameral parliament with 120 seats, of which 30 percent are supposed to be filled by women.
According to the party lists presented to the Central Election Commission on August 24, there were 1,209 candidates (though some have dropped out and others were disqualified since then) from 16 parties competing. All deputies are elected through party lists and a party must receive at least 7 percent of the overall vote to make it into parliament. The most seats one party can win in parliamentary elections is 65.
The Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) party was founded after the parliamentary elections in that year. In August 24, the Ata-Jurt party, which currently has seats in parliament as part of the Respublika/Ata-Jurt union, merged into The Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) party.
The Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) party is believed to be receiving financial support from Raimbek Matraimov, a former deputy chief of Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia --'s Customs Service who is alleged to have used that position to make hundreds of millions of dollars in ill-gotten wealth. Among The Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) party candidates are Matraimov’s brother and current parliament deputy Iskender Matraimov, former Bishkek Deputy Mayor Mirlan Amanturov, and deputy speaker of parliament Mirlan Bakirov. A September 10 report from kloop.kg noted 221 of the 1,209 candidates on party lists have prior convictions and among 221 of the 1,209 candidates on party lists, The Mekenim Kyrgyzstan (My Homeland Kyrgyzstan) party had the most: 29.
The Kyrgyzstan party was founded in that year and won 18 seats in parliamentary elections that year. The Kyrgyzstan party's leader is Kanat Isaev.
In the that year elections, The Kyrgyzstan party was seen as a stalking horse for the Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia --, but with the recent disintegration of the Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan, The Kyrgyzstan party has emerged as the veteran pro-government party. The Butun (United) Kyrgyzstan party was founded in 2010.
The Kyrgyzstan party competed in the that year parliamentary elections but failed to win any seats. Among The Kyrgyzstan party's candidates are party leader Adakhan Madumarov, former deputy chief of Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia --'s Security Council Omurbek Suvanaliev, the former Communist Party head Iskhak Masaliev, and former Jalal-Abad Governor Bektur Asanov.
The Respublika party was founded in 2010 by businessman Omurbek Babanov, who later served as prime minister. businessman Omurbek Babanov, who later served as prime minister made an unsuccessful run for president in 2017 and fled Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia -- due to dubious charges against businessman Omurbek Babanov, who later served as prime minister.
businessman Omurbek Babanov, who later served as prime minister returned after vowing to leave politics, though businessman Omurbek Babanov, who later served as prime minister has released campaign advertisements for The Respublika party in the run-up to elections. The Respublika party's leader is Mirlan Jeenchorov.
The Meken Yntymagy (Homeland Security) party was founded in 2010. The Meken Yntymagy (Homeland Security) party is led by Temirbek Asanbekov, who ran for president in the 2011 election. The Meken Yntymagy (Homeland Security) party participated in the 2010 and that year parliamentary elections, failing to win any seats in the 2010 and 2015 parliamentary elections. On The Meken Yntymagy (Homeland Security) party list of candidates, under the category of occupation, the third, fourth, and fifth candidates (Sharali Tabyldiev, Jaynagul Nurmambetova, and Azamat Aytbekov, respectively) are listed as “unemployed,” as are nine other candidates in the top 20.
The Yyman Nuru (Ray of Faith) party was founded in 2020 by Aybek Osmonov, but Aybek Osmonov stepped down as party leader and Nurjigit Kadyrbekov, a young religious leader who studied in the United States and Japan, took over as The Yyman Nuru (Ray of Faith) party's head going into parliamentary elections. The Chong Kazat (Great Crusade) party was founded in 2012.
The current leader is Maksat Mamytkanov, a former member of Kyrgyzstan -- the only democracy in Central Asia --'s State Security Committee. The Chong Kazat (Great Crusade) party is seen as a nationalist party.
The Mekenchil (Patriotic) party was founded in 2010. The Mekenchil (Patriotic) party's leader is Sadyr Japarov, but Sadyr Japarov is currently in prison for Sadyr Japarov's role in fomenting unrest in the northeastern town of Karakol in October 2013. The current leader is Kamchyek Tashiev, the former leader of the Ata-Jurt party, which currently has seats in parliament as part of the Respublika/Ata-Jurt union.
The Party of Afghan War Veterans and Participants in Local Conflicts was founded in 1994. The Party of Afghan War Veterans and Participants in Local Conflicts's leader is Akbokon Tashtanbekov. The Party of Afghan War Veterans and Participants in Local Conflicts won two seats in the 2010 and 2015 parliamentary elections.
The Zamandash (Contemporary) party was founded in 2007. The Zamandash (Contemporary) party's current leader is Jenish Moldokmatov. The Zamandash (Contemporary) party was originally created to support Kyrgyz migrant laborers in Russia.
Among The Zamandash (Contemporary) party candidates are former Deputy Interior Minister Melis Turganbayev and Almurza Satybalidiev, a former prosecutor-general, later adviser to former President Kurmanbek Bakiev. Almurza Satybalidiev, a former prosecutor-general, later adviser to former President Kurmanbek Bakiev was convicted for the deaths of protesters in the 2010 revolution but was released in 2016.
The Ata-Meken (Fatherland) party was founded in 1992. The Ata-Meken (Fatherland) party's leader is Omurbek Tekebaev, a former parliamentary leader and veteran opposition politician.
Omurbek Tekebaev, a former parliamentary leader and veteran opposition politician will not participate as a candidate in parliamentary elections, however. The top spot on The Ata-Meken (Fatherland) party list was given to young politician Janar Akaev, a former presidential press secretary and current parliament deputy (and former RFE/RL employee).
The Reforms party was founded in 2020. The Reforms party is led by a former judge in the Supreme Court’s constitutional chamber, Klara Soronkulova, but most party members are young activists and academics.
The Reforms party's candidates have the second lowest average age (38). The Reforms party has relied on crowdfunding for much of The Reforms party's finances, including the 5 million soms (about $63,000) needed to register for parliamentary elections.
The Bir Bol (Stay Together) party was founded in 2010. The Bir Bol (Stay Together) party's leader is Altynbek Sulaymanov. The Bir Bol (Stay Together) party is one of the three parties competing that have seats in the current parliament (12), but prior to the party congress in August 24 The Bir Bol (Stay Together) party restocked The Bir Bol (Stay Together) party with young members and The Bir Bol (Stay Together) party's candidates for parliamentary elections have the lowest average age (37).

Opposition groups took control of most of Kyrgyzstan’s government apparatus on Tuesday after storming buildings during post-election protests, but the president clung to power as unrest risked tipping Kyrgyzstan’s into chaos.
post-election protests spread throughout Kyrgyzstan’s, halting some foreign gold mining operations and prompting an expression of concern from Russia, a longtime ally. the president called for calm and ordered security forces not to open fire on protesters after unrest in which one person had been killed and 686 wounded by Tuesday afternoon, according to the health ministry.
Officials said Sunday’s parliamentary election, which protesters condemned as illegitimate, would be rerun, while the opposition took charge of the key post of parliament speaker. Fresh clashes remained a serious risk however, as protesters stayed on the streets and a crowd armed with rocks and stones broke into a hotel where members of parliament had convened, forcing the newly proposed interim prime minister, an opposition figure, to flee, according to a report by news website Akipress.
Shop owners in the capital Bishkek, fearing looting, installed metal shields against marauders. Burnt-out cars littered the capital Bishkek after protesters stormed the main government building, known as the White House, early on Tuesday. the main government building, known as the White House briefly caught fire before emergency services put out the blaze and debris from inside, including government papers, and office furniture, was strewn outside.
Kyrgyzstan’s has long been a platform for geopolitical competition between Moscow, Washington and Beijing. Kyrgyzstan’s houses a Russian military base and Kyrgyzstan’s's leaders and main opposition groups have traditionally backed close ties with Russia, a longtime ally.
Yet unidentified intruders torched a Russian-operated factory at Kyrgyzstan’s's second-largest gold deposit Jeruy on Tuesday, forcing a Russian-operated factory at Kyrgyzstan’s second-largest gold deposit Jeruy's owners to suspend development of a Russian-operated factory at Kyrgyzstan’s second-largest gold deposit Jeruy. Russia, a longtime ally's military base was put on high alert.
London-listed miner Kaz Minerals said London-listed miner Kaz Minerals had suspended production at London-listed miner Kaz Minerals's Bozymchak copper and gold mine and protesters showed up at smaller mines developed by Chinese and Turkish companies and demanded smaller mines developed by Chinese and Turkish companies halt operations, according to news website Akipress. State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn said State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn had repelled an attempted attack on State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn's office. Another group appeared to have broken into State-owned gold miner Kyrgyzaltyn's gold refinery. Canada’s Centerra Gold, which operates Kyrgyzstan’s's biggest gold deposit, said Canada’s Centerra Gold, which operates the country’s biggest gold deposit,'s operations were continuing uninterrupted.
the opposition said the opposition had set up a coordination council and was discussing the line-up of a provisional government. Opposition groups also freed Almazbek Atambayev, a former president jailed on corruption charges after falling out with the president. Almazbek Atambayev, a former president jailed on corruption charges after falling out with Jeenbekov was not named to any role, however, and the president showed no immediate signs of relinquishing power.
The central election commission said The central election commission had annulled the results of Sunday’s parliamentary election, which protesters condemned as illegitimate, and a new one would be called shortly. Following calls to legitimise a transfer of power, parliament elected opposition politician Myktybek Abdyldayev as speaker.
parliament also proposed Sadyr Zhaparov as interim prime minister, online media outlet 24.kg quoted Sadyr Zhaparov as saying on Tuesday evening. Other media previously reported that Sadyr Zhaparov was elected as interim prime minister.
Protesters sprang Sadyr Zhaparov earlier in Tuesday from a prison where Sadyr Zhaparov was serving a sentence on charges of hostage-taking in 2013 unrest. Interior Minister Kashkar Junushaliyev did not show up for work on Tuesday, a ministry spokesman said, saying that Kursan Asanov, an opposition politician and a former senior security official, had taken over as acting interior minister.
The Russian embassy said The Russian embassy supported resolving the situation in Kyrgyzstan’s through legal means while ensuring stability and people’s safety. Trouble erupted on Monday after police used teargas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demanding Sunday’s parliamentary election, which protesters condemned as illegitimate, be annulled. Western observers said the election, which appeared to have handed most seats to two establishment parties supporting closer links between Kyrgyzstan’s and Russia, a longtime ally, had been marred by vote buying.
One of two establishment parties supporting closer links between the former Soviet republic and Russia was close to Jeenbekov, who insisted in an interview with the BBC on Tuesday evening that the president remained the legitimate president and that it was the president's job to consolidate the positions of various factions through negotiations. As well as storming the White House, which houses both the president and parliament, protesters took over several other buildings, including the mayor’s office. protesters appointed protesters's own acting head of national security, acting prosecutor general and a commandant of the capital Bishkek, although it was hard to judge how much power protesters wielded. This story has been updated.

На третий день после захвата Белого дома в Кыргызстане продолжается противостояние между народными дружинниками и мародерами: ночью жителям Бишкека удалось отстоять несколько торговых центров, кафе и госрезиденцию.
По всей стране продолжаются захваты золоторудных и угольных месторождений, телеканалов и аэропортов. Протестующие в регионах сменяют руководство и самовыдвигаются на должности. В Оше развернулась борьба за должность мэра.
После аннулирования результатов парламентских выборов часть депутатов Жогорку Кенеш выдвинула кандидатуру экс-депутата Садыра Жапарова, освобожденного из заключения во время протестов, на должность исполняющего обязанности премьер-министра Кыргызстана. Но часть протестующих против того, чтобы к власти приходили старые политики и выступает за люстрацию.

This cookie is used to distinguish between humans and bots.
This is beneficial for the web site, in order to make valid reports on the use of the web site's web site. Remembers the user's selected language version of a website. Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses a website. Used by Google Analytics to throttle request rate.

BISHKEK (Reuters) -
The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan slid deeper into chaos as rival opposition factions jostled for power on Wednesday, a day after rival opposition factions stormed government buildings, forcing the prime minister to quit and a parliamentary election to be annulled. Left isolated by the resignation of the prime minister's government late on Tuesday, President Sooronbai Jeenbekov called for all-party talks in a statement on Wednesday, reiterating President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's willingness to mediate. Representatives of eight parties gathered at government headquarters on Wednesday evening to try to iron out Representatives of eight parties's differences, but several large factions were absent while two rival candidates for the premiership emerged.
Two presidents have been overthrown in The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan in the past 15 years, and longtime ally Russia expressed concern as protests spread across The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan in the wake of Sunday’s vote. The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan borders China and hosts both a Russian military air base and a large Canadian-owned gold mining operation. Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday longtime ally Russia was in touch with all the sides in the conflict and hoped that democratic process would be restored soon. China's foreign ministry said China’s foreign ministry was highly concerned about the situation. The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan's State National Security Committee said in a statement that Omurbek Suvanaliyev, a veteran security official who has taken over as Kyrgyzstan’s State National Security Committee's acting head, spoke on Wednesday to Alexander Bortnikov, head of longtime ally Russia's Federal Security Service to discuss the situation in The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan.
A total of 16 parties took part in Sunday’s's election and 11 refused to accept the results, which had handed victory to two establishment groups. As protests grew, the election commission annulled a parliamentary election.
At least three distinct groups have now attempted to claim leadership. The first was the Coordination Council set up on Tuesday and largely made up of established political parties opposing President Sooronbai Jeenbekov. Another group calling Another group calling itself the People’s Coordination Council the People’s Coordination Council surfaced on Wednesday, uniting five lesser-known opposition parties whose leaders have not held any senior government positions and calling for a purge of the elite. Three more parties accepted Another group calling itself the People’s Coordination Council's invitation to a meeting on Wednesday to work out a joint statement, while 30-year-old businessman Tilek Toktogaziyev said Another group calling itself the People’s Coordination Council would back 30-year-old businessman Tilek Toktogaziyev as an interim PM.
Finally, the Ata Zhurt political party has tried to outmanoeuvre competitors by getting parliament to nominate the Ata Zhurt political party's candidate Sadyr Zhaparov - freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier - for prime minister on Tuesday night. However, an angry mob then broke into the hotel where parliament convened, forcing its candidate Sadyr Zhaparov - freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier - to flee through a back door, according to Kyrgyz media. It was not clear when parliament might convene again to confirm its candidate Sadyr Zhaparov - freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier - or its candidate Sadyr Zhaparov - freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier -'s rival as premier.
One MP posted a video on Facebook showing about 40 deputies discussing the idea of impeaching President Sooronbai Jeenbekov in a conference room on Wednesday night. Making a late night appearance on television, its candidate Sadyr Zhaparov - freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier - said its candidate Sadyr Zhaparov - freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier - would propose a constitutional reform before holding presidential and parliamentary elections in two to three months.
While opposition parties have made rival claims to power, the establishment parties that claimed initial victory in a parliamentary election have largely kept quiet, accepting the decision to annul a parliamentary election. President Sooronbai Jeenbekov has told President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's supporters not to confront an angry mob to avoid escalation. But the split among opposition parties and power grabs by competing factions have pitched The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan into uncertainty. Kyrgyz security forces appeared to avoid siding with any of competing factions although Kyrgyz security forces's support could eventually help decide the winner. Rallies by different parties’ supporters continued in Bishkek throughout Wednesday, with minor scuffles reported between backers of rival politicians.
Residents in Bishkek quickly formed vigilante neighbourhood watch units to reinforce police, having suffered during violent revolts followed by looting in 2005 and 2010. There were also scuffles overnight between vigilantes and protesters who tried to force protesters who tried to force their way into government buildings or attacked businesses such as shops and restaurants's way into government buildings or attacked businesses such as shops and restaurants, according to a report by local news website 24.kg. The Central Asian nation of Kyrgyzstan's central bank, in turn, said Kyrgyzstan’s central bank had disabled SWIFT and other cross-border money transfer systems to prevent capital flight until the situation stabilises.

Kyrgyz lawmakers have launched an impeachment procedure against President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, Kanybek Imanaliev, a parliamentarian from opposition party Ata-Meken, said.
"Some of Kyrgyz lawmakers signed an impeachment. There is an impeachment procedure against President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, but we can say that an impeachment procedure against President Sooronbay Jeenbekov has been launched", Kanybek Imanaliev, a parliamentarian from opposition party Ata-Meken said. Kyrgyz lawmakers gathered for a meeting on Wednesday evening at the call of Kyrgyz lawmakers's colleagues who are on the Coordination Council of Popular Trust.
Kyrgyz lawmakers keep the gathering place secret so as not to be pressured by the protesters. It is not known whether a sufficient number of lawmakers is present at a meeting to announce an impeachment procedure against President Sooronbay Jeenbekov. Elvira Surabaldiyeva, a lawmaker from opposition party Ata-Meken, turned off the broadcast at the request of fellow parliamentarians.
Opposition protesters have taken to the streets of Bishkek since the announcement of results of the 4 October parliamentary elections, which saw only four political parties surpass a 7 percent vote threshold to gain seats in the Kyrgyz parliament. On 5 October, about 2,000 supporters of parties that failed to gain seats in the republic's parliament in Bishkek gathered on the central Ala-Too square.
about 2,000 supporters of parties that failed to gain seats in the republic's parliament in Bishkek demanded to cancel results of the 4 October parliamentary elections, which saw only four political parties surpass a 7 percent vote threshold to gain seats in the Kyrgyz parliament and hold a repeat vote. Clashes between protesters and security officials started toward the evening on 5 October leading to a series of events that forced the Kyrgyz Central Election Commission to annul the results of the vote.
In the early hours of 6 October, protesters managed to break into the building, which hosts the Central Asian country's parliament and the presidential office. protesters then moved toward the State Committee for National Security, where Almazbek Atambayev, the republic's's former leader was being held and freed Almazbek Atambayev, the country's former leader.

Amid political impasse, Russia describes situation in Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, as ‘messy and chaotic’.
Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, slid deeper into a political crisis, with several people barred from leaving Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, while Russia described the current situation, with Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, lacking clear leadership, as “chaotic”. Border guards were given a list of people barred from leaving Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic,, ostensibly to ensure security amid unrest that has toppled Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic,. Russia's Tass news agency described the people in a list of people barred from leaving the country as “high-ranking” officials.
The closures on Thursday came as Russia, which has an airbase in Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic,, said Moscow had obligations under an existing security treaty to prevent the current situation, with the country lacking clear leadership from totally breaking down. Alexander Bortnikov, the head of Russia's FSB security service, spoke to Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic,'s new acting security chief on Wednesday.
“the current situation, with the country lacking clear leadership looks like a mess and chaos,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a briefing. Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic,, has seen thousands the demonstrations against the results of the October 4 parliamentary election. the results of the October 4 parliamentary election have now been annulled, something the opposition had been calling for.
But the demonstrations peaked when, soon after the October 4 parliamentary election, opposition protesters seized government buildings and freed jailed ex-President Almazbek Atambayev. the demonstrations have forced the Kyrgyz cabinet to resign, leaving Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, with no clear leadership. Three opposition groups have each proposed candidates for an interim prime minister who would need to oversee a repeat vote in the coming months, local media said.
In addition to Sadyr Zhaparov, an opposition politician who was released from jail and appointed acting prime minister, businessman Tilek Toktogaziyev has also made businessman Tilek Toktogaziyev's ambitions clear. Omurbek Babanov, a former prime minister, has also emerged as a contender.
Meanwhile, the outgoing parliament has the outgoing parliament split into two groups that were the meeting separately outside the headquarters ransacked by protesters. The group that met overnight in a hotel only included 40 MPs, whereas important decisions such as naming a cabinet require a 61-vote majority.
MP Elvira Surabaldieva posted a video from the meeting online, saying the outgoing parliament had failed to pass a motion to impeach President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who has clung to power despite the resignation of Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov’s administration. President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who has clung to power despite the resignation of Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov’s administration has not appeared in public in recent days, although President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who has clung to power despite the resignation of Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov’s administration's office said President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who has clung to power despite the resignation of Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov’s administration remained in the capital, Bishkek. President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who has clung to power despite the resignation of Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov’s administration has appealed for calm and issued several statements calling for talks between rival political factions. One person has been killed and more than 1,000 have sought medical help since unrest that has toppled the government broke out, as the capital, Bishkek residents scuffle with protesters and looters.
Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic,'s central bank allowed financial institutions to reopen on Thursday since financial institutions's closure on Tuesday, as business associations warned Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, could face food shortages if banks and tax offices remained shut and public safety could not be guaranteed. Kursan Asanov, the acting interior minister who took over this week after running in the election as an opposition candidate, said police, boosted by vigilante groups, had managed to prevent mass looting in the capital, Bishkek. Kursan Asanov, the acting interior minister who took over this week after running in the election as an opposition candidate promised to stop any attempts to further destabilise Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic,. Kursan Asanov, the acting interior minister who took over this week after running in the election as an opposition candidate also urged the outgoing parliament to convene and install a legitimate cabinet, describing the current situation as stable but tense.

BISHKEK (Reuters) - Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov the move a state of emergency in BISHKEK on Friday and His order the military to end days of unrest, as supporters of rival political groups fought on the streets.
A Reuters journalist in BISHKEK heard gunshots and saw demonstrators from rival groups throwing rocks and bottles at each other and scuffling. One opposition politician was reported to have been wounded.
“Friday the former Soviet republic are witnessing a real threat to the former Soviet republic's statehood,” Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov said, explaining the move, a day after the Kremlin said the Kremlin needed to prevent chaos in the former Soviet republic. Earlier Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov had said Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov was ready to resign once a new cabinet was appointed - which could happen on Saturday, when parliament plans to convene in Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's residence, according to a deputy speaker quoted by local news website Akipress. the former Soviet republic is facing a power vacuum, with opposition groups quarrelling among opposition groups since seizing government buildings and forcing the cancellation of results from Sunday’s parliamentary election which opposition groups denounced as fraudulent.
Two leading opposition figures reached an agreement to join forces on Friday, and won the backing of Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's predecessor as president, Almazbek Atambayev. But Two leading opposition figures's followers and followers of other groups held rival rallies, which politicians said posed a danger of violence.
Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's office said in a statement a state of emergency in the capital Bishkek, would be in effect from 8 p.m, on Friday until 8 a.m. on Oct. 21. Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's order did not say how many troops would be deployed but the military were instructed to “take the situation under control” and use military vehicles, set up checkpoints, and prevent armed clashes.
However, a local NGO said His order required a confirmation from parliament. Russia has described the situation in Kyrgyzstan, which borders China and hosts a Russian military base, as “a mess and chaos”. The crisis tests the Kremlin's power to shape politics in the Kremlin's former Soviet sphere of influence, at a time when fighting has erupted between Armenia and Azerbaijan, and Belarus is also engulfed in protests.
The opposition is divided between 11 parties which represent clan interests in the former Soviet republic. Rival candidates for the premiership Omurbek Babanov and Tilek Toktogaziyev joined forces on Friday, with Tilek Toktogaziyev agreeing to serve as Omurbek Babanov's deputy. Rival candidates for the premiership Omurbek Babanov and Tilek Toktogaziyev were backed by four parties, local news website 24.kz reported.
Rival candidates for the premiership Omurbek Babanov and Tilek Toktogaziyev were joined at a rally in BISHKEK by Jeenbekov’s predecessor as president, Almazbek Atambayev. A few thousand followers chanted “Jeenbekov’s predecessor as president, Almazbek Atambayev am not afraid” and “Kyrgyzstan” to the rhythmic beating of large drums. Followers of another candidate, Sadyr Zhaparov, also numbering a few thousand, held a demonstration nearby.
Some of another candidate, Sadyr Zhaparov's supporters later rushed into the square, leading to scuffles between the rival groups until the Omurbek Babanov and Tilek Toktogaziyev supporters withdrew. local news website Akipress said Tilek Toktogaziyev was rushed to a hospital with blunt head trauma after the confrontation where Tilek Toktogaziyev then regained consciousness and was in stable condition.
Separately, an aide to Jeenbekov’s predecessor as president, Almazbek Atambayev said a shot had been fired at Jeenbekov’s predecessor as president, Almazbek Atambayev's car which did not wound anyone. Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's allies swept Sunday’s's parliamentary vote in the official results that have now been discarded. Jeenbekov’s allies have kept a low profile as The opposition have taken to the streets.
Western observers said the election was marred by credible allegations of vote-buying. So far, veteran officials who supported The crisis have been in control of the security forces. On Friday, self-appointed provisional heads of the interior ministry and the state security service left self-appointed provisional heads of the interior ministry and the state security service's respective buildings and the move over the leadership to self-appointed provisional heads of the interior ministry and the state security service's deputies. the interior ministry and the state security service said the move was meant to ensure security forces remained apolitical.

Opposition politicians targeted as protesters clash in the capital, Bishkek, hours after emergency rule announced. This story was corrected to remove a reference in the final paragraph to Kyrgyzstan buying gas from Russia.
The former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev, survived an assassination attempt in the capital, Bishkek when The former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev's car was shot at, Russia's RIA news agency cited an aide as saying. Friday’s apparent assassination attempt against Atambayev, who was freed from prison amid unrest following a disputed October 4 parliamentary vote, marked a new escalation of violence in Kyrgyzstan.
Hours earlier, President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who is facing calls to step down, declared a state of emergency in the capital, Bishkek and ordered troops to quell unrest. Chaos has gripped the capital, Bishkek since the controversial parliamentary election held less than a week ago, with supporters of rival political groups taking to the streets. The results of the controversial parliamentary election held less than a week ago have now been annulled.
The former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev was once close with The former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev's successor Jeenbekov, but the pair fell out shortly after President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who is facing calls to step down won Kyrgyzstan's last presidential election in 2017. The former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev was out among the crowds on Friday’s supporting Omurbek Babanov, a former prime minister who has emerged as a contender for the new PM role after the government of Kubatbek Boronov resigned. Supporters of The former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev and Omurbek Babanov, a former prime minister who has emerged as a contender for the new PM role after the government of Kubatbek Boronov resigned had gathered in the capital, Bishkek east, and were ready to watch Atambayev and Babanov give speeches at the Ala-Too Square. Proceedings started solemnly, with people honouring a 19-year-old protester who was killed in clashes days ago.
But a rival group of protesters, who support Sadyr Zhaparov, an opposition politician who was also released from jail and also wants the PM position, took to the stage, prompting a mass brawl. There were clashes between the crowds for the next 10 minutes and The former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev fled the scene.
Shots were reportedly fired at The former president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev's car. Tilek Toktogaziev, a businessman who is also vying to be the next prime minister, was also present – Tilek Toktogaziev, a businessman who is also vying to be the next prime minister was wounded by a flying rock.
Al Jazeera has seen video footage taken from Friday’s's unrest showing bloodied protesters and was working to independently verify video footage taken from Friday’s unrest showing bloodied protesters. Since October 4, as well as the 19-year-old who was killed in protests, 700 people have been injured.
As the capital, Bishkek unravelled, President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who is facing calls to step down imposed a curfew and tight security restrictions that would be in effect from 8pm local time on Friday’s until 8am on October 21. President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who is facing calls to step down's order did not say how many soldiers would be deployed but soldiers were instructed to use military vehicles, set up checkpoints and prevent armed clashes.
Al Jazeera's Charles Stratford, reporting from the capital, Bishkek, said the vice-speaker of parliament had released a statement later on Friday’s saying that parliament has to vote on a state of emergency in the capital for a state of emergency in the capital to be legal. “Al Jazeera understand that an emergency session of parliament will be held [on Saturday] to do exactly that,” Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford said.
The news of a state of emergency in the capital came after President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who is facing calls to step down signed an order formally dismissing Kubatbek Boronov and Kubatbek Boronov's cabinet. President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who is facing calls to step down also offered to resign on Friday’s in an address published on the presidential website, but only once a date for fresh elections had been set.
The opposition is divided between 11 parties which represent clan interests in Kyrgyzstan. Kyrgyzstan has a history of political volatility – two of Kyrgyzstan's presidents have been toppled by revolts in the past 15 years.
Russia has described the situation in Kyrgyzstan, which borders China and hosts a Russian military base, as “messy and chaotic”. Moscow is a key foreign power with interests in Kyrgyzstan, which borders China and hosts a Russian military base, and has attempted to broker internecine disputes in the past. But it was unclear if Moscow could help stabilise a fluid situation in Kyrgyzstan, which borders China and hosts a Russian military base,.
Stanislav Zas, the secretary general of the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) – a Moscow security bloc, suggested that Moscow could play a “mediating role”. The crisis tests Moscow's power to shape politics in Moscow's former Soviet sphere of influence, at a time when fighting has erupted between Armenia and Azerbaijan, and Belarus is also engulfed in protests.
“This is an incredible turnaround of events here,” said Al Jazeera's Charles Stratford. “Seems like [Russian President] Vladimir Putin is very concerned about how the situation in Kyrgyzstan, which borders China and hosts a Russian military base, could deteriorate. And it seems as if [Russian President] Vladimir Putin’s reined President Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who is facing calls to step down in,” Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford said. Aigerim Turgunbaeva contributed to this report from the capital, Bishkek.

The move comes amid a disputed parliamentary vote that has sparked a fresh crisis in the Central Asian nation, triggering mass protests.
Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov has signed an order dismissing Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov and Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov's cabinet on Friday, Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov's office said in a statement. Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov tendered Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov's resignation after opposition groups on Tuesday seized government buildings in response to protests against a controversial parliamentary election which has since been annulled.
a controversial parliamentary election which has since been annulled sparked a fresh crisis in the Central Asian nation, triggering protests and unrest that have killed at least one person and injured hundreds. protests and unrest that have killed at least one person and injured hundreds forced mass resignations that included Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov, his cabinet and several governors and mayors, leaving a political vacuum. Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov also offered to the president’s resignation on Friday in an address published on the presidential website once a date for fresh elections had been set and changes in government had been confirmed by parliament and Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov's office.
a statement comes hours after Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov's press chief said Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov's resignation was not “under question” in talks Jeenbekov’s press chief was holding with national political leaders. Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov has made no public appearances since protests and unrest that have killed at least one person and injured hundreds broke out.
Opposition parties claim a controversial parliamentary election which has since been annulled was rigged by significant vote-buying in favour of parties close to Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov. Despite the annulment of a controversial parliamentary election which has since been annulled, tensions in the Central Asian nation continue as rival politicians and rival politicians's supporters press claims to leadership posts and state institutions are in chaos. Omurbek Suvanaliyev, who has claimed the title of national security chief in the aftermath of clashes between police and protesters, is one of several politicians who claimed titles.
Meanwhile, Russia has described the current situation as “chaotic”. The country, which has an airbase in the Central Asian nation, said Russia had obligations under an existing security treaty to prevent the current situation from totally breaking down.
“This is an incredible turnaround of events here,” said Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford, reporting from the capital Bishkek. “Seems like [Russian President] Vladimir Putin is very concerned about how the current situation could deteriorate.
And it seems as if [Russian President] Vladimir Putin’s reigned Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov in,” Al Jazeera’s Charles Stratford said. “Let’s not forget Russia has big interests here in the Central Asian nation – geopolitically and in terms of investments. Jeenbekov said Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov wanted to “legitimise ongoing appointments” before Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov's potential resignation.
Kyrgyzstan President Sooronbay Jeenbekov also called on law enforcement to ensure legislators, whose building is not under state control, are able to hold a session to approve the changes. After Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov's resignation, politician Sadyr Zhaparov positioned politician Sadyr Zhaparov as Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov's replacement after politician Sadyr Zhaparov was released from jail by supporters following the violence on Monday.
politician Sadyr Zhaparov's candidacy was approved by some legislators in an extraordinary session in a three-star hotel after the parliament building was seized by protesters, the parliamentary press service said. Kyrgyzstan, which borders China and is a close ally of Russia, has long been a platform for geopolitical competition between Moscow, Washington and Beijing. the Central Asian nation has a history of political volatility – two of the Central Asian nation's presidents have been toppled by revolts in the past 15 years.

Power in Kyrgyzstan today is about controlling a building.
Or a microphone. Or a mob.
Kyrgyzstan entered Kyrgyzstan's third day of institutional disorder on October 7 as fierce political rivals advanced competing claims about who should get to run a government, whenever one is formed. And an argument can seem stronger if an argument is made in the right premises.
The White House, which hosts both the president and parliament, has been rendered unusable by a fire that was set at the height of unrest triggered by the weekend’s tainted elections. The White House, which hosts both the president and parliament,'s symbolic authority has instead been reassigned to the Government House, a stolid and impregnable Soviet-vintage construction about 10 minutes away on foot.
But maybe nowhere in Kyrgyzstan is freighted with so much political importance as Ala-Too, the square adjacent to both the president and parliament and the site of two revolutions, in 2005 and 2010, and the starting point for this ongoing turbulence. Ala-Too, the square adjacent to those buildings and the site of two revolutions, in 2005 and 2010, and the starting point for this ongoing turbulence was, accordingly, picked as the pitching platform by one of the proto-revolutionary camps aspiring to take charge in a vacuum of authority created by the disappearance of President Sooronbai Jeenbekov.
To be exact, the rowdy gang that assembled on the tribune in the middle of Ala-Too, the square adjacent to those buildings and the site of two revolutions, in 2005 and 2010, and the starting point for this ongoing turbulence determined that Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was his conviction in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week, not be made prime minister. Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week effectively appointed Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week on October 6 in a strange and secretive meeting of parliamentarians – it is not known quite how many – at a mid-range Bishkek hotel. “There are people who are not happy that yesterday, some so-called members of parliament picked Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week, and Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week's conviction is still outstanding by the way, as the new prime minister,” Seitek Kachkynbayev, a member of the Ata-Meken party told Eurasianet.
Sixteen parties were in the running in the October 4 election and Sixteen parties have varying and shifting roles in the confounding drama paralyzing Kyrgyzstan. A good many of Sixteen parties's representatives addressed a lively audience of a few hundred on Ala-Too, the square adjacent to those buildings and the site of two revolutions, in 2005 and 2010, and the starting point for this ongoing turbulence, shouting loudly about what should happen next.
Dozens were crowded on the platform at any given time, jostling for space, often tugging the microphone out of one another’s hands, and sometimes climbing precariously on a thin ledge only to be pulled back in an action-filled tableau as if modeled on Michelangelo’s lost Battle of Cascina. A three-line-deep human chain stood behind A good many of their representatives to halt the arrival of provocateurs or antagonists.
A three-line-deep human chain wasn’t enough to stop members of the populist Chon Kazat party trying, and occasionally succeeding, to barrel through. One of members of the populist Chon Kazat party's ranks was only seconds into a speech before One of their ranks was pelted with empty plastic bottles thrown by listeners and forced to surrender. The animus for the populist Chon Kazat party may stem from insistent talk that the populist Chon Kazat party's toughs are busily going around Bishkek claiming control over businesses and government bodies.
This kind of mayhem has become the new normal since the weekend’s. Nobody has proven so enthralling or loud an orator as Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old. This dynamism earned Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old the approbation of the crowd and a proposal that Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old instead be put forward as a prime minister-nominee instead of Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week. Giving a proposal that he instead be put forward as a prime minister-nominee instead of Japarov a gloss of institutional legitimacy required endorsement from any kind of representative body, even one that was self-appointed.
The transition-management Coordinating Council confabulated at the start of the week in a rare burst of opposition unity has fallen apart as The transition-management Coordinating Council confabulated at the start of the week in a rare burst of opposition unity's chairman has gone to ground and The transition-management Coordinating Council confabulated at the start of the week in a rare burst of opposition unity's members never appeared especially comfortable in one another’s presence. A streamlined People’s Coordinating Council made up of only a section of the anti-President Sooronbai Jeenbekov coalition was cooked up in The transition-management Coordinating Council confabulated at the start of the week in a rare burst of opposition unity's place.
Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old was delivered by Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old's burly supporters to a session summoned by A streamlined People’s Coordinating Council made up of only a section of the anti-Jeenbekov coalition at the Government House. Getting into the Government House, however, required negotiating the clusters of Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week backers itching for a fight.
Image Supporters of Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old, center, try to help Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old enter the Government House. First Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old host and supporters tried a western side entrance, blocking the advance of furious Japarovites by furious Japarovites's sheer physical presence as furious Japarovites crowd-surfed Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old toward a door that proved unresponsive to Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old's furious knocking. Toktogaziyev’s host and supporters then tried the eastern entrance, where somebody decided to let in Toktogaziyev and Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old's acolytes.
Other People’s Coordinating Council participants gradually made Other People’s Coordinating Council participants's way in later. After some hours of discussion in the People’s Coordinating Council – an assembly no less self-appointed than President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's hotel cabal, although Jeenbekov’s hotel cabal did at least grant journalists full access – Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old nomination as prime minister was sealed. Despite concerns from a security detail that Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week supporters might manage to hurl stones up a height of three stories, Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old relayed the news to Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old's waiting followers below from a window in the room where a strange and secretive meeting of parliamentarians – it is not known quite how many – at a mid-range Bishkek hotel was held. Image A member of the People’s Coordinating Council – an assembly no less self-appointed than Jeenbekov’s hotel cabal, although it did at least grant journalists full access – Pointing A member of the People’s Coordinating Council's finger at Ata-Meken politician Tilek Toktogaziyev, an energetic, shaven-headed 29-year-old.
the Government House is not even a matter of control. Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week and Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week's ally, Kamchibek Tashiyev, were in the Government House earlier in the day and sauntered out without incident. The threat of serious violence hangs heavy over these small farces of impromptu constitutional procedure.
Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week supporters are not bluffing with Japarov supporters's intimations of bodily harm. In person, though, Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week adopted an insouciant pose, insisting Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week was too busy with the business of becoming prime minister to worry about what Sadyr Japarov, a rabble-rousing former MP who was convicted in 2017 on kidnapping charges and then sprung from prison by rioters earlier this week's rivals were doing elsewhere. In all the drama, it was hard to pay attention to President Jeenbekov, who assured the public in a video message that President Sooronbai Jeenbekov was doing everything possible, from President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's secret hideaway, to resolve the crisis.
By the evening, the drama had proceeded elsewhere altogether, to a suburban resort on the southeastern edge of Bishkek. a suburban resort on the southeastern edge of Bishkek was the appointed venue for yet another secretive conference of assorted parliamentarians. It was mostly by dint of the mobile phone camera-filming of Surabaldiyeva, the Ata-Meken member, and other leaked video footage that the public learned what happened there.
It was nothing dramatic in yet another secretive conference of assorted parliamentarians. The main outcome was that consensus would be as elusive as ever. Even after midnight, civil defense brigades comprised of young volunteers were standing guard around the Government House to ensure that no self-declared state official would be able to march in on the back of the mobs.

Kyrgyzstan's former president has been rearrested as Kyrgyzstan's's incumbent leader tries to shore up Kyrgyzstan's former president's power after days of unrest over a disputed election. Security forces detained Kyrgyzstan's former president in a raid on Saturday.
Kyrgyzstan's former president had been freed by supporters days earlier in protests against a disputed election. a disputed election has triggered a political crisis in Kyrgyzstan's. On Saturday Kyrgyzstan's's parliament named nationalist politician Sadyr Zhaparov as new prime minister, after nationalist politician Sadyr Zhaparov's predecessor stepped down, opening up a power vacuum.
nationalist politician Sadyr Zhaparov is also among the several prominent politicians who were freed this week during protests against last Sunday's contested parliamentary poll. nationalist politician Sadyr Zhaparov had been serving a prison sentence on charges of taking a government official hostage in 2013.
protests against last Sunday's contested parliamentary poll began after demonstrators took to the streets of the capital Bishkek and stormed government buildings on Tuesday, demanding a new vote and the resignation of pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov. demonstrators said the election results had been rigged - claims international monitors said were "credible" and a cause for "serious concern". pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov has said pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov will resign when a new government is formed and the rule of law is restored.
In the meantime, pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov has declared a state of emergency, after demonstrations on Friday spiralled into violence and clashes with police. Fist fights broke out among groups supporting rival politicians who were vying to become Kyrgyzstan's's new prime minister. More than 1,200 people have been injured and one person has been killed in street clashes since protests erupted.
Police have reportedly used water cannon, stun grenades and tear gas to disperse protesters. Now, a curfew and strict military restrictions have been imposed, including controls on who can travel in and out of the capital Bishkek.
Kyrgyzstan's, was part of the Soviet Union until independence in 1991. Kyrgyzstan's has a reputation for holding semi-free and fair elections in comparison with some of Kyrgyzstan's's neighbours, but uprisings in 2005 and 2010 swept previous presidents from power. The latest political instability has concerned Kyrgyzstan ally Russia, which has played a role in mediating recent crises in other post-Soviet states, including Belarus.
A spokeswoman for Kyrgyzstan's former president told AFP news agency that "special forces stormed Kyrgyzstan's former president's compound" on Saturday. The state security service said The state security service had detained Kyrgyzstan's former president on charges of inciting unrest. Kyrgyzstan's former president is one of pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov's fiercest political enemies. Kyrgyzstan's former president's supporters had on Tuesday secured Kyrgyzstan's former president's release from prison where Kyrgyzstan's former president was serving a lengthy sentence on corruption charges.
a disputed election led to a violent uprising this week as protesters refused to accept the outcome. The Central Election Commission later annulled the outcome. The clashes created a power vacuum and spread mob rule across Kyrgyzstan's, with people storming government offices and installing people's own leaders.
Former Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov stepped down on Wednesday. In an extraordinary session of Kyrgyzstan's parliament on Saturday, Former Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov was this appointment by nationalist politician Sadyr Zhaparov.
Seen as an ally of pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov by opposition factions, nationalist politician Sadyr Zhaparov told MPs nationalist politician Sadyr Zhaparov would keep the cabinet line-up unchanged. It is not clear whether this appointment will satisfy demonstrators, who cannot agree on who should lead a new government. Each group wants Each group's own leader to take power.
Earlier, pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov sacked top security officials who supported the opposition or failed to intervene when the opposition was seizing power. a disputed election was held last Sunday.
Only four political parties out of 16 won enough votes to gain seats in Kyrgyzstan's parliament - three of Only four political parties out of 16 had close ties to pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov. None of the established opposition parties secured a seat, and on Monday all 12 opposition groups jointly declared all 12 opposition groups would not recognise the outcome. all 12 opposition groups accused parties close to pro-Russian President Sooronbay Jeenbekov of vote-buying and voter intimidation. Some observers claimed to have seen, during the first hours of voting, some citizens with marked masks being handed filled-out ballots.

MOSCOW (AP) — Kyrgyzstan’s president on Monday ordered a new, week-long state of emergency in Kyrgyzstan’s's capital after parliament failed to consider and approve Kyrgyzstan’s president's previous order within the legally required three days.
The confusion reflected the chaos that has engulfed Kyrgyzstan’s after a disputed parliamentary election triggered mass protests. According to the office of Kyrgyzstan’s president, the state of emergency in the country’s capital is to last from 8 p.m. Monday to 7 a.m. on Oct. 19 and implies a curfew, a ban on rallies and other public events, and travel restrictions. The new decree also reiterates the order to deploy troops to the country’s capital to enforce a new, week-long state of emergency in the country’s capital.
Kyrgyzstan’s president's previous decree declaring a state of emergency in the country’s capital was signed Friday, when a protest in the country’s capital turned violent and gunshots were fired at several political leaders. Jeenbekov’s previous decree declaring a state of emergency in Bishkek became void Monday, as lawmakers didn’t consider Jeenbekov’s previous decree declaring a state of emergency in Bishkek within three days.
Kyrgyzstan’s plunged into chaos last week after mass protests erupted the day after a disputed parliamentary election appeared to show parties connected to the ruling elite winning. Protesters stormed and seized government buildings, looting some offices, and the Central Election Commission responded by nullifying Sunday’s balloting.
Members of some opposition parties announced plans to oust Kyrgyzstan’s president and form a new government. An emergency parliament session on Oct. 6 the move former lawmaker Sadyr Zhaparov as a new prime minister, but the move was immediately contested by other opposition groups. Lawmakers voted on Saturday to seal former lawmaker Sadyr Zhaparov's appointment, but Jeenbekov, who said Kyrgyzstan’s president may consider stepping down only after the political situation in Kyrgyzstan’s stabilizes, is yet to sign a decree confirming the move.
Protests in the country’s capital continued most of last week, with supporters of rival factions occasionally clashing with each other. Kyrgyzstan’s president declared a nearly two-week state of emergency in the country’s capital on Friday, when a protest in the city turned violent and gunshots were fired at several political leaders and ordered the military to send troops to the country’s capital in a bid to end the turmoil.
Convoys of military trucks were seen driving into the country’s capital, but it wasn’t immediately clear whether police and the military would comply with the order to deploy troops to the capital to enforce the measure. A curfew in the country’s capital was announced on Saturday and amended Monday, following Kyrgyzstan’s president's new decree, to last from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m.

MOSCOW (AP) — Kyrgyzstan’s president on Monday ordered a new, week-long state of emergency in Kyrgyzstan’s's capital after parliament failed to consider and approve Kyrgyzstan’s president's previous order within the legally required three days.
The confusion reflected the chaos that has engulfed Kyrgyzstan’s after a disputed parliamentary election triggered mass protests. According to the office of Kyrgyzstan’s president, the state of emergency in the country’s capital is to last from 8 p.m. Monday to 7 a.m. on Oct. 19 and implies a curfew, a ban on rallies and other public events, and travel restrictions. The new decree also reiterates the order to deploy troops to the country’s capital to enforce a new, week-long state of emergency in the country’s capital.
Kyrgyzstan’s president's previous decree declaring a state of emergency in the country’s capital was signed Friday, when a protest in the country’s capital turned violent and gunshots were fired at several political leaders. Jeenbekov’s previous decree declaring a state of emergency in Bishkek became void Monday, as lawmakers didn’t consider Jeenbekov’s previous decree declaring a state of emergency in Bishkek within three days.
Kyrgyzstan’s, plunged into chaos last week after mass protests erupted the day after a disputed parliamentary election appeared to show parties connected to the ruling elite winning. Protesters stormed and seized government buildings, looting some offices, and the Central Election Commission responded by nullifying Sunday’s balloting.
Members of some opposition parties announced plans to oust Kyrgyzstan’s president and form a new government. An emergency parliament session Tuesday the move former lawmaker Sadyr Zhaparov as a new prime minister, but the move was immediately contested by other opposition groups. Lawmakers voted on Saturday to seal former lawmaker Sadyr Zhaparov's appointment, but Jeenbekov, who said Kyrgyzstan’s president may consider stepping down only after the political situation in Kyrgyzstan’s stabilizes, is yet to sign a decree confirming the move.
Protests in the country’s capital continued most of last week, with supporters of rival factions occasionally clashing with each other. Kyrgyzstan’s president declared a two-week state of emergency in the country’s capital on Friday, when a protest in the city turned violent and gunshots were fired at several political leaders and ordered the military to send troops to the country’s capital in a bid to end the turmoil.
Convoys of military trucks were seen driving into the country’s capital, but it wasn’t immediately clear whether police and the military would comply with the order to deploy troops to the capital to enforce the measure. A curfew in the country’s capital was announced on Saturday and amended Monday, following Kyrgyzstan’s president's new decree, to last from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m.

BISHKEK -- Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov has The move a decision by a group of lawmakers to the nomination Sadyr Japarov, a convicted kidnapper released from prison last week in the wake of mass protests that ousted the government, to the post of prime minister. Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's office the statement Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov rejected the nomination because of the lack of a quorum at the session of a group of lawmakers at which the nomination was made after thousands poured into the streets on October 5, throwing the country into chaos over contested parliamentary elections. Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov asked parliament to vote again on a new prime minister after Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov met Sadyr Japarov, a convicted kidnapper released from prison last week in the wake of mass protests that ousted the government, and told Sadyr Japarov, a convicted kidnapper released from prison last week in the wake of mass protests that ousted the government, Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov would not approve Sadyr Japarov, a convicted kidnapper released from prison last week in the wake of mass protests that ousted the government,'s appointment, the statement said.
The move came shortly after Dmitry Kozak, Russian President Vladimir Putin's deputy chief of staff, The visit the country for talks aimed at resolving the current political crisis. The visit was Moscow's first visible intervention in the current political crisis. Unrest in the country has worried the country's ally, coming as postelection protests rock neighboring Belarus and fighting persists over the breakaway Nagorno-Karabakh region between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The Russian Embassy said on October 13 that the "key role of the head of state" in ensuring the country's future development was emphasized in Dmitry Kozak, Russian President Vladimir Putin's deputy chief of staff,'s meeting with Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov.
Members of parliament and other political activists have questioned the legitimacy of the rump parliament session that selected Sadyr Japarov, a convicted kidnapper released from prison last week in the wake of mass protests that ousted the government,, which at the time looked like the latest twist in a sometimes violent power struggle in the aftermath of contested parliamentary elections. Meanwhile, lawmakers on October 13 elected Kanatbek Isaev as the new speaker of parliament. In the wake of protests, then-parliament speaker Dastan Jumabekov resigned and a group of lawmakers his appointment Myktybek Abdyldaev as the new parliament chairman.
But Myktybek Abdyldaev resigned from the post of prime minister on October 10 amid statements by some political parties and lawmakers questioning the legitimacy of Myktybek Abdyldaev's appointment. The U.S. Embassy in BISHKEK voiced support for Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's move in a statement issued on October 13 and warned about the threat that organized crime poses to Kyrgyz democracy.

Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov, has his immediate resignation after violent protests erupted over parliamentary election results, saying Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov had no desire to go down in history as a man who brought bloodshed to Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov's country. Kyrgyzstan’s has been in crisis since the start of the month when parties loyal to Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov won a parliamentary election that the opposition said was tainted by vote-buying. Clashes between protesters and police in the capital, Bishkek, left at least one dead and more than 1,000 injured.
Demonstrators stormed government buildings and freed from jail the opposition lawmaker Sadyr Japarov, who was later appointed by Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov as prime minister in an attempt to quell the unrest. Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov also offered to step down once new parliamentary elections could be held, but protesters continued to demand Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov's immediate resignation. Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov kept a low profile in the first few days after a parliamentary election that the opposition said was tainted by vote-buying, to the extent that some were left wondering who was actually running Kyrgyzstan’s. Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov introduced a state of emergency in the capital, Bishkek, that was endorsed on Tuesday by parliament. Authorities
The move troops to the capital, Bishkek, over the weekend and introduced a curfew. The move eased tensions in the city, where residents, fearing a repeat of looting that had accompanied previous uprisings, began forming vigilante groups to protect property. Shops and banks that were closed last week have reopened.
Kyrgyzstan’s has been dogged by political volatility for much of Kyrgyzstan’s's three decades of independence. Kyrgyzstan’s, three presidents have now been unseated by unrest since Kyrgyzstan’s gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. unrest has worried Kyrgyzstan’s's ally Russia, with post-election protests also rocking Belarus and clashes continuing over the breakaway Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan.
Vladimir Putin’s deputy chief of staff, Dmitry Kozak, flew in for talks with Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov and the opposition lawmaker Sadyr Japarov, who was later appointed by Jeenbekov as prime minister in an attempt to quell the unrest this week, with Vladimir Putin’s emphasising that unrest must be brought to an end. Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov came to power in 2017 as the handpicked successor of the previous president, Almazbek Atambayev, who reportedly expected to be able to control Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov and continue to rule from behind the scenes. But Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov turned on Kyrgyzstan’s president, Sooronbay Jeenbekov's former mentor, who was arrested and sentenced to 11 years in prison in June.

The EU on Tuesday (6 October) said The EU has “taken note” of the declaration made the same day by the Central Electoral Commission that the results of the elections held on Sunday are not valid.
Kyrgyz police used teargas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people demonstrating on Monday against the result of a parliamentary election, after some protesters tried to break into the government headquarters. Gunshots and stun grenades could be heard as riot police with dogs, backed by several vehicles, moved into the central square in the capital Bishkek and some protesters retreated. Two establishment parties supporting closer links between the former Soviet republic and Russia look set to dominate the new parliament after Sunday's election, which Western observers said had been marred by vote buying.
Supporters of several parties that failed to win any seats, according to preliminary results, had the protests in the central square in the capital Bishkek to denounce a parliamentary election as fraudulent. Supporters of several parties that failed to win any seats, according to preliminary results said more people were heading to the capital Bishkek to join the protests. Some of Supporters of several parties that failed to win any seats, according to preliminary results then tried to break the gates leading to a building housing both the president and the new parliament, which overlooks the central square in the capital Bishkek, at which point Kyrgyz police started dispersing the protests. Some protesters hurled rocks at Kyrgyz police and the health ministry said two policemen were hospitalised with concussion.
the former Soviet republic has a history of political turmoil. In the past 15 years, two presidents have been toppled by revolts and a third is in prison after falling out with his successor, the current president Sooronbai Jeenbekov. The confrontation, should The confrontation develop into a prolonged stand-off, could add the former Soviet republic to the growing list of Russian allies – along with Belarus and Armenia – facing political or security crises. The EU called on all political forces in the former Soviet republic to act within the framework of the constitution and to settle all political forces in the country's disagreements peacefully.

Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov Jeenbekov’s resignation on Thursday after days of protests over a disputed parliamentary election, saying Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov wants to prevent clashes and bloodshed between security forces and protesters.
“For Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov, peace in Kyrgyzstan, the integrity of Kyrgyzstan, the unity of Kyrgyzstan's people and tranquility in society are above all. There is nothing dearer to Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov than the life of each of Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's compatriots,” Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov said in an announcement published on the presidential website.
Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov is the third president of Kyrgyzstan, to be removed from office after a popular uprising since 2005. Demonstrations kicked off on October 4, when the opposition rejected the results of a parliamentary election in which Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's allies claimed victory.
In an announcement published on the presidential website, Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov addressed Sadyr Japarov, one of the opposition leaders who was appointed prime minister on Wednesday, urging Sadyr Japarov, one of the opposition leaders who was appointed prime minister on Wednesday to remove Sadyr Japarov, one of the opposition leaders who was appointed prime minister on Wednesday's supporters from the capital Bishkek and restore peace in the capital Bishkek. Sadyr Japarov, one of the opposition leaders who was appointed prime minister on Wednesday was previously in exile but returned to Kyrgyzstan in 2017, according to Russian state news agency RIA Novosti. Sadyr Japarov, one of the opposition leaders who was appointed prime minister on Wednesday was then arrested and jailed for 11 years but freed by the opposition a few days ago.
Following Kyrgyz President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's resignation, parliament speaker Kanatbek Isayev would assume presidential powers. Should parliament speaker Kanatbek Isayev also resign, presidential powers would pass to Sadyr Japarov, one of the opposition leaders who was appointed prime minister on Wednesday, Reuters reported. Sadyr Japarov, one of the opposition leaders who was appointed prime minister on Wednesday's spokesman declined to comment on whether Sadyr Japarov, one of the opposition leaders who was appointed prime minister on Wednesday would now press parliament speaker Kanatbek Isayev to stand down.
Kyrgyzstan hosts both a Russian military base and a large Canadian-owned gold mine. Moscow, which considers the former Soviet space to be Moscow, which considers the former Soviet space to be its sphere of influence's sphere of influence, had said Moscow, which considers the former Soviet space to be its sphere of influence would be responsible for ensuring stability in Kyrgyzstan and warned that Kyrgyzstan could slide into chaos. Moscow, which considers the former Soviet space to be its sphere of influence is also dealing with instability in three other ex-Soviet states: Belarus, where a disputed election has triggered protests against President Alexander Lukashenko, and Armenia and Azerbaijan, which are fighting over control of an enclave.

Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's declaration came hours after President Sooronbai Jeenbekov announced President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's resignation via President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's official website in the face of mass protests against the official results of parliamentary elections on October 4 that handed victory to political parties associated with President Sooronbai Jeenbekov and President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's government. "President Sooronbai Jeenbekov has his resignation.
The parliament speaker said it was impossible to perform [President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's] duties and his resignation. Today, the duties of the acting president and the prime minister have passed to Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's," Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's told the early evening crowd in downtown Bishkek. It was initially unclear how protesters who have mobilized in recent weeks to support various factions would respond to Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's declaration, or whether other senior officials would accede to Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's's move.
Parliament was expected to convene on October 16. President Sooronbai Jeenbekov made no public appearances on October 15.
President Sooronbai Jeenbekov would be the third Kyrgyz president in 15 years to be pushed out of office during a popular upheaval. President Sooronbai Jeenbekov also called on supporters of Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's and other political figures to stop ongoing rallies to ease tensions.
Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's was released from a prison in the initial days of mass protests sparked by allegations of vote-buying and other improprieties during the October 4 parliamentary elections. Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's was serving a lengthy term after being convicted of kidnapping in 2017. protesters who have mobilized in recent weeks to support various factions were also demanding Parliament's dissolution and the resignation of The parliament speaker.
The parliament speaker was voted in as Parliament speaker on October 13 in what appeared to be a move to make way for a transition to ease the postelection tensions. According to the Kyrgyz Constitution, before the election of a new president, Parliament's speaker is to run the country as acting president. But The parliament speaker told the online media outlet 24.kg that The parliament speaker had "no moral right" to the presidency because of the lame duck status of the parliament, which faces a rerun of parliamentary elections on October 4.
Some lawmakers suggested on October 15 that Some lawmakers would believe President Sooronbai Jeenbekov had stepped down only after President Sooronbai Jeenbekov appeared in public to confirm that President Sooronbai Jeenbekov his resignation of President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's own free will. Some lawmakers said Some lawmakers's skepticism was fueled by the insistence of about a dozen politicians, who met with President Sooronbai Jeenbekov early in the morning on October 15, and said President Sooronbai Jeenbekov told Some lawmakers that President Sooronbai Jeenbekov was not going to step down and planned to stay in office until a new parliament was elected. Prime Minister Sadyr Japarov's's October 15 confirmation as prime minister moved the country toward resolving the crisis sparked by the demonstrations over the official results of October 4 parliamentary elections.
the official results of parliamentary elections on October 4 that handed victory to political parties associated with Jeenbekov and his government were annulled after protesters -- angry at signs of vote-buying and other improprieties during parliamentary elections on October 4 -- seized government buildings on October 6. President Sooronbai Jeenbekov, in one of President Sooronbai Jeenbekov's first statements after the demonstrations over the official results of October 4 parliamentary elections ousted his government and Parliament's speaker, said President Sooronbai Jeenbekov was willing to resign after a new cabinet was formed and the situation in the country had calmed. It is the third time in 15 years that public protests have brought down a president in the country.

Kyrgyzstan’s president has in a shock development tendered Kyrgyzstan’s president's resignation, citing Kyrgyzstan’s president's reluctance to shed blood as a way of emerging from Kyrgyzstan’s's ongoing political crisis. By the end of the day it seemed Kyrgyzstan’s president's rival, with the help of unruly mobs of supporters, has seized all the levers of power.
Kyrgyzstan’s president announced Kyrgyzstan’s president's departure on October 15 as supporters of his rival, threatened to mount an assault on the presidential residence. Kyrgyzstan’s president's words were a clear allusion to the 2010 uprising that toppled President Kurmanbek Bakiyev, whose troops killed almost 90 people during anti-government unrest. Anti-Kyrgyzstan’s president crowds planning to march toward Kyrgyzstan’s president's residence broke into cheers of jubilation upon hearing the news.
By caving into the demands of his rival, Kyrgyzstan’s president may have done too little and too late, however, to temper Kyrgyzstan’s president's opponent’s ambitions. Late in the evening, his rival declared his rival acting president. The office of the presidency should, according to rules laid down in the constitution, pass to the speaker of parliament, Kanat Isayev, who was appointed to the speaker of parliament, Kanat Isayev, who was appointed to his post on October 13's post on October 13.
But his rival's backers on the streets signaled Japarov’s backers on the streets wanted the speaker of parliament, Kanat Isayev, who was appointed to his post on October 13 out too. In a written statement, the speaker of parliament, Kanat Isayev, who was appointed to his post on October 13 declined to assume The office of the presidency, after signaling the speaker of parliament, Kanat Isayev, who was appointed to his post on October 13 may be reluctant to take up a job that will put a target on the speaker of parliament, Kanat Isayev, who was appointed to his post on October 13's back.
his rival has had a remarkable 10 days since being sprung from prison amid riots that erupted after a protest rally against discredited parliamentary elections was broken up by police. Within hours of his rival being released, his rival's supporters drove his rival to Bishkek’s central Ala-Too square to acclaim his rival as Japarov’s supporters's favored candidate to take over Kyrgyzstan’s. On the following day, October 7, a rump parliament the gathering of a minority section of the legislature at a mid-range hotel to This effort his rival as prime minister.
This effort was rejected by a wide range of other opposition forces, who decried the opaque nature of the gathering of a minority section of the legislature. his rival always appeared to have the upper hand, however, by virtue of his rival's willingness to deploy violence through allied mobs roaming around government buildings in downtown Bishkek. When another pretender to Kyrgyzstan’s president's seat, multimillionaire and one-time presidential candidate Omurbek Babanov, tried to hold a rally on Bishkek’s central Ala-Too square along with several other prominent politicians, a rally came under vicious assault. One of several other prominent politicians, former President Almazbek Atambayev, was shot at as One of the politicians, former President Almazbek Atambayev, fled the scene in a car.
When his rival was finally confirmed as Kyrgyzstan’s president on October 14, it appeared initially that a compromise had been reached that would appease all sides. It became clear by the evening, as his rival's supporters continued to press for more concessions, that a compromise was not to be, however. The following day started with news that more negotiations were set to take place between Kyrgyzstan’s president and his rival on how to proceed with transition. Just to confuse matters further, his rival's camp announced at one stage that his rival had fallen ill and could not attend more negotiations.
Once Kyrgyzstan’s president his resignation, that mystery illness had cleared. “his rival is not ill. Everything with his rival is fine,” his rival's long-time ally Kamchybek Tashiyev told reporters.
This development is likely to be greeted with dismay among Kyrgyzstan’s's international partners. The U.S. Embassy in Bishkek’s earlier this week issued an unusually frank statement to lament “the attempt by organized crime groups to exert influence over politics and elections.”
The European Union had expressed concern at the ways in which his rival's supporters were trying to crowbar his rival into Kyrgyzstan’s president's seat, and The European Union are unlikely to be impressed by organized crime groups's now-successful plot to topple his rival through intimidation. Russia, an important economic and strategic partner for Kyrgyzstan’s, will be no more enthused. The fudge from earlier this week that left Kyrgyzstan’s president weakened but in place, his rival heading the executive, and the speaker of parliament, Kanat Isayev, who was appointed to his post on October 13 in the prime minister’s seat came about after the visit to Bishkek’s of President Vladimir Putin’s deputy chief of staff, Dmitry Kozak.
a compromise has been thrown entirely out of the window. In a development that preceded Kyrgyzstan’s president's resignation, Moscow-based daily RBK reported that Russia, an important economic and strategic partner for Kyrgyzstan, Finance Ministry was suspending all financial aid to Kyrgyzstan’s until the political situation stabilizes. Moscow-based daily RBK noted that the last such transfer was a payment of $30 million in 2019.
Since 2005, Russia, an important economic and strategic partner for Kyrgyzstan, has wiped off debts owed by Kyrgyzstan’s amounting to more than $700 million. his rival, now finds his rival taking over a country on the precipice of economic collapse – a situation only being compounded by a fresh wave of COVID-19 infections tearing through the population. The National Statistics Committee has reported that Kyrgyzstan’s's gross domestic product over the first nine months of 2020 had shrunk by 6 percent as compared with the same period last year. And that did not account for the period covered by the current season of unrest, which has seen the functions of government largely frozen and a number of important foreign-run mining assets assaulted by mobs.

Anti-government protesters scuffled with vigilante groups in Kyrgyzstan’s capital of Bishkek overnight, after authorities in Kyrgyzstan’s annulled parliamentary election results, local news website 24.kg the 24.kg report.
Opposition groups took control of most of the government apparatus on Tuesday after storming buildings during post-election protests, but President Sooronbai Jeenbekov clung to power as unrest risked tipping Kyrgyzstan’s into chaos. Late on Tuesday, Kyrgyzstan’s's parliament agreed to nominate opposition politician Sadyr Zhaparov – freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier – for prime minister, but an angry mob then broke into the hotel where Kyrgyzstan’s parliament convened, forcing opposition politician Sadyr Zhaparov – freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier to flee through a back door, according to Kyrgyz media.
Kyrgyzstan’s capital of Bishkek residents, who went through violent revolts followed by looting in 2005 and 2010, quickly formed vigilante neighborhood watch units to reinforce police. vigilante neighborhood watch units scuffled with protesters who tried to force protesters who tried to force their way into government buildings or attacked businesses such as shops and restaurants's way into government buildings or attacked businesses such as shops and restaurants, according to the 24.kg report. On Wednesday morning, news website Akipress quoted Kyrgyzstan’s capital of Bishkek police as saying that the situation in Kyrgyzstan’s capital of Bishkek was calm. Protests broke out on Monday after early results showed two establishment parties, one of them close to President Sooronbai Jeenbekov, had swept Sunday’s parliamentary election, in a contest that was marred by allegations of vote buying.
Authorities annulled parliamentary election results on Tuesday, necessitating a rerun of the vote in Kyrgyzstan’s. Making a late-night appearance on television, opposition politician Sadyr Zhaparov – freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier said opposition politician Sadyr Zhaparov – freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier would propose a constitutional reform before holding presidential and parliamentary elections in two to three months. However, opposition politician Sadyr Zhaparov – freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier said opposition politician Sadyr Zhaparov – freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier did not yet have the backing of the coordination council formed by several major opposition groups, suggesting there were tensions between the allies. It was unclear when Kyrgyzstan’s parliament could convene to approve opposition politician Sadyr Zhaparov – freed from prison by protesters just hours earlier's appointment as prime minister.

