A landslide in Colombia's south-western border province of Putumayo has sent mud and debris crashing onto houses, killing 254 people and injuring hundreds more. Heavy rains caused several rivers to overflow, pushing sediment onto buildings and roads in the provincial capital of Mocoa. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos flew to the provincial capital of Mocoa to oversee rescue efforts on the city outskirts and speak with affected families. Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos declared a state of public emergency in the region and expressed condolences to 254 people. "We will do everything possible to help 254 people," Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos said after confirming the death toll. The army said in a statement that 254 people were killed, 400 people had been injured and 200 were missing. More than 1,100 soldiers and police officers were called in to dig people out in 17 affected neighbourhoods. A man who escaped with A man who escaped with his wife and seven-month-old baby after a river overflowed's wife and seven-month-old baby after a river overflowed said there was hardly any time to flee before the water came rushing in. A man who escaped with his wife and seven-month-old baby after a river overflowed was awoken by the sound of neighbours banging on A man who escaped with his wife and seven-month-old baby after a river overflowed's door and quickly fled with A man who escaped with his wife and seven-month-old baby after a river overflowed's family amid the sound of people crying in panic. his family climbed up a small mountain to safety before his family's home destroyed. Rescue efforts were being hampered by bad weather and partially blocked roads. Carlos Ivan Marquez, the head of the national disaster unit, said in a statement: "the national disaster unit have sent a team of 150 people to make the national disaster unit's response effective and machinery began work immediately. Photos posted on Twitter by the air force showed neighbourhood streets filled with mud and damaged houses while cell phone videos on social media showed residents searching for survivors in the debris. "It's a big area," the provincial capital of Mocoa Mayor Jose Antonio Castro told Caracol. Two bridges also were destroyed, Mocoa Mayor Jose Antonio Castro said. Heavy rains and a mountainous landscape regularly cause landslides in Colombia's.
Colombian rescuers have been searching frantically for hundreds of missing people after the southern city of Mocoa was engulfed on Saturday by a huge landslide of mud, rocks and gushing waters that swept away homes and cars and killed more than 20 people. The Colombian president, Juan Manuel Santos, arrived in the southern city of Mocoa on Sunday to survey the crisis. Officials from the national disaster agency had counted the victims by Sunday morning, with 62 children among the victims. The government later revised the death toll up to 254.. A further 203 people were injured, many in a critical condition. A spokesman for the local power utility said it could take two weeks to restore energy in the area. Without power, gas or telephone service and with little clean water, about 600 survivors spent Sunday in makeshift shelters, on high alert for any further rainfall that could trigger another mudslide. Lists of children who could not find children who could not find their parents's parents circulated on social media to try to reunite families, while about 1,100 soldiers and police arrived to help the relief effort. a huge landslide of mud, rocks and gushing waters that swept away homes and cars and killed more than 20 people struck in the early hours of Saturday when the rushing waters of the Mocoa river and the Mocoa river's tributaries converged on the southern city of Mocoa, catching many people by surprise as many people slept. One policeman, named as 24-year-old Deciderio Ospina, was killed as One policeman, named as 24-year-old Deciderio Ospina responded to calls for help from residents whose homes were being flooded. Seeing a huge landslide of mud, rocks and gushing waters that swept away homes and cars and killed more than 20 people from One policeman, named as 24-year-old Deciderio Ospina's patrol truck, One policeman, named as 24-year-old Deciderio Ospina leapt from his patrol truck, according to a police report. One policeman, named as 24-year-old Deciderio Ospina's body was found 20km away, along with another 20 victims. “We have a huge challenge to find the missing,” said the director of The government's disaster agency, Carlos Iván Márquez, adding that 400 rescuers were scouring the riversides for victims and survivors while helicopters searched from the air. One unidentified woman interviewed by government television said One unidentified woman interviewed by government television had lost 11 family members in a huge landslide of mud, rocks and gushing waters that swept away homes and cars and killed more than 20 people, including One unidentified woman interviewed by government television's mother. Five of One unidentified woman interviewed by government television's loved ones had been identified in the morgue and the other six were still missing. “One unidentified woman interviewed by government television feel like the world is going to end,” One unidentified woman interviewed by government television said. More than 1,000 emergency personnel, including soldiers and local police were deployed to help the relief effort and to keep order. Some shops were looted overnight on Saturday by survivors searching for water. On Saturday, The Colombian president, Juan Manuel Santos blamed a huge landslide of mud, rocks and gushing waters that swept away homes and cars and killed more than 20 people on climate change, saying that the accumulated rainfall in one night was almost half the amount the southern city of Mocoa normally receives in the entire month of March. At the Vatican, Pope Francis said Pope Francis was “profoundly saddened” by the disaster, which struck the southern city of Mocoa with little warning after days of torrential rain. “Pope Francis pray for the victims and want to assure those who weep for the missing of Pope Francis's closeness to the missing,” Pope Francis said in a statement. As official rescue efforts continued, residents searched for missing relatives on residents's own. Early on Sunday, Oscar Londono tried to reach Oscar Londono's in-laws’ house but became disoriented when Oscar Londono found that the streets had disappeared. “There were bodies all over,” Oscar Londono told the Associated Press. Rescue workers with the military helped Oscar Londono find Oscar Londono's relatives, who were camped with other survivors. The governor of Putumayo, Sorrel Aroca, told Caracol Radio that the local hospital was overwhelmed by the number of injured, and medicine and surgical supplies were being sent to Putumayo. Herman Granados, an anaesthesiologist, told reporters Herman Granados, an anaesthesiologist worked throughout the night. “Under the mud, Herman Granados, an anaesthesiologist am sure there are many more,” Herman Granados, an anaesthesiologist said. The the southern city of Mocoa mudslide is the deadliest in a wave of flood-related disasters in South America in recent months. Floods and mudslides since the start of the year in Peru have left 101 people dead. In Ecuador, 21 people have died in flooding. A landslide in The government's rural south-west in November killed nine people, and another in October killed 10 people in the north of The government. In 1985 nearly 25,000 people were killed after the Nevado del Ruiz volcano erupted, triggering a torrent of mud and debris that buried the town of Armero.
Townspeople desperately searched Townspeople's ruined homes and the local hospital for loved ones Sunday after a torrent of water, mud and debris swept through a city in southern Colombia, causing more than 200 deaths, many of more than 200 deaths children, and leaving hundreds more missing and injured. Neighbourhoods were left strewn with rocks, wooden planks, tree limbs and brown muck after heavy rain caused the three rivers that surround a city in southern Colombia to rise up and surge through a city in southern Colombia Friday night and early Saturday as people slept. a torrent of water, mud and debris smashed houses, tore trees out by the roots and washed cars and trucks away. Search-and-rescue teams combed through the debris and helped people who had been desperately clawing at huge mounds of mud by hand. Many had little left to search. "People went to People's houses and found nothing but the floor," said Gilma Diaz, a 42-year-old woman from another town who came to search for a cousin. President Juan Manuel Santos, who visited a city in southern Colombia for a second straight day Sunday, declared a city in southern Colombia a disaster zone and said the death toll stood at 210. But the death toll was all but certain to rise because authorities said there were more than 200 injured, some in critical condition, and more than 200 others unaccounted for. Dozens stood in the door of the local hospital, hoping for news of family members who were not on the list of those confirmed dead or injured. Others frantically knocked on relatives' doors, hoping to find someone with information about Others's loved ones. a torrent of water, mud and debris seemed to hit young people particularly hard. President Juan Manuel Santos, who visited Mocoa for a second straight day Sunday, said more than 40 of the death toll were under 18, perhaps because youngsters were already in bed when the floodwaters struck. Maria Cordoba, a 52-year-old resident who was trying to wash Maria Cordoba, a 52-year-old resident who was trying to wash her belongings in a river's belongings in a river, said two of Maria Cordoba, a 52-year-old resident who was trying to wash her belongings in a river's nephews, ages six and 11, were killed when two of her nephews, ages six and 11,'s house was destroyed. "The mother as well was totally beaten up" but managed to save The mother as well's 18-month-old baby, Maria Cordoba, a 52-year-old resident who was trying to wash her belongings in a river said. A rescue worker in an orange jumpsuit emerged from one search area with the body of an infant wrapped in a towel. Not far away, Abelardo Solarte, a 48-year-old resident of a city in southern Colombia, held a child's shoe as Abelardo Solarte, a 48-year-old resident of Mocoa, helped clear debris. "You have no idea how many kids there are around here," Abelardo Solarte, a 48-year-old resident of Mocoa, said. President Juan Manuel Santos, who visited Mocoa for a second straight day Sunday, said a torrent of water, mud and debris also knocked out power in half of the province of Putumayo, where a city in southern Colombia is located, and destroyed the province of Putumayo, where Mocoa is located's fresh water network, creating dangerous and unsanitary conditions. a city in southern Colombia is vulnerable to flooding. a city in southern Colombia is surrounded by the three rivers that surround Mocoa in a natural basin created by the surrounding mountains. The danger has grown worse in recent years because of deforestation, which eliminates some protection from runoff, and because many people built many people's homes close to the water. But the triggering event was rainfall of more than 130 millimetres that began late Friday. Juan Chanchi de Ruiz, 74, said the noise of the floodwaters woke Juan Chanchi de Ruiz, 74, up and gave Juan Chanchi de Ruiz, 74, enough time to get to higher ground. Juan Chanchi de Ruiz, 74,'s house wasn't damaged, but several neighbours' homes were heavily damaged and many people fled with some of many people's belongings. "Around here, there's nobody. Everybody left," Juan Chanchi de Ruiz, 74, said. Colombian officials pledged aid to rebuild homes, and the attorney general launched an investigation into whether local and national authorities responded adequately to a torrent of water, mud and debris.
Panama/Geneva, 1 April 2017 – At least 127 people have been killed and 220 are missing following a landslide in the city of Macoa in Colombia’s south-western border province of Putumayo, according to local authorities. a landslide in the city of Macoa in Colombia’s south-western border province of Putumayo, followed days of heavy rain that swelled the Mocoa, Mulato and Sangucayo rivers. The Colombian Red Cross has activated The Colombian Red Cross's National Crisis Room, and has deployed a multi-discipline technical team of 47 people to bolster the efforts of local volunteers who have been responding since a landslide in the city of Macoa in Colombia’s south-western border province of Putumayo occurred. The The Colombian Red Cross team includes specialized personnel in health, search and rescue, water and sanitation, corpse management, psychosocial support, restoring family links, damage and needs assessment, and telecommunications. International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) aid workers in the region are on standby pending any request for international support.
Nasly Mojana, oriunda del Putumayo y quien desde hace quince años reside en Cali, perdió cinco miembros de su familia en la tragedia que hoy enluta a Mocoa. Con la voz quebrada y sin entender todavía el brutal golpe que su familia ha recibido, relata la historia de su prima Angie, quien milagrosamente fue la única sobreviviente de un grupo que fue sorprendido por la furia de las aguas a la madrugada del sábado. "Eran las 3:00 a.m. cuando sintieron el remezón y fueron arrastrados por la naturaleza. El papá de su prima Angie la subió al techo de la casa, pero él y otros familiares, entre ellos una bebé, fueron arrastrados por la maleza que bajaba por el río", cuenta la mujer. "El papá le dijo en la madrugada, cuando se percató de lo que se avecinaba: "mamita, mamita, levántese, levántese". la subió al techo de la casa, pero no se sabe cómo ella se salvó y los demás no", agrega. De Angie, su familiar, solo sabe que está recibiendo atención médica, pero nada más. La última comunicación que tuvo con ella fue a las 3:00 p.m. cuando le dijo que iba a ser trasladada a Bogotá. La señora Nasly, de 65 años, dice que para Semana Santa planeaba visitar sus seres queridos. Y cuenta que la cifra de víctimas de su familia pudo ser mayor. "Mi mamá, mis dos hermanos y mi sobrina se salvaron de morir porque ellos viven en Mocoa, pero en una zona lejos de la ribera del río". Explicó que un hijo que vive con ella en Cali ya viajó hacia Mocoa para ayudar en las labores de rescate. "La mayoría de víctimas, según me dicen, son niños que fueron sorprendidos por la creciente cuando estaban durmiendo". "Eso allá es un infierno, dicen que la gente está reconociendo los muertos en el hospital, donde ya no hay campo para los heridos; ayúdennos, no los olviden por favor”, puntualizó Nasly Mojana. El presidente Juan Manuel Santos dio a conocer en la noche de este sábado que la cifra de muertos por la avalancha en Mocoa, Putumayo, subió a 193. "Lamentablemente la más reciente cifra por tragedia en Putumayo es: 193 fallecidos y 202 heridos. Solidaridad con sus familias", escribió el presidente en su cuenta de Twitter. Sin embargo, no hay total claridad del balance, pues previamente el director de la Cruz Roja había reportado la cifra de muertos. La tragedia en Mocoa empezó la noche de este viernes, cuando un fuerte aguacero aumentó el caudal de los ríos Mocoa y de sus afluentes Sangoyaco y Mulatos, cuando desbordamiento provocó una avalancha de agua y piedras que se llevó todo lo que encontró a su paso.
Más de 1.300 personas de múltiples entidades trabajaron toda la noche para encontrar sobrevivientes. Más de 300 socorristas se alistan con botes, helicópteros y en tierra.
Un ruido como el zumbido de miles de abejas y un fuerte olor a barro alertaron a Jorge Arcos, quien vive en Mocoa desde hace doce años, sobre la tragedia que se avecinaba y que les terminó costando la vida por lo menos a 200 personas de la capital del Putumayo en la madrugada de este sábado. Arcos recuerda que sobre las diez de la noche del viernes empezó un impresionante aguacero, que estuvo precedido por días enteros de lloviznas. Poco más de tres horas después, la ciudad se enfrentaba a la peor sobre la tragedia en sus 454 años de historia: los tres ríos que atraviesan el municipio –el Mocoa, el Mulato y el Sangoyaco– y varias quebradas, como la Taruca, arrastraron miles de toneladas de barro por 17 barrios. El barrio San Miguel fue uno de los que quedaron literalmente borrados del mapa. Jorge Arcos, que vive en Los Pinos, recuerda así esos minutos de terror: “Alcancé a subirme al carro con mi esposa y mis dos hijas; salimos muy rápido, y ya en la calle corría el río de barro y se veía gente en la calle gritando de miedo. Pensé en irme para la finca de mi papá, pero luego de ver que seguía creciendo el río de barro salí para Pitalito (Huila), y me fui antes de que la vía se bloqueara”. Muchos de sus vecinos no tuvieron tanta suerte. En la noche del sábado seguían recorriendo las calles intentando reunirse con sus seres queridos o al menos tener una noticia de su suerte. El conteo oficial de muertos del Comando General de las Fuerzas Militares supera los 200, pero la cifra crecía porque el número de desaparecidos llega a las 200 personas. Los heridos son al menos otros 200, 22 de los cuales, según un reporte del Gobierno, requieren “tratamiento urgente”. Los cerca de 65.000 habitantes de Mocoa están asentados en una zona de 1.263 kilómetros cuadrados en los que una parte del territorio corresponde a laderas altas de cordillera. Esto hizo que se disparara la velocidad con la que se movía el agua por la ciudad. La gobernadora de Putumayo, Sorrel Aroca, reportó que al menos la quinta parte de la ciudad sufrió los estragos de la avalancha. Uno de los muertos es el patrullero de la Policía Deciderio Ospina, que perdió la vida cuando intentaba auxiliar a una niña de 12 años que era arrastrada por las turbias aguas. Desde el momento mismo de la tragedia, militares y policías se desplegaron por toda la zona y rescataron del barro a centenares de personas que seguían con vida. la tragedia se suman las dificultades logísticas que enfrentan los sobrevivientes. Según el reporte entregado por la gobernadora Aroca, en la ciudad no hay gas, el acueducto quedó afectado y la subestación de energía tampoco funciona y su reparación podría tardar un mes. Además, algunas de las vías de ingreso y salida están bloqueadas por tierra, barro y restos de árboles y partes de carros y viviendas que fueron arrastradas por el agua y el lodo. La avalancha se llevó la plaza de mercado, lo que de paso afecta el abastecimiento de alimentos en medio de la emergencia. Milady López contó que el viernes en la noche estaba jugando un partido de microfútbol y que la lluvia era tan fuerte que tuvieron que suspenderlo. “Esperamos a que escampara; al ver que la lluvia no bajaba decidí ir a mi casa. Cuando llegué al puente, La avalancha se lo había llevado. Afortunadamente mis hijos salieron para donde mi mamá, en la parte alta del barrio, y están ilesos. La avalancha se llevó todo, edificios, carros”, dijo. La tragedia empezó a incubarse desde el jueves a cientos de kilómetros, en la parte alta de la montaña. Ese día, según los reportes del Ideam, fue el segundo más lluvioso de todo el mes en el país, pero en esa parte de Putumayo la tormenta fue de proporciones bíblicas. El reporte del Instituto dice que en la parte alta de Mocoa, con un volumen de precipitaciones de 129,3 mm, “cayó el 30 por ciento de la lluvia que normalmente cae en todo el mes en esa zona del país”. Un día después, con árboles, barro y rocas recogidos cuesta abajo, la crecida llegó hasta Mocoa por el cauce de los tres ríos y las quebradas. El secretario de Gobierno de Mocoa, Eduardo Alfredo Jiménez, dijo que el municipio no cuenta con equipos de monitoreo que puedan ofrecer una alerta temprana frente a estos hechos, que además no tienen antecedentes en esa región. En efecto, allí las emergencias suelen estar más asociadas a inundaciones por desbordamiento de los ríos, que a avalanchas súbitas, que sin embargo sí se cuentan entre los miedos colectivos de los mocoenses. Este sábado, el presidente Juan Manuel Santos se desplazó a la zona y declaró el estado de calamidad. Se entregaron mil ayudas alimentarias, mil kits de aseo, mil kits de cocina, tres mil frazadas, y tres mil colchones para los damnificados. además, se dispuso la entrega de subsidios por 250 mil pesos mensuales durante tres meses para las familias afectadas. Desde la madrugada del sábado, el Ejército, la Policía y personal de socorro de distintas zonas del país fueron movilizados para enfrentar la emergencia. El Gobierno activó el Sistema Nacional de Gestión del Riesgo de Desastres para atender la emergencia y el banco de maquinaria, así como la disposición de carrotanques con agua. A la sede del Bienestar Familiar de Mocoa fueron llevados los menores de edad rescatados por las autoridades y de cuyos familiares no se tenía información. En la noche del sábado, en esos centros seguían diez niños que no se habían podido reunir con sus seres queridos. El hospital local colapsó Este sábado en la mañana por la cantidad de personas que buscaban ayuda médica, y la atención se prestaba en medio del temor de los habitantes de que ocurriera una nueva avalancha. “Mucha gente dice que hay otra amenaza de avalancha, que ya viene (...). Yo me salí del hospital porque eso era lo que gritaba la gente, yo preferí refugiarme en mi casa, que es en un segundo piso no sé si sea segura o no –narró Arturo Medina, un sobreviviente–. (...) La gente aquí está como desesperada, angustiada. No sabemos qué pasará”. Los habitantes de Mocoa recuerdan que el 19 de octubre del 2014, una falsa alarma puso a correr a los habitantes de la ciudad. Ese día, la Policía recibió una llamada sobre una supuesta avalancha que alertó a toda la comunidad y que obligó a una reunión urgente de las autoridades departamentales, que concluyeron que la alarma no era real. La gente volvió a sus casas. Pero esta vez la amenaza era real y aunque las sirenas alcanzaron a sonar, el río de lodo bajó por la montaña con tanta fuerza que hubo muy poco tiempo para reaccionar. El director de Medicina Legal, Carlos Eduardo Valdés, afirmó que se puso en marcha un plan para agilizar el levantamiento de los cuerpos para evitar una emergencia sanitaria. “Se busca la plena identificación rápida de los cuerpos y la entrega a sus seres queridos”, indicó Valdés tras señalar que se va a disponer de una morgue transitoria en la zona rural de Mocoa. “Los cuerpos de las personas que no sean identificadas en las primeras 24 horas serán inhumados ordenadamente para no generar riesgos para la Policía”, señaló Valdés. Agregó que se ubicaron puestos para la recepción de denuncias sobre personas desaparecidas para activar los mecanismos de búsqueda.
Cifra de heridos llegó a 262 y número de desaparecidos sigue siendo incierto. Entre los sobrevivientes hay hambre y desesperación. Medicina Legal confirmó que ha practicado 273 necropsias y hasta el momento han sido entregados 116 cuerpos. El alud fue causado por el desborde de tres ríos la medianoche del viernes luego de inclementes lluvias en la región andina. "Un mar de lodo" que se llevó todo por delante, según testigos. Frío, hambre y dolor: otra dura noche pasaron los sobrevivientes de... El presidente Juan Manuel Santos, que ha encabezado las tareas de socorro y de reconstrucción, aseguró que las labores de socorro se extenderán el tiempo que sea necesario.
En un avión de la Fuerza Aérea, desde Mocoa, fueron remitidas a Popayán 21 personas heridas en la tragedia de Mocoa, la mayoría con traumas por la avalancha que en la madrugada del sábado dejó más 200 víctimas fatales y un número mayor de heridos. Su traslado se produjo el sábado en la noche y desde el aeropuerto de la capital caucana fueron movilizados a diferentes centros hospitalarios. Se trata de 17 adultos, 4 niños y 8 acompañantes, remitidos al Hospital San José, Clínica La Estancia, Hospital Susana López de Valencia y Hospital del Norte. El dispositivo se realizó gracias a una coordinación interinstitucional entre la Policía Nacional, la Gobernación del Cauca, la Oficina Asesora de Gestión del Riesgo municipal y todos los organismos de socorro, un trabajo articulado que se logró cumplir pese a las fuertes lluvias en Popayán. En el aeropuerto Guillermo León Valencia de Popayán se dispuso de 12 ambulancias públicas y privadas, más el apoyo de los organismos de socorro como Bomberos, Cruz Roja, Defensa Civil y personal de sanidad de la Policía Nacional. Siete pacientes fueron remitidos al Hospital Universitario San José; ocho para Hospital Susana López de Valencia; tres para Clínica La Estancia y tres para Hospital del Norte. Arnulfo Orobio, Coordinador del Área de Urgencias del Hospital San José, señaló que los pacientes que ingresaron a este centro asistencial llegaron con diagnóstico de politraumatizados estables. Por su parte la gerente del hospital, Derlin Delgado Rodríguez, señaló que se tiene un Plan de Contingencia que permitirá prestar toda la atención a las personas que ingresaron. "Estamos preparados para la atención en salud en estos casos de emergencias y somos solidarios con estas personas que encontrarán una atención muy humana y de calidad en el hospital", puntualizó. Los pacientes, adultos y niños remitidos desde Mocoa al Hospital Susana López requieren ropa pues llegaron sin nada. Los menores son: una niña de un año, otra de 11 años y un niño de 12 años. Se informó que los padres que los acompañan están en iguales condiciones y quienes deseen colaborar pueden acercarse a Urgencias de Pediatría. “Los pacientes ya están siendo valorados y atendidos en toda la red hospitalaria, y el CRUEE Cauca ya está coordinando con el Ministerio porque algunos pacientes ya fueron intervenidos, para cuando se esté dando su salida, coordinar su regreso, y en este momento estamos analizando con la Unidad de Gestión del Riesgo la posibilidad de albergue para las familias que los acompañan están a sus pacientes” afirmó Lucy Amparo Guzmán, secretaria de Salud del Cauca. Por su parte del Gobernador del Cauca, desde San Juan de Villalobos, suroriente del departamento, afirmó que “nos unimos a la cadena de solidaridad que hoy requieren nuestros hermanos del Putumayo”.
On Sunday, April 2, Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) sent a multidisciplinary team consisting of a coordinator, a doctor, a nurse, a psychologist, and a logistician to Mocoa, Colombia, to assess the medical needs of people affected by this weekend's landslides. a multidisciplinary team consisting of a coordinator, a doctor, a nurse, a psychologist, and a logistician traveled to different parts of Colombia, where for 15 years Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) has provided primary, mental and sexual and reproductive health care to victims of armed conflict and violence in isolated populations in twenty departments of Colombia. Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) will initially be sending medical kits to care for injured victims. At dawn on Saturday, April 1, heavy rains caused the Mocoa, Mulato, and Sancoyaco rivers to overflow, resulting in landslides in several sectors of Mocoa, the capital of Putumayo, Colombia, in the South of Colombia. The flooding of the Mocoa, Mulato, and Sancoyaco rivers also led to the destruction of several of Mocoa, Colombia's neighborhoods, leaving 238 people dead, 203 injured, and 220 missing, with more than 300 families affected.
"There are mobility issues on almost 80% of the roads, and from where the road ends, it is three hours to where the landslide took place," said one police officer.
A massive wall of water from three overflowing rivers in southwestern Colombia swept through the town of Mocoa overnight Friday as residents slept, destroying homes and infrastructure and killing nearly 200 people. President Juan Manuel Santos visited the wrecked town of 40,000 near the border with Ecuador on Saturday and declared a state of public calamity. For Red Cross officials's part, Red Cross officials said 400 people were injured in A massive wall of water from three overflowing rivers in southwestern Colombia, with at least 220 others missing. Video from the scene showed flattened buildings and mounds of crumpled cars and uprooted trees, as dazed residents surveyed the scene and rescuers pulled the injured and the dead from the wreckage. A massive wall of water from three overflowing rivers in southwestern Colombia came after days of torrential rains that left large parts of the region without electrical power or running water. In recent months, heavy rains and flooding have struck along the Pacific side of South America, killing scores of people in Peru and Ecuador.
It starts with torrential rain in the mountains. Then a wall of mud and boulders comes barreling down the slopes, sweeping away houses, cars and people. Like a video stuck on repeat, the story has played out over and over again in recent weeks in South America, where hundreds of people have been killed in landslides. More than 100 people have been killed since the start of the year in flooding and landslides in Peru, and more than 100,000 have lost homes or otherwise been affected. In Colombia, the devastation is even worse. The southern town of Mocoa was hit by an enormous landslide Friday that killed 262 people, including 43 children. "Nature has always been like this. Our ancestors understood Nature better than we do today," said Peruvian architect Augusto Ortiz de Zevallos. "Just look at the archaeological sites that remain, sheltered from the onslaught of water," Peruvian architect Augusto Ortiz de Zevallos told AFP. Modernization has led to forests being replaced by farms, eliminating the natural barriers that restrain the water from torrential rains. "During the (floods) of 2010 and 2011... 71 percent of the flooding happened in pasture land that had lost pasture land that had lost its trees's trees," the head of the weather warning system for the Colombian meteorological institute, Christian Euscategui, told newspaper El Tiempo. Colombia's weather authorities, who keep a close eye on deforestation, say deforestation slowed by 12 percent in 2015. But that still meant forest losses of more than 124,000 hectares (475 square miles). Global warming, which is melting the region's glaciers, is also driving the problem. "Global warming, which is melting the region's glaciers is generating dynamics and we see the tremendous results in terms of intensity, frequency and magnitude of these natural effects, as we have just seen in The southern town of Mocoa," said Martin Santiago, UN chief for Colombia. Experts say chaotic urbanization is also to blame. The southern town of Mocoa's population was swollen by poor migrants and especially people uprooted by Colombia's half-century civil war. poor migrants and especially people uprooted by Colombia's half-century civil war and poor migrants and especially people uprooted by Colombia's half-century civil war's often precarious houses were hit especially hard by an enormous landslide Friday that killed 262 people, including 43 children. "The centralization of society means people try to move closer to cities, no matter where it is, without considering whether a river used to flow there or if it's a ravine where rain accumulates," said Peruvian architect Augusto Ortiz de Zevallos. In the case of The southern town of Mocoa, The southern town of Mocoa "was the victim of a lack of urban planning," said Colombian ecologist Rodrigo Botero. Even The southern town of Mocoa's own mayor, Jose Antonio Castro, said The southern town of Mocoa "is not a place where a town should be," because of all the rivers surrounding The southern town of Mocoa. Three of all the rivers surrounding it flooded Friday, triggering an enormous landslide Friday that killed 262 people, including 43 children. But that misses the whole point, said Peruvian architect Augusto Ortiz de Zevallos. "Engineering is about understanding nature," like the ancient Incas did, said Peruvian architect Augusto Ortiz de Zevallos. The bishop of The southern town of Mocoa, Luis Maldonado, had The bishop of Mocoa, Luis Maldonado's own take when asked if God had abandoned The southern town of Mocoa's people. "God always forgives, man sometimes does, but nature doesn't forgive," The bishop of Mocoa, Luis Maldonado said.
Mudslides killed more than 200 people after heavy rains caused rivers to overflow late Friday in Colombia’s Putumayo province, authorities said Saturday. Gabriel Umaña, a spokesman for the Colombian Red Cross, told CNN 234 people had died and 220 are missing. Gabriel Umaña, a spokesman for the Colombian Red Cross said at least 202 people were injured and 300 families displaced. Twenty-five houses were destroyed. President Juan Manuel Santos told reporters at the scene it was impossible to predict the number of deaths. “Unfortunately, it is possible that the number of deaths will go up because we have a lot of missing people,” President Juan Manuel Santos said on local TV channel Cable Noticias. Photos released by Colombia’s's military showed rescuers carrying old women and children over downed, mud-caked trees and homes. President Juan Manuel Santos said 130 millimeters, or more than 5 inches, of rain fell in the area Friday night, setting off Mudslides. The monthly average is about 400 millimeters, or about 16 inches, President Juan Manuel Santos said. “Here we are facing a disaster caused by nature, by climate change,” President Juan Manuel Santos said. President Juan Manuel Santos has declared a state of emergency. Electrical power and water were out in Mocoa, and the hospital system was shut down, according to firefighters. Heavy rains battered the southwestern region of Colombia’s on Friday. Three rivers in the southwestern region of the country, including the Mocoa and San Boyaco, overflowed and unleashed muddy waves into homes, over cars and onto bridges, according to Mocoa Mayor José Antonio Castro, CNN reported. In 2015, torrential rains in northwest Colombia caused a landslide that killed more than 80 people as mud rushed into homes and bridges, officials said.
