President Xi Jinping says situation “extremely severe” after city of Zhengzhou saw a year’s worth of rain in just three days.
At least 25 people were killed and another seven were missing as torrential rain lashed China’s central province of Henan, causing landslides and flooding that partially submerged the underground rail system of Zhengzhou. About 200,000 residents were evacuated as of Wednesday as soldiers led rescue efforts in Zhengzhou – a city of more than 10 million people – where days of rain have inundated the streets and subway, local government officials said.
Images shared on social media on Tuesday showed passengers up to their necks in water and clinging to the handrails inside a carriage on Zhengzhou’s subway. Other passengers filmed videos of the water rising in the tunnels outside the carriage windows.
The provincial capital had “experienced a series of rare and heavy rainstorms, causing water to accumulate in Zhengzhou metro”, city officials said in a Weibo post on Wednesday. At least twelve people were killed in the Metro, five more were injured and more than 500 were rescued, officials said. The dead included four people who were killed in Gongyi city where houses and walls collapsed, the official Xinhua news agency said, adding that rainfall had caused multiple landslides.
Storms have battered Henan province since the weekend in an unusually active rainy season that has caused rivers to burst their banks, flooding the streets of a dozen cities and upending the daily lives of millions of people. Weather authorities in Zhengzhou, nearly 700km (431 miles) southeast of Beijing, say the rainfall was the highest since record-keeping began 60 years ago with the city seeing the kind of rain it usually gets in a year in just three days. Some 617.1 millimetres (24.3 inches) of rain fell on Zhengzhou in that time, compared with the city’s annual average of 640.8 mm (25.2 inches).
The amount of rainfall was seen only “once in a thousand years”, local media cited meteorologists as saying. Overnight, authorities warned the deluge had created a 20-metre (66-foot) breach in the Yihetan dam in Luoyang – a city of approximately seven million people – with the risk that it “may collapse at any time”.
Soldiers were sent to carry out an emergency response including blasting and flood diversion. As rain continued to fall on Wednesday, thousands of firefighters and troops were deployed to the region to help with search and rescue, and President Xi Jinping went on state television to demand authorities at all levels give priority to ensuring people’s safety, and implement flood prevention and disaster relief measures.
Henan province, home to the Shaolin Temple and many other cultural sites, is one of China’s most populous and a major base for both industry and agriculture. Floods are common during China’s rainy season, but the threat has worsened across the decades, due in part to widespread construction of dams and levees.
Some residents spent the night in their workplaces or hotels. Wang Guirong, a 56-year-old restaurant manager, said she planned to sleep on the sofa in her restaurant after being told there was no power in her neighbourhood. “I have lived in Zhengzhou all my life and have never seen such a heavy rainstorm as today,” Wang said.
The State Grid Zhengzhou Power Supply Co said it was forced to shutdown a city substation because of the rain. The flooded subway system was closed, train services suspended and hundreds of flights cancelled. Schools and hospitals had been cut off by the waters with some children reportedly trapped in their kindergartens since Tuesday. The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou, which has more than 7,000 beds, lost all power, and even backup supplies were down, the People’s Daily reported. The hospital was racing to find transfer about 600 critically ill patients to alternative facilities.

At least 12 are dead and subway passengers in China's central Henan province were trapped in trains flooded with water Tuesday after heavy rain caused rivers to burst their banks. China's Xinhua News Agency reported that a dozen people were killed in the catastrophic flooding and more than 100,000 people have been forced to flee to safe ground.
In disturbing video published on social media, subway passengers in Zhengzhou, Henan's capital, could be seen standing in a pool of muddied water, waiting for rescue. In a video posted on Weibo, the Henan Fire Department said it was working to rescue passengers from the train line. Meanwhile, streets were transformed into rivers, submerging vehicles in torrents of water.
In a separate statement published on the government's official WeChat account, officials warned residents to stay home or in a safe place and to remain alert for updates. Xu Liyi, a member of the Standing Committee of the Provincial Party Committee and secretary of the Municipal Party Committee, led a disaster relief emergency meeting Tuesday, the city said. Heavy rain has pounded Henan, a province twice the size of Austria, since the weekend.
The downpour could continue until Thursday. Xu said at Tuesday's emergency meeting that such high levels of rain were rare in Henan.
Train service has been suspended, while many highways have been closed and flights have been delayed or canceled. Germany and other parts of Western Europe are also grappling with the impact of severe flooding that has left at least 197 people dead, at least 300 others missing and 749 injured, according to police and affected regional governments. The floods in Western Europe, along with the recent deadly heat wave in parts of the Western U.S. and Canada, have placed a new focus on the climate crisis, as politicians and climate experts alike warn that the global community must ramp up its efforts to combat climate change.

BEIJING (REUTERS, BLOOMBERG, AFP, XINHUA) - Large swathes of China's central Henan province were under water on Wednesday (July 21), with at least a dozen people dead in its capital Zhengzhou after the city was drenched by what weather watchers said was the heaviest rain in 1,000 years. With more rain forecast across Henan for the next three days, the government of Zhengzhou - a city of over 12 million on the banks of the Yellow River - said 12 people were reported to have died in a flooded subway line, while more than 500 were pulled to safety. The heavy rain has led to the relocation of nearly 200,000 people to safe zones, state media Xinhua reported, citing the local government. Dramatic video clips on social media on Tuesday showed commuters chest-deep in murky floodwaters on a train in the dark and an underground station turned into a large, churning pool.
Due to the rain, the authorities halted bus services, as the vehicles are powered by electricity, said a Zhengzhou resident surnamed Guo, who spent the night at his office. "That's why many people took the subway, and the tragedy happened," Mr Guo told Reuters.
From the evening of Saturday until late Tuesday, 617.1mm of rain fell in Zhengzhou, about 650km southwest of Beijing. That was almost on a par with Zhengzhou's annual average of 640.8mm. The amount of rainfall in Zhengzhou witnessed over the three days was one seen only "once in a thousand years", local media cited meteorologists as saying. The lives of millions of people in Henan, a province with a population of around 100 million, have been upended in an unusually active rainy season that has led to the rapid rise of a number of rivers in the vast Yellow River basin.
Many train services across Henan, a major logistics hub in central China, have been suspended. Many highways have also been closed and flights delayed or cancelled. Roads in a dozen cities have been severely flooded. "Flood prevention efforts have become very difficult," President Xi Jinping said on Wednesday, addressing the situation in a statement broadcast by state television.

Terrified subway passengers in central China were left clinging to ceiling handles inside flooded cars on Tuesday, trapped up to their necks in rising water, as record-breaking rains devastated parts of Henan province.
At least 12 people have been confirmed dead in Zhengzhou, the provincial capital, where more than 20 centimeters (7.8 inches) of rain fell in one hour on Tuesday, according to China’s meteorological observatory. All of the bodies recovered were taken from the city’s subway system, said provincial authorities.
More than 100,000 people have been evacuated from Zhengzhou, a city of 12.6 million on the banks of the Yellow River, with thousands of emergency personnel deployed to assist in the effort, state media reported. And in the nearby city of Gongyi, at least four people were reported to have died, as flood waters swept through residential areas, forcing more than 20,000 people to leave their homes.
Chinese President Xi Jinping addressed the flooding Wednesday, describing the situation as “very severe” and ordering authorities to “prioritize the safety of people’s lives and property,” state news agency Xinhua reported. Though flooding during the summer months is an annual occurrence in parts of China, recent record-breaking rains have alarmed scientists and officials, raising questions as to whether the country is prepared to deal with more extreme and unpredictable weather amplified by climate change.
Footage broadcast by Xinhua and shared widely online showed passengers in Zhengzhou trapped inside a flooded subway car, packed tightly together as the water rises. Outside the window, dark floodwater rips past, surging down the subway tracks.
Many of those trapped posted calls for help on social media, according to screenshots circulated online and statements from the Henan fire department. “The water inside the carriage has reached chest-levels! I already can’t speak anymore, please help!” wrote one woman, who went by the name Xiaopei.
Minutes later, she posted another comment: “If no rescue comes in 20 minutes, several hundred of us will lose our lives in Zhengzhou subway.” The fire department later confirmed Xiaopei had been rescued.
The city’s subway system, which contains seven lines and 153 stations, suspended all operations after the incident, said provincial authorities. Other videos showed residents on the street, water up to their hips, working desperately to pull out people trapped in an underground mall using ropes.
Others showed people making a human chain, to prevent being swept away by the current as they struggled through rushing water. The heavy rains also caused power outages across the city.
One hospital, housing nearly 10,000 patients, faced a complete blackout Tuesday, with social media photos showing its first floor submerged in water. On Weibo, China’s heavily censored version of Twitter, a user said the power outage had cut off ventilators in intensive care units at the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University.
She said her father had to rely on medical workers to manually pump oxygen into his lungs, and pleaded with authorities to restore electricity at the facility. The People’s Daily later confirmed the blackout at the hospital, where it said over 600 critically ill patients needed to be transferred. By Wednesday morning, power had been restored at the ICU unit, the newspaper said.
According to state broadcaster CGTN, more than 6,000 firefighters, and nearly 2,000 members of the police and Chinese military, had been deployed across disaster hit areas. Footage from the ground showed soldiers and emergency teams rescuing residents on rafts and clearing toppled power lines.
A report released last week by Greenpeace warned that major metropolitan regions around Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou-Shenzhen were under threat from extreme heat and rainfall. Beijing has seen the fastest rise in average temperature of 0.32 degrees Celsius every 10 years. Guanzhou-Shenzhen has experienced 98 heat waves since 1961, most in the past two decades. The report also said if global greenhouse emissions peak around 2040, some parts of China like Shanghai would experience a more than 25% increase in extreme rainfall – while other areas, like northwestern Guangzhou-Shenzhen, would see more drought.
Though the rains have since eased, problems are likely to persist, as dozens of dams and reservoirs have breached warning levels. There were conflicting reports about the status of the Guojiazui dam near Zhengzhou, with CGTN initially announcing that it had collapsed at 1:30 a.m. on Wednesday, before later appearing to walk back its reporting. A statement from the Ministry of Emergency Management also said the dam had broken, according to a screenshot cited by the state-run China Daily.
However, that line has since been removed. In the city of Luoyang west of Zhengzhou, Chinese military personnel raced to blast a dam and divert the floods on Tuesday night at the request of county authorities. Heavy rains had caused a 20-meter (65 foot) breach in the dam, which authorities said “may collapse at any time,” according to a statement from the Central Theater Command of the People’s Liberation Army.

BEIJING, July 20 (Reuters) - An aluminium alloy unit of Dengfeng Power Group Co Ltd in China's central Henan province exploded as flooding water entered the plant, the local government said on Tuesday. The river near the alloy unit exceeded the warning water level and collapsed a factory wall at around 4 a.m. local time, the Dengfeng government said in a statement on its official WeChat account.
The company immediately cut off power and organised evacuations after water flooded the plant. At 6 a.m., the water spread into a high-temperature solution in the alloy tank and caused a blast, said the statement. No one was reported injured or missing from the accident, the government has carried out a safety inspection.
Dengfeng city issued a red alert for rainstorms late Monday. The aluminium alloy plant has an annual capacity of 60,000 tonnes for alloy rods, high-silicon aluminium alloy and titanium products. Both the company and its parent Dengfeng Power did not answer calls seeking comment. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

Dramatic footage from central China reportedly captured the moment an aluminum alloy plant exploded in a giant fireball on Tuesday after severe flooding in the region caused a breach of the factory walls. In a statement released online, the municipal government of Dengfeng, a city in Henan province, said no casualties or missing persons had been reported as of 10 a.m. local time (10 p.m. ET on Monday), following the blast at a local aluminum alloy company owned by Dengfeng Power Group Co. Ltd.
Authorities said the plant in the town of Gaocheng was shut down and its staff evacuated at around 4 a.m. after the nearby Ying River burst its banks and the surrounding walls collapsed. The explosion happened around 6 a.m. when floodwaters reached the high-temperature solution inside the plant's alloy tank, the statement noted. Work to handle the aftermath of the incident was "ongoing in an orderly manner," it added.
Newsweek was unable to reach Dengfeng Power Group Co. Ltd. by telephone. Social media videos carried by various local news outlets were reportedly filmed on Tuesday by residents living around the aluminum alloy plant. The clips show the morning sky turning red and yellow as the explosion causes a large ball of flames in the air. Shockwaves from the blast appear to show smoke and clouds being pushed away from the site of the violent explosion.
"I wasn't injured, but all the glass shattered, and my windows and doors broke," Liang added. A spokesperson for the Dengfeng Emergency Management Bureau said its personnel were responding to the incident. For the three days to 11 a.m. on Tuesday, parts of Henan had recorded up to 512.2 millimeters of rainfall, including 288.3 millimeters in Dengfeng, the Henan Meteorological Bureau reported.

At least 25 people were killed in subway cars amid devastating flooding in eastern China on Tuesday.
Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan province and home to more than 10 million people, suffered an extreme downpour that proved the heaviest ever observed in China and among the most significant on record globally. A staggering 7.95 inches (201.9 millimeters) of rain came down between 4 and 5 p.m. Tuesday, one of many reports of significant to prolific rainfall that resulted in deaths and damage across eastern China. It contributed to a daily rain total that exceeded 24 inches in Zhengzhou. That is almost a year’s worth of precipitation; the city averages 25.4 inches annually.
Passengers died when their train cars filled with water, the subway system suddenly overwhelmed by rapid torrents of rainfall gushing in. Dramatic footage posted to social media captured a woman being rescued from a whirlpool, presumably leading to a drain or cistern. Abandoned vehicles littered flooded roadways; others were simply submerged or swept away.
The calamitous rainfall resulted from a trifecta of meteorological conditions that, intensified by human-caused climate change, resulted in catastrophe. Tropical moisture had been in place across much of southern China.
Typhoon Cempaka made landfall in Yangjian, west of Hong Kong, on Tuesday morning at Category 1-equivalent strength. A second typhoon, In-fa, remains a high-end Category 2 that’s churning north of Taiwan. The former helped pump in moisture from the South China Sea, while the latter has been inducing a moist onshore flow from the East China Sea.
Meteorologists refer to precipitable water indexes (PWATs), or the total amount of moisture present in a column of air, as an indicator for heavy rain potential. PWATs over 1.5 inches can support heavy downpours; 2-inch PWATs are tropical. On Tuesday, PWATs in eastern China reached a whopping 2.5 to 3 inches. That had two effects.
The first was, obviously, providing the moisture necessary for heavy downpours. Much of that moisture pooled along a diffuse, semi-stationary boundary known as the Meiyu front. It passes through eastern China and north of Taiwan during the summertime, helping to focus heavy downpours.
The other effect of the high PWATs was increased precipitation efficiency. When rain, hail or snow, collectively known as “hydrometeors,” fall to the ground, the air below is seldom at 100 percent relative humidity. As a result, dry air induces some evaporation on the hydrometeor’s way down, eroding its mass from the outside.
It’s not unusual for a raindrop to lose 30 or 40 percent of its water on the way down. But with the entire column saturated, meaning the air was considerably moist, there wasn’t much dry air to eat away at the raindrops.
That meant most of the water in the clouds was falling all the way to the surface, stacking up more quickly. Those elements helped the downpour to kick into overdrive.
By the time the worst began mid- to late afternoon, morning rains — also tallying about 8 inches — had left the ground saturated. Many drainage systems were already close to maximum capacity before the worst rolled around.
Altogether, the dice were loaded for a top-tier event. Doppler radar data showed that the thunderstorm cell that produced the downpour sat and hovered over Zhengzhou. Weak upper-level winds, typical of a summertime weather pattern in mainland China, meant the storm was in no hurry to move. Even after the heaviest bouts concluded, another 6 to 8 inches of rain fell across the city. In addition to setting a record for China, the remarkable rainfall is in elite company when compared against similar records around the world.
According to the World Meteorological Organization, the greatest one-hour rainfall reliably observed globally was 305 millimeters, or 1 foot, in Holt, Mo., on June 22, 1947. The Chinese national record in Zhengzhou may be the most prolific short-term rain event to ever affect a major international city.
Precipitation extremes like this may become more common in the future as the world continues to warm thanks to climate change. Warm air can hold more moisture, which translates to more “moisture loading” of thunderstorms and a greater propensity for extreme downpours. It’s a phenomenon that’s already been observed in many major U.S. cities, including Houston, where high-end rainfall events are twice as common as in the 1970s.

Typhoon In-fa weakened slightly Thursday morning local time over the northwestern Pacific Ocean as it impacted parts of Japan.
The storm is expected to restrengthen and potentially lash Taiwan and parts of China by this weekend. This comes after Typhoon Cempaka rapidly strengthened on approach to China’s southeastern coastline Tuesday, making landfall about 150 miles (240 kilometers) southwest of Hong Kong. Cempaka is now over land, bringing a widespread 4 to 8 inches of rainfall to parts of Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan provinces. Isolated locations could approach 20 inches through Friday.
Typhoon In-fa is slowly gaining strength as it swirls westward over the Pacific Ocean. Maximum sustained winds are at 103 mph (165 kph), as of the 5 p.m. ET Wednesday (5 a.m. Hong Kong time) update from the Joint Typhoon Warning Center.
The storm is about 190 miles (305 kilometers) away from Kadena Air Base in Okinawa and is bringing rain and tropical storm conditions to parts of Japan’s southern island. These rain chances will remain elevated through the duration of this week as In-fa slowly tracks west.
The slow-moving nature of this storm will cause rainfall totals to increase substantially. Many of the southern Japan islands will see totals of at least 10 inches, with totals of more than 20 inches likely in higher elevations.
“In-Fa will pass south of Okinawa, closer to Miyakojima, which is built to handle the accompanying rains and wind. The problem may arise as the system moves near Taipei,” said CNN meteorologist Tom Sater.
Maximum winds near the center of In-fa are forecast to approach 109 mph (175 kph) in the southern Japan islands by Thursday, when the storm may reach peak intensity. “The mountain chain in Taiwan could squeeze up to a meter’s worth of rain over the region, while Taiwan has been dealing with its worst drought in some 50 years.
This amount of rain could lead to catastrophic flash flooding and landslides,” says Sater. The forecast track over the next two to five days have become more certain.
After tracking west through Thursday morning (Friday morning Hong Kong time), In-fa is expected to take a turn to the northwest. This turn to the northwest should take place Friday morning (Saturday morning Hong Kong time) and will do so offshore, thus avoiding major impacts to Taiwan. Regardless, gusty winds and flash flooding from heavy rain will be a big concern, with totals more than 12 inches in the lower elevations and more than 20 inches in the mountains of Taiwan later in the week. In-fa is expected to continue tracking northwest after passing Taiwan to the north, possibly reaching eastern China this weekend.
The current track indicates a potential landfall near Wenzhou and Taizhou, which are located on China’s coast. “There exists potential for Typhoon In-fa to slow down and remain offshore of China while turning northward after 72 hours,” says the JTWC.
The current forecast indicates it will still be at typhoon intensity with sustained winds near the center of the storm up to 100 mph (160 kph) this weekend. Heavy rain will remain a threat from this storm through its duration. Heavy rain in the Chinese city of Zhengzhou has broken a record, according to the city’s meteorological bureau Tuesday.
At least one person was reported dead and two missing amid the floods in China’s Gongyi city, in Henan province, according to state news outlet CGTN on Tuesday. “The hourly precipitation and single-day precipitation this time have broken through the historical record of 60 years since the establishment of Zhengzhou Meteorological Bureau in 1951,” the Zhengzhou Meteorological Department said in a video it posted explaining the rainfall.
“The precipitation the city had in the last three days was already tantamount to the total amount of the precipitation the city had last year,” the department said. The average annual rainfall in Zhengzhou is over 25 inches, according to the bureau.
Meanwhile, according to their analysis of the recent rainfall, from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday the city saw 7.9 inches. From 8 p.m. Monday to 8 p.m. Tuesday, the city saw 21.8 inches of rain; and from 8 p.m. Saturday to 8 p.m. Tuesday, the city saw 24.3 inches. The moisture associated with this rain can be connected to both Typhoons Cempaka and In-fa, despite being hundreds of miles from this part of China.
Torrential rains have hit central China’s Henan province since Friday, affecting more than 144,660 residents, according to China’s state news agency Xinhua on Tuesday. More than 10,000 have been relocated to safer places. The highest level of rainfall was seen in Lushan County’s Pingdingshan City with 15.8 inches of precipitation, Xinhua reports, adding that rainwater has damaged more than 35 square miles of crops, causing losses worth $11.3 million.

The city’s average annual rainfall is 641mm (25 inches), according to the UN climate agency.
“Zhengzhou received more rainfall in four days than it would do in an average year. This is extremely serious,” a spokeswoman for the World Meteorological Organization said. The death toll across the province reached 33 on Thursday, and authorities said more than 3 million people had been affected.
A year’s worth of rain in just days – an intensity not seen in decades – has caused devastating floods in Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan in central China. But 617.1mm (24 inches) of rain fell over the three days from Saturday night – the heaviest in 60 years – and by Wednesday it had reached the annual average, China’s National Meteorological Centre said.
On Tuesday, maximum precipitation reached 201.9mm (7.9 inches) per hour in Zhengzhou, breaking the previous record of 198.5mm in 1975. That compares to the highest hourly rainfall record in Hong Kong of 145.5mm in June 2008, when two people died in a heavy storm that triggered landslides. The highest ever was in the US state of Missouri in 1947, which recorded 305mm of rain in an hour.
Forecasters describe extreme weather events – like an hourly rainfall over 100mm – using what is known as a return period to estimate the chance of it occurring in a particular year, based on the data, according to the Hong Kong Observatory. For example, a 50-year event has a 2 per cent chance of occurring in any year. “The longer the return period of an event, the rarer and more extreme the event is,” an observatory spokesman said.
After Zhengzhou’s weather bureau said this week’s deluge was at a level seen only “once in a thousand years”, the nation’s chief forecaster Chen Tao noted that this was certainly an extreme weather event but records were not available in China before the 1950s. “Without reliable long-term precipitation data, we can hardly assess the issue,” Chen, from the National Meteorological Centre, told reporters on Monday.
On a global level, the WMO said extreme weather events were becoming more frequent as a result of climate change . “This is especially true of heatwaves, but we are also seeing more heavy rainfall events,” the UN agency said.
Heavy rains also led to devastating floods in western Germany last week. According to German national meteorological service Deutscher Wetterdienst, 100mm to 150mm of rain fell in 24 hours on July 14 and 15, killing nearly 200 people.
Köln-Stammheim station saw a record-breaking 154mm of rain over 24 hours, breaking the city’s previous daily rainfall record of 95mm – but still less than the 201.9mm in Zhengzhou. The WMO said the world needed to adapt given that climate change was now a reality.
In Zhengzhou, the government in 2018 appeared to be doing that when it said it would spend US$8.2 billion to become a “sponge city” by upgrading drainage and developing sustainable infrastructure. The concept was first proposed in China in 2012 to address urban water issues and refers to a city’s ability to absorb, store and recycle water to help deal with heavy rainfall events.

Editor’s Note: A version of this story appeared in CNN’s Meanwhile in China newsletter, a three-times-a-week update exploring what you need to know about the country’s rise and how it impacts the world. Sign up here.
As record heat waves hit western North America and deadly floods swept Germany, the growing risks associated with climate change have grabbed headlines, and prompted widespread discussions in the West. Scientists have been warning for years that the climate crisis would amplify extreme weather, making it deadlier and more frequent — and the latest catastrophes are seen as a timely reminder the threat could hit much closer to home than some might think.
But this week, with much of China’s central Henan province devastated by record rains, there was little reference to the broader climate crisis among Chinese officials, scientists or state media. The silence is all the more conspicuous given how much Chinese authorities have emphasized the extremeness and rarity of the weather.
At one point, the provincial capital of Zhengzhou was pelted by nearly 8 inches (20 centimeters) of rain in an hour. In just three days, it had 24 inches (61 centimeters) — or nearly a year’s worth — of rainfall, according to the Zhengzhou meteorological station.
But on Thursday, state-run newspaper the Global Times said Ren Guoyu, a chief expert at China’s National Climate Center, “dismissed the connection between heavy rain in Zhengzhou and global climate change.” Instead, he attributed the flooding to “abnormal planetary scale atmospheric circulation,” the report said.
But she said it is rare for Chinese weather and climate authorities to acknowledge a potential climate change connection in the aftermath of extreme occurrences, because such analysis requires more research and data. “Out of caution, they basically avoid talking about it,” she said. Such associations are also seldom reported by state media, she added.
That stands in stark contrast to how climate scientists and the media have responded in the West. While full analysis is needed to confirm to what degree changes to the earth’s climate have affected specific extreme weather events, many experts agree the trend is clear. Scientists at the United Nations’ World Meteorological Organization (WMO), for example, conducted a rapid attribution analysis, which found the western North America heat waves would have been “virtually impossible” without climate change. WMO Secretary General Petteri Taalas later said they were “clearly linked” to global warming.
It is not that Chinese leaders do not admit climate change is real. On the contrary, President Xi Jinping wants China, the world’s largest emitter of greenhouse gases, to become a global leader on the climate crisis. Last year, he pledged to hit domestic peak emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, earning international praise. In the official narrative, climate change is often presented as a global crisis that China, a “responsible major power,” has stepped up to solve, especially as the former Trump administration rolled back US involvement.
Less mentioned, however, are the direct threats it poses to China, and its effect on the daily lives of its 1.4 billion people. Chinese authorities are also wary that climate activism popular among young people in the West could spread to China.
Last September, 17-year-old Ou Hongyi, known as the Greta Thunberg of China, was detained and questioned for hours by police when she joined the Global Climate Strike in Shanghai, an international event that attracted thousands of protesters at more than 3,500 locations worldwide. That has made it difficult for the Chinese public to realize how they are personally related to the climate crisis, Liu said. Like some in the West, Chinese people tend to perceive the dangers of climate change as something remote — threatening only the melting ice caps in the Arctic or low-lying islands in the tropics.
And although emission cuts and green reforms are often mentioned in state media and classrooms, many treat them as just another state policy for local governments to follow. “For many, climate change is more of an issue about politics, about economic gains and costs, and international collaboration,” Liu said. But as the devastation in Henan shows, many Chinese cities are not prepared to deal with the climate risks from increasingly frequent and intense extreme weather.
In the 18 hours before the evening rush on Tuesday, Zhengzhou’s weather station issued five consecutive red alerts for torrential rain. According to guidance from the China Meteorological Administration, the alert should have prompted authorities to halt gatherings, suspend classes and businesses — advice Zhengzhou authorities apparently failed to heed.
As the deaths of 12 passengers trapped on a flooded subway gripped the nation, some have questioned why authorities didn’t shut down it down earlier to avoid casualties. The situation could be worse in smaller towns and villages around Zhengzhou with far less contingency planning, rescue resources and media exposure, Liu said.
The last time Henan saw similarly intense downpours was nearly half a century ago. In 1975, a super typhoon dumped huge amounts of rain onto the province — one village at the center of the storm saw 63 inches (160 centimeters) of rain in three days. Overflowing rivers burst 62 dams, killing more than 26,000 people by the official count, though other estimates were several times higher.
While the connection between climate change and extreme weather in China might not have received much official mention, it doesn’t mean Chinese scientists haven’t been studying the issue. A senior meteorologist with the Chinese Academy of Engineering, for example, has published a paper on the impact of climate change on extreme torrential rains in Chinese mega cities.
On Chinese social media, too, some have started to reflect on the lack of discussions on the issue. On Weibo, China’s heavily censored version of Twitter, one user said she was disappointed to find “very, very few discussions” about climate change on major social media platforms.
Diving in headfirst: Chinese athletes practice for the diving event in Tokyo, Japan, on Thursday ahead of the Olympic Games, which begin on Friday. The Chinese delegation includes more than 770 people, including athletes, coaches and support staff, according to state-run news outlet CCTV — and more than 99% of the delegation is fully vaccinated against Covid-19.
A children’s book about sheep led to the arrest of five people in Hong Kong on Thursday, under the city’s sweeping national security law. The book series depicts a sheep village — but police say the books referenced parts of the 2019 pro-democracy anti-government protests, including the 12 Hong Kongers who were caught and detained by Chinese authorities after trying to flee by boat.
The protests, which often turned violent and threw the semi-autonomous Chinese city into political turmoil, prompted the Chinese government to promulgate the security law last summer. It granted far reaching new powers to authorities, who wasted little time in detaining activists, raiding newspapers, and banning public protest. Police said in a statement that the five people — all core members of the General Union of Hong Kong Speech Therapists — were arrested on suspicion of conspiring to publish seditious material that incited hate toward the Hong Kong government, one of the crimes laid out in the security law.
CNN has reached out to police, but was not offered an explanation as to the discrepancies in the statements. Police denied accusations the law was being used as a “legal trap” for publishers or media outlets — but the arrests are deepening fears of censorship nevertheless. In the past year, authorities have ordered schools to ban certain textbooks that may violate the law, blocked websites on national security grounds, and revised film censorship guidelines to abide by the law.
Myanmar doctors in hiding have set up underground networks of clinics to help battle the country’s Covid outbreak, with the military junta accused of using the pandemic as a weapon against the people. An Indonesian man is facing arrest after disguising himself as his wife to board a flight, despite reportedly testing positive for Covid.
More than two thirds of Indians surveyed above the age of 6 showed antibodies against Covid-19, providing yet more evidence the virus may have spread far more widely than official figures suggest. The Australian government and a United Nations body are facing off on Friday over whether the Great Barrier Reef is “in danger” of losing its “outstanding universal value” — meaning it could lose its World Heritage status.
A wave of Chinese firms have reportedly backed off of plans to go public in the United States. Tough US laws requiring audits for foreign companies and a growing crackdown by Beijing has made it increasingly tough for Chinese tech companies to approach Wall Street. Since February, shares of overseas-listed Chinese tech firms have lost a staggering $1 trillion in value, marking one of the biggest sell-offs of all time, according to Goldman Sachs analysts.
And, after a disastrous IPO by ride-hailing giant Didi, TikTok owner Bytedance, social e-commerce platform Xiaohongshu, fitness app Keep and medical data company LinkDoc Technology have all either shelved or scrapped plans to list in New York, according to media reports. It “may very well be” the end — at least temporarily — to US listings for Chinese companies, according to Doug Guthrie, a professor and director of China Initiatives at Arizona State University’s Thunderbird School of Global Management. He added that a “serious pause” on such listings could be in effect until US-China relations improve.
There are still ways for Chinese companies to tap overseas investment even if the US is no longer an option. They can go to Hong Kong, for example, which also has a diverse pool of international investors and a regulatory regime that meets international standards.
But the US market still has an irreplaceable role, as it’s bigger than any other financial market in the world, has a greater turnover in stocks and places a higher value on company earnings. That means a company listing in America may find it easier to achieve a higher valuation and sell more shares.

This week a year’s worth of rain fell in just three days in China’s Henan province, flooding roads and public transport systems, killing dozens and displacing thousands. Floods are common in China’s rainy season, but this event is being linked to the climate crisis.
China is the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world – and many of its most carbon-intensive sectors employ vast numbers of people. At the same time the country has led efforts to develop green technologies like solar and wind, bringing down prices and encouraging the global shift away from fossil fuels.
China says it shouldn’t be expected to follow the same decarbonisation timetable as major Western economies. But the US Climate Envoy John Kerry this week insisted that efforts to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius will be "essentially impossible" without faster action from Beijing.
So how crucial is China to the fight against climate change? Ritula Shah is joined by a panel of experts.

July 22 (Reuters) - Deadly floods that have upended life in both China and Germany have sent a stark reminder that climate change is making weather more extreme across the globe. "Governments should first realize that the infrastructure they have built in the past or even recent ones are vulnerable to these extreme weather events," said Eduardo Araral, associate professor and co-director, Institute of Water Policy, at Singapore's Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. In Europe, climate change is likely to increase the number of large, slow-moving storms that can linger longer in one area and deliver deluges of the kind seen in Germany and Belgium, according to a study published June 30 in the journal Geophysical Research Letters. As the atmosphere warms with climate change, it also holds more moisture, which means that when rainclouds break, more rain is released. By the end of the century, such storms could be 14 times more frequent, the researchers found in the study using computer simulations.
While the inundation that devastated wide swathes of western and southern Germany occurred thousands of kilometres from the events in Henan, both cases highlighted the vulnerability of heavily populated areas to catastrophic flooding and other natural disasters. "You need technical measures, bolstering dikes and flood barriers. But we also need to remodel cities," said Fred Hattermann at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research. He said there was increasing focus on so-called "green-adaptation" measures, like polders and plains that can be flooded, to stop water running off too fast. "But when there's really heavy rain, all that may not help, so we have to learn to live with it," he said. Reinforcing dikes and climate-proofing housing, roads and urban infrastructure will cost billions. But the dramatic mobile phone footage of people struggling through subways submerged in chest-deep water in Zhengzhou or crying in fear as mud and debris swept through medieval German towns made clear the cost of doing nothing. Koh Tieh-Yong, a weather and climate scientist at Singapore University of Social Sciences, said an overall assessment of rivers and water systems would be needed in areas vulnerable to climate change, including cities and farmlands. "Floods usually occur due to two factors combined: one, heavier-than-normal rainfall and two, insufficient capacity of rivers to discharge the additional rainwater collected," he said. In both China and northwestern Europe, the disasters followed a period of unusually heavy rain, equivalent in the Chinese case to a year's rainfall being dumped in just three days, that completely overwhelmed flood defences. After several severe floods over recent decades, buffers had been strengthened along major German rivers like the Rhine or the Elbe but last week's extreme rainfall also turned minor tributaries like the Ahr or the Swist into fearsome torrents. In China, built-up urban areas with inadequate water evacuation and large dams that modified the natural discharge of the Yellow River basin may also have contributed to the disaster, scientists said. But measures such as improving the resilience of buildings and raising riverbanks and improving drainage are unlikely to be enough on their own to avert the effects of severe flooding. As a last resort, warning systems, which were heavily criticized in Germany for leaving people insufficient time to react, will have to be improved. "It really needs to be embedded in practical knowledge that people have so they know what to do," said Christian Kuhlicke, head of a working group on environmental risks and extreme events at the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

Days of torrential rain and massive flooding have hit China’s Henan province, bursting the banks of rivers, overwhelming dams and the public transport system and forcing thousands of people to evacuate their homes. At least 25 people have been killed and seven are missing in the provincial capital, Zhengzhou.
The provincial authorities issued its highest level of weather warning. A year’s worth of rain – 640mm – fell in just three days. The city’s weather bureau said more than 552mm of rain had fallen between 7pm on Monday and 7pm on Tuesday, including 202mm between 4pm and 5pm on Tuesday.
About 200,000 people have been moved to shelters, state media Xinhua reported on Wednesday, citing local government. The rainfall flooded the city’s subway system, collapsed roads, and prompted the suspension of inbound flights. On Wednesday afternoon, officials raised the official death toll to 25 in Henan province.
The figure is believed to include the 12 previously reported deaths in the capital and another four in the nearby city of Gongyi as 14 reservoirs overflowed, causing flooding and landslides. They said 1.2 million people had been affected by the floods. The casualties are expected to rise as rescue work continues in the days to come.
Chinese media call the rainfall “unseen in the last 1,000 years”. Some worry that given the scale of the damage, the post-disaster reconstruction will be particularly challenging for one of the most populous provinces in China. Across social media, videos showed the severity of the flooding, with hundreds of cars floating down main streets, and crowds of people forming human chains to rescue each other from roads and flooded buildings.
In the subway system, where at least 12 of the confirmed deaths are thought to have occurred, waist-high water gushed through the tunnels, submerging platforms and filling carriages. Other videos showed commuters trapped inside carriages holding on to handrails with water up to their chests.
At least five bodies were visible in one clip, filmed at an unidentified Zhengzhou station. The death toll was expected to rise, with numerous social media posts by loved ones of people missing.
Zhengzhou’s flood control headquarters said water storage at the Guojiazui reservoir was at “major risk” of dam failure and the local government was ordering evacuations. In the city of Luoyang, local authorities said the rainfall had caused a 20-metre breach in the Yihetan dam, which “could collapse at any time”.
Early on Wednesday, a division of China’s military were sent out to the site to carry out emergency blasting and flood diversion. Other divisions were sent out across the province to fight the floods and carry out rescues, authorities said.
The heavy rain across Henan began on 17 July. On Tuesday, weather agencies issued the highest warning level for the province and Chinese weather forecasts expected further severe downpours.
From Saturday to Tuesday, 3,535 weather stations in Henan, one of China’s most populous provinces with 94 million people, reported rainfall exceeding 5cm. Among the stations 1,614 registered levels above 10cm and 151 above 25cm, the authorities said.
Footage on China’s social media showed the world-renowned Shaolin Temple, known for martial arts, as well as other cultural sites, badly affected. Hundreds of trapped residents in Henan called for help online as flooding cut electricity to their homes.
Floods are common in China’s rainy season, but their impact has worsened over the decades, due in part to China’s rapid urbanisation and the global climate crisis. Extreme weather events have occurred in many parts of China this summer.
Hundreds of thousands of residents in Sichuan province had to be relocated this month due to floods and landslides. In June, Hotan city, in the far-west region of Xinjiang, had record-breaking rainfall, causing one resident to comment on social media that “the rainfall [this month] is equivalent to the combined rainfall of the past two years”. Greenpeace said the risk of extreme weather was now highest in China in the densely populated city centres but that it was also growing fast for the outskirts of large cities because of rapid urbanisation.

The official death toll from central China’s devastating floods has risen to 33, as the public began to ask questions about the readiness of authorities for the disaster.
Cleanup efforts were under way in Henan province and the capital city Zhengzhou on Thursday, after a record breaking rain storm flooded the city’s streets and subway, damaged dams and reservoirs, collapsed roads, cut power to at least one hospital and was linked to a massive explosion at a factory in Dengfeng city. Authorities said 200,000 people were displaced by the floods and more than three million people were affected.
They also reported that eight people are still missing. Heavy rain was forecast to continue this week, driven in part by a strengthening typhoon east of Taiwan.
In Guangdong, in southern China, 13 construction workers were killed when they were trapped in a flooded tunnel. Thousands of rescuers were sent in to assist northern Henan, where dozens of counties were hit by flooding on Wednesday night and Thursday, with reports of overflowing reservoirs, submerged roads, and cars and trucks being washed away.
The Henan disaster has prompted public scrutiny over the preparedness of authorities, in particular the apparently inaccurate weather forecasts and the confusing disaster alert system. Many also questioned the decision to keep the subway operating throughout the deluge. “I later learned that the Henan Meteorological Department had issued the red alarm prior to the disaster, but no one can access it from the internet, or they didn’t pay attention, because there are a lot of alarms classified as spams,” a Zhengzhou resident told the Guardian.
“The alarms should be sent to the government at all levels and then to individuals. If individuals received alarms from authorities they would have paid serious attention.
But I think many authorities didn’t see the alarm,” she said. Local media outlets have referred to the rainstorm – which saw a year’s worth of rainfall in three days – as a “one-in-1,000-year weather event”. The rainfall broke hourly and daily records of the 70 years of collected data.
At least 12 of the deaths occurred on the subway, where about 1,000 people were reportedly trapped in stations and carriages after water filled the tunnels. Alarming footage showed people clinging to handrails in chest-high water.
Local authorities said the heavy rain caused water to accumulate in the parking lot near Line 5 of the metro, breaking through a retaining wall at around 6pm and flooding the line, stopping trains between Shakoulu – where at least five deaths are believed to have occurred – and Haitansi stations. The Chinese government has ordered local authorities to make immediate improvements to urban flood controls and emergency responses, including hidden risks on the rail system. “They must take emergency measures such as suspending trains, evacuating passengers, and closing stations in atypical situations such as excessively intense storms,” the ministry said in a statement viewed at least 190m times on Weibo. Hawkish state-owned tabloid, the Global Times, said it was “absolutely impossible to keep Zhengzhou from flooding” in such heavy rains but greater mitigation efforts were needed to reduce the loss of life.
Concerns had been raised about the safety of the subway system – which opened its first line in 2013 – the decision to keep it operating at peak hour when the rain was at its heaviest, and the transparency of officials. Online, commenters were divided, but included substantial criticism of the response.
“Why didn’t you close the subway in advance when it was raining so heavily,” asked one. Zheng, a safety worker at Zhengzhou metro, told Southern Weekly on Wednesday they tried to keep the trains running so people could get home but were overwhelmed by the Tuesday afternoon downpour. “This is the first time in my life I have witnessed water flooding into the metro station. I felt hopeless,” he said.
The Henan Business Daily newspaper reported staff at one station told a man all passengers had been evacuated but had to acknowledge that wasn’t true after he started a video call with his wife who was still trapped on board a train. She told her husband the water had almost reached her neck and passengers were struggling to breathe, the report said.
Beijing News also questioned the timing of the subway operations, noting the network wasn’t fully suspended until 6pm, hours after water first started entering some stations. A widely shared WeChat article noted early contradictory statements from local state media, including that no passengers were in danger, while at the same time footage – later blocked from China’s internet – was being shared of dead bodies at Shakoulu station, including by the national state media outlet, Xinhua.
The WeChat article also noted premature declarations that the rescue mission was complete, while trapped passengers continued to post about their predicament. The article – which also questioned whether it was a man-made disaster linked to the blasting of a dam late Tuesday near the city of Luoyang – was later censored for “violating regulations”, according to a Twitter user, Matt Knight, who collected online posts.
Knight noted multiple examples of the stark differences between some posts by state media and authorities, which emphasised rescue efforts and heartwarming community acts, and those shared by the public. Public scrutiny has also fallen on the timing of warnings from the local meteorological services. The provincial weather bureau told state media it had issued a report warning of the coming torrential rains two days in advance.
The impact of the floods spread beyond the capital. Zhengzhou’s flood control headquarters said water storage at the Guojiazui reservoir was at “major risk” of dam failure and the local government ordered evacuations. In the city of Luoyang, local authorities said the rainfall had caused a 20-metre breach in the Yihetan dam, which “could collapse at any time”.
A division of China’s military were sent out to the site to carry out emergency blasting and flood diversion. At least four were killed in Gongyi city, about 80km from Zhengzhou, where the rains caused flooding and landslides.
Some worry that given the scale of the damage, the post-disaster reconstruction will be particularly challenging for one of the most populous provinces in China. Zhengzhou alone is home to 12 million people.
Henan province – which is situated between Beijing and Shanghai in central China – has many cultural sites and is a major base for industry and agriculture. It is crisscrossed by multiple waterways, many of them linked to the Yellow River, which has a long history of bursting its banks during periods of intensive rainfall. China routinely experiences flooding in the summer months, but rapid urbanisation, and conversion of farmland, as well as the worsening climate crisis has exacerbated the impact of such events.

Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor and Macao Chief Executive Ho Iat-seng on Thursday expressed their deep condolences to the people of Central China's Henan province, after days of torrential rains that have left at least 33 dead and affected millions in the region.
"On behalf of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government, I extend my deepest condolences to the people of Henan province," Lam said in a social media post. With the all-out efforts of the central, provincial and municipal governments, it is believed that the affected residents will be properly cared for, she added. Lam stressed that the more frequent occurrence of natural disasters has reminded Hong Kong to promptly respond to extreme weather caused by global climate change.
She called for public support and cooperation to achieve the city's goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. In a letter to Governor of Henan Wang Kai, Ho expressed his sincere condolences to the victims of the record-breaking rainfall and floods in the province. Ho called on the Macao community to support the victims in Henan province through different channels.
The Henry Fok Foundation in Macao has donated 10 million yuan to support disaster relief and post-disaster recovery. Nearly HK$100 million has been raised from the Hong Kong community through online and offline campaigns launched by various groups.
It will be passed on to the Henan authorities via the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. The Hong Kong Henan Association will also distribute 500 boxes of mineral water, instant noodles, and other supplies to the victims in the worst-hit areas through its two liaison offices in the provincial capital Zhengzhou.

ISLAMABAD – Pakistan on Wednesday expressed sadness over the loss of human lives due to torrential rains and flooding in Central China’s Henan Province.
A statement issued by the Foreign Office said, “Govt. & people of Pakistan are deeply saddened to learn about loss of precious human lives caused by torrential rains & flooding in Central China’s Henan province. Our sympathies & prayers are with the affected families & people who are battling against this natural calamity”.
As the rescue operation is underway in the neighbouring country, the FO said: “We are hopeful that due to efforts of Chinese government, normalcy would be restored soon & displaced people would soon return to their homes”. “Pakistan stands ready to assist our Chinese brothers and sisters in this hour of need,” read the statement.
At least 25 people were killed as torrential rain battered the Chinese province, causing landslides and flooding that partially submerged the underground rail system of Zhengzhou. Soldiers, who are leading the rescue operations, have so far evacuated about 200,000 residents in Zhengzhou where streets are inundated due to the rain.
Images circulating on social media show passengers standing inside carriage of the subway with water up to their necks. Other passengers also filmed videos of the water rising in the tunnels outside the carriage windows. The provincial capital had “experienced a series of rare and heavy rainstorms, causing water to accumulate in Zhengzhou metro”, city officials said in a Weibo post on Wednesday.
In the metro incident, at least twelve people were killed and five others injured while 500 were rescued by the officials. Storms have lashed out Henan province since the weekend in what Chinese officials calling it an unusual rainy season.

Zhengzhou’s record-breaking torrential downpours have exposed problems in the central Chinese city’s drainage system, which was overwhelmed as floodwaters covered roads, tunnels and subway stations.
As of noon Friday, 51 people had died amid the flooding in Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan province, according to state media. For the whole province, the official death toll has risen to 56, with five still missing, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported this evening. In Zhengzhou, a dozen travelers died in the paralyzed subway system Tuesday.
The hardest-hit city received more than 200 millimeters (nearly 8 inches) of rain in just one hour on Tuesday. In comparison, the record rainstorm that recently hit the German city of Cologne caused 154 millimeters of rain in 24 hours, around 30% that of Zhengzhou. The European country recorded a death toll of over 200 amid the widespread flooding, local media outlet Deutsche Welle reported Thursday.
Many parts of Zhengzhou, including hospitals and residential areas, have experienced water and power cuts as a result of heavy rain, and many residents had difficulty accessing the internet, raising questions about the capacity of the city’s infrastructure to cope with such extreme weather. The Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council, China’s cabinet, jointly issued a statement (link in Chinese) on Thursday, urging improved infrastructure and public services, the construction of more “sponge cities,” and enhanced flood prevention and control capacity. The “sponge cities” are part of a national program launched in 2014 with the goal of retaining and recycling as much as 70% of the chosen cities’ rainfall.
Zhengzhou, located on the banks of the Yellow River, was chosen (link in Chinese) to be part of the program in 2016, and has been working to improve its flood-control infrastructure. An official from the Zhengzhou planning bureau was quoted by Dahe Daily, a state-owned local newspaper, as saying that the program will help the city improve its ability to handle extreme weather events. Many social media users have attributed the severe flooding to problems in the sponge city program, the official China News Weekly reported.
However, Huang Rongru, a professor of hydraulic engineering at the South China University of Technology, was cited by the magazine as saying that people have “great prejudice” against the sponge cities program. This program alone cannot deal with all urban rainstorms, and only a unified system including subsystems such as runoff controls and storm sewers can solve problems such as waterlogging, Huang said. As there’s no unified management and construction and maintenance standards for Zhengzhou’s drainage facilities, these facilities can’t work well during rainy season, leading to flooding, Yang Qing, who works at the city’s engineering management office, said in another Dahe Daily report.
Download our app to receive breaking news alerts and read the news on the go. Get our weekly free Must-Read newsletter.

ZHENGZHOU, China (AP) — A man in central China was rescued after spending three days trapped in a flooded underground garage following torrential rains, while at least four bodies were found after a traffic tunnel was drained, a news report said Saturday. The death toll rose to 58 after record rains hit the major city of Zhengzhou on Tuesday, state TV reported, citing Li Changxun, deputy director of Henan Provincial Emergency Management Department.
Meanwhile, rescuers used bulldozers and rubber boats to evacuate residents of areas that still were under water, according to the Shanghai news outlet The Paper. The rains flooded a Zhengzhou subway tunnel where at least 12 people died, knocked out power to a hospital and other buildings and left streets filled with mud. Dozens of trains in the region were delayed for up to 40 hours.
Li Yongsheng was found Friday afternoon in a garage under the Jincheng International Plaza in Zhengzhou’s Jinshui District, The Paper said. It said he was trapped when the garage flooded Tuesday and lay on a ventilation duct surrounded by floating cars.
A photo on The Paper’s website showed Li being guided by rescue workers through chest-deep water. It said he was hospitalized with a crush injury.
On Saturday, skies were mostly clear but parts of Zhengzhou and other cities including Hebi, Xinxiang and Anyang still were under water. In Hebi, rescuers were moving people out of neighborhoods where water was up to two meters (six feet) deep, The Paper said. It said authorities intentionally flooded parts of Hebi on Saturday afternoon to lower water levels elsewhere. A video on The Paper’s website showed rescuers in boats making their way down streets through waist-deep water. In Zhengzhou, a city of 12 million people, bodies and more than 200 wrecked cars were found in the Jingguang North Road Tunnel, where water up to 13 meters (43 feet) deep was pumped out, The Paper reported.
Large swaths of the city have resumed normal life, with shoppers thronging upscale shopping malls and the elderly dancing on outdoor plazas. “For the most part, life has returned back to normal, but there’s still some stuff that hasn’t,” said Li Nana, who had been trapped in her office by the rising floodwaters last week. She said electricity hadn’t yet been restored to her home.
The Ministry of Emergency Management sent flood-drainage teams with 300 people and equipment from neighboring provinces, the official Xinhua News Agency said. Direct economic losses were estimated at 13.9 billion yuan ($2 billion), according to Xinhua. It said a total of more than 3,800 houses collapsed across the province and 920,000 people were evacuated from their homes.

Thousands of people remain trapped in central China as floods continue to batter the region, killing at least 51, a number that is expected to rise again sharply as recovery crews access previously submerged roads and tunnels in the capital city.
Record-breaking rainstorms – which dumped a year’s worth of rain on and around the capital of Henan province, Zhengzhou, earlier this week – have since moved north, affecting outer cities and regional areas, trapping people without electricity or fresh water, including at hospitals. On Friday afternoon state media reported the death toll had risen from 33 to 51, citing local authorities, and a financial toll of of more than 65 billion yuan (£7.3bn).
More than a million people had been relocated, half of them having lost their homes. Local reports suggested the city of Xinxiang, home to 5.8 million people, had been hardest hit, with more than 260mm falling in a two-hour window.
State media reported the Wei river had burst its banks and flooded villages near Hebi. Local authorities pushed at least half a dozen trucks into the breach in an attempt to block it, without success. Tens of thousands were being rescued or evacuated from villages and farmlands, some by makeshift bridges, other by inflatable boat or in the buckets of construction diggers.
On Friday afternoon Henan authorities sought to emphasise a strong emergency response and the return of utilities to some neighbourhoods. They kept the death toll at 33, apparently contradicting state media, saying assessment was ongoing.
But the true scale of the disaster is not yet clear, and the press conference prompted some scepticism from residents online. Many areas of Henan remained cut off, without power, fresh water or mobile phone signal. A massive recovery effort had begun in areas where the rain has passed, including the capital Zhengzhou, where at least 12 people died when the subway system flooded.
Focus is on the entrance to a major cross-city tunnel in the city, which was completely submerged in up to 13 metres of water. More than 100 trapped cars were counted after the water was drained on Friday morning.
Authorities confirmed just two bodies recovered, but a heavy police presence and reports from media on the ground suggested the toll was unlikely to stay so low. Local media reported there were still people missing, with The Paper identifying at least 25 individuals, the youngest just 12 years old.
One woman named Ms Ma said she had lost contact with her 14-year-old son and his two friends who had been playing near the tunnel. On Chinese social media some journalists also noted there was little information yet from affected rural areas.
On Friday 29 of the region’s 30 reservoirs had overflowed, local authorities said, and 65 others were at full capacity. At least two major reservoirs near Zhengzhou were also damaged or at risk of collapse earlier this week, but authorities have refuted suggestions the dams have played a role in subverting the regular water flow.
China’s leader, president Xi Jinping, said there had been a “significant loss of life and damage to property”. Xi has not yet visited the affected areas. On Friday morning state media reported Xi had instead made a surprise visit to Tibet, the first such visit to the politically sensitive area by a Chinese leader in more than three decades.
Chinese social media was also full of community support coordination, and tales of rescue. One Xinxiang resident described the ground floor of her house going underwater in a matter of hours, prompting her to send an SOS out on social media.
Another widely shared story recounted the efforts of a young doctor, Yu Yifei, who was credited with saving more than a dozen lives while giving CPR to people caught in the flooded Zhengzhou subway. As Henan’s disaster continues, eyes are already moving to China’s east coast and an approaching typhoon.
Typhoon In-fa has brought heavy rain to northern Taiwan and Japan’s southern islands, and is predicted to make landfall near Shanghai over the weekend. In-fa was credited with partly driving Henan’s rainstorm even while hundreds of kilometres to the east of Taiwan. During Saturday and Sunday’s high tides “coastal areas should guard against the combined impact of wind, rain and tides,” the National Meteorological Center said, warning the public to prepare for a major weather event.

However, as on Saturday evening, people continued to post on social media about missing family members who they feared had been trapped in the tunnel as well as at a flooded subway station in the city, where at least 12 people died.
The rescuers were continuing to pump water out of the tunnel but no other victims had been found, he was quoted as saying. The authorities have not released an official death toll from the tunnel, but news portal ThePaper.cn quoted an unnamed official in charge of rescue operations as saying that his team had checked all of the cars at the site, and found four dead.
Emergency workers in the central Chinese city of Zhengzhou said they expected to pump out a flooded road tunnel, where many cars were reportedly trapped, by Saturday night. At least 58 people have died, with another five still missing, and the rain has caused economic damage worth 82 billion yuan (US$12.7 billion), according to the local authorities. About 815,000 people have been temporarily evacuated from their homes, while another 1.1 million were relocated by the government.
The Jingguang Road Tunnel in Zhengzhou, the provincial capital, flooded in five minutes on Tuesday evening, trapping hundreds of vehicles, according to local reports. A worker from Fujian Qiaolong Emergency Equipment Company at the site said the operation had been going on for two days and some sections were still flooded with up to 2 metres (6.6 feet) of water. Some of the vehicles had been salvaged, he said, but there are others submerged at the bottom of the tunnel and it was likely to take at least another day to pump out the water.
A 2km (1.4-mile) branch of the tunnel that passes through the densely populated city centre has frequent traffic jams, and congestion worsens during the rainy season, according to the Shanghai-based media outlet Yicai. It reported that the bodies of some of the victims had been recovered on Friday, when a number of vehicles were also salvaged.
The deadly floods – which the local authorities have described figuratively as a “ once in a thousand years event ” – caused extensive damage in Zhengzhou and cut off electricity and water supplies. When South China Morning Post reporters reached the tunnel on Friday night, drainage trucks were still pumping out floodwater, while several mud-stained vehicles that had been salvaged from the tunnel were sitting on a nearby road. Traffic had partially reopened on both sides of the tunnel, although some sections were still restricted. Police officers standing near the scene instructed drivers not to stay for too long or to approach pedestrians.
There were a few onlookers at the site, one of whom, a resident named Wang, said his neighbourhood’s electricity supply had been cut off since Tuesday and he had gone out to find somewhere to charge his phone. “I was lucky I was home all day that day,” he said, adding that his nephew almost died trying to get out of a train. “When my nephew came out of the station, the water was already over his chest and if he had been a little later, he might not have been able to get out,” Wang said.
Shopping malls and restaurants near the tunnel have reopened and the owner of a flower shop on the street said electricity supplies were restored around noon on Friday. Communist Party mouthpiece People’s Daily reported that power supplies in the city would be restored on Saturday and the water supply would be “basically restored” by the next day.
The town of Mihe in Gongyi, one of the worst affected areas of the province, was covered in a thick layer of silt on Saturday afternoon, with heaps of rubbish washed up by the floods piled against the entrances to shops. Rescue workers were busy repairing telecommunication facilities and removing the silt with forklifts. One bridge in the centre had collapsed and a temporary bridge had been erected beside it.
Gongyi was hit by extremely heavy rainfall from 7pm on Monday to 3pm on Tuesday with 609.1mm (24 inches) falling in that period. The head of the local meteorological bureau was washed away by floods on Tuesday but was rescued by a passer-by.
At least four people had been confirmed dead in Gongyi by Wednesday. However, there were still many posts on social media by residents looking for missing relatives.
Liu Ruibin, Mihe’s deputy party secretary, said access to 12 villages had been restored, and the biggest problem now was that there was no power, no water, and no phone signal in the villages, but these were “being gradually restored”. More than 60 people were staying in a temporary shelter because their homes had been damaged, he added.
When asked about domestic media reports that people from the villages were still missing, he said he “had no knowledge of that”. An employee of Shandong Mobile surnamed Ai said he had gone to the town on Wednesday to help repair the telecoms infrastructure and that the mobile signal in the town had been restored, but it would take up to 15 days to resume services in the villages.
Meanwhile, the city of Xinxiang has been hit by further heavy rainstorms, which submerged a large number of homes in outlying villages. The flood control headquarters in Xinxiang, where thousands are reported to have been trapped by rising waters, said on Friday that the banks of the Communism Canal had been breached, flooding the Wei River and leaving nearby villages in a “critical situation”. Residual traces on the walls of several homes suggest that indoor water levels had reached chest height, according to a report from the official news agency Xinhua on Saturday.
The floods also damaged a section of a dam on the Wei River in Hebi on Thursday evening, according to media reports, leaving many villages in danger. The authorities failed to stop it from overflowing despite dumping several truckloads of stone on the breach, according to the 21st Century Business Herald.
Its report on Friday quoted an unnamed official as saying that no casualties had occurred thanks to the timely evacuation of all nearby villages. One villager from East Shilipu on the outskirts of Xinxiang, a woman named Meimei, said floodwaters from the Communism Canal had backed up into her village on Saturday morning, reaching chest height.
The entire village workforce had been mobilised to block the flood with sandbags at the north entrance of the village, she said. “We first tried to block the flood in the north, then we rushed to the east entrance to block the flood there, and now we are back to the north entrance again,” she said.
She added that her mother, sister and husband had been suffering from persistent diarrhoea after wading through the floods. Floodwater is often contaminated with sewage and other pollutants, and authorities have advised residents not to drink unboiled tap water. At present, water and electricity are still available in the village, but they are occasionally cut off.
“The floods are rising, and we are still trying our best to block it. If it continues to rise, I don’t know what we can do, maybe wait to be rescued,” she said.

BEIJING, July 21 (Xinhua) -- Chinese authorities on Wednesday raised the emergency response for flood control to Level II, the second-highest level in the response system, as heavy downpours continued to lash the central China province of Henan. Extremely heavy rainfall hit Henan on Tuesday, with precipitation in Zhengzhou, the provincial capital, exceeding the highest level on local weather records, according to the Ministry of Emergency Management (MEM). The rainstorm has caused the water level in a reservoir to rise rapidly, said the ministry, adding that all local residents downstream have been relocated in advance.
A total of 12 people have been killed in the torrential rains in the downtown area of Zhengzhou, according to local authorities. About 100,000 people have been relocated to safe places.
China has a four-tier flood-control emergency response system, with Level I being the most severe. The MEM has dispatched a working team to the affected areas in Henan to help local authorities with disaster relief work. A rescue team of 1,800 firefighters has been deployed to the flood-hit region from seven neighboring provinces, together with boats, pumping vehicles and flood rescue kits.
China's national observatory on Wednesday morning renewed orange alerts for rainstorms, the second-highest alert in its color-coded weather warning system, in many parts of the country including Henan. From Wednesday morning to Thursday morning, heavy rains and rainstorms will continue in Henan and its neighboring provinces, the observatory said. Parts of Henan and Hebei will see rainstorms with up to 280 mm of daily precipitation. The observatory warned that some areas are likely to see over 70 mm of hourly rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorms and gales. Traffic has been disrupted in up to 30 sections of national and provincial highways in Henan due to flooding and collapsed roads, according to the Ministry of Transport. As of 7 a.m. Wednesday, 26 expressways in the region have reported partial closures, but there are not currently high numbers of vehicles and travelers stranded, said the transport ministry.

A total of 204,000 people have been relocated due to heavy rainfall and severe flooding in Weihui, Henan province, and a number of disaster relief and recovery measures have been implemented, local officials said on Wednesday.
Figures released by the provincial government said that by noon Wednesday, at least 73 people had died in Henan since July 16 as a result of the downpours and 13.66 million people had been affected. Nearly 180,000 hectares of crops had been destroyed and over 17,000 houses had collapsed.
Most of the urban area of Weihui, a low-lying county-level city in the northern part of Xinxiang, remains submerged, and nearly 300,000 residents have been affected, Xinxiang Vice-Mayor Wu Shengjun told a news conference on Wednesday. Between July 17 and 22, Xinxiang experienced the heaviest rains it had ever recorded, with an average of 830 millimeters and a maximum of 965.5 mm of rain falling.
Floodwaters in Weihui peaked at 20 million cubic meters, of which 16 million remain, Wu said. "By now, apart from the urban areas of Weihui, there is no waterlogging elsewhere and Xinxiang has basically returned to normal, with businesses gradually resuming operation," Wu said.
Shen Jiwei, an official with the Henan Provincial Water Resources Department, said Weihui's location at the intersection of two rivers, combined with the heavy rainfall, was responsible for the flooding, and made it difficult for water to drain away. Shen said that as the level of the Weihe River remains high, water is not draining away smoothly. In addition, a large nearby canal had been breached, further flooding Weihui and making the waterlogging even more serious.
The breach was repaired on Monday. Authorities have now dug drainage ditches and built cofferdams to try to keep the water out of the city.
They have also brought in more pumping equipment and opened 10 sluices to drain water into the river. "We will try our best to solve the waterlogging in Weihui in the next three days," Wu said.
Xinxiang's city government has sent five working teams focused on different areas, including emergency rescue, resettlement, health and epidemic prevention, to help Weihui recover. It also provided half the relief materials and funds needed.
More than 2,200 rescue personnel from Henan and other provinces are also helping in Xinxiang. They are concentrated in Weihui, rescuing people and transferring them to hospitals and nursing homes.
Li Zhiyong, Weihui's executive vice-mayor, said its government will come up with plans for recovery and the resumption of work and production as soon as possible. "We had already purchased public security and property insurance for all of the residents, and have launched a compensation mechanism to help industrial and commercial enterprises resume work and production and restore normal conditions as soon as possible," Li said.

Notice: The content above (including the pictures and videos if any) is uploaded and posted by a user of NetEase Hao, which is a social media platform and only provides information storage services.

