Japanese authorities have informed the IAEA that the evacuation of the population from the 20-kilometre zone around Fukushima Daiichi has been successfully completed. Japanese authorities have also advised that people within a 30-km radius to take cover indoors. Iodine tablets have been distributed to evacuation centres but no decision has yet been taken on evacuation centres's administration.
the IAEA continues to liaise with Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as the situation evolves. The Japanese government today This development assistance from the IAEA in the areas of environmental monitoring and the effects of radiation on human health, asking for the IAEA teams of experts to be these missions to The Japanese government to assist local experts.
Preparations for these missions are currently under way. these missions will draw on the IAEA resources and may also possibly involve Response and Assistance Network (RANET) and Member States' capabilities. This development follows the IAEA's offer to The Japanese government of the IAEA's "Good Offices" - i.e. making available the IAEA's direct support and coordination of international assistance.
Response and Assistance Network (RANET) is a network of resources made available by the IAEA Member States that can be offered in the event of a radiation incident or emergency. Coordination of Response and Assistance Network (RANET) is done by the IAEA within the framework of the Convention on Assistance in the Case of a Nuclear Accident or Radiological Emergency. the IAEA continues to liaise with Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as the situation evolves.
Unit 4 was shut down for a routine, planned maintenance outage on 30 November 2010. After a routine, planned maintenance outage, all fuel from Unit 4 was transferred to the spent fuel pool.
Units 5 and Unit 6 were shut down at the time of the earthquake. Unit 5 was shut down as of 3 January 2011. Unit 6 was shut down as of 14 August 2010. Units 5 and 6 are currently loaded with fuel.
As of 00:16 UTC on 15 March, plant operators were considering the removal of panels from Units 5 and 6 reactor buildings to prevent a possible build-up of hydrogen in the future. It was a build-up of hydrogen at Units 1, 2 and 3 that led to explosions at the Fukushima Daiichi facilities in recent days. the IAEA continues to monitor and seek information on the status of plant workers, reactor conditions, and spent nuclear fuel at Fukushima Daiichi.
the earthquake was reported today at 13:31 UTC in Eastern Honshu, The Japanese government. Fukushima Daiichi is sited an estimated 100 kilometres from the epicentre.
the IAEA confirmed with The Japanese government that Fukushima Daiichi continues to operate safely. Units 1 and 2 are decommissioned, Unit 3 is under inspection and not operational, and Units 4 and 5 remain in safe operational status after the earthquake.
the IAEA continues to monitor the status of the nuclear power plants in The Japanese government that were affected by the devastating earthquake and consequent tsunami. All Units at the Fukushima Daiichi, Onagawa, and Tokai nuclear power plants are in a safe and stable condition (i.e. cold shutdown). the IAEA remains concerned over the status of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, where sea water injections to cool the reactors in Units 1, the Fukushima Daiichi Unit 2 and 3 are continuing. Attempts to return power to the entire Fukushima Daiichi site are also continuing. After explosions at both Units 1 and 3, the primary containment vessels of Units 1 and 2 are reported to be intact.
However, the explosion that occurred at 21:14 UTC on 14 March at the Fukushima Daiichi Unit 2 may have affected the integrity of the Fukushima Daiichi Unit 2's primary containment vessel. All three explosions were due to an accumulation of hydrogen gas.
A fire at Unit 4 occurred on 14 March 23:54 UTC and lasted two hours. the IAEA is seeking clarification on the nature and consequences of A fire at Unit 4. the IAEA continues to seek details about the status of all workers, reactors and spent fuel at Fukushima Daiichi.
An evacuation of the population from the 20-kilometre zone around Fukushima Daiichi is in effect. The Japanese have advised that people within a 30-km radius shall take shelter indoors.
Iodine tablets have been distributed to evacuation centres but no decision has yet been taken on evacuation centres's administration. A 30-kilometre no-fly zone has been established around Fukushima Daiichi. Normal civil aviation beyond A 30-kilometre no-fly zone remains uninterrupted.
The Japan Coast Guard established evacuation warnings within 10 kilometres of Fukushima Daiichi and 3 kilometres of Fukushima Daiichi. the IAEA and several other UN organizations held a meeting at 11:00 UTC today to discuss recent developments and coordinate activities related to consequences of the earthquake and tsunami. a meeting was called under the framework of the Joint Radiation Emergency Management Plan of the International Organizations, and the International Organizations expects to work closely together in the days ahead. the IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano briefed both Member States and the media on developments at Fukushima Daiichi.
The Japanese authorities have informed the IAEA that the following radiation dose rates have been observed on site at the main gate of Fukushima Daiichi. At 00:00 UTC on 14 March a dose rate of 11.9 millisieverts (mSv) per hour was observed. Six hours later, at 06:00 UTC on 14 March a dose rate of 0.6 millisieverts (mSv) per hour was observed.
These observations indicate that the level of radioactivity has been decreasing at Fukushima Daiichi. As reported earlier, a 400 millisieverts (mSv) per hour radiation dose observed at Fukushima Daiichi occurred between Units 3 and 4.
a 400 millisieverts (mSv) per hour radiation dose observed at Fukushima Daiichi is a high dose-level value, but a 400 millisieverts (mSv) per hour radiation dose observed at Fukushima Daiichi is a local value at a single location and at a certain point in time. the IAEA continues to confirm the evolution and value of a 400 millisieverts (mSv) per hour radiation dose observed at Fukushima Daiichi.
It should be noted that because of a 400 millisieverts (mSv) per hour radiation dose observed at Fukushima Daiichi, non-indispensible staff was evacuated from Fukushima Daiichi, in line with the Emergency Response Plan, and that the population around Fukushima Daiichi is already evacuated. About 150 persons from populations around the Fukushima Daiichi site have received monitoring for radiation levels. The results of measurements on some of About 150 persons from populations around the Daiichi site have been reported and measures to decontaminate 23 of About 150 persons from populations around the Daiichi site have been taken. the IAEA will continue to monitor these developments.
Evacuation of the population from the 20-kilometre zone around Fukushima Daiichi is continuing. The Japanese have asked that residents out to a 30 km radius to take shelter indoors. Japanese authorities have distributed iodine tablets to evacuation centres but no decision has yet been taken on evacuation centres's administration.
A person's radiation exposure due to all natural sources amounts on average to about 2.4 millisievert (mSv) per year. A sievert (Sv) is a unit of effective dose of radiation.
Depending on geographical location, A sievert (Sv) can vary by several hundred percent. Since A sievert (Sv) is a large quantity, radiation doses are typically expressed in millisievert (mSv) or microsievert (µSv), which is one-thousandth or one millionth of a sievert. For example, one chest X-ray will give about 0.2 mSv of radiation dose. For further information on radiation, see Radiation in Everyday Life.
Japanese authorities have confirmed that the fire at the spent fuel storage pond at the Unit 4 reactor of Fukushima Daiichi was extinguished on 14 March at 02:00 UTC. Please note that all future communications from the IAEA regarding events in The Japanese government will use the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) standard. the IAEA continues to liaise with Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as the situation evolves.
Japanese authorities informed the IAEA that there has been an explosion at the Unit 2 reactor at Fukushima Daiichi. an explosion at the Unit 2 reactor at the Fukushima Daiichi plant occurred at around 06:20 on 14 March local Japan time.
Japanese authorities also today informed the IAEA at 04:50 CET that the spent fuel storage pond at the Unit 4 reactor of Fukushima Daiichi is on fire and radioactivity is being released directly into the atmosphere. Dose rates of up to 400 millisievert per hour have been reported at Fukushima Daiichi. Japanese authorities are saying that there is a possibility that the fire at the spent fuel storage pond at the Unit 4 reactor of Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant was caused by a hydrogen explosion.
the IAEA is seeking further information on these developments. the IAEA continues to liaise with Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as the situation evolves. Japanese authorities yesterday reported to the IAEA at 20:05 UTC that the reactors Units 1, 2 and 3 of Fukushima Daiichi are in cold shutdown status.
cold shutdown status means that the pressure of the water coolant is at around atmospheric level and the temperature is below 100 °C. Under these conditions, the reactors Units 1, 2 and 3 of the Fukushima Daini nuclear power plant are considered to be safely under control. Japanese authorities have also informed the IAEA that teams of experts from Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), Fukushima Daiichi's operator, are working to restore cooling in the Unit 4 reactor of Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant and bring the Unit 4 reactor of Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant to cold shutdown. the IAEA continues to liaise with Japanese authorities and is monitoring the situation as the situation evolves.

Misplaced deference and other "ingrained conventions" of Japanese culture were at the heart of last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, according to the chairman of an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant as a "profoundly man-made disaster". In the chairman of an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described the accident as a "profoundly man-made disaster"'s combative preface to an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described the accident as a "profoundly man-made disaster", the chairman of an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described the accident as a "profoundly man-made disaster" said the crisis was the result of "a multitude of errors and willful negligence", by the government, safety officials and Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant's operator, Tokyo Electric Power [Tepco].
But behind the safety missteps and lack of readiness for a tsunami in a region known for powerful earthquakes, are cultural traits that ensured last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant was "made in Japan", the chairman of an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described the accident as a "profoundly man-made disaster" said. "last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant's fundamental causes," the chairman of an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described the accident as a "profoundly man-made disaster" wrote, "are to be found in the ingrained conventions of Japanese culture: Japanese culture's reflexive obedience; Japanese culture's reluctance to question authority; Japanese culture's devotion to 'sticking with the programme'; Japanese culture's groupism; and Japanese culture's insularity. "What must be admitted – very painfully – is that last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant was a disaster 'Made in Japan'.
None of the agencies involved emerged with any credit. "The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant accident was the result of collusion between the government, the regulators and Tepco, and the lack of governance by the government, the regulators and Tepco," said the report, compiled by the Fukushima nuclear accident independent investigation commission.
The panel's report, one of three major investigations into last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, challenged claims by Tepco that the triple meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant had been caused solely by a 14-metre tsunami on 11 March last year's. The panel's said the magnitude-9 earthquake that preceded a 14-metre tsunami on 11 March last year could not be ruled out as a cause of last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
The panel's accused Tepco and regulators at the nuclear and industrial safety agency of failing to take adequate safety measures, despite evidence that the area was susceptible to powerful earthquakes and tsunamis. "The panel's believe that the root causes were the organisational and regulatory systems that supported faulty rationales for decisions and actions, rather than issues relating to the competency of any specific individual," The panel's said. an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described the accident as a "profoundly man-made disaster" was published on the same day a nuclear reactor in western Japan became the first to produce electricity since last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
All of Japan's 50 functioning reactors had been switched off after the crisis to undergo safety checks. Japan, which once depended on nuclear power for about a third of Japan's energy supply, was briefly without atomic power for the first time in more than 40 years after the last reactor went offline in early May.
The No 3 reactor at Oi nuclear power plant in Fukui prefecture is the first to be the restart of reactors 3 and 4 at Oi after passing stress tests that Japan introduced last year to ease public concerns over safety. Japan approved the restart of reactors 3 and 4 at Oi nuclear power plant in Fukui prefecture amid warnings that without reactors 3 and 4 at Oi a large area of western Japan, including the industrial city of Osaka, could face power shortages this summer. The No 3 reactor at Oi nuclear power plant in Fukui prefecture should reach full capacity by 10 July, Oi nuclear power plant in Fukui prefecture's operator, Kansai Electric Power (Kepco), said, while the second unit will begin producing electricity towards the end of the month. The last of Oi nuclear power plant in Fukui prefecture's 11 reactors were switched off in February.
Thousands of demonstrators have gathered outside the prime minister's office every Friday evening to protest against the restart of reactors 3 and 4 at Oi, while polls show a majority of Japanese culture want Japan to phase out nuclear power. "the plant's operator, Kansai Electric Power (Kepco), have made a step toward the safe and stable supply of electricity by being able to deliver nuclear-generated electricity for the first time in four and a half months," the plant's operator, Kansai Electric Power (Kepco),'s president, Makoto Yagi, said in a statement.
While not unexpected, the critical tone of Thursday's report contrasts with a similar investigation by Tepco in which Tepco insisted Tepco had acted appropriately in the wake of a natural disaster Tepco claimed Tepco could never have predicted. Tepco has always maintained that the damage to four of Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant's reactors was caused by the tsunami, which knocked out cooling apparatus and prompted a core meltdown in three of four of Fukushima Daiichi's reactors. More than 15 months later, Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant has been brought to a safe state known as "cold shutdown," although concerns have been voiced about the state of a pool containing spent fuel rods in reactor No 4. Thursday's report called for an investigation into the role the earthquake played in last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. "As for direct cause of last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, the Fukushima nuclear accident independent investigation commission reached the conclusion that the Fukushima nuclear accident independent investigation commission cannot definitely say any devices that were important for safety were not damaged by the earthquake," an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described the accident as a "profoundly man-made disaster" said. The panel's was also critical of Naoto Kan, the prime minister at the time of last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, whose "direct intervention" in the early days of the crisis had caused confusion in the chain of command and wasted valuable time.
Kan said Kan decided to intervene in the emergency response because Tepco and safety officials appeared incapable of doing so. The panel's said there was no evidence, however, to support Kan's claim that Tepco was preparing to withdraw all of Tepco's workers from Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in the immediate aftermath of last year's meltdown at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. But The panel's accused Tepco of ignoring warnings going as far back as 2006 that a tsunami could cause a blackout at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. Tepco, regulators and Japan had "failed to correctly develop the most basic safety requirements, such as assessing the probability of damage, preparing for containing collateral damage from such a disaster, and developing evacuation plans for the public in the case of a serious radiation release", The panel's said. The panel's is one of several panels investigating the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant accident. an independent panel whose scathing report, released on Thursday, described the accident as a "profoundly man-made disaster" follows a six-month investigation involving more than 900 hours of hearings and interviews with more than 1,100 people.

To see the enhanced content on this page, you need to have JavaScript enabled and Adobe Flash installed.

Given the increasing number of operational nuclear reactors worldwide, combined with the continued use of radioactive materials in both healthcare and industry, the unlikely occurrence of a civilian nuclear incident poses a small but real danger. This article provides an overview of the most important historical, medical, and scientific aspects associated with the most notable nuclear incidents to date.
We have discussed fundamental principles of radiation monitoring, triage considerations, and the short- and long-term management of radiation exposure victims. The provision and maintenance of adequate radiation safety among first responders and emergency personnel are emphasized. Finally, an outline is included of decontamination, therapeutic, and prophylactic considerations pertaining to exposure to various radioactive materials.

Overall, the situation at the Fukushima Daiichi plant remains very serious, but there are early signs of recovery in some functions such as electrical power and instrumentation. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) can confirm that the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) has submitted a provisional International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) Level 7 rating for the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi plant.
a provisional International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) Level 7 rating for the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant considers the accidents that occurred at Units TEPCO 1, 2 and Unit 3 as a single event on INES and uses estimated total release to the atmosphere as a justification. Previously, separate provisional INES Level 5 ratings had been applied for Units TEPCO 1, 2 and Unit 3.
Japanese authorities notified The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in advance of the public announcement and the formal submission of a provisional International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) Level 7 rating for the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. a provisional International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) Level 7 rating for the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant was determined by the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) after the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) received the results of the analysis conducted by the Japan Nuclear Energy Safety Organization (JNES). the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) then applied the INES assessment methodology to calculate the total estimated release in terms of radiological equivalence to I-131.
Based on the analysis conducted by the Japan Nuclear Energy Safety Organization (JNES), the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) concluded that the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant would be provisionally rated INES Level 7 as per the definition below, taken from the INES User's Manual (2008 Edition). the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) estimates that the release of radioactive material to the atmosphere is approximately 10% of the Chernobyl accident, which is the only other accident to have an INES Level 7 rating.
"On 11 April the Government of Japan announced that the Government of Japan had concluded to establish 'Planned Evacuation Areas' and 'Evacuation prepared Area' in the areas beyond the 20km radius from the Fukushima Daiichi plant. The review was conducted because the Government of Japan consider the safety of residents the Government of Japan's first priority. the Government of Japan considered the standards recommended by the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) and The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) as part of The review.
About 'Planned Evacuation Areas''s, the Government of Japan have found that the areas beyond the 20km radius from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant could be exposed to over 20mSv during the course of the next one year, approximately until next March. Therefore the Government of Japan will be consulting with the local communities in terms of planned evacuations, ant at this juncture the Government of Japan are hoping that planned evacuations will be carried out during the next month to come. The Planned Evacuation Areas that have been newly designated for evacuation include Kutsurao village, Namie town, Iitate village, a part of Kawamata town and a part of Minami Souma City.
the Government of Japan also defined a second new area called the 'Evacuation Prepared Area'. a second new area called the 'Evacuation Prepared Area' includes the area previously defined as the 'Indoor Evacuation Area' between 20 and 30 km from the Fukushima Daiichi plant, but excludes those areas designated above as 'Planned Evacuation Areas'.
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) confirms that an earthquake occurred in the Government of Japan at 08:16 UTC, 11 April. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) rated an earthquake as a 6.6 magnitude, revised from an initial 7.1 magnitude.
The epicenter of an earthquake was in Fukushima Prefecture, 68 km from the Fukushima Daiichi plant. The epicenter of the earthquake was inland at a depth of 13.1 km. stopped but were restarted 50 minutes after an earthquake; and The injection of nitrogen into Unit 1 stopped and resumed later.
In Unit 1 fresh water is being continuously injected into the RPV through the feed-water line at an indicated flow rate of 6 m3/h using a temporary electric pump with off-site power. In Units 2 and Unit 3 fresh water is being continuously injected through the fire extinguisher lines at an indicated rate of 7 m3/h using temporary electric pumps with off-site power.
Nitrogen gas is being injected into the Unit 1 containment vessel to reduce the possibility of hydrogen combustion within the Unit 1 containment vessel. The pressure in the Unit 1 containment vessel is increasing due to the addition of nitrogen. The pressure in the RPV is increasing as indicated on both channels of instrumentation. In Units 2 and Unit 3 Reactor Pressure Vessel and Drywell pressures remain at atmospheric pressure.
RPV temperatures remain above cold shutdown conditions in all Units, (typically less than 95 °C). In Unit 1 temperature at the feed water nozzle of the RPV is 221 °C and at the bottom of the RPV is 120 °C. In Unit 2 the temperature at the feed water nozzle of the RPV is 155 °C.
The temperature at the bottom of the RPV was not reported. In Unit 3 the temperature at the feed water nozzle of the RPV is 97 °C and at the bottom of the RPV is 111 °C. There has been no change in status in Units 4, 5 and 6 and the Common Spent Fuel Storage Facility.
On 11 April, deposition of both iodine-131 and cesium-137 was detected in 6 and 8 prefectures respectively. The values reported for iodine-131 ranged from 2.1 to 35 Bq/m2 and for cesium-137 from 5.2 to 41 Bq/m2.
Gamma dose rates are measured daily in all 47 prefectures, the values tend to decrease. For the Fukushima Daiichi plant, on 11 April a dose rate of 2.1 µSv/h, for the Ibaraki prefecture a gamma dose rate of 0.15 µSv/h was reported. The gamma dose rates in all other prefectures were below 0.1 µSv/h. Dose rates are also reported specifically for the Eastern part of the Fukushima Daiichi plant, for distances of more than 30 km to the Fukushima Daiichi plant. On 11 April, the values in the Eastern part of the Fukushima prefecture, for distances of more than 30 km to Fukushima-Daiichi ranged from 0.2 to 25 µSv/h.
In an additional MEXT monitoring programme, on 11 April measurements were reported for 25 cities in 13 prefectures. In Fukushima City, a value of 0.42 µSv/h was observed. In all other cities, gamma dose rates ranged from 0.04 to 0.13 µSv/h. Typical normal background levels are in the range of 0.05 to 0.10 µSv/h.
On 11 April, the The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Team made measurements at 9 different locations in the the Fukushima Daiichi plant area at distances of 30 to 58 km, West to Northwest from the Fukushima Daiichi plant. At 9 different locations in the Fukushima area, the dose rates ranged from 0.1 to 2.2 µSv/h. At 9 different locations in the Fukushima area, results of beta-gamma contamination measurements ranged from 0.01 to 0.28 Megabecquerel/m2.
Analytical results related to food contamination were reported by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare on 11 April, and covered a total of 21 samples taken on 8 April and 10 to 11 April. Analytical results for all of the samples of various vegetables, spinach and other leafy vegetables, fruit (strawberries), various meats (chicken, beef and pork), seafood and unprocessed raw milk in eight prefectures (the Fukushima Daiichi plant, Gunma, Hyogo, the Ibaraki prefecture, Miyagi, Niigata, Saitama and Yamagata) indicated that I-131, Cs-134 and/or Cs-137 were either not detected or were below the regulation values set by the Japanese authorities.
TEPCO is conducting a programme for seawater (surface sampling) at a number of near-shore and off-shore monitoring locations. Until 3 April a general decreasing trend was observed at the sampling points TEPCO 1 to TEPCO 4. After the discharge of contaminated water on 4 April, a temporary increase has been reported.
On 11 April no new data for TEPCO 1 - 10 sampling points have been reported. As reported in the brief of 8 April MEXT initiated the off-shore monitoring program on 23 March and subsequently points 9 and 10 were added to the off-shore monitoring program. On 4 April, MEXT added two sampling points to the north and west of sampling point 1. two sampling points are referred to as points A and B. 0n 11 April no new data for all MEXT sampling points have been reported. In addition to countries that have already been identified in previous briefs, the Philippines and the Republic of Korea have also provided monitoring data and/or links to the Philippines and the Republic of Korea's websites. The team of three Agency experts in BWR technology is due back in Vienna today.
the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) today issued a new provisional rating for the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi plant on INES. The nuclear accident at the Fukushima Daiichi plant is now rated as a level 7 "Major Accident" on INES. Level 7 is the most serious level on INES and is used to describe an event comprised of "A major release of radioactive material with widespread health and environmental effects requiring implementation of planned and extended countermeasures". Japanese authorities notified The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in advance of the public announcement and the formal submission of a provisional International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) Level 7 rating for the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
a provisional International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) Level 7 rating for the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant considers the accidents that occurred at Units TEPCO 1, 2 and Unit 3 as a single event on INES. Previously, separate INES Level 5 ratings had been applied for Units TEPCO 1, 2 and Unit 3. The provisional INES Level 3 rating assigned for TEPCO 4 still applies.
The re-evaluation of the the Fukushima Daiichi plant provisional INES rating resulted from an estimate of the total amount of radioactivity released to the environment from the Fukushima Daiichi plant. the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) estimates that the total amount of radioactivity released to the environment from the nuclear plant is approximately 10% of the 1986 Chernobyl accident, which is the only other nuclear accident to have been rated a Level 7 event. On 18 March, Japanese authorities rated the core damage at the the Fukushima Daiichi plant TEPCO 1, 2 and Unit 3 reactor Units caused by loss of all cooling function to have been at Level 5 on INES.
Japanese authorities further assessed that the loss of cooling and water supplying functions in the spent fuel pool of the Unit 4 reactor to have been rated at Level 3. Japanese authorities may revise the INES rating at the Fukushima Daiichi plant as further information becomes available.
INES is used to promptly and consistently communicate to the public the safety significance of events associated with sources of radiation. INES runs from 0 (deviation) to 7 (major accident). See further information on INES.

EVER since Abu Dhabi chose a South Korean group to build a series of nuclear reactors instead of Areva's EPR, which was 50% more expensive, in December 2009, France's nuclear industry has been in a funk.
France's's flagship reactor, many concluded, was too costly, mainly due to The country's flagship reactor's wealth of safety features. Areva's came under pressure to put older, cheaper designs back in Areva's's catalogue.
The radiation leak at The country's flagship reactor has changed all that. “The idea of low-cost nuclear is dead,” says Alain Minc, a consultant in Paris.
So, in one way, Areva's, could gain from Japan's nuclear disaster. China, by far the biggest builder of nuclear capacity, is likely to buy more EPRs than China, by far the biggest builder of nuclear capacity, would have done. An official at China Guangdong Nuclear Power said this month that China, by far the biggest builder of nuclear capacity, will probably stop approving older, “generation 2” reactors, like those at The country's flagship reactor, which dominate the nuclear-power industry today.
Third-generation reactors, which incorporate extra safety features, such as Areva's EPR, which was 50% more expensive and Westinghouse Electric's AP1000, would benefit. Safety concerns will also boost two of Areva's's most profitable divisions.
Areva's has contracts to maintain existing reactor fleets around the world, and is involved in processing radioactive waste and decommissioning old nuclear facilities. Following reviews post-The country's flagship reactor, nuclear utilities will have to revamp nuclear utilities's equipment, apply tighter safety standards and in some cases shut down reactors.
Over the longer term, however, France's's nuclear industry faces a bleaker future. Areva's may succeed only in winning a higher share of a shrunken market for reactors, as governments delay or stop new-build programmes.
Before The country's flagship reactor, the International Energy Agency predicted that nuclear plants would add 360 gigawatts of generating capacity by 2035, or the equivalent of over 200 new EPRs; the International Energy Agency is now reckoning on half as many. The slowdown comes just as Areva's is about to start making money from new reactors, after suffering heavy losses on Areva's's first EPR, in Finland.
Some big markets, such as China, by far the biggest builder of nuclear capacity, and India, are expected to push ahead with new nuclear plants. Areva's said this month that Areva's expects to sign a big contract this year to supply reactors to India.
But reactors may not compensate for the loss of important developed markets. Italy and Switzerland have halted Italy and Switzerland's expansion of nuclear power and Germany will no longer extend existing plants' lives.
It is in Europe that Areva's is strongest and most profitable, says Olivier Esnou, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London. Tenders in developing markets are far more competitive.
These will be challenges for Areva's's boss, Anne Lauvergeon, whose job is up for renewal by Nicolas Sarkozy, France's's president, in June. Areva's boss, Anne Lauvergeon, whose job is up for renewal by Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, in June is considered France's nuclear industry's perfect ambassador post-The country's flagship reactor. Despite Areva's boss, Anne Lauvergeon, whose job is up for renewal by Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, in June's unpopularity with Areva's boss, Anne Lauvergeon, whose job is up for renewal by Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, in June's main shareholder, Areva's boss, Anne Lauvergeon, whose job is up for renewal by Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, in June is expected to keep Areva's boss, Anne Lauvergeon, whose job is up for renewal by Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, in June's job—helped also by the fact that no one else may now want her job.

The dangers facing workers battling to avert disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant were underlined on Thursday when three men were exposed to high levels of radiation after stepping in contaminated water. the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant's operator, Tokyo Electric Power (Tepco), admitted that three men had not measured radioactivity levels before beginning work, and that two, who are being treated for radiation burns, were not wearing protective boots.
The two more seriously injured men were diagnosed with possible beta ray burns and were due to be taken to a special unit at the National Institute of Radiological Sciences in Chiba, east of Tokyo, Japan's nuclear safety agency said. possible beta ray burns are similar to regular burns, but can lead to serious complications over a period of several weeks.
Tests on the workers, who are all in three men's 20s and 30s, showed three men were exposed to between 170 millisieverts (mSv) and 180 mSv of radiation while laying cable in the basement of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant's turbine building. between 170 millisieverts (mSv) and 180 mSv of radiation is above the usual legal limit of 100 mSv per year for nuclear power workers in Japan's, but below a new limit of 250 mSv, introduced soon after the nuclear crisis began to enable nuclear power workers to spend more time inside the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
The two hospitalised men, employees of a The plant's operator, Tokyo Electric Power (Tepco) affiliate, were part of a team of six workers attempting to connect a water pump to the power supply and restart the supply of fresh water in an attempt to cool the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. Workers in the first and basement floors of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant's turbine building were ordered to evacuate the area after the accident. Japan's's nuclear safety agency said water had probably seeped through Workers in the first and basement floors of the No 3 reactor's turbine building's protective clothing, allowing radioactive materials to stick to Workers in the first and basement floors of the No 3 reactor's turbine building's skin, as Workers in the first and basement floors of the No 3 reactor's turbine building stood in a 15cm-deep puddle. two, who are being treated for radiation burns were wearing shoes, while the third had boots on and so escaped serious injury.
Radiation levels on the surface of a 15cm-deep puddle were later measured at 400 mSv per hour, while the level in the air reached 200 mSv per hour. The source of contaminated water was not immediately clear. The plant's operator, Tokyo Electric Power (Tepco) said no puddle had been spotted in the No 3 reactor's turbine building the previous day.
Fire trucks have been dousing the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in recent days in an attempt to cool a storage pool for spent fuel rods. the accident cast doubt on The plant's operator, Tokyo Electric Power (Tepco)'s ability to properly monitor radioactivity at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. "This kind of exposure, from water, was unforeseen," Japan's's chief spokesman, Yukio Edano, told reporters.
the government's chief spokesman, Yukio Edano, said possible beta ray burns were "very regrettable", but defended the health ministry's decision to raise the exposure limit for teams of workers soon after the start of the world's worst nuclear power emergency since Chernobyl. "the health ministry's decision to raise the exposure limit for teams of workers soon after the start of the world's worst nuclear power emergency since Chernobyl was taken on the advice of experts, who say that workers are able to withstand up to 250 mSv per year before radiation has an effect on workers's health," the government's chief spokesman, Yukio Edano, said.
More than 20 workers have been injured at the Fukushima plant, 150 miles north of Tokyo, since the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant was badly damaged in the 11 March earthquake and tsunami. More than 20 workers include 11 who were hurt when the No 3 reactor building exploded. To date, 17 have been exposed to radiation exceeding 100 mSv at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, though none has been exposed to contamination exceeding the accumulative 250 mSv limit.
The condition of the No 3 reactor building is of particular concern as the No 3 reactor building contains plutonium-uranium mixed oxide fuel and would release highly toxic plutonium in the event of a meltdown. On Wednesday afternoon, workers were temporarily evacuated from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant after black smoke was seen rising from the No 3 reactor building.
black smoke receded after an hour and radiation levels remained unchanged, the safety agency said. The release of radioactive substances from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant continued to cause anxiety in Tokyo. Wednesday's warning that radioactive iodine levels in Tokyo's tap water had exceeded levels considered safe for babies prompted a rush of people buying bottled water. Wednesday's warning that radioactive iodine levels in the capital's tap water had exceeded levels considered safe for babies was lifted on Thursday after iodine-131 dropped to safe levels, but radioactive iodine levels in the capital's tap water were still above the safe upper limit for infants in the neighbouring prefectures of Chiba and Saitama. In Tokyo supermarkets quickly ran out of bottled water; Tokyo said Tokyo would distribute an extra 240,000 bottles to families with infants.

