WASHINGTON (AP) — Under battle flags bearing Donald Trump’s name, the Capitol’s attackers pinned a bloodied police officer in a doorway, his twisted face and screams captured on video. They mortally wounded another officer with a blunt weapon and body-slammed a third over a railing into the crowd.
“Hang Mike Pence!” the insurrectionists chanted as they pressed inside, beating police with pipes.
They demanded House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s whereabouts, too. They hunted any and all lawmakers: “Where are they?”
Outside, makeshift gallows stood, complete with sturdy wooden steps and the noose. Guns and pipe bombs had been stashed in the vicinity. Only days later is the extent of the danger from one of the darkest episodes in American democracy coming into focus.
The sinister nature of the assault has become evident, betraying the crowd as a force determined to occupy the inner sanctums of Congress and run down leaders — Trump’s vice president and the Democratic House speaker among them. This was not just a collection of Trump supporters with MAGA bling caught up in a wave.
That revelation came in real time to Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., who briefly took over proceedings in the House chamber as the mob closed in Wednesday and Pelosi was spirited to safer quarters moments before everything went haywire. Pelosi said Sunday “the evidence is that it was a well-planned, organized group with leadership and guidance and direction.
And the direction was to go get people.” She did not elaborate on that point in a ”60 Minutes” interview on CBS.
The scenes of rage, violence and agony are so vast that the whole of it may still be beyond comprehension. But with countless smartphone videos emerging from the scene, much of it from gloating insurrectionists themselves, and more lawmakers recounting the chaos that was around them, the contours of the uprising are increasingly coming into relief.
The mob got stirring encouragement from Trump and more explicit marching orders from the president’s men. “Fight like hell,” Trump exhorted his partisans at the staging rally. “Let’s have trial by combat,” implored his lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, whose attempt to throw out election results in trial by courtroom failed.
It’s time to “start taking down names and kicking ass,” said Republican Rep. Mo Brooks of Alabama. Criminals pardoned by Trump, among them Roger Stone and Michael Flynn, came forward at rallies on the eve of the attack to tell the crowds they were fighting a battle between good and evil.
On Capitol Hill, Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri gave a clenched-fist salute to the hordes outside the Capitol as he pulled up to press his challenge of the election results. The crowd was pumped.
Until a little after 2 p.m., Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell was at the helm for the final minutes of decorum in partnership with Pence, who was serving his ceremonial role presiding over the process. Far-right social media users had openly hinted for weeks that chaos would erupt at the Capitol when Congress convened to certify the election results. As the attack unfolded, they urged followers to “trust the plan” and “hold the line.”
Just what the plan might have been is central to the investigation. The FBI is investigating whether some of the attackers intended to kidnap members of Congress and hold them hostage.
Authorities are particularly focused on why some in the mob were seen carrying plastic zip-tie handcuffs and had apparently accessed areas of the Capitol generally difficult for the public to locate. Thousands had swarmed the Capitol.
They charged into police and metal barricades outside the building, shoving and hitting officers in their way. The assault quickly pushed through the vastly outnumbered police line; officers ran down one man and pummeled him.
In the melee outside, near the structure built for Joe Biden’s inauguration on Jan. 20, a man threw a fire extinguisher at the helmeted head of a police officer. Then he picked up a bullhorn and threw it at officers, too.
The identity of the officer could not immediately be confirmed. But Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick, who was wounded in the chaos, died the next night; officials say he had been hit in the head with a fire extinguisher.
At 2:15 p.m., the Senate recessed its Electoral College debate and a voice was heard over the chamber’s audio system: “The protesters are in the building.” The doors of the House chamber were barricaded and lawmakers inside it were told they may need to duck under their chairs or relocate to cloakrooms off the House floor because the mob has breached the Capitol Rotunda.
“I said, ‘No, I want to be here,’”she said. “And they said, ‘Well, no, you have to leave.’
I said, ‘No, I’m not leaving.’ They said, ‘No, you must leave.’” So she did.
At 2:44 p.m., as lawmakers inside the House chamber prepared to be evacuated, a gunshot was heard from right outside, in the Speaker’s Lobby on the other side of the barricaded doors. That’s when Ashli Babbit, wearing a Trump flag like a cape, was shot to death on camera as insurrectionists railed, her blood pooling on the white marble floor. The Air Force veteran from California had climbed through a broken window into the Speaker’s Lobby before a police officer’s gunshot felled her.
Back in the House chamber, a woman in the balcony was seen and heard screaming. Why she was doing that only became clear later when video circulated. She was screaming a prayer.
Within about 10 minutes of the shooting, House lawmakers and staff members who had been cowering during the onslaught, terror etched into their faces, had been taken from the chamber and gallery to a secure room. The mob broke into Pelosi’s offices while members of her staff hid in one of the rooms of her suite.
On the Senate side, Capitol Police had circled the chamber and ordered all staff and reporters and any nearby senators into the chamber and locked it down. At one point about 200 people were inside; an officer armed with what appeared to be a semi-automatic weapon stood between McConnell and the Democratic leader, Sen. Chuck Schumer. Authorities then ordered an evacuation and rushed everyone inside to a secure location, the Senate parliamentary staff scooping up the boxes holding the Electoral Collage certificates.
Although the Capitol’s attackers had been sent with Trump’s exhortation to fight, they appeared in some cases to be surprised that they had actually made it in. When they breached the abandoned Senate chamber, they milled around, rummaged through papers, sat at desks and took videos and pictures. One of them climbed to the dais and yelled, “Trump won that election!”
Two others were photographed carrying flex cuffs typically used for mass arrests. But outside the chamber, the mob’s hunt was still on for lawmakers. “Where are they?” people could be heard yelling.
At about 5:30 p.m., once the National Guard had arrived to supplement the overwhelmed Capitol Police force, a full-on effort began to get the attackers out. Heavily armed officers brought in as reinforcements started using tear gas in a coordinated fashion to get people moving toward the door, then combed the halls for stragglers. As darkness fell, they pushed the mob farther out onto the plaza and lawn, using officers in riot gear in full shields and clouds of tear gas, flash-bangs and percussion grenades.
Within the hour, the Senate had resumed its work and the House followed, returning the People’s House to the control of the people’s representatives. Lawmakers affirmed Biden’s election victory early the next morning, shell-shocked by the catastrophic failure of security. Associated Press writers Dustin Weaver in Washington and Michael Casey in Concord, New Hampshire, contributed to this report. Reeves reported from Birmingham, Alabama.

Maybe they were onto something. Columns are opinion content that reflect the views of the writers.
Americans were preoccupied with the threat from radical Islamist terrorists. They had trouble believing there was a worse danger from homegrown extremists who portray themselves as patriots. Apparently many people still have trouble believing it — notably the U.S. Capitol police. For weeks, unhinged people mesmerized by bizarre conspiracy theories had been openly organizing for mass protests aimed at keeping their hero Donald Trump in power.
Just last month, Trump supporters rallied and fought with opponents in Washington. The leader of the white nationalist Proud Boys was arrested just Monday on charges related to that episode.
If only. When the mob stormed the building Wednesday, the cops were outmanned and underprepared, and many had to stand by or retreat. “Policing experts noted a lack of crowd-control tools such as mounted officers, police dogs or a heavily manned perimeter,” reported The New York Times.
One police officer died from his injuries. In 2014, there was a tense standoff between federal agents and Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, who grazed his cattle on Bureau of Land Management land but refused to pay fees. Bundy told armed supporters, “We’re about ready to take the country over with force!” His son Ammon led a takeover of the headquarters of a national wildlife refuge in Oregon, and one of his militants was shot dead resisting arrest.
The COVID-19 pandemic provided more fertile ground for radical right groups. In April, hundreds of protesters, some of them openly carrying military-style rifles, entered the Michigan Capitol and tried to get into the legislative chambers. By now it should be clear that the threat from right-wing radicals has not only persisted but has gained considerable ground.
The Capitol rioters were inspired by election disinformation spread not only by Trump but by Republican members of Congress. The attack on the Capitol might have been a moment for the GOP rank-and-file to draw back in horror.
But a YouGov poll found that 45% of Republican voters who responded supported the actions of the mob. Right-wing extremism is no longer a fringe movement; it’s a major influence on the Republican Party.
Donald Trump will soon leave office. But the poison he helped inject into our politics is here to stay.
Steve Chapman, a member of the Tribune Editorial Board, blogs at www.chicagotribune.com/chapman. Submit a letter, of no more than 400 words, to the editor here or email letters@chicagotribune.com. Get our latest editorials, commentaries and columns, delivered twice a week in our Fighting Words newsletter. Sign up here.

WASHINGTON, Jan 8 (Reuters) -
As the nation recoiled in horror at scenes of rioting and chaos in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, some right-wing and anti-government extremists saw the violence as the fulfillment of a patriotic duty or opportunity to advance their agenda. Among the inspired was Mike Dunn, a 20-year-old follower of the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the federal government or a second U.S. civil war. Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said three or four groups of loyalists under his command helped storm the Capitol this week amid a motley mix of rioters who supported President Donald Trump’s attempts to overturn the results of the November presidential election.
While most “boogaloos” are libertarians who largely oppose Trump, Dunn said the group embraced the moment to strike against the government. The mob swarmed the home of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate, succeeding in temporarily interrupting a formal vote to confirm Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.
Dunn’s hope is that the incident - which resulted in five deaths - will trigger more actions in the months ahead. He said his group would seek to advance its own agenda by participating at protests and other events with those angry over Trump’s loss, even if they held other beliefs. While Dunn said he did not participate in the Capitol siege himself, he shared footage on social media that purported to show boogaloo members tussling with police and forcing their way through barriers outside the building.
The assault - one of the most destructive breaches of the Capitol since invading British forces set it ablaze in 1814 - marks a critical moment for extremists who have seized on false claims, spread by Trump, that the U.S. election system is fraudulent and rigged. Some say they will keep fighting in support of the Republican president’s baseless allegations of a stolen election. Others said they would put immediate activities on hold but threatened to re-emerge later. Bourg said shouts of “traitor” were common among other demonstrators as well.
Pence was presiding over the electoral vote count, a largely ceremonial duty to confirm Biden’s victory. Trump had falsely suggested to his followers that Pence could ignore the official count and hand Trump a second term. Security agents rushed Pence from the Senate chamber after protesters breached the Capitol building.
The assault on the building led to the shooting death of a protester and the death of a U.S. Capitol Police officer from injuries sustained during the melee. Three more people died from medical emergencies, dozens of police officers were injured and congressional offices ransacked as law enforcement failed to control the mob.
U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department said on Thursday they had arrested a combined 82 people during the unrest. The attack generated widespread backlash among U.S. officials of both parties and America’s allies worldwide.
But the mob’s strike at the symbolic heart of the U.S. government suggests that Trump’s baseless claims of election fraud may have unified a broader coalition of extremists who could pose a threat again when Biden takes office on Jan. 20 and into his four-year term in office, experts said. Far-right groups have praised the siege in encrypted chat rooms and defended the participants as “patriots” on social media.
Experts tracking protests expected actions in Texas and the Pacific Northwest in coming weeks, as well as around the inauguration in Washington. But turnout for those events remains unclear as Trump on Thursday finally conceded defeat and said he will be leaving office.
“Tempers must be cooled and calm restored,” Trump later said in a brief video posted to Twitter. Protesters who gathered at the Capitol building on Wednesday included some of the most extreme elements of the president’s base, including white nationalists, militia groups and QAnon conspiracy theorists, according to Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, which tracks extremism.
The mix of ideologies have been drawn together in recent weeks by “Stop the Steal” protests in cities across the country, pro-Trump efforts that seek to overturn the results of the presidential election, Burghart said. “They formed this kind of new coalition and have been holding rallies virtually nonstop ever since the defeat,” he said.
When demonstrators forced their way into Congress on Wednesday, the tumult blurred the lines between more mainstream Trump supporters and adherents of different extremist movements, according to Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism. Some people likely came to the protests with no plans for anything beyond a demonstration and then joined the mayhem, he said.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation and U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued memos last year warning that threats by domestic extremists would likely increase around the election. Alleged domestic violent extremists in the United States killed 48 people in 2019 - more than in any year since the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, according to a DHS report released in October.
The right-wing, white nationalist and militia groups that participated in the Capitol siege have not tended to coordinate in the past, due in part to infighting and clashing personalities, according to Amy Cooter, a senior sociology lecturer at Vanderbilt University who has studied extremist groups for a decade. But Wednesday’s spectacle, which brought them together in Washington, might inspire them to try to work more closely in the future, Cooter said. Biden’s inauguration stands out as a possible target for disruptive or violent protests, but any new Biden policies that deal with race and gender equity could also trigger actions, she said.
Tarrio is under a court order to stay away from Washington following his arrest there Monday for destruction of property and possession of two firearm magazines. He said he did not participate in the siege. Tarrio said the Proud Boys did not have plans to reconvene for Biden’s inauguration later this month, but would be active during the Democrat’s presidency.

POLITICO Dispatch: January 13 Impeachment.
Inauguration. The transfer of power.
The next seven days will be critical, and intelligence officials are already warning of possible "armed protests" across the country. Much of the online confusion has been driven by large social networks clamping down on the most extreme of material appearing on their sites. Along with banning Donald Trump, Facebook and Twitter have both stopped far-right hashtags from trending and have removed scores of posts promoting potential violence ahead of the Jan. 20 inauguration.
Without the largest social media networks to rely on, far-right campaigners initially turned to Parler, the conservative app, to vent their anger and frustration and potentially plan for further action. The digital platform was used to organize some of the violence associated with the Capitol Hill riots on Jan. 6 and became a central rallying place for Trump supporters who still believed in debunked voter fraud claims stemming from the November election, based on a review of online posts by POLITICO. But in the wake of last week’s violence, Google and Apple quickly banned Parler from appearing in their app stores, and Amazon — whose cloud computing business underpins how many digital services work — kicked the company from its servers. Parler subsequently filed an antitrust lawsuit against Amazon.
In this void, many fringe groups have turned to TikTok. Since the Jan. 6 Capitol Hill riots, pro-militia groups have flooded the Chinese-owned video-sharing service, promoting voter fraud conspiracy theories and accusing Pence of betraying Trump by overseeing the certification of the Electoral College vote, according to Ciaran O’Connor, a disinformation researcher at the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, a London-based think tank that tracks online hate speech. Multiple TikTok users posted audio clips of Trump speaking that were doctored to make it appear that he was criticizing the current vice president. Often, the posts were labeled: “Mike Pence is Traitor.”
Viral images of the recent Capitol Hill riots, including incendiary claims that more violence was in store, quickly garnered large amounts of online views on the site. Other TikTok users went even further to claim the president was about to institute martial law. The hashtag InsurrectionAct, in reference to false claims that Trump had already called in the military, currently has more than 4.4 million views, collectively, on the social media platform. In response, TikTok said it was reviewing the posts that POLITICO had flagged, adding that content or accounts that incited or promoted violence would be removed. But the app is far from the only place where these groups and individuals are congregating and posting.
Many, fearing scrutiny from law enforcement, have gone dark. As early as November, hardcore extremist groups retreated to invite-only message boards and encrypted messaging apps, such as Telegram, as they began organizing events to protest Trump’s loss.
The growth of CB apps — named after CB radio, the informal frequencies truckers use to communicate with each other — has made it easier for them to coordinate activity in real time. Though fewer people outside those networks can become radicalized as a result of the use of invite-only boards, extremism researchers have found it more difficult to track these groups as a result. They expressed hope that law enforcement — with their ability to execute warrants and superior technology — was zeroing in on these entities nonetheless.
It is possible that the sudden surge of law enforcement interest might frighten and deter potential attendees from coming to state and national protests. After FBI officials and other federal agencies were able to swoop in and arrest attendees of last week’s event at the Capitol — even going so far as to put potential suspects whom they found on social media on no-fly lists leaving Washington — it became clear to the wider world of MAGA supporters that they were risking severe consequences. Some militia groups have tried distancing themselves from their own events. In an ironic twist, right-wing media outlets, professional MAGA influencers, and pro-Trump social media groups are now warning their members to avoid these events, albeit with their own conspiratorial spin: that they are acutally false flag operations, either created by the government in an attempt to silence conservatives and strip away their Second Amendment rights, or by leftist antifa plotters hoping to make the MAGA movement look bad, or even by the Chinese government in conjunction with the elites. Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report.

Followers of the conspiracy have also been sharing false or doctored images and videos of the fencing around the Capitol building - built to ensure the safety of those attending the inauguration and avoid a repeat of the 6 January riots - with claims the fencing is in fact a military prison which will be used to entrap Mr Biden and members of the so-called "deep state".

Updated: 7:29 p.m.
Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters breached security measures and entered the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, forcing law-enforcement personnel to evacuate members of Congress gathered to certify the president’s electoral defeat. At 6 p.m., when a curfew ordered by D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser took effect, the president appeared unrepentant in the face of a hailstorm of criticism that he had incited mob violence.
By 7 p.m., Guardsmen had arrived on the Capitol grounds and police officials declared the building secure. Lawmakers began to return to the chamber to finish certifying the electoral college vote.
Still, the task of clearing the Capitol complex of rioters is likely to prove a painstaking one. The complex is a massive and labyrinthine set of buildings with lots of nooks and crannies in which an enterprising person could hide.
The insurrectionists and protestors had begun to gather in downtown Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, and returned for rallies on Wednesday morning, all in support of Trump’s calls to overturn the election. Around 1 p.m., as the House and Senate opened a joint session to certify the results of the Nov. 3 election, a mob of hundreds moved onto the Capitol grounds.
Video posted on Twitter showed them tearing down security fences. By 1:15, the mob had advanced up the Capitol steps.
In some places, they clashed with law enforcement personnel. In others, video appears to show Capitol Police allowing the mob to move forward into previously off-limits areas. Within the hour, video shows, the mob had pushed past the police, broken windows, and forced their way into the seat of the U.S. legislature.
At 2:17 p.m., Capitol Police told lawmakers, staff, and media to hold in place, HuffPost reporter Matt Fuller reported. Moments after that, House lawmakers were being evacuated.
“We are calling on President Trump to demand that all protestors leave the U.S. Capitol and Capitol Grounds immediately,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said in a joint statement. Despite the pushing and shoving, and video showing guns drawn by law-enforcement officers inside the Capitol, the response to the Trump-fired insurrectionists paled in comparison to the violence that met last summer’s
Black Lives Matters protests. Noted Politico’s Ryan Lizza: “I covered a lot of BLM protests in D.C. last year (tear gassed several times, hit with a rubber bullet) and the difference here in terms of the police response to property damage and violence is astounding.” Video appears to show at least some Capitol Police officers posing for selfies with extremists inside the building.
The entire D.C. National Guard was activated, but the parameters of the deployment were not immediately clear, including whether or not Guardsmen have been authorized to conduct law enforcement operations. Unlike a state, whose governors have the power to mobilize the National Guard, the mayor of Washington, D.C., must request troops through the U.S. deputy attorney general who then sends the request to the Army secretary, a former senior Army official said. The requests are sent by fax machine.
Once called up, the Guard typically serves as a backup to civilian law enforcement. In a later statement, Hoffman pushed back on reports that the Pentagon had denied D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowster’s request to activate the Guard. D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser, at an afternoon press conference, said she requested the National Guard “two or three days ago” to support the Metropolitan Police Department.
That request was approved by Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, she said. The U.S. Capitol Police made a request for additional National Guard support today, Bowser and McCarthy said.
That was approved at 3 p.m., McCarthy said at the same press conference. Miller in a statement said that “[Joint Chiefs] Chairman [Gen. Mark] Milley and I spoke separately with the Vice President and with Speaker Pelosi, Leader McConnell, Senator Schumer and Representative Hoyer about the situation at the U.S. Capitol” — a list that notably did not include the president.
Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam also tweeted on Wednesday afternoon that he would send members of the Virginia National Guard and 200 Virginia state troopers to help city and congressional leaders to contain the situation. A small, unarmed contingent of the D.C. Guard, which is under the command of the president through the Secretary of the Army, was already present in the city helping local law enforcement with traffic control.
“Shocking scenes in Washington, D.C. The outcome of this democratic election must be respected,” NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg tweeted. Marcus Weisgerber contributed to this report.

As a pro-Trump mob stormed the U.S. Capitol last Wednesday, symbols of white supremacy and extremist right-wing militias were displayed by rioters on flags, banners and clothing scattered in a sea of American flags, pro-Trump banners and campaign memorabilia. According to experts who study far-right movements in the U.S., the images illuminated some of the beliefs held by some “extremist” individuals and groups who embraced President Donald Trump's repeated false claims that the election was stolen from him and responded to his call for “strong” action as he urged supporters to march to the Capitol.
Larry Rosenthal, chair and lead researcher of the Berkeley Center for Right-Wing Studies, said that the “Stop the Steal” mob was generally made up of two groups -- right-wing populists, whom he described as part of Trump’s most faithful “rally-goers.” Some of them did not engage in violence and were "not prepared for insurrection." There were also right-wing militia groups that represent two overlapping “currents” of the far right movement: white nationalism and anti-government.
These two themes were also reflected in the mix of symbology scattered in the crowd – far-right symbols that included symbols of the Confederacy, Nazism, white supremacy, and anarchy, experts said. Self-described members of the Proud Boys, a group that is characterized by the FBI as a far-right extremist group with ties to white nationalism, were present. According to the New York Times, some were pictured outside the Capitol wearing orange hats.
The “Q” symbol represents QAnon, a series of disproven conspiracy theories centered on the baseless belief that Trump is waging a secret campaign against “deep state” enemies, including devil-worshipping Democrats and a child sex-trafficking ring run by satanic pedophiles and cannibals. Many top Democrats, party supporters, Hollywood stars and Trump critics have been slandered by QAnon's members with false and heinous allegations.
Other symbols captured by the media displayed overt Nazi and white supremacist signs, including a sweatshirt worn by a rioter that displayed the words "Camp Auschwitz" and read "work brings freedom," which according to Miller-Idriss is a translation of the German Nazi slogan, "Arbeit macht frei" that appeared on the entrance of the Auschwitz concentration camp. She said that the shirt bears “a virulently anti-Semitic, and white supremacist extremist” symbol that is “making light of the Holocaust.”
The man wearing the shirt, Robert Keith Packer, was arrested for unlawful entry in the Capitol incident. He has not yet entered a plea in court.
There was also a noose posted across the U.S. Capitol, overlooking the crowd -- a chilling image that was widely circulated. The noose symbolizes the threat against racial minorities and “the history of lynching in the U.S.,” Miller-Idriss said, as well as the white supremacist and extremist “fantasies” of “the day of the rope” -- the notion that “traitors are going to be hung in the streets,” which in this case could be interpreted as those who betrayed Trump, she added.
Symbols of the Confederacy were also common, and in a photo that went viral, a man carried a large Confederate flag inside the halls of Congress as he walked past a portrait of Massachusetts Senator and abolitionist Charles Sumner and Vice President John Calhoun, a slaveholder. Anti-government symbols included “civil war” t-shirts displaying the Trump “Make America Great Again” logos and the date of the siege – a message that appeared to call for an overthrow of the government, according to experts. Gadsden flags -- yellow American flags that date back to 1778 displaying a rattlesnake and the words, “Don’t tread on me," were also spotted in the crowd.
They have been embraced by various anti-government advocates in recent years. According to Paul Bruski, a graphic design scholar at Iowa State University, the original meaning of the Gadsden flag -- which has been adopted by various Libertarian groups, the Tea Party and some gun rights groups -- has changed over time.
According to experts, extremist calls to revolution and an overthrow of the government were also reflected in symbols of the Revolutionary War, including the 13-star Betsy Ross flag representing the 13 colonies and some colonial and Revolutionary War costumes. Some displayed what is known as the “three percenters flag” -- a symbol of a far-right American and Canadian anti-government militia group.
Some rioters who violently stormed the Capitol were easily identified by reporters, law enforcement and friends and family. Besides being unmasked, many shared videos and photos of their participation in the siege on social media, which led some to lose jobs and even face federal charges.
According to Rosenthal, extremist and white supremacist groups existed on the fringes of American politics in recent decades, but in the age of Trump, some have been emboldened by finding a place again in national politics through the president. Trump has frequently failed to condemn white supremacists and far-right groups espousing disproven conspiracy theories or has appeared to do so begrudgingly when pressed by reporters.
Ahead of the Capitol siege, Trump addressed the group at a rally as the Senate prepared to vote to certify Joe Biden as the winner of the 2020 election. He told his supporters that a strong response is necessary to “take back our country.”
Shortly after, the pro-Trump mob breached the U.S. Capitol and clashed with law enforcement, eventually resulting in the death of five people. Hours after he was impeached for the second time by the House for "incitement of insurrection" for his role in the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol, Trump condemned the violence in a video message released by the White House. ABC News' Phaedra Singelis contributed to this report.

A joint session of Congress to count the 2020 presidential race's Electoral College votes descended into chaos as violent pro-Trump rioters breached the Capitol building.
Lawmakers were evacuated as the rioters invaded the House and Senate Chambers and vandalized congressional offices. Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.
The Capitol Building came under siege from pro-Trump rioters on Wednesday during a joint session of Congress to count the Electoral College votes from the 2020 presidential race. The rioters, fresh from a "March for Trump" rally to protest the certification of Joe Biden's victory, stormed the building, sending the House and Senate into recess and forcing lawmakers, Hill staffers, and reporters to shelter in their offices before being evacuated. Protesters sat in Vice President Mike Pence's chair in the Senate Chamber, vandalized congressional offices, and looted items like podiums from the building.
Here's a look inside the chaos. Rioters rifled through desks in the Senate Chamber. Rioters stormed the Capitol, bypassing security and forcing their way into the building.
A protester sat in the head chair of the Senate Chamber where Vice President Mike Pence had sat shortly before. Trump supporters vandalized Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi's office. Protesters flipped tables and pulled photos off the walls, according to the New York Times. Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer urged President Trump to order the protesters to leave immediately.
Another protester appeared to steal a podium. The D.C. National Guard was deployed to the scene, as well as Virginia's National Guard troops and state troopers. A Trump supporter climbed on stop of a statue of President Gerald R. Ford with a Trump flag and a "Make America Great Again" hat.
Protesters overwhelmed security forces and entered the Capitol's Rotunda. A protester took a riot shield from a member of the Capitol Police.
Capitol Police were overwhelmed by the crowds. A Trump supporter invaded a congressional office and sat at the desk.

Editor’s Note: Ruth Ben-Ghiat (@ruthbenghiat), a frequent contributor to CNN Opinion, is professor of history at New York University and the author of “Strongmen: From Mussolini to the Present.”
The views expressed here are her own. Read more opinion on CNN.
“We won this election and we won it by a landslide,” said Donald Trump at his “Save America” rally on January 6, which incited the assault on the Capitol. This is Trump’s “Big Lie,” a brazen falsehood with momentous consequences. Trump’s accusation that “radical left” Democrats stole his victory is certainly a whopper.
But the focus on his Big Lie misses something fundamental about how propaganda works. A leader’s Big Lie has no power and makes little sense on its own.
It has traction only if the public has been fed many, many smaller lies. It relies on a larger network of falsehoods told by the leader and reinforced by his government officials and compliant media. The Big Lie works because it is part of an established alternate belief system – an edifice of lies, assembled piece by piece.
Trump, a leader of authoritarian intentions and tendencies, had disadvantages with respect to the foreign autocrats he so admires. He had no state media, like China’s Xi Jinping.
He could not rule by decree, like Hungary’s Viktor Orbán. He had to govern and run for reelection in an open society with a relatively robust free press. Moreover, although he succeeded in making journalists into hate objects for many of his followers, he could not revoke or destroy the First Amendment.
So Trump took a different tack, unleashing a barrage of disinformation common in authoritarian states but without precedent in the history of the American presidency. He told more than 30,000 documented lies in public (30,573 was The Washington Post’s final tally), on Twitter, at rallies and in interviews. If taken as an average, it would come out to 21 lies per day over his four-year term.
Let’s break down the smaller lies that prepared Trump’s followers to accept the Big Lie. Each of these was highly damaging and consequential, and most were repeated endlessly by Trump and his co-conspirators in and out of government and replicated on social media, right-wing TV and radio, and more.
Some were not expressed directly by Trump but were connected to the personality cult he built – though he did make overt claims that he would “save the United States,” and pronounced that “I alone” can fix the country’s ills (an allegedly fraudulent election system among them). Personality cults enable the spread of propaganda by allowing an autocrat to forge a special bond with followers, one based on faith and emotion rather than reason.
Put simply, they believe – and help amplify – his lies because they believe in him. Indeed, Trump’s claims to a unique competence to rescue America got an assist from a cadre of evangelical Christian preachers, authors, and government officials, former White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders among them, who contended that he ruled by divine benediction – that God installed him to do His will.
This encouraged followers to believe that Trump’s destiny was to stay in office, priming them for the moment when Trump’s asserted that a second term was rightfully his. The events of January 6 cannot be understood without this structure of blind belief and all the small lies that supported it.
For his supporters, Trump was a victim of the “Deep State” and other enemies – his reelection had been foiled by their treachery, so it was up to his believers to fight back, to fix a rigged system with the only tool left: direct action. The Big Lie seemed convincing because Trump had been lying about American elections for years. He started drumming up suspicion about rigged elections in 2016, when it looked like he would lose to Hillary Clinton.
The ensuing four years of relentless propaganda aimed to erase all confidence in this fundamental institution of democracy. It’s not surprising that Trump’s lying had a dramatic uptick in 2020, when he was campaigning for reelection during a pandemic that he mismanaged with lethal results.
He needed to discredit the main thing that threatened his power – the vote. He worked overtime to throw doubt on every single aspect of voting.
He told lies about dead people voting, about fraudulent mail-in ballots, about votes illegally counted, not counted at all, or invented. Focusing only on the Big Lie misses the big picture.
It fails to convey the scope and gravity of the institutionalized lying that was Trump’s biggest weapon. And it obscures the way minds were worn down, day after day, by one lie after another after another.
Trump’s aim in his ceaseless lying was to get his followers to trust him alone as the arbiter of reality and to distrust everyone and everything else – especially the democratic system that stood in the way of his amassing sufficient power to become untouchable. It’s the authoritarian way. While Trump is now gone from the White House, millions of his supporters still cling fiercely to his lies.

(Reuters) -
A U.S. voting machine company filed a $1.3 billion lawsuit against former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani, accusing him of defamation in what it called his “big lie” campaign about widespread fraud in the presidential election, court documents on Monday showed. The Denver-based company, Dominion Voting Systems Inc, filed an earlier lawsuit against pro-Trump lawyer Sidney Powell, whom the company also accused of spreading false conspiracy theories about the election that Trump lost to Democrat Joe Biden. A senior Dominion employee, Eric Coomer, also filed a defamation lawsuit against the Trump campaign, saying he had been driven into hiding because of death threats from Trump supporters. Giuliani said in a statement that Dominion’s lawsuit was intended to intimidate others from exercising their free speech rights. “Dominion’s defamation lawsuit for $1.3B will allow me to investigate their history, finances, and practices fully and completely,” Giuliani said, adding that he may file a countersuit against the company for violating his rights. Trump and his allies spent two months denying his election defeat, and claiming without evidence that it was the result of widespread voter fraud, before his supporters stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6. A group of prominent attorneys last week asked New York’s judiciary to suspend Giuliani’s law license because he made false claims in post-election lawsuits and for urging Trump’s supporters to engage in “trial by combat” shortly before they stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6. Dominion states in its lawsuit that it has spent $565,000 on private security to protect its employees, who are facing harassment and death threats. Founded in 2002, Dominion is a major U.S. manufacturer of voting machines, and various Dominion machines were used in more than two dozen states during the 2020 election.

Last Wednesday, just before a mob of pro-Trump extremists stormed the U.S. Capitol in an insurrection that left five dead, the president stood before a huge crowd gathered in front of the White House for a so-called "Save America" rally.
Among the thousands of falsehoods Trump has uttered during his presidency, this one in particular has earned the distinction of being called the "big lie." It's a charged term, with connotations that trace back to its roots in Nazi Germany. Hitler used the phrase "big lie" against Jews in his manifesto Mein Kampf. Later, the Nazis' big lie — claiming that Jews led a global conspiracy and were responsible for Germany's and the world's woes — fueled anti-Semitism and the Holocaust.
Given that history, it was striking that President-elect Joe Biden chose the term when he slammed two Republican senators — Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley — who have amplified Trump's falsehood. Biden nodded to the term's origin in Nazi Germany, as embodied in Hitler's propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels. Hawley called Biden's Nazi comparison "sick" and "disgusting" and said the president-elect should retract his comments.
The storming of the Capitol, and the electoral lie that inspired it, spurred Arnold Schwarzenegger, the former Republican governor of California, to release a video message drawing on his own childhood experience in Austria, soon after World War II. Austria was Hitler's birthplace; in 1938, the country was annexed into Nazi Germany, with many Austrians enthusiastically collaborating in pogroms against the Jews.
A big lie has singular potency, says Timothy Snyder, the Levin Professor of History at Yale University, whose books include studies of Hitler, Josef Stalin, the Holocaust and tyranny. "There are lies that, if you believe in them, rearrange everything," he says. As for ways to undo the destruction of a big lie, Snyder suggests one remedy would be a reinvigorated media ecosystem, with a robust force of local reporting.
Historian Fiona Hill has spent decades studying Russia and the former Soviet Union, looking at how disinformation and lies are woven into authoritarian regimes. The patterns in such states are clear, Hill says: purging staff seen as disloyal, demonizing the checks and balances of civil society, attacking the media. Hill brings the perspective of having served on the National Security Council under President Trump.
In the 2019 impeachment hearing, she memorably swatted down what she called the "fictional narrative" embraced by Trump and congressional Republicans that Ukraine, not Russia, interfered in the 2016 election. Trump has told so many falsehoods that he has effectively normalized lying, Hill says, and he has taken his cues from the autocrats he publicly admires. Trump's use of the big lie comes from an age-old authoritarian playbook, says Ruth Ben-Ghiat, history professor at New York University and author of the book Strongmen:
Mussolini to the Present. "It's part of a much larger discourse of throwing any mechanism of democracy, any democratic institution into doubt," she says.

When the back wheels of Air Force One finally lifted off the tarmac at Joint Base Andrews on Wednesday bound for Mar-a-Lago, Donald Trump’s White House-in-exile in West Palm Beach, cheers erupted in millions of households across America and around the globe.
Four years of screeching tweets and ugly divisiveness were over, and for many it felt like the hope of a calmer, more civil world had swept in. In one respect, though, the acrid, bitter smell of Trump continues to hang in the air: he left the presidency having never conceded that he lost the election to Joe Biden.
Trump’s decision to shun Biden’s inauguration – the first outgoing president to do so in 152 years – can be explained away as the hissy fit of a sore loser. But there’s a darker side to it.
By forgoing the ritual of the peaceful handover of power that has been a pillar of American democracy since the country’s founding, he leaves a black cloud over the incoming administration. Trump’s refusal formally to pass the baton means that the terrible events of 6 January are unfinished business.
The armed mob of Trump supporters and white supremacists who stormed the Capitol Building, fired up by Trump’s lies about the “stolen election” and hunting for members of Congress to lynch, still have their marching orders. It is a legacy, made manifest on inauguration day by the 7ft non-scalable fences and the war zone-like presence of thousands of national guard troops in Washington DC. As Trump legacies go, this one could prove much harder to unpick than those he left behind on the pandemic, immigration or the climate crisis that Biden tried to reverse with the flick of a pen on day one. The legacy of the “stolen election”, by contrast, has the potential to endure.
Michael Chertoff, the former homeland security secretary under George W Bush, told the Guardian recently that domestic terrorism inspired directly by Trump “is going to be the security challenge for the foreseeable future”. Current intelligence chiefs agree. They are primed to have to deal with a lasting threat posed by Trump’s ongoing refusal publicly to accept the will of the American people.
At the center of this new domestic terrorism threat is the seed of doubt that Trump has implanted in the minds of millions of Americans that the 2020 presidential election was “rigged”. It is the “animating lie”, as the former homeland security official Juliette Kayyem has put it, that drove the mob to storm the US Capitol and that now hangs in the air like a toxic gas.
Trump’s campaign to overturn the results of the presidential election amounted to a “big lie” familiar to those who study demagogic propaganda. Embedded within it are many of the core elements of what the Yale historian Timothy Snyder has called Trump’s post-truth, “pre-fascism”.
The lie was simple – able to be repeated and shared on TV and social media in six short words: “They stole the election from me.” That “they” was important too – by signaling a clear enemy, it allowed his supporters to direct their frustration and anger at identifiable targets.
Trump lashed out repeatedly at the media, which he denounced as the “enemy of the people”. He attacked “cowardly” Republican election officials who refused not to do their jobs, his own vice-president, and finally the heart of US democracy, Congress itself.
For Bandy X Lee, a forensic psychiatrist and violence expert, there was another key aspect to the “stop the steal” big lie – it was rooted in paranoia. In her analysis, paranoia, perceiving threat where none exists, is the most common symptom to cause violent behaviour.
“The fact that Trump actually believes himself to have been wronged and persecuted, or has paranoid ideations, spreads and finds resonance in paranoia that already exists in the population. That will increase the chances of violence,” Lee said.
As any student of tyrannies will tell you, for big lies to work they have to be repeated and repeated. Trump certainly fulfilled that requirement.
He has been working assiduously to spread his animating lie for years. Consider the headline in the New Yorker, “Trump and the truth: the ‘rigged’ election”. The article beneath it reported that Trump was “trying to delegitimize a national election even while campaigning for the presidency” and that his ploy was working – about half of his supporters thought the election was cooked. That New Yorker piece was published on 8 October 2016.
Trump’s efforts have paid even greater dividends in this election cycle. The most recent opinion polls suggest that more than a third of the total US electorate still believe that Trump won the November election, a proportion that rises above 70% when you ask Republicans. Nor is there any sign such a stunningly large number of Americans who bought Trump’s make-believe is on the wane.
As Snyder wrote in the New York Times, “the lie outlasts the liar”. Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of Trump’s sleight of hand is that he presented himself in the cloak of the protector of American democracy precisely in order to undermine American democracy. He invoked patriotism in order to legitimize the ultimate act of sedition – overthrowing the electoral will of the American people.
That is what most concerns David Gomez, a former FBI national security executive who spent many years countering domestic terrorism. He fears that Trump, by wrapping his actions in the cloth of patriotism, has given his blessing to violent action that could linger beyond his presidency.
Into this mix has been poured the even more poisonous influence of far-right and white supremacist groups, motivated by racial animus and wielding their Confederate flags inside the Capitol building. Trump made repeated overtures to them throughout his presidency, from his “you had very fine people, on both sides” comment about the 2017 neo-Nazi rally in Charlottesville, to his notorious invitation to the Proud Boys to “stand back and stand by”.
White supremacists have enthusiastically heeded his call. For them, this was the break for which they had long been waiting, the welcome gesture that would usher them into the fold.
Shortly before the storming of the Capitol, the Three Percenters, an extreme anti-government militia network, put out a statement in which they aligned themselves overtly with Trump’s “stolen election”. They name-checked Ted Cruz, the Republican senator from Texas who was complicit in Trump’s big lie, as well as the ever more erratic Rudy Giuliani and the former national security adviser and pardoned criminal Michael Flynn.
“We are ready to enter into battle with General Flynn leading the charge,” the group said. This all presents the incoming administration with a bilious soup of disaffected Trump supporters and their white supremacist allies hooked on the idea that Biden is an illegitimate president. Given the millions of Americans who have bought into the fantasy, should even a tiny fraction of them harbor violent aspirations or find themselves drawn to the newly elevated white supremacist groups, that would give rise to a national security challenge of monumental proportions.
Biden himself has vowed to tackle the trouble head-on. In his inauguration speech he addressed the threat directly, talking about the “rise in political extremism, white supremacy, domestic terrorism that we must confront and we will defeat”. But the new president may find himself hamstrung by the relative lack of attention that has been paid up until now to the phenomenon.
Last year Chris Wray, the FBI director who Biden intends to keep in post, told Congress that “racially and ethnically motivated violent extremists” were the main source of ideological killings, overshadowing international jihadism that has dominated US intelligence thinking for 20 years. Yet the way the FBI dishes out its resources is the exact opposite. Some 80% of its counter-terrorism budget goes on fighting international terrorism, and only 20% on domestic.
Gomez, the former FBI supervisor, said that any residual sluggishness on the part of the FBI in refocusing its sights on far-right violence will have vanished on 6 January. The storming of the Capitol was a “call to action for the FBI as it showed that there are individuals and groups within these political movements that are violent and willing to act out their frustrations and ideations in public”. The FBI’s immediate priority, Gomez said, was likely to be on identifying the main conspirators behind the attack. “The FBI are going to focus on those groups that wore color-coordinated clothing at the Capitol, used communications and tried to organize specific actions,” he said.
The longer-term ambition will be to flip many of the more than 150 suspected rioters who have already been arrested and turn them into informants who can act as the feds’ eyes and ears. In all, Gomez expects a “paradigm shift” within the FBI away from international terrorism towards far-right and white supremacist domestic terrorism similar in scale and significance to the seismic change that followed 9/11.
As the Atlantic has pointed out, the mob that breached the Capitol was full of “respectable people” – business owners, real-estate brokers, Republican local and state legislators. The only indication that they would take part in a rabble that beat a police officer to death was their shared belief that they have, in the Atlantic’s words, an “inviolable right to rule”.
Also among the mob were current and former law enforcement officers and at least six people with military links, signaling what may become the largest challenge of all – the fact that an unknown number of heavily armed and weapons-trained servants of the federal government are indirectly or even actively engaged in white supremacy. That’s a problem that long precedes Trump, but that has been supercharged by his presidency.
Here, too, what amounts to a crisis in American society has been largely overlooked. Two years ago, the Department of Defense revealed that out of almost 2 million serving military personnel only 18 had been disciplined or discharged for extremist acts over the previous five years. So when security chiefs in charge of protecting dignitaries at Biden’s inauguration realized they had a fundamental problem, and called in the FBI to vet some 25,000 national guard troops brought to Washington for the event, they were acting exceptionally late in the day. “The growing threat of rightwing nationalism in the military has been ignored, it hasn’t been emphasized enough,” Jeff McCausland said.
Working in Biden’s favor will be the hope that with Trump off the scene – banished both from Washington and from social media – the allure of the stolen election myth will fade. “Now that Trump has been removed, much of his impact will dissipate,” said Bandy X Lee.
On Monday the article of impeachment against Trump for “incitement of insurrection” will be handed to the US Senate, and his second trial will begin in the week of 8 February. But the chances of conviction look slim.
For now at least the nation remains on alert. The big lie outlasts the liar, suspended in air and obscuring Biden’s sun.

Federal prosecutors said there was “strong evidence” the pro-Trump mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol last week aimed to “capture and assassinate elected officials,” but the head of the investigation cautioned Friday that the probe is still in its early stages and there was no “direct evidence” of such intentions. Sherwin said there appears to have been confusion among some prosecutors in part because of the complexity of the investigation and number of people involved.
Reports earlier in the day said Vice President Mike Pence may have been in grave danger during the assault, according to the Washington Post, which reported that the vice president was not evacuated from the Senate chamber until 14 minutes after the Capitol was breached. The FBI has previously said it is actively investigating whether some rioters planned to kidnap members of Congress and hold them hostage.
The alleged capture-and-kill plans were first alleged in a Thursday legal filing urging an Arizona judge not to grant bail to Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising. “Strong evidence, including Chansley’s own words and actions at the Capitol, supports that the intent of the Capitol and rioters was to capture and assassinate elected officials in the United States government,” government prosecutors wrote, according to CNN.
Elsewhere, a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot planned “to take hostages,” a prosecutor alleged in a Texas court Thursday before a judge released the man to home confinement. Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. was arrested in Texas Sunday after photographs from the scene showed him on the Senate floor wearing a helmet and tactical vest.
The 53-year-old man was also carrying plastic flex cuffs, which he claimed he found discarded on the floor and had planned to hand them over to authorities, reports said. “I wish I had not picked those up,” he told The New Yorker magazine in an interview in the days following the insurrection.
But Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Weimer disagreed with that explanation at a detention hearing Thursday, saying Brock came to the Capitol with diabolical intentions. “He means to take hostages.
He means to kidnap, restrain, perhaps try, perhaps execute members of the U.S. government,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Weimer said without providing details of the charges. During testimony, an FBI agent did acknowledge it was possible that Brock had just picked up the cuffs as rioters stormed in and ransacked the chamber.
Weimer also read a termination letter from Brock’s former employer that said he had talked in the workplace about killing people of a “particular religion and or race.” Weimer also read social media posts in which Brock referred to a coming civil war and the election being stolen from President Donald Trump. Weimer said Brock’s posts also referenced the far-right and anti-government Oath Keepers and the Three Percenters, a loose anti-government network that’s part of the militia movement.
The Oath Keepers claim to count thousands of current and former law enforcement officials and military veterans as members. There was no evidence that Brock carried a firearm during the siege, reports said.
Chansley, meanwhile, is scheduled to appear Friday for a detention hearing in Arizona court. His lawyer revealed that Chansley, also known as Jake Angeli, is hoping for a pardon before President Trump leaves office next week.
Numerous photographs from the riot scene show Chansley bare-chested and decked out in face pant and pelts while wielding a spear with an American flag attached. One image shows him standing at the dais where Pence had stood only minutes earlier as confirmation of Joe Biden’s electoral college victory got under way. There, on a stack of papers left behind by lawmakers as they scrambled to flee the mob, Chansley wrote a note saying “it’s only a matter of time, justice is coming,” prosecutors alleged in the memo.
Back in Texas, Magistrate Judge Jeffrey L. Cureton released Brock to home confinement, but also ordered him to surrender his firearms. The judge also curtailed Brock’s internet access.
Brock’s attorney, Brook Antonio II, said there was no direct evidence of Brock breaking doors or windows to get into the Capitol, or doing anything violent once he was inside. “It’s all talk.
It’s all speculation and conjecture,” said Antonio, who noted Brock’s long service in the military, including being reactivated after Sept. 11 and his four tours in Afghanistan. After his arrest, Brock was charged with knowingly entering or remaining in a restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, but he is likely face additional charges once all the evidence is sorted out from a chaotic day in the nation’s capital. President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed Congress in an attempt to overthrow confirmation of Joe Biden’s election win after Trump and others in the GOP for months spread the false notion that widespread voter fraud got Biden elected and cheated the incumbent out of a second term.
Dozens of judges across the country, including some nominated by Trump, have dismissed cases challenging the election results citing no evidence of malfeasance, and former Attorney General William Barr also said there was no sign of widespread fraud. As Congressional offices and chambers were ransacked on Jan. 6, lawmakers hid the Electoral College ballots from the angry mob.
Five people died, including a Capitol Police officer. A Georgia man who participated in the insurrection later committed suicide. Federal agents have fanned out around the country and more than 100 people have been arrested so far.
Many suspects face a variety of misdemeanor charges like unlawful entry, disorderly conduct and theft. Those charges, however, are likely to be upgraded to federal felonies with lengthy prison terms as the investigation continues to uncover the full scale and depth of the attack, reports said. A team of federal prosecutors is seeking to file more serious charges including sedition and conspiracy, according to Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia. Information provided by The Associated Press was used to compile this report.

A far-right insurrection attempt – incited by president Donald Trump, organised on right-wing social media networks and propelled by conspiracies and false claims of voter fraud – has rocked the US Capitol, forced elected officials to seek shelter and sought to undermine millions of Americans’ votes in the 2020 presidential election. At least four people are dead.
On 6 January, a joint session of Congress convened in Washington DC to formally count the Electoral College votes and certify Joe Biden’s election. Lawmakers were forced into recess and ordered to shelter in place and evacuate, as pro-Trump rioters breached the Capitol and broke into chambers and offices.
The president has insisted to his supporters that the election was stolen from them, despite no meaningful evidence from his campaign or own administration and election officials across the US. The president and his legal team have relied instead on conspiracy theories amplified by right-wing news networks and unchecked on social media networks.
Here is a timeline of events from 6 January. 10am, Rudy Giuliani tells a pro-Trump rally crowd in Washington DC that he is “willing to stake [his] reputation” on election fraud.
1pm, After facing pressure from the president and his allies to reject election results, the vice president issues a statement to members of Congress moments before the session started. 2.20pm, House and Senate are in recess. 2.30pm, Washington DC Mayor Muriel Bowser issues a 12-hour citywide curfew beginning at 6pm. At the Capitol, law enforcement tell House lawmakers to wear gas masks, as doors to the chambers are barricaded.
Rioters break glass gallery doors, and members and staff on the floor are evacuated. Members in the upper gallery area shelter in place and under chairs.
Police fire tear gas in the rotunda, and Capitol police draw guns at the doors of the House chamber. Shots are fired.
A woman is shot inside the Capitol. 3.36pm, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany announces that the National Guard has been mobilised.
4.15pm, Capitol police and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives investigate a suspicious item near the Republican National Committee headquarters building on First Street. 5.30pm, Rioters occupy Capitol offices. 6pm, Washington DC police announce that the woman who was shot among rioters inside the Capitol has died.
7pm, Twitter removes three of the president’s posts for “repeated and severe violations of our Civic Integrity policy.” His account is locked for 12 hours.
Mike Pence returns to the Senate; he did not leave the Capitol during the course of the riots. 7.30pm, Law enforcement officers escort lawmakers into their respective chambers. “We will not be kept out of this chamber by mobs, thugs or threats,” says Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Democratic Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer says rioters should be “provided no leniency” and face prosecution.

Smoke grenades are being deployed on the Senate side of the US Capitol, as Capitol police work to clear the building of rioters.
Windows on the west side of the Senate have been broken, and hundreds of officers are amassing on the first floor of the building. CNN reporters working in the US Senate, have been told by the Capitol Police that they are being evacuated from the Senate, to an undisclosed location. While the officers appear to be speaking with authority, CNN has not independently confirmed that the Senate leadership has made that decision.

Hundreds of National Guard troops hold inside the Capitol Visitor's Center to reinforce security at the Capitol in Washington, Wednesday, Jan. 13, 2021.
The House of Representatives is pursuing an article of impeachment against President Donald Trump for his role in inciting an angry mob to storm the Capitol last week. UPDATED, 1:36 PM PT: Donald Trump became the first president to be impeached twice, as the U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday passed an article citing him for inciting the insurrection on the U.S. Capitol last week.
The 232-197 vote came after just two hours of debate, reflecting the urgency of House Democrats to impeach the president before his term ends. Ten Republicans joined with Democrats to impeach the president.
After House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced the vote as final, members paused for a moment, then went about chatting among themselves. All of the news networks covered the vote, and broadcast networks broke in with special reports.
Trump was charged with one article for impeachment, inciting an insurrection stemming from the riot at the Capitol. It will be up to the Senate to hold a trial. If two-thirds vote to convict, Trump will be removed from office.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said in a statement that it would be impossible for the Senate to hold a trial and decide whether Trump should be removed before Biden’s inauguration next week. He said in a statement that “there is simply no chance that a fair or serious trial could conclude” before January 20. McConnell has resisted calls to return the Senate to an emergency session before January 19.
“I believe it will best serve our nation if Congress and the executive branch spend the next seven days completely focused on facilitating a safe inauguration and an orderly transfer of power to the incoming Biden administration,” McConnell said. Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY), soon to succeed McConnell as majority leader, said that “there will be an impeachment trial in the U.S. Senate,” along with a vote that would prohibit Trump from running again.
Trump was awarding the National Medal of Arts to Ricky Skaggs and Toby Keith as the vote was taking place, according to NBC News. The impeachment proceedings were far different than those in December 2019.
This time, hundreds of National Guard troops were fanned out across the Capitol following the siege that left five people dead and dozens injured. During the debate, members of Congress described fleeing and fearful for their lives as rioters stormed through the hallways and tried to break down doors leading to the chamber. The vote took place a week to the day since the Capitol siege.
Trump’s previous impeachment came after months of investigation and hearings. The House has impeached a president three other times: Trump in 2019, Bill Clinton in 1998 and Andrew Jackson in 1868.
One surprise vote for impeachment among Republicans was Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC). He was among the 139 GOP House members to oppose, even after the siege, the certification of the electoral vote for Biden.
UPDATE, 12:53 PM PT: The House is now voting on whether to impeach Donald Trump, something that would make him the first president to be impeached twice. So far, seven Republicans have said they would vote yes. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) was the final speaker after two hours of debate, and he implored Republicans to follow Rep. Liz Cheney (R-WY) and vote for impeachment.
“In my view Donald Trump demands absolute loyalty, and gives none in return,” he said. UPDATE, 12:23 PM PT: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said that he has not yet decided how he will vote on impeachment if it makes it to the Senate. There were reports that McConnell believes Trump committed impeachable offenses. McConnell also has said that the Senate will not return until January 19, meaning that a trial would likely start after Trump leaves office.
UPDATE, 11:41 AM PT: Kathy Griffin responded to Rep. Ken Buck (R-CO), who used his time during the impeachment debate to pin blame on “Hollywood socialists” for an environment of incendiary rhetoric. Buck cited anti-Trump comments made by Madonna and Robert De Niro, and the incident when Griffin posted an image of her holding a mock severed head of the president. “My only take away… ‘Kathy Griffin AND MADONNA,'” Griffin wrote.
UPDATE, 11 AM PT: The White House released a statement from Donald Trump in which he urged no violence in light of reports of plans for more protests and unrest from far-right groups. “In light of reports of more demonstrations, I urge that there must be NO violence, NO lawbreaking and NO vandalism of any kind. That is not what I stand for, and it is not what America stands for.
I call on ALL Americans to help ease tensions and calm tempers. Thank You,” Trump said in the statement.
Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH) read the statement on the floor of the House as members debate impeaching Trump. Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) wore a mask that read “censored” as she spoke on the floor against impeachment, a moment captured by major networks.
UPDATE, 10:45 AM PT: House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) said that he opposes impeachment, but that Donald Trump bears responsibility for the siege on the Capitol last week. “He should have immediately denounced the mob when he saw what was unfolding,” said McCarthy, who spoke by phone with Trump as the siege was unfolding and urged him to put out a strong statement condemning what was happening.
But even after the terrifying events of the day, McCarthy joined with 138 other House Republicans in rejecting the certification of Joe Biden as the winner of the electoral vote. On Wednesday, though, McCarthy said that “what we saw last week was not the American way. Neither is the continued rhetoric that Joe Biden is not the legitimate president.”
He also said that the riots were not caused by antifa, a claim being made by some on the far right. “There is absolutely no evidence of that, and conservatives should be the first to say so,” he said.
Like other Republicans, McCarthy said that impeachment would further divide the country. He suggested that he favored a censure resolution against Trump, but that proposal was rejected.
Among the half dozen Republicans so far who have said they favor impeachment is Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA). “I’m not afraid of losing my job, but I am afraid my country will fail,” she said. Democrats clapped when she announced her yes vote.
Rep. Chip Roy (R-TX) said that he thought the president committed impeachable offenses, in that he pressured Vice President Mike Pence to try to overturn the results of the election. But Roy said that he disagreed with the way that the article of impeachment was written because it goes after what some may interpret as political speech. “Let’s do it the right way, with deliberation and without disastrous side effects,” he said. “He must go.
He is a clear and present danger to the nation we all love,” Pelosi said, her voice a bit muffled from her face mask, as members began two hours of debate. In the article of impeachment, Trump is charged with inciting the insurrection at the Capitol last week. A mob of his supporters stormed the complex as Congress was preparing to certify the electoral vote for Joe Biden.
Just before, Trump had railed against the results of the election in a speech at the Ellipse, telling his supporters, “if you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore.” He urged them to march to the Capitol and said the he would be there with them, although he did not make the trek. The Capitol was like a fortress in advance of the vote Wednesday, as hundreds of members of the National Guard were fanned out across the complex.
Soldiers bivouacked on the floor of the Capitol Visitor Center, a military presence that may have been unmatched since the Civil War. The show of security was visible elsewhere, with a perimeter fence around the Capitol.
Members for the first time were required to go through metal detectors before taking to the floor, although some Republicans ignored Capitol Police officers and just walked in the chamber even after setting off alarms. There were still signs of the damage from last week, with windows boarded up, but other areas were repaired.
There were new glass doors on the Speakers Lobby. That was the site of a standoff between police officers and the rioters, in which one woman demonstrator, Ashli Babbitt, was shot and killed. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer told reporters that up to 20 Republicans could vote to impeach, a contrast to Trump’s first impeachment in December 2019, when no GOP members voted for it.
Rep. Liz Cheney (R-WY), a member of House Republican leadership, said that she would vote to impeach. Rep. Jason Crow (D-CO) told MSNBC that Republican colleagues have told him that they are “afraid for their lives” if they vote to impeach.
CBS News reported that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell favors impeaching Trump, but he also will not agree to reconvene the Senate for a trial before January 19. Most Republicans characterized Democrats as divisive in pursuing impeachment with just days left in Trump’s term. Others did try to defend Trump, and noted that he actually told his supporters to engage in peaceful protests, albeit it was one mention amid fiery rhetoric that the presidential election was stolen from him. PREVIOUSLY:
A heavy presence of National Guard members was fanned out across the Capitol grounds as the House prepares to impeach Donald Trump for the second time, as he is charged with inciting the insurrection a week ago. The House began debate on a rule to proceed on Wednesday morning.
There will be two hours of debate on the impeachment articles, with a vote expected in the mid- to late-afternoon. “America was attacked and we must respond,” he said.
It will take 218 votes to impeach Trump. Democrats reportedly have 215 votes in favor, and so far five Republicans have said that they will also support impeachment. A number of Republicans didn’t defend Trump’s conduct, but said that another impeachment would be divisive. “Instead of moving forward as a unifying force, the majority in the House is choosing to divide us further, with only a week to go in his term,” said Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK), who said that last Wednesday’s siege of the Capitol was the “darkest day” he had experienced in Congress.
After Congress reconvened that evening, Cole was among the 147 Republican lawmakers in the House and the Senate to vote against certifying the electoral votes for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. News networks are providing coverage throughout the day, with CNN taking down a paywall for a free livestream.
Broadcast networks also are planning special reports. If the House passes the article of impeachment, Trump will be the first president to be impeached twice.
With just a week left in his term, the question is whether the Senate can hold a trial by the time that Trump’s term ends at noon on January 20. On Tuesday evening, the House adopted a resolution, 223-205, calling on Vice President Mike Pence and the cabinet to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove Trump. In a letter to Nancy Pelosi, Pence said that he would not do so.
A year ago, the Senate was about to start a trial of Trump on the House’s first impeachment on charges of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. That impeachment was over a July 25, 2019 phone call in which Trump pressured the president of Ukraine to launch an investigation of Biden.

Here’s what we know about the five people who died amid the storming of the U.S. Capitol by a mob of President Trump’s supporters on Wednesday.
Ashli Babbitt, 35, a 14-year Air Force veteran from San Diego, was shot by a Capitol police officer (who has reportedly been put on leave) while she was among a group of people who were trying to force their way through doors in the Capitol to a part of the building where members of Congress were taking shelter, dying in hospital after she was carried out bloodied on a stretcher. Rosanne Boyland, 34, a resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, died of an undisclosed medical emergency during the riots, though a Metropolitan Police spokesperson told Channel 2 Action News Boyland was “potentially crushed to death” during the Capitol breach, a claim also reported by Axios.
Brian Sicknick, 42, a Capitol police officer who had been with the force since 2008, died on Thursday night from injuries sustained “while physically engaging with protesters,” according to a statement from the U.S. Capitol police, which said Sicknick, a New Jersey native, returned to his division and “collapsed” before being taken to hospital, where he was subsequently put on life support. The Office of the Chief Medical Examiner in D.C. told Forbes that more information on the cause and manner will be released “when this information is available.” “OCME medical examiners comply with the National Association of Medical Examiners’ (NAME) standard to determine the cause and manner of death within 90 days; however, for cases that are more complex it could be longer,” a spokesperson said in a statement when asked about when this information can be expected.
The U.S. Capitol Police announced Sunday that a second officer has died since the Wednesday riots. Initially announced as an “off-duty” death by the agency, multiple news outlets and former police chief Terrance Gainer confirmed that Howard Liebengood, 51, died by suicide on Saturday. Liebengood, a 15-year veteran of the force, “was among those who responded to the rioting at the U.S. Capitol on January 6,” according to a statement released by the USCP union. Gainer described Liebengood’s death as a “line of duty casualty” in an interview with CBS News, saying it was no different than the death of his colleague, Sicknick.
“I really don’t know why she decided to do this,” said Babbitt’s mother-in-law Robin Babbitt in an interview with Fox 5 DC. Babbitt and her husband owned a business together in San Diego.
Her husband did not come to D.C. In addition to the four deaths among those attending the protest-turned-riot, as many as 60 Capitol Police officers were injured during the attack, according to the lawmaker in charge of appropriating funds for the agency. Many were hit in the head with metal pipes, said Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), and 15 have been hospitalized, with one in critical condition.

Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot, was climbing through a broken window when she was killed by a plain-clothes cop who had “no choice” but to shoot, according to witness accounts, videos, and official statements.
Police on Thursday identified 35-year-year-old Babbitt as an Ocean Beach, California resident and a 14-year Air Force veteran. She has previously posted in support of the violent QAnon conspiracy theory and her husband, Aaron Babbitt, described her to KUSI as an avid Trump supporter. He said he didn’t travel with her to D.C. and was due to pick her up from the airport on Friday.
Videos of the incident show a group of Trump supporters breaking through the windows of a set of double doors, and officers barricading it with furniture on the other side. As the group used flagpoles to break the windows, “all we see is these guns coming out the doorways, just guns,” a witness, John Sullivan, told CNN’s Anderson Cooper.
While Sullivan said Babbitt was “not violent” and shouldn’t have died, Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), who was inside the chamber at the time, said the police lieutenant “didn’t have a choice” but to shoot once the window was breached. “The mob was going to come through the door, there was a lot of members and staff that were in danger at the time. And when he [drew] his weapon, that’s a decision that’s very hard for anyone to make and, once you draw your weapon like that, you have to defend yourself with deadly force,” he told Good Morning America on Thursday.
A video posted to Twitter showed a woman wearing a Make America Great Again flag falling to the ground next to the shattered window. Blood covered her neck and mouth. One officer can be heard telling the crowd, “[Paramedics] will not come if it’s unruly, you guys gotta go.”
The person shooting the video said, “This lady just got shot, we gotta make a fucking hole.” Another voice could be heard: “She’s gone, man.”
The unruly demonstrators did not appear to move. D.C. Police Chief Robert Contee and D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser confirmed that a plain-clothed Capitol Police officer fired the fatal shot. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said in a Thursday statement that the officer was put on leave while a probe was underway.
He confirmed Babbitt was the victim. “The violent attack on the U.S. Capitol was unlike any I have ever experienced in my 30 years in law enforcement here in Washington, D.C.,” Sund’s statement said.
According to Babbitt’s social media accounts, she supported the violent pro-Trump QAnon conspiracy theory. In total, she sent 21 tweets referencing the QAnon slogan, starting in February 2020.
She also appeared to embrace conspiracy theories that hospitals are claiming fake coronavirus patients. On Jan. 5, a day before her death, she tweeted references to another QAnon slogan, “dark to light,” and said the United States would soon see “The Storm”—a moment much awaited by QAnon followers, in which Trump would execute his opponents in the Democratic Party.
Babbitt, like other QAnon followers, gathered outside Congress on Wednesday, appeared to believe that the apocalyptic moment was at hand. “They can try and try and try but the storm is here and it is descending upon DC in less than 24 hours....dark to light!”
Babbitt wrote. Her Facebook page reflected a number of right-wing interests, though comparatively mainstream ones. Her likes included conservative pundit Ben Shapiro, Rep. Dan Crenshaw (R-TX), and libertarian icon and former Rep. Ron Paul, as well as pages supportive of gun rights.
At least six people were hospitalized on Wednesday, including one law enforcement officer. Three others died due to medical emergencies during the riot, police said. On Thursday, police identified them as Benjamin Phillips, 50, Kevin Greeson, 55, and Rosanne Boyland, 34.
Sund, the Capitol Police chief, said at least 50 officers from Capitol and D.C. police forces were injured, including several who were hospitalized. D.C. Police said 68 people were arrested—mostly for curfew violations and unlawful entry.
Four were arrested for carrying a weapon without a license. One was arrested for riot acts, one for assault on an officer, and one for simple assault. Only one person was from D.C., Contee said.
Congress had been in the process of certifying the results of the election, won by President-elect Joe Biden, when protesters breached the building. Both chambers were evacuated in response to the incursion. The violent demonstrators falsely believe Trump won the election despite multiple rulings by federal courts and the Supreme Court and state officials from both parties finding no evidence of widespread voting irregularities or fraud.

At least two Capitol Hill Police officers have been suspended and another security official was arrested Monday for allegedly participating in the deadly uprising in Washington nearly a week ago, according to reports citing an announcement by Democratic Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio.
As many as 10 to 15 other Capitol officers remain under investigation for their failed response or involvement in the insurgency and could face charges of failing to protect the Capitol. Ryan said he wasn’t sure whether the individual arrested was a Capitol Police officer or a member of the National Guard. The FBI is continuing to investigate the riot and has made at least 20 high-profile arrests around the country in the days since.
Ryan chairs the House Appropriations subcommittee that is now handling the investigation into Wednesday’s attack. He did not offer more specifics about the role of the officers in the riot or their level of involvement.
Ryan added that the interim Capitol Police chief is taking “aggressive action” to determine whether other officers played a role in the chaos that led to five deaths, including a woman who was shot to death by security officials, and a Capitol Hill police officer who was reportedly hit in the head with a fire extinguisher. The former Capitol Police chief, Steven Sund, resigned but later defended his actions, saying he pleaded for security assistance from the National Guard but that his bosses told him to stand down because they were more concerned about optics.
President Donald Trump summoned his supporters to the nation’s capital to help pressure lawmakers to reject the Jan. 6 Electoral College vote count amid a joint session of Congress in hopes of overturning the results and hand another term to the incumbent. “See you in Washington, DC, on January 6th. Don’t miss it,” Trump tweeted. Of the 60 Capitol officers who were injured in the mayhem, 15 had to be hospitalized and one was in critical condition.
Many also had head injuries from being struck with lead pipes, reports said. This is a developing story. Please stay with AJC.com for the latest details.

Family members and law enforcement have confirmed more details on the now five people who died in an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday, including a Capitol police officer.
The remaining four were among the supporters of Donald Trump who stormed the US Capitol, attempting to halt counts of electoral college ballots that would formally seal Joe Biden’s victory over the incumbent president. “Don’t dare call them protesters. They were a riotous mob.
Insurrectionists. Domestic terrorists.
It’s that basic. It’s that simple,” Biden said in response to Thursday’s attack. Details on the five people who died are below.
According to statement from the US Capitol police, the New Jersey native joined the force in 2008. Sicknick was reportedly struck in the head with a fire extinguisher while “physically engaging” with the rioters.
He collapsed soon after returning to his division before being rushed to a nearby hospital. Sicknick died on Thursday night after being removed from life support. A reported 60 Capitol police officers were injured.
According to the Democratic congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio, many were also hit in the head with metal pipes. More than a dozen remain hospitalized. Sicknick’s death is being investigated as a homicide by federal and local authorities.
Babbitt, a 14-year air force veteran from San Diego, was among a group of people who could be seen attempting to break down the doors of the US Senate chamber as members sheltered. Cameras captured the moment she was rushed out on a stretcher after being shot by a Capitol police officer.
She died at the hospital. “I really don’t know why she decided to do this,” Babbitt’s mother-in-law told Washington’s
WTTG. Just a day before the rally, Babbitt tweeted the QAnon conspiracy called “the storm”, in which supporters believe Donald Trump will emerge to overthrow and execute corrupt political elites and enemies.
A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips organized a caravan from Pennsylvania to the Capitol grounds for the planned insurrection. Once there, he had a stroke and died, although authorities have not confirmed at what point during the attack. Witnesses told the Philadelphia-Inquirer he was last seen looking for parking before the president gave his speech at the “Save America March”.
A native of rural Athens, Alabama, Greeson died of an apparent heart attack at an unknown point during the events. His family confirmed in a statement that a history of high blood pressure “in the midst of the excitement” contributed to the medical emergency.
Greeson posted racist diatribes online and associated with the Proud Boys, a far-right group known for enacting political violence and racial terror. Despite the family’s insistence that “he was not there to participate in violence or rioting” and did not “condone such actions”, Greeson had posted to popular conservative social platforms calling for supporters to “load your guns and take to the streets” in the weeks leading up to the events.
“Let’s take this fucking country back,” he posted to Parler. Like many of the white nationalists who participated, Greeson never specifies from whom the country is being taken.
The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, reportedly died of a medical emergency during the riots. Family members later told reporters Boyland had been crushed in the melee. Boyland, an avid Trump supporter, had a criminal history, including being charged with possession or distribution of heroin “at least four other times” in Georgia.
Other past charges include battery, obstruction of law enforcement and trespassing. According to the Daily Mail, Wednesday’s attack was the first Trump event that Boyland ever attended.
Her family told local WGCL that although they understood she “was really passionate about her beliefs”, they were shocked and “devastated” to learn she participated in the insurrection. “Tragically, she was there and it cost her life,” Justin Cave, Boyland’s brother-in-law, told WGCL. “I’ve never tried to be a political person

Thousands of Trump supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, prompting the House and Senate to abruptly take a recess as the U.S. Capitol Police locked down the building. D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser ordered a citywide curfew from 6 p.m. on Wednesday until 6 a.m. on Thursday.
Protesters had amassed in Washington, D.C., to reject the results of the Nov. 3 election, cheering as President Trump himself addressed the crowd and urged them to protest what he falsely claims was a rigged election before marching to the Capitol and pushing past security barriers there. The protests are timed to coincide with Congress' certification of the Electoral College votes and aim to pressure Republican lawmakers into supporting Trump's effort to overturn President-elect Joe Biden's electoral victory.
After the speech, they pushed past barriers onto the Capitol grounds, while yelling, "Whose Capitol? Our Capitol," NPR's Hannah Allam reports.
Police and other security put up more barriers and security layers as protesters breached the initial security layer. Protesters climbed the scaffolding, looking for any way in to get to the Capitol, Allam said, and armed police rushed in tackling them.
As thousands of Trump supporters climbed up the side of the Capitol to get inside, bursts of what appeared to be gas cannisters are being fired though it was not clear who was firing them. Outside the U.S. Capitol, several dozen Trump supporters waved flags and prayed for "angel armies" to intervene, calling on lawmakers inside to "reject" the election. A huge contingent of Proud Boys marched in, some chanting "storm the Capitol" and "1776!" and massed for the Capitol building.
For many in the crowd, it was inconceivable that Congress would certify the November vote, as it's expected to. Echoing the president's words, they pledged to fight, some calling for a rebellion and others vowing to refocus energy on the 2024 race. And they made it clear that Republicans who didn't back Trump would pay a price.
"We're not moving on," said Lawrence Ligas, a 55-year-old from Chicago who said he used to be a Democrat before Trump "earned" his vote. "We are not Republicans. We are the MAGA party. We are patriots," he said.
"I am the 2020 election," Hayes said. As she was explaining that the importance of election integrity brought her to Washington, a bystander interrupted and gestured toward her thin outfit in 43-degree weather.
"You're not freezing?" he asked Hayes. "My blood is boiling, so I'm fine!" she replied.
"I think it's unfortunate that the president himself has incited violence," said the mayor. Police stablished a bigger "traffic box" a perimeter where vehicle traffic is restricted, she said, and, "we have our entire police force activated" along with National Guard and with help from other nearby jurisdictions, the mayor said. The nation's capital is a cradle of protests, and Bowser says it's the city's responsibility to provide support for the movements of the president and the many demonstrations taking place in the Trump administration. The federal government hasn't paid its public safety bill in two years, but Bowser says she's confident that D.C. will be reimbursed.
Bowser also praised D.C. police for the arrest earlier this week of Henry "Enrique" Tarrio, leader of the far-right group Proud Boys. Tarrio has been barred from the District and is facing misdemeanor destruction of property charges and two felony counts of possession of high capacity firearm magazines. According to court documents obtained by NPR, the magazines are AR-15/M4 compatible with a capacity of 30 rounds each, and every magazine is labeled with the Proud Boys insignia. Proud Boys members typically dress in black and yellow, but are planning to wear all black, to mimic Antifa, a loose affiliation of far-left activists.
The two groups have violently clashed in the past. The U.S. Park Police confirmed that permits for Wednesday's rally at The Ellipse had all been approved, including an amendment from 5,000 people to 30,000 people. Every city police officer is on duty, and the city has also mobilized 300 members of its National Guard. The D.C. Metropolitan Police Department issued a traffic advisory that includes parking restrictions and street closures around downtown, a larger perimeter than in previous pro-Trump protests.
Oren Segal, vice president at the Center on Extremism at the Anti-Defamation League, has been working and advising the D.C. government in preparation for Wednesday's protests. "The stakes are higher today," he said.
Segal says that Trump rallies appeal not only to extremists seeking to leverage a crisis, but also to people who show up merely in support of Trump, like the Muellers from Texas. The concern was that nonviolent Trump supporters at these protests will "get wrapped up in the tactics and violence of the extreme fringes" because they are at a protest at the same time, he said. Segal anticipates some disruption during the protests, but he's optimistic. NPR National Security Correspondent Hannah Allam and reporter Tom Bowman contributed to this report.

Stay connected with CapRadio today and tomorrow for all the latest on the electoral college ratification, the protests at the U.S. and California Capitols, and the Georgia Senate results.
When breaking news happens, find updates at capradio.org or stream NPR and CapRadio live right here. Updated 3:51 p.m.
A large crowd of President Trump supporters converged on California’s Capitol building on Wednesday, chanting “stop the steal” and waving banners in protest of Congress’ scheduled certification of the Electoral College count. The group was met by a multi-agency law enforcement presence and a smaller group of counter-protesters. But while violent supporters of the president stormed the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., individuals in California’s capital did not breach the statehouse or engage in widespread violence.
People wearing red “MAGA” hats — along with others affiliated with groups such as the Proud Boys, the three percenters and a campaign to recall California Gov. Gavin Newsom — listened to an amplified feed of President Trump’s morning speech. Sacramento Police Department and California Highway Patrol officers blocked several streets off for the protesters, while caravans of cars drove around the Capitol blaring their horns. But unlike the violent insurrection that stormed the U.S. Capitol, activity at California’s statehouse was relatively calm in the morning.
Shouts of insults and threats were tossed but there was no physical violence. By the early afternoon, tensions increased.
Members of the Proud Boys and counter-protesters started throwing punches. One person was sprayed in the face with mace.
Sacramento police surrounded counter-protesters, escorting them away from the Proud Boys and President Trump supporters. Another physical confrontation between protesters in the early afternoon left two needing medical attention.
Police detained two other protesters for carrying too much mace, but were quickly released. At least two others were later detained, cited and released. The Sacramento Police Department confirmed on Twitter that people were arrested today for carrying pepper spray.
“Heavy police presence remains in the area of the Capitol,” the Sacramento police shared in a tweet. The protest in Sacramento follows weeks of similar demonstrations at the Capitol, mostly drawing crowds on Saturdays and resulting in violent brawls, arrests and minor injuries for police officers.
The demonstrators at these events claim the election has been “stolen” from President Donald Trump, a claim that has been rejected by numerous judges across the country — including, most recently, justices on the U.S. Supreme Court. The gatherings have also attracted vaccine skeptics, COVID-19 deniers and critics of Gov. Gavin Newsom’s stay-at-home order. This story will be updated.

Those assurances were ridiculed at the time, and that ridicule was entirely vindicated Wednesday.
As Congress began to accept the results of the electoral college, Trump supporters stormed the capitol, forcing both chambers to shut down as they were considering the first challenge to the results, from Arizona. Rioters clashed with police and forced their way into buildings and even the floor of Congress. There was broken glass. There was an armed standoff at the door of the House Chamber.
To be clear, this was something Trump and his allies flirted with repeatedly in the day and weeks before it happened — and indeed, not more than a couple hours prior. And the president also expressed approval for what he had seen shortly after the scenes subsided. The president is now being criticized by even top allies for fanning the flames and failing to repudiate the scenes.
At a rally near the capitol earlier Wednesday, Trump’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani endorsed the idea of a “trial by combat” — an allusion to something being settled by physical violence rather than evidence. He cited supposed evidence of his baseless voter fraud claims but then turned to a method of justice that had no place for such things. Trump appeared soon after Giuliani, encouraging his supporters to head to the Capitol building.
Trump told the supporters he wanted them “to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard,” but he has often offered mixed messages on this kind of thing. He has occasionally and suggestively said that supporters might respond with force if they believe the election result is fraudulent, and he has repeatedly alluded that his supporters might wind up being as allegedly violent as his opponents. Trump will often offer half-measures and mixed messages in response to such scenes — enough to allow his supporters to argue that he spoke up but hardly a rebuke. GOP members of Congress, including Reps. Mike Gallagher (Wis.) and Adam Kinzinger (Ill.), both war veterans, joined Mulvaney and Farah in labeling the initial response insufficient.
In the hours after his latest comments, GOP senators up to and including Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) and Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) criticized him for either contributing to the situation or not speaking out forcefully enough against it. Cotton pointed to both Trump and his colleagues who have pushed a doomed effort to overturn the election, which he came out against Monday. Whatever Trump has personally said, his claims have led allies to more than flirt with the prospect of violence. Just this weekend, Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Tex.), whose lawsuit on behalf of Trump was rejected by the Supreme Court, told Newsmax that violence was essentially what those court cases asked for. “But if bottom line is, the court is saying: ‘We’re not going to touch this.
You have no remedy’ — basically, in effect, the ruling would be that you got to go the streets and be as violent as antifa and BLM …” Gohmert said, referring to Black Lives Matter. Trump has repeatedly alluded to prospective violence by his supporters over his four years, including the idea that law enforcement and supporters, including bikers, might take matters into their own hands. Last year, he invoked the infamous phrase “When the looting starts, the shooting starts” and retweeted a video saying “the only good Democrat is a dead Democrat” within about 24 hours in response to racial justice demonstrations. And in late December, he alluded to the idea that Democrats would “fight to the death” if the roles were reversed and the election was allegedly stolen from them.
It’s a clear and demonstrated theme over the past five years. Trump is a master of hinting at things and then gently disavowing them when it becomes untenable, to give himself plausible deniability and allow his supporters to believe the best about his intentions. What has been attempted Wednesday, though, has been a very predictable result of all of it — and one Trump clearly isn’t terribly sorry to see take place on his behalf.
Correction: This post initially misidentified a video as coming from the Epoch Times. It was, in fact, from a former employee of the newspaper.

WASHINGTON (AP) — The House impeachment debate on Wednesday heard a distorted account of President Donald Trump’s remarks to his supporters a week ago when he exhorted them to “fight like hell” before they swarmed the Capitol. THE FACTS:
Trump’s speech was a call to action — a call to fight and save the country. “Our country has had enough,” he told those who went on to stage the violent siege of the Capitol. But throughout his remarks, Trump spoke of the need to “fight,” to be angry, to stop President-elect Joe Biden from taking office.
— “Nobody knows what the hell is going on. There’s never been anything like this.
We will not let them silence your voices. We’re not going to let it happen. Not going to let it happen.”
The crowd repeatedly chanted “Fight for Trump!” “Thank you,” Trump said.
He assailed “weak,” “pathetic” Republicans who were not standing with him in his push to overturn the election results, and said “there’d be hell all over the country” if Democrats had been robbed of an election win. He told his refuted stories of “ballot harvesting” and thousands of dead people voting. He perhaps meant challenging Republicans like Rep. Cheney of Wyoming in primaries, telling the crowd “in a year from now, you’re going to start working on Congress.” But he did not say exactly what he meant by getting rid of people.
“So let’s walk down Pennsylvania Avenue,” he concluded after more than an hour. He didn’t walk, but they did, bearing Trump flags, overwhelming police and occupying the Capitol in an hours-long melee that left five people dead and exposed Trump to the impeachment charge of inciting an insurrection. EDITOR’S NOTE — A look at the veracity of claims by political figures.

During Trump’s speech on January 6th, he said, “The media is the biggest problem we have.”
He went on, “It’s become the enemy of the people. . . . We gotta get them straightened out.” Several journalists were attacked during the siege. Men assaulted a Times photographer inside the Capitol, near the rotunda, as she screamed for help. After National Guard soldiers and federal agents finally arrived and expelled the Trump supporters, some members of the mob shifted their attention to television crews in a park on the east side of the building. Earlier, a man had accosted an Israeli journalist in the middle of a live broadcast, calling him a “lying Israeli” and telling him, “You are cattle today.” Now the Trump supporters surrounded teams from the Associated Press and other outlets, chasing off the reporters and smashing their equipment with bats and sticks.
Not long after the Brooks tweet, I got a call from a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies. She had been unable to come to D.C., owing to a recent surgery. She asked if I could tell her what I’d seen, and if the stories about Antifa were accurate. She was upset—she did not believe that “Trump people” could have done what the media were alleging. Before I responded, she put me on speakerphone.
I could hear other people in the room. We spoke for a while, and it was plain that they desperately wanted to know the truth. I did my best to convey it to them as I understood it. Less than an hour after we got off the phone, the woman texted me a screenshot of a CNN broadcast with a news bulletin that read, “antifa has taken responsiblitly for storming capital hill.” The image, which had been circulating on social media, was crudely Photoshopped (and poorly spelled). “Thought you might want to see this,” she wrote.
On January 8th, Trump was permanently banned from Twitter. Five days later, he became the only U.S. President in history to be impeached twice. (During the Capitol siege, the man in the hard hat withdrew from one of the Senate desks a manual, from a year ago, titled “PROCEEDINGS OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE IN THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF PRESIDENT DONALD JOHN TRUMP.”) Although the President has finally agreed to submit to a peaceful transition of power, he has admitted no responsibility for the deadly riot. “People thought that what I said was totally appropriate,” he told reporters on January 12th.
At the heap of wrecked camera gear outside the Capitol, the man in the leather jacket and sunglasses declared to the crowd, “We are at war. . . . Mobilize in your own cities, your own counties. Storm your own capitol buildings. And take down every one of these corrupt motherfuckers.” Behind him, lights glowed in the rotunda. The sky darkened. At 8 p.m., Congress reconvened and resumed certifying the election. For six hours, Americans had held democracy hostage in the name of patriotism.

At 2:12 p.m. on Jan. 6, supporters of President Trump began climbing through a window they had smashed on the northwest side of the U.S. Capitol.
“Go! Go! Go!”
someone shouted as the rioters, some in military gear, streamed in. It was the start of the most serious attack on the Capitol since the War of 1812. The mob coursed through the building, enraged that Congress was preparing to make Trump’s electoral defeat official.
“Drag them out! … Hang them out!”
rioters yelled at one point, as they gathered near the House chamber. Officials in the House and Senate secured the doors of their respective chambers, but lawmakers were soon forced to retreat to undisclosed locations.
Five people died, including a Capitol police officer. In all, more than 50 officers were injured. To reconstruct the pandemonium inside the Capitol for the video above, The Washington Post examined text messages, photos and hundreds of videos, some of which were exclusively obtained.
By synchronizing the footage and locating some of the camera angles within a digital 3-D model of the building, The Post was able to map the rioters’ movements and assess how close they came to lawmakers — in some cases feet apart or separated only by a handful of vastly outnumbered police officers. The Post used a facial-recognition algorithm that differentiates individual faces — it does not identify people — to estimate that at least 300 rioters were present in footage taken inside the Capitol while police were struggling to evacuate lawmakers. The actual number of rioters is probably greater, since the footage analyzed by The Post did not capture everyone in the building.
After breaking in on the Senate side of the Capitol, rioters began moving from the ground floor up one level to the chamber itself. Vice President Pence, who had been presiding, was moved to a nearby office at 2:13 p.m. The mob passed by about one minute later.
On the other side of the building, the House briefly recessed and then resumed business in its chamber on the second floor, even as rioters stormed into Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s suite of offices, The Post found. “They’re pounding the doors trying to find her,” one Pelosi staffer said to another, a comment captured on an audio recording at 2:28 p.m. At approximately 2:40 p.m., a group of lawmakers left the House floor via the Speaker’s Lobby, an adjacent corridor featuring portraits of past leaders of the House. The lawmakers came within sight of an angry mob.
The two groups were separated by several police officers and a barricaded glass-paneled door that the rioters were attempting to smash. “Break it down! Break it down!”
rioters chanted, as lawmakers filed out. Two minutes after the last of the lawmakers had left the corridor, Trump supporter Ashli Babbitt was shot dead by a Capitol Police officer as she began to climb through a broken section of the door.
In the gallery overlooking the chamber, some lawmakers had yet to be evacuated when Babbitt was shot. “I heard the gunshot, a lot of screaming,” recalled Rep. Robin Kelly (D-Ill.), who was in the gallery.
By 2:53 p.m., 41 minutes after rioters entered the building through the smashed window, the last member of the last large group of House members to leave had been evacuated and was headed for a secure location. Graphics by Aaron Steckelberg, Sarah Hashemi, Osman Malik, Brian Monroe, William Neff, Lauren Tierney and Laris Karklis. Photo research by Nick Kirkpatrick.

What to Know A mob in support of President Donald Trump surged past barriers at the U.S. Capitol, used chemical irritants against police and forced lawmakers to flee for their safety. Four deaths were reported on or around the U.S. Capitol grounds on Wednesday, and several people were hurt, including officers.
Curfews were in effect for 12 hours in D.C., Alexandria and Arlington. D.C.'s mayor extended a public emergency for 15 days.
EDITOR'S NOTE: This story is no longer being updated. Go here to see the latest for Jan. 7, 2021. A U.S. Capitol Police officer died from injuries suffered during Wednesday's riot in Washington, becoming the fifth related fatality.
We're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with our new newsletter — The 4Front. Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox.
Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol in a chaotic protest Wednesday aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Four deaths were reported on or around the U.S. Capitol grounds. The nation’s elected representatives scrambled to crouch under desks and don gas masks while police futilely tried to barricade the building, one of the most jarring scenes ever to unfold in a seat of American political power.
A woman was shot and killed inside the Capitol, and D.C.'s mayor instituted a 12-hour curfew starting at 6 p.m. in an attempt to contain the violence. Congress reconvened at night, with lawmakers decrying rioters who defaced the Capitol and vowing to finish confirming the Electoral College vote for Joe Biden’s election, even if it took all night.
Before dawn Thursday, lawmakers completed their work, confirming Biden won. Vice President Mike Pence, presiding over the joint session, announced the tally, 306-232.
We're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with our new newsletter — The 4Front. Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox.
Trump, who had steadfastly refused to concede the election, said in a statement immediately after the vote that there “will be an orderly transition" of power on Inauguration Day. “Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on January 20th,” Trump said in a statement posted to Twitter by an aide.
A woman died after being shot by U.S. Capitol Police as the mob tried to break through a barricaded door in the Capitol where police were armed on the other side. Additionally, a woman and two men died after suffering medical emergencies around the Capitol grounds, Metropolitan Police Department Acting Chief Robert Contee said. The causes of death of the three people who suffered medical emergencies will be determined by the Office of the Medical Examiner. After being delayed for several tense hours as violent rioters stormed the Capitol building, the House and Senate voted to affirm Joe Biden as president-elect early Thursday morning.
D.C. Fire and EMS transported 10 other people with injuries. Fourteen D.C. police officers also were injured, police said.
The woman who was shot was identified as Ashli Babbitt of San Diego. Rosanne Boyland, 34, of Kennesaw, Georgia; Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama; and Benjamin Phillips, 50, of Ringtown, Pennsylvania, each died after suffering medical emergencies, D.C. police said.
As of 10:30 p.m., D.C. police reported 47 arrests for curfew violation. Five others were arrested for weapons violations.
Police said they recovered and destroyed two pipe bombs, one outside the Democratic National Committee and one outside the Republican National Committee. They also found a cooler from a vehicle that had a long gun and Molotov cocktail on Capitol grounds.
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser extended a public emergency declared earlier Wednesday for 15 days. "Many persons came to the District armed and for the purpose of engaging in violence and destruction and have engaged in violence and destruction," a statement from the mayor's office said. News4's Jackie Bensen reports from the D.C. Armory, in front of buses that brought members of the Maryland National Guard to the District to help.
Trump issued a restrained call for peace but did not call on his supporters to leave. The Senate reconvened after 8 p.m. and Pence condemned the violence. There were heavily armed officers from the Capitol Police and Secret Service near the Senate floor, including a counter-assault team.
A man was stabbed outside the Trump International Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue, D.C. police said. He was taken to a hospital.
No one was immediately arrested. Rioters used chemical irritants on police in order to gain access to the Capitol grounds — D.C.’s police chief said — broke glass and waved Trump flags. Authorities eventually regained control as night fell.
Heavily armed officers brought in as reinforcements started using tear gas in a coordinated effort to get people moving toward the door, then combed the halls for stragglers, pushing the mob farther out onto the plaza and lawn, in clouds of tear gas and smoke from flash-bangs and percussion grenades. Video footage also showed officers letting people calmly walk out the doors of the Capitol despite the rioting and vandalism. Officials declared the U.S. Capitol complex secure at nearly 6 p.m. after heavily armed police moved to end a violent, nearly four-hour occupation.
An announcement rang out inside a secure location for officials of the House. Lawmakers applauded.
Members of Congress said they were stunned by the violence. Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-Va.) said she had expected the day to be tense. “Them actually entering the United States Capitol is not something anyone would have expected to see here in the United States of America. It it is a shameful and sad day for our democracy,” she said. Rioters will be held responsible for the chaos, D.C.'s mayor said.
Pence’s office said in a statement Wednesday night that he never left the Capitol. “@VP was in regular contact w/ House & Senate leadership, Cap Police, DOJ, & DoD to facilitate efforts to secure the Capitol & reconvene Congress. And now we will finish the People’s business,” it said.
We're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with our new newsletter — The 4Front. Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox.
A curfew began in D.C. at 6 p.m. Wednesday, Bowser announced. Nearby Arlington and Alexandria, Virginia also were under curfews. Many pro-Trump protesters remained on D.C. streets in defiance of the order.
Two “suspected explosive devices” were found and rendered safe, the FBI said. The investigation is ongoing. “All Americans should be outraged by this assault on our Capitol,” Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan said.
Senate Democratic leader Schumer said Trump “bears a great deal of the blame.” Jan. 6, 2021 will “live forever in infamy” and will be a stain on our democracy, he said. “The president, who promoted conspiracy theories that motivated these thugs, the president, who exhorted them to come to our nation’s capital, egged them on,” Schumer continued. Law enforcement that responded to the Capitol included the D.C. National Guard, Maryland National Guard, Virginia National Guard and officers from multiple D.C.-area police departments.
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said he would send 1,000 Guard troops to assist with security. Thousands of Trump supporters descended upon Washington, D.C., and began rioting on Wednesday, forcibly breaching the Capitol building as the House and Senate met to certify the results of the 2020 presidential election. Trump told supporters to be peaceful in a tweet late Wednesday afternoon, more than two hours after rioters began storming the Capitol. “You have to go home now.
We have to have peace,” he said in a video, going on to repeat false attacks on the election. Trump urged his supporters to come to Washington to protest Congress’ formal approval of Biden’s win.
Several Republican lawmakers backed his calls, despite there being no evidence of fraud or wrongdoing in the election. A Slate journalist captured the moment protesters attempted to break into the U.S. Capitol building on Wednesday by smashing the glass window panes of a door.
Inside the House chamber, lawmakers described a harrowing scene Wednesday afternoon. As they stayed down, they were told to have gas masks at the ready — and take off the lapel pins they wear identifying them as elected representatives.
Police had guns drawn, and furniture barricaded the door. A chaplain prayed as police guarded the doors to the chamber and lawmakers tried to gather information about what was happening.
Announcements blared: Due to an “external security threat,” no one could enter or exit the Capitol complex, the recording said. Lawmakers tweeted that they were sheltering in place.
After making sure the hallways were clear, police swiftly escorted people down a series of hallways and tunnels to a cafeteria in one of the House office buildings. Police evacuated the chamber at 2:30 p.m., ushering senators to the first of what would be several undisclosed locations.
Clerks grabbed boxes of electoral college certificates as they left. They mocked its leaders, posing for photos in the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, one with his feet propped on a desk in her office, another sitting in the same seat Pence had occupied only moments before during the proceedings to certify the Electoral College vote.
“If you are outside, seek cover,” another warning said. Black Lives Matter DC issued a statement with the headline “We tried to warn you” and said they called on local leaders on Dec. 30 to stand up to white supremacists. We're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with our new newsletter — The 4Front.
Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox. The Republican National Committee says it strongly condemns the violence at the Capitol, adding that the violent scenes “do not represent acts of patriotism, but an attack on our country and its founding principles.”
The RNC is responsible for developing and promoting the Republican political platform. “What happened today was domestic terrorism,” the group’s communications director, Michael Ahrens, said. Multiple groups of protesters convened around the U.S. Capitol and National Mall Wednesday morning as Congress met to count states’ electoral votes and reaffirm that Biden was elected the next U.S. president.
In front of a cheering crowd, Trump took to the stage for more than an hour to complain of “bold and radical left Democrats” and “fake news media” and assert without providing evidence that he won November’s election. “Fight for Trump,” the crowd chanted back. Minutes after Congress started its joint session Wednesday afternoon, Trump left the stage and a stream of protesters began flooding the streets and making their way toward the Capitol.

WASHINGTON — The U.S. Capitol was finally secured Wednesday, hours after supporters of President Donald Trump invaded the halls of Congress to disrupt the confirmation of Joe Biden as the next president. Protesters had freely roamed through the Capitol complex, including the Senate chamber, where one man stood on the president of the Senate's chair and shouted, "Trump won that election!"
Several law enforcement officials said a woman who was shot by police inside the Capitol building during the chaos had died. A video circulating on social media showed a woman falling from the window of a doorway in the Capitol, apparently after being shot. Three other people died from medical emergencies that arose during the riot.
Vice President Mike Pence, who had been presiding over the count of Electoral College votes, was rushed out of the Senate as the Capitol complex went into lockdown when Trump supporters began pouring into the building. Pence, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, who are all in the line of presidential succession were taken to secure locations. Members of Congress were ordered to take shelter in the complex, where at least one improvised explosive device was found.
Another pipe-bomb-like device was found at the headquarters of the Republican National Committee. As rioters, many of them clad in hats bearing Trump's "Make America Great Again" motto, rampaged, Senate staffers removed the Electoral College ballots that had been on the floor of the Senate during proceedings, according to Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore. "if our capable floor staff hadn't grabbed them, they would have been burned by the mob," Merkley tweeted.
Other tweets and broadcasts showed shocking images of a protester dangling from the balcony of the Senate chamber, a woman drenched in blood on a stretcher and Capitol police pointing guns on the floor of the House of Representatives. Members of Congress were photographed wearing plastic breathing devices over their heads to protect themselves from tear gas.
CNN broadcast an image of protester sitting at Pelosi's desk, with a handwritten note near her computer that read, "WE WILL NOT BACK DOWN." Hours after the riot began, authorities began tossing flash-bang grenades and dispersing tear gas into a crowd of people in front of the Capitol building. "This is a coup attempt," tweeted Rep. Adam Kinzinger, an Illinois Republican.
Republican Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah blamed Trump for the riot. "This is what the president has caused today, this insurrection," said Romney, the GOP's 2012 presidential nominee. Trump, during a rally earlier outside the White House, had encouraged thousands of supporters to march to the Capitol to protest what historically have been ceremonial proceedings.
Trump's personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, a former New York City mayor and top federal prosecutor, during the same rally suggested that the dispute over the election results be resolved by "trial by combat." The president later was angered to learn that Pence had said he would refuse to go along with Trump's demand that he try to block the confirmation of Biden's Electoral College victory.
More than an hour after the riot began, Trump's spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany said "the National Guard is on the way along with other federal protective services." "We reiterate President Trump's call against violence and to remain peaceful," McEnany said.
NBC News later reported that Trump had to be convinced to deploy the National Guard. Pence, while trapped in the Capitol, was in contact with the Pentagon, and "encouraged a much more rapid deployment than what was occurring," a source familiar with the matter said. Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser requested the deployment of the National Guard and issued a citywide 6 p.m. ET curfew until Thursday.
Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman said in an emailed statement: "The D.C. Guard has been mobilized to provide support to federal law enforcement in the District." He said acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller was in contact with congressional leaders and Secretary of the Army Ryan McCarthy was working with the D.C. government.
"The law enforcement response will be led by the Department of Justice," Hoffman said. Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam said he was sending members of his state's National Guard and 200 state troopers to help restore order. Northam later declared a state of emergency in Virginia, and curfews in the cities of Alexandria and Arlington, which are just across the Potomac River from Washington.
Acting U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen said in a statement, "The violence at our Nation's Capitol Building is an intolerable attack on a fundamental institution of our democracy." "From the outset, the Department of Justice has been working in close coordination with the Capitol Police and federal partners from the Interior Department, the Department of Homeland Security, and the National Guard, as well as the Metropolitan Police and other local authorities," Rosen said. "Earlier this afternoon, the Department of Justice sent hundreds of federal law enforcement officers and agents from the FBI, ATF, and the U.S. Marshals Service to assist the Capitol Police in addressing this unacceptable situation, and we intend to enforce the laws of our land."
Bowser during a press conference said, "The behavior that we are witnessing is shameful, unpatriotic and above all, it is unlawful." "Anyone who has engaged in these activities, continues to engage in these activities, will be held accountable," Bowser vowed. Lawmakers had just begun the procedural process of counting the Electoral College votes and formally declaring Biden the winner when the chaos erupted.

President Donald Trump called on his supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol building to “go home” in a video message and subsequent tweet Wednesday, which Twitter has now removed, but defended the destructive mob for infiltrating the building and said he “loves” his supporters who forced their way into the Capitol. Trump supporters forced their way into the U.S. Capitol building Wednesday afternoon as Congress gathered to count electoral votes, following a protest that included speeches from Trump and key allies like attorney Rudy Giuliani. While the mob was able to force its way into key locations like the chambers of Congress and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office, lawmakers fled to a secure location after supporters stormed the building and have reported they are safe. One woman was shot in the Capitol as the insurrection unfolded and later died, and NBC News reports an improvised explosive device and several suspicious packages were found around the Capitol building. The National Guard has been deployed to address the situation, and Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser has ordered a 6 p.m. curfew in the city in response to the violence.

President Donald Trump conceded publicly for the first time Thursday that he will not serve a second term, stopping short of congratulating President-elect Joe Biden but acknowledging a transfer of power is now underway.
It appeared to end, for now, Trump’s false and corrosive attempt to overthrow the election results, which culminated in a violent attempt at insurrection at the US Capitol a day earlier. It did not reckon with Trump’s role in fomenting that violence, nor did it contain a vow to change his behavior. But with 13 days until Biden is inaugurated, the President’s comments in a prerecorded video amounted to as much of a concession as he is likely to offer before he departs the White House for good.
A White House adviser in discussions with senior officials said Trump recorded the video only because his presidency is threatened by looming resignations and potential impeachment. “I think that video was done only because almost all his senior staff was about to resign, and impeachment is imminent,” the adviser said.
“That message and tone should have been relayed election night … not after people died,” the adviser added. Trump’s recognition of his loss comes two months after the fact and amid growing calls for either his removal from office or a fresh impeachment.
It also came as legal questions swirled about his culpability for inciting rioters who invaded the US Capitol a day earlier. In the video, released more than 24 hours after Wednesday’s riot, Trump called for “healing and reconciliation” and said the country must move forward. That video, had been taped in the Rose Garden, was more ad-libbed and did not accomplish what many of his advisers had hoped, which was to tamp down the violence and accusations the President had incited it. Thursday’s video was more staid, taped indoors and appeared heavily edited.
Trump demonstrated little emotion as he admitted his time as president was nearing its end. Throughout Wednesday evening and into Thursday, Trump faced resignations from senior staffers and sped-up efforts among Democrats interested in filing new articles of impeachment. Talk of invoking the 25th Amendment also appeared to escalate, though Vice President Mike Pence — whose participation in such an effort would be required — has not discussed the matter with members of the Cabinet.
Trump also appeared to be confronting potential legal questions about his role in inciting the riots. Those factors seemed to contribute to a starkly different approach from Trump, who in the Thursday video condemned the protests in far stronger terms than he did on Wednesday. Still, he did not address his own role in fomenting the unrest and continued to make claims, however vague, that the 2020 presidential election was marred by fraud. Earlier Thursday, Trump had issued a dark-of-night statement vowing an “orderly transition,” which came about in part to stanch a wave of resignations from within the West Wing and the broader administration, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The resignations began Wednesday with the first lady’s chief of staff, the White House social secretary, a deputy press secretary and Trump’s deputy national security adviser all exiting before the night’s end. Other officials, sources told CNN, had been considering resigning. And a growing number of Republican leaders and Cabinet members told CNN on Wednesday that they were considering having Trump removed from office by impeachment or through the invocation of the 25th Amendment.
But at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning is now planning to remain in the administration. National security adviser Robert O’Brien has told aides he now intends to remain in his post until Trump leaves office, though his plans could still change depending on how Trump approaches the day. He made his decision before Trump released the statement. O’Brien was persuaded to stay by other senior staffers, who expressed concern about the national security implications of a vacant post in the final days of the administration.
The statement from the President, released through his deputy chief of staff Dan Scavino’s Twitter account at 3:50 a.m. ET, said “there will be an orderly transition on January 20” even though he disagreed with the outcome of the election. Trump agreed to the statement after being advised of the dismay and disgust among many of his aides, though the person familiar said it was not the sole reason for its release.
It also came after reports that early discussions were underway about invoking the 25th Amendment and restarting impeachment proceedings. It was meant as a signal from Trump that the next 13 days will proceed without incident.
But it came months after Joe Biden won the election and hours after Trump urged his supporters to protest at the Capitol. Even among his team and close allies it is viewed as coming far too late and offering far too little condemnation for what happened at the Capitol building. Trump, who has repeatedly refused to concede the election, on Wednesday egged on his supporters who would later breach the US Capitol in an attempt to stop lawmakers from counting the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election.
“We’re going to walk down to the Capitol. And we’re gonna cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women.
And we’re probably not going to be cheering, so much for some of them, because you’ll never take back our country with weakness, you have to show strength and you have to be strong,” Trump said, addressing his supporters who gathered maskless on the Ellipse near the White House Wednesday morning. After a speech filled with lies and misrepresentations that incensed the crowd, Trump returned to the White House to watch a violent crescendo to his constant spreading of misinformation about the electoral process. The mob broke into the Capitol, stormed both the House and Senate floors and Trump supporters could be seen lounging in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. A woman was shot and killed in the chaos.
Police have yet to release more details about her death. Three others had medical emergencies and died, according to police.
Republicans and Democrats alike condemned the rioters for entering the country’s legislative chambers and destroying federal property, and several lawmakers blamed Trump for the violence that broke out. Multiple people told CNN that Trump was borderline enthusiastic over the protests and did not wish to condemn them. He only agreed to record a short video after multiple staffers and Republican lawmakers lobbied him to make a statement.
On Wednesday night, once the Capitol was secured again, lawmakers returned from lockdown to the House and Senate chambers, to continue counting the votes nearly six hours after the crowd wreaked havoc on America’s symbol of democracy. The House and Senate defeated Republican objections lodged against the votes sent by two states, Arizona and Pennsylvania.
Before 4 a.m. ET, the joint session of Congress had completed tallying up the electoral votes and Vice President Mike Pence, who presided over the count, declared that Biden won the Electoral College by 306 votes to 232 for Trump. Trump did not say in either statement whether he plans to attend the inauguration of Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on January 20. This story has been updated with additional reporting.

President Trump promised an "orderly transition" on Jan. 20 after Congress early Thursday certified the Electoral College vote that gave Democrat Joe Biden his presidential victory.
The certification came after a day in Washington, D.C., that was marred by pro-Trump protesters storming the U.S. Capitol. Dan Scavino, the White House deputy chief of staff, posted a statement from Trump on Twitter that called for calm in the early hours of Thursday morning.
Trump had encouraged his supporters to march on the Capitol to protest lawmakers’ actions, and later appeared to excuse the violent occupation by the mob, which forced its way inside and clashed with police. Members of Congress were forced into hiding, offices were ransacked, and the formal congressional tally halted for more than six hours. Authorities said four people died during the violence, including one woman who was shot by an officer outside the House chamber.
Detractors of the president criticized him for stoking anger among his supporters and said a violent incident was inevitable. They said the president has been pushing the false narrative about election interference for the past month and his presidency was bound to end in chaos.
Twitter, Facebook and Instagram temporarily suspended the president from posting on their platforms. The FBI is asking for help identifying individuals who may have been involved in violent conduct or rioting.
Anyone with information is asked to call 1-800-CALL-FBI or visit http://fbi.gov/USCapitol. Fox News' Adam Shaw and Edmund DeMarche and the Associated Press contributed to this report.

Prosecutors on Tuesday filed the first significant conspiracy charge in the US Capitol attack, alleging that three members of the so-called Oath Keepers, an extremist militant group, planned and coordinated ahead of the January 6 assault. In an amended complaint unsealed Tuesday in federal court, an FBI agent divulged striking new details about the group’s efforts.
Jessica Watkins, the alleged founder of an Ohio militia, had instructions to make explosives out of bleach printed out at her home, according to the court document. Chilling messages sent between the militants during the siege that are quoted in the complaint appear to indicate they were searching for lawmakers inside the building as they sought to stop Congress from certifying the presidential election.
“Tom all legislators are down in the Tunnels 3floors down” one says. “Go through back house chamber doors facing N left down hallway down steps,” says another, according to court documents.
Watkins turned herself into local police in the state on Sunday along with Donovan Crowl, another member of the Ohio group accused in the conspiracy charges. The pair, along with Caldwell, are accused of moving together “in an organized and practiced fashion” as they pushed through a crowd towards a door to the Capitol building, according to a charging document. It’s not clear who is representing Watkins and Donovan on the charges.
Caldwell was arrested in Virginia earlier Tuesday and at an initial appearance in federal court in Harrisonburg, Virginia, Tuesday afternoon, a federal magistrate judge ordered that he remain in jail as he awaits trial. “The conduct and statements of Mr. Caldwell and the others, it really is just pure lawlessness,” Judge Joel Hoppe of the Western District of Virginia said.
Prosecutors said at the hearing that Caldwell could face more charges, potentially including federal riot and sedition charges. He currently faces charges of obstruction of a federal proceeding, destruction of federal property and two conspiracy counts that carry serious possible penalties.
Caldwell’s defense lawyer argued that he should be released because he is at risk of contracting Covid-19 in detention, his charges are not that serious and that he is a retired Navy captain who served the country and was honorably discharged. Caldwell said in court he still receives retirement payments from the Navy.
According to a recording of walkie-talkie-like communications that the militant group members were allegedly having during the riot, Watkins said that she was part of a team of 30 to 40 people. “We have a good group. We have about 30-40 of us.
We are sticking together and sticking to the plan,” Watkins said, according to the affidavit. In an interview, Crowl’s mother, Teresa Joann Rowe, said her son, who previously served in the US Marine Corps, has expressed increasingly hostile political views in recent years.
Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism, said he’s concerned some of those arrested have US military backgrounds. “Some right-wing extremist groups, particularly the anti-government Oath Keepers, have a long history of recruiting from current and former members of the military and law enforcement,” Segal told CNN.
“Oath Keepers are part of the resurgent militia movement, which believes the federal government has been co-opted by a shadowy conspiracy that is trying to strip American citizens of their rights. Though the Oath Keepers will accept anyone as members, what differentiates them from other anti-government extremist groups is their explicit focus on recruiting current and former military, law enforcement and first responder personnel,” he added. This story has been updated with additional developments.

Joseph R. Biden Jr. received a majority of votes from the Electoral College on Monday, formally securing the presidency in the manner set out in the Constitution, some six weeks after Election Day.
California’s 55 electoral votes, announced at 5:27 p.m. Eastern time, put Mr. Biden over the 270-vote threshold for a majority, the culmination of a daylong process that began with Vermont’s three votes shortly after 10 a.m. Note: Nebraska and Maine allocate some of their electoral votes on the basis of the results in each congressional district.
The normally rubber-stamp formality was followed avidly online in an extraordinary election year, one in which the incumbent, President Trump, refused to concede and incited supporters with baseless claims of a “rigged” vote. For some followers of the counting, it was a kind of replay of election night, but one in which the winner was assured.
Expected protests by Trump supporters outside state capitols, where most electors met, generally fizzled. In Michigan, a group pretending to be “G.O.P. electors” trying to gain admittance to the Senate chamber was turned away by a security guard. Arizona, citing security concerns, did not disclose in advance where its electors would meet. In general, there were no surprises.
Unlike recent presidential elections, there were no “faithless electors” casting a vote for someone other than the winner of their states’ popular votes. The next important date on the calendar leading to the inauguration of the new president is Jan. 6, when Congress meets in joint session to formally accept the Electoral College results. As in recent presidential elections, it is likely that challenges will be made to some states’ electoral votes, but they are all but certain to fail. This year, Mr. Biden won states with 306 electoral votes, and President Trump won 232. Despite Mr. Trump’s rage at his loss, his efforts to subvert the outcome have met with resounding defeat in court, and the mechanics of certifying the election results and appointing electors, by both Democratic and Republican officials, have proceeded as designed.
There was sound and fury from the president. But the Electoral College’s ratification of Mr. Biden as the 46th president was routine and anticlimactic.

President Trump called the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives twice during the past week to make an extraordinary request for help reversing his loss in the state, reflecting a broadening pressure campaign by the president and his allies to try to subvert the 2020 election result. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight The calls, confirmed by House Speaker Bryan Cutler’s office, make Pennsylvania the third state where Trump has directly attempted to overturn a result since he lost the election to former vice president Joe Biden. He previously reached out to Republicans in Michigan, and on Saturday he pressured Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R) in a call to try to replace that state’s electors. The president’s outreach to Pennsylvania’s Republican House leader came after his campaign and its allies decisively lost numerous legal challenges in the state in both state and federal court.
Trump has continued to press his baseless claims of widespread voting irregularities both publicly and privately. A White House spokesman declined to comment on the calls to Cutler, and a Trump campaign spokesman did not respond to a request for comment.
Cutler told the president that the legislature had no power to overturn the state’s chosen slate of electors, said Straub, who was not on the calls but was briefed about them afterward. But late last week, the House speaker was among about 60 Republican state lawmakers who sent a letter to Pennsylvania’s congressional representatives urging them to object to the state’s electoral slate on Jan. 6, when Congress is set to formally accept the results. Although such a move is highly unlikely to gain traction, at least one Pennsylvania Republican, Rep. Scott Perry, said in an interview Monday that he will heed the request and dispute the state’s electors. The embrace of Trump’s false claims by many Pennsylvania GOP lawmakers shows how the president’s baseless attacks on the integrity of the election have gained ground with his supporters.
Protesters chanting “Stop the steal,” some with firearms, demonstrated over the weekend at the homes of Cutler in Pennsylvania and the Democratic secretary of state in Michigan. Trump stoked those flames Saturday at a rally for two Republican Senate candidates in Georgia, where he ranted for an hour and 40 minutes almost exclusively about fraud. Trump’s continued embrace of such rhetoric has prompted fresh alarm among Democrats and some Republicans, who fear that the president is inciting violence. And while his efforts to overturn the result are widely viewed as fruitless, many officials said they are distressed at the lasting harm they believe he is doing to public faith in U.S. elections.
Dozens of protesters showed up late Saturday at the home of Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson in Detroit, promoting more false accusations that fraud had tainted Biden’s victory in the state. Nessel noted that the protesters, some armed with bullhorns and some with guns, arrived shortly after the end of Trump’s rally in Georgia. She said neighbors came out to plead with the protesters to go home because they were scaring children — including Benson’s 4-year-old son.
In Pennsylvania, the effort appears to have produced some political results. In their Dec. 4 letter to the state’s congressional delegation, GOP state lawmakers claimed that the Democratic secretary of state’s easing of election restrictions to accommodate the coronavirus pandemic violated state law and “undermined the lawful certification” of Pennsylvania’s electors.
They asked the state’s congressional members to object to their own state’s electoral votes. To succeed, such a challenge requires support from both a representative and a senator, and must survive a vote of both chambers. So far, no Republican senator has voiced support for such a maneuver, which in any event would fail in the Democratic-controlled House.
Still, Perry said Monday that he “will honor” the concerns of his state colleagues and is prepared to lodge an objection. “My concerns are that we don’t know if this was a fair and free election and that we don’t know if fraud was committed,” he said. Perry joins Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), who last week announced plans to challenge the electoral college vote.
Straub, the spokesman for Cutler, said the letter to the congressional delegation had been in the works before the calls he received from Trump. He said Trump wanted to know what the state legislature could do to overturn the result, and Cutler spent both calls explaining that the legislature has no power to intervene.
Under rules set out in the Pennsylvania Constitution, the General Assembly is not currently in session. Only Gov. Tom Wolf — a Democrat — or a court has the power to order a special session, Cutler explained to the president.
Cutler also made clear that any allegations of fraud would have to be proved in court, Straub said. Straub said that the calls between Cutler and Trump were “amicable” and that the president did not “pressure” the lawmaker in a hostile way. Yet Straub also acknowledged that the pressure on Cutler — who faces reelection as House speaker on Jan. 5 — has been intense.
His office phone system, which has the capacity to store many thousands of voice mails, has been completely filled “several times” over the past week, Straub said. While Trump was seeking to make inroads with GOP leadership in Pennsylvania, he called Kemp on Saturday, berating the Georgia governor for not calling a special session to take up legislation that would change the way the state’s electors are chosen.
Kemp spokesman Cody Hall said that while the governor does have the power to call a session, he must give a reason for doing so. As in Pennsylvania, there is no legal recourse for the Georgia legislature to alter the election after the fact, and therefore no legitimate reason to call a session. “Any attempt by the legislature to retroactively change that process for the Nov. 3rd election would be unconstitutional and immediately enjoined by the courts, resulting in a long legal dispute and no short-term resolution,” Kemp said in a joint statement issued Sunday with his lieutenant governor, Geoff Duncan.
Several Republican strategists who spoke candidly on the condition of anonymity said they believe that Trump has reserved a special level of anger for Kemp in part because Georgia is the most conservative state he lost and therefore his most embarrassing defeat. Indeed, the president has told advisers that he would be interested in working against Kemp in his reelection bid in 2022, according to two aides, who like others spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private discussions. “I put this guy in office. He’s there because of me,” Trump said about Kemp, railing about his “disloyalty,” one of the advisers said. Trump is considering a second trip to Georgia before Christmas, and aides said they expect him to again rip into Kemp then.
The president has also publicly attacked Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey (R), who signed the state’s results certification despite the president’s exhortations not to. Ducey has described his relationship with the president as “tense and strained,” according to a person who has spoken to him. A spokesman for Ducey did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Despite the heightened effort to pressure public officials, there is little sense inside Trump’s campaign that the effort is working. The president has complained to several advisers that a string of events with state lawmakers and his own attorneys in Pennsylvania, Arizona and Georgia did not get him any closer to victory.
One of those lawyers, Rudolph W. Giuliani, is now hospitalized after testing positive for the coronavirus. And Dec. 14, the day when the electoral college will meet and vote in state capitals across the nation, is rapidly approaching. The outlook is similar inside the White House, where administration officials have begun discussing who will stay until Biden’s Jan. 20 inauguration to help with the transition and who will leave before that date, according to people familiar with the conversations. The legal defeats, meanwhile, continued to mount Monday — as did the inevitability of Biden’s victory.
Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger (R) recertified the state’s election results after a second statewide recount of presidential votes. The presidential ballots in Georgia have now been counted three times, each time delivering the state to Biden.
Also in Georgia, a Fulton County Superior Court judge on Monday dismissed a lawsuit filed by the Trump campaign alleging widespread voter fraud because the team’s lawyers did not pay the proper filing fee or fill out their paperwork correctly, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. One official involved in the campaign said Trump spends almost all of his days obsessing over voter fraud and searching for ways to reverse his defeat. He has asked Giuliani and one of his campaign lawyers, Jenna Ellis, for more names of lawmakers he should be calling.

President Donald Trump’s staunchest defenders on Capitol Hill are urging him not to concede even after President-elect Joe Biden wins the Electoral College vote next week, calling on their party’s leader to battle it out all the way to the House floor in January as he makes unsubstantiated claims of widespread election fraud.
The view of Trump’s defenders is at odds with that of many top congressional Republicans, including leaders of the Senate, who believe the election will be over next Monday when electors cast their votes and make Biden’s win official – even though the Democrat’s victory in the presidential race has been clear for weeks. But conservative House Republicans argue that next week doesn’t mark the end of Trump’s desperate efforts to overturn the election results, which he has failed to do through scores of fruitless lawsuits and brazen efforts to pressure state and local leaders to subvert the will of voters and appoint new slates of electors to the Electoral College. They said that Congress should engage in a full-throated debate over the results in key states because of their allegations of fraud, which have yet to be borne out in court. “We should still try to figure out exactly what took place here.
And as I said that includes, I think, debates on the House floor – potentially on January 6,” Jordan, a trusted Trump confidant, told CNN. It is not unusual for a losing candidate’s most fervent supporters to take their case to the House floor – something that occurred after the 2016, 2004 and 2000 presidential races. But it is unusual for the losing candidate to mount a weeks-long public campaign aimed at sowing discord and distrust over a pillar of democracy, something that Trump has done relentlessly since losing the race. Even if Trump loses a bevy of GOP support for his unprecedented quest after next week, the backing of his staunchest supporters is likely to only encourage the mercurial President to continue his barrage of attacks against the integrity of the elections.
Indeed, the efforts to change the outcome of the election are destined to fail but are bound to engender distrust over the election results despite Republican and Democratic assertions that the election was safe and secure and that no amount of fraud had been discovered that would change the ultimate result that Biden had been elected the 46th President of the United States. Biggs was just reelected to a third term in Arizona, a state where Trump disputes, without evidence, that Biden won the race. Biggs told CNN he doesn’t dispute that he won his own race, but “I dispute the presidential election results,” arguing it’s “almost inexplainable” since Republicans were successful in key races across the board in Arizona other than for the White House, though they lost a Senate race too. “What you have is the very top of the ticket – that’s where the problems were,” he said.
But Democratic and Republican officials in Arizona reject that charge, which has yet to gain any traction in the courts. “The problems that exist in other states simply don’t apply here,” said Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican, after the state certified Biden the winner last week.
There’s little that House Republicans can do to change the outcome of the presidential race. But there’s plenty of room for them to make lots of noise before the results are certified by Congress in January. House GOP leaders are not yet indicating they will try to head off those efforts. “What I’ve said all along is there’s a legal process that President Trump has been following, and that’s what the law allows and let’s let the process run through,” said Rep. Steve Scalise, the House GOP whip, sidestepping questions on whether Republicans should challenge state election results on the House floor.
Next Monday, the states will all meet separately where the electors will cast votes for president and vice president. Those votes are delivered to the required officials, and then a joint session of Congress is held on January 6, for Congress to count the electoral votes and declare the results, as required under the Constitution. At the joint session, however, any member of Congress can object to a state’s results. All it takes is one House member and one senator to challenge a state’s electors, and the House and Senate are required to stop the joint session to separately deliberate on the matter for two hours and vote on whether to exclude the contested state’s results.
It’s not clear if any Senate Republicans will join their House colleagues to lodge an objection that would spark a formal debate, though several have entertained Trump’s false claims of widespread voter fraud. And top Senate Republicans have repeatedly pointed to December 14 as the end of the elections as they’ve sought to give Trump space to mount his legal battles and refused to recognize Biden as President-elect. Asked last week if he considers Biden the President-elect, Sen. Chuck Grassley, the most senior Republican in the chamber, said: “Two weeks from today he will be,” referring to December 14. “It’ll all be decided on the 14th,” said Sen. John Cornyn, a Texas Republican who sits on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s leadership team.
Four years ago, House Democrats objected to the results of roughly a dozen states that went for Trump, making claims about Russian election interference and violations of the Voting Rights Act. But each time the House Democrats – including Reps. Jim McGovern of Massachusetts, Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas, Barbara Lee of California and Maxine Waters of California – tried to raise an objection, they were stopped because no Democratic senator would sign on to the objections. And it was Biden, who presided over the session as vice president, who shot down the Democratic attempts to contest the results. At one point, Biden responded to an objection by saying, “it is over,” prompting cheers on the Republican side of the chamber and a laugh from then-House Speaker Paul Ryan seated behind him.
This time around, it will be Vice President Mike Pence who will preside over the joint session and would be tasked with responding to objections raised by House Republicans. Jordan, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, said he had not yet talked to Pence about the House GOP’s strategy on the House floor, but he said there should be a debate.
Trump’s allies, especially attorney Sidney Powell who has closely aligned with but is not officially part of the presidential campaign, continue to allege nefarious activities changed the result of the election and try to overturn Biden’s popular vote win in court. Federal and state judges have repeatedly rejected the efforts as the states have each certified Biden as the winner and as Trump’s legal team has failed to produce any evidence of widespread voter fraud in court.
Still, Republicans from states Trump is contesting continue to be placed in a bind, including in Georgia where GOP Gov. Brian Kemp has resisted Trump’s stunning demand to call a special legislative session to name a new slate of electors, a move that that would provoke an uproar and immediately be litigated in court. Rep. Buddy Carter, a Republican of Georgia, wouldn’t say Monday if he sided with Kemp or Trump.
In 2001, a group of House Democrats tried to object to George W. Bush’s win in Florida, but no Democratic senator joined. Vice President Al Gore, who lost to Bush, was in the position of ruling against the Democrats’ objections and declaring the ultimate win for Bush. In 2005, then-California Sen. Barbara Boxer joined her House Democratic colleagues to field an objection over Bush’s decisive win in Ohio over John Kerry, leading to votes in both chambers that easily rejected the objection.
Even if a senator does join in with the GOP House members, it’s highly likely to fail this time around, with Republicans holding a narrow 50-48 majority in the chamber – the joint session is the day after the two Georgia Senate runoff races. Plus at least a handful of Republican senators have rejected Trump’s fraud claims, saying that Biden won and is President-elect. Still, Trump’s allies aren’t giving up hope yet. “The runway is getting shorter, but I think there’s still some runway that we can land on,” Biggs said.

In his increasingly desperate bid to hang on to the White House, President Trump is reportedly contemplating invoking martial law to force the invalidation of the results of the election in four swing states, apparently inspired by remarks of the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn.
While we deem the chances that Trump will actually follow through with the attempt to spark a military coup between now and January 20th extremely low, Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen should be prepared for such a contingency and play out the legal and enforcement implications in advance. Shocking and unprecedented though it would be, Rosen should be ready to go so far as to order federal law enforcement officers to arrest anyone, including if necessary the president, who has conspired to carry out this illegal plan. Short of those steps, the Justice and Defense Departments should be ready to issue internal and public statements that the law clearly prohibits any such actions.
Senior U.S. Army officials felt the apparent need to issue a joint statement last week saying “there is no role for the U.S. military in determining the outcome of an American election.” This shows the dangerous place our country has reached due, in no small part, to extreme and erroneous views of the president’s Article II powers and immunity from criminal law.
Following Flynn’s public remarks, the idea of a military coup took shape in earnest last Friday, when the president met with Flynn and Flynn’s (and the Trump campaign’s) former lawyer, Sidney Powell, as well as with executive branch staff, to discuss various methods for overturning the results of the election, including the use of martial law. Trump reportedly asked Flynn to spell out his proposal during the meeting.
The legal vehicle the president would likely hope to use is the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection. Last used in 1992 in response to unrest sparked by the Rodney King verdict, the Insurrection Act has never been invoked to overturn an election or to intervene in peaceful political events of any kind. Indeed, it has never been used in any context other than suppressing civil unrest.
It was invoked in 1968 in response to the unrest following the death of Martin Luther King, and in 1957, 1962 and 1963 to help enforce civil rights laws in the face of local opposition to federal court orders requiring school integration. Ulysses S. Grant used it in 1871 to suppress the Ku Klux Klan, and it was used during the Civil War to impose a blockage of the ports of seven southern states.
Only in rare instances has it been used against the wishes, and without the consent of, state and local officials. It has never been used to deny federal and state rights, such as the right to vote.
Any attempt to deploy the military to overturn the results of the 2020 election would violate multiple federal laws. First, it would violate the Posse Comitatus Act, an 1878 law codifying the longstanding principle that the military may not engage in domestic law enforcement (18 U.S. Code 1385). The Insurrection Act is understood to provide a rare exception to posse comitatus, based on a civil emergency that requires the immediate restoration of law and order, conditions that would simply not be satisfied here, even if Trump’s allegations of election fraud were true.
There are also specific laws designed to criminalize election interference by the military. Members of the Armed Forces, for example, who assist with the overthrow of a lawful election can be held criminally liable under 18 U.S. Code 593 and sentenced for up to five years imprisonment.
More significantly, a series of criminal provisions in federal law prohibits attempts to overthrow the lawful authority of federal and state government. These laws could subject Donald Trump, Michael Flynn, or others involved in such a plan to criminal charges much in the way that the 1861 firing on Fort Sumter by confederate forces after the election of Abraham Lincoln was criminal. 18 U.S. Code 2383 criminalizes “rebellion or insurrection against the authority of the United States or the laws thereof.”
18 U.S. Code 2384 criminalizes “Seditious Conspiracy,” which prohibits two or more individuals by force “to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the United States,” and 18 U.S. Code 2385 makes it a crime to “knowingly or willfully advocate[], abet [], advise[], or teach[] the duty, necessity, desirability, or propriety of overthrowing or destroying the government of the United States or the government of any State … by force or violence,” with additional penalties for conspiring to do the same with another person. The participation of multiple individuals in such a plan would constitute a conspiracy under federal law, thus enhancing the penalties for any of the above acts performed in conjunction with others, with the exception of the crime of “seditious conspiracy,” which is already a collective offense.
Several of these provisions not only provide for jail time but also preclude employment in the federal government following conviction, which among other things would prevent Trump from running for president again in 2024 and anyone who assisted him from holding any federal office. But do “seditious conspiracy” and similar offenses apply to a sitting president? There is no telling what President Trump’s informal advisors apparently suggested.
One can imagine that they would try to claim that sedition is not a crime if it is ordered by the president under his extensive Article II powers. And since he is Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, the military would be bound to obey. This is wrong on all counts and, indeed, White House Counsel Pat A. Cipollone reportedly tried to push back by telling the president that proposals raised during the Friday meeting were not within his constitutional authority.
But this is not simply about constitutional authority. It also involves military and criminal law. First, all well-trained military personnel understand that the duty to follow orders is limited to legal orders.
Under Article 90 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), the duty of obedience to the chain of command does not apply to orders the recipient knows to be illegal Thus even if Donald Trump were to issue an illegal order to overturn a lawful election, that order could not be obeyed by the officers and enlisted men and women, whose primary duty is to defend and uphold the Constitution.
Second, active duty as well as retired military officers would be subject to the UCMJ, and as such they could be held criminally liable for “mutiny” or “sedition” under 10 U.S. Code 894, a provision that is broader than its civilian counterpart. This would apply to Michael Flynn, who, as a retired officer, could be charged and subject to court martial under this provision.
What is more, civilians could be held liable (under 10 U.S. Code 2) for aiding and abetting Flynn’s violation of the UCMJ. But second, not even the president would have immunity under Article II from criminal prosecution were he to attempt to overthrow the results of the election.
Under Trump v. Vance, decided by the Supreme Court in July of 2020, Trump was unable to assert presidential immunity to repel a criminal subpoena for financial records of the Trump organization sought by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance. At oral argument in the Second Circuit, the president’s lawyers had presented one of the most extreme interpretations of presidential powers ever offered in a court of law, namely that under his Article II constitutional authority, the president could shoot someone on Fifth Avenue without being either investigated or indicted until after he had left office.
Following the Second Circuit’s rejection of this extreme appeal to immunity, the Supreme Court had no difficulty agreeing that the president would not be immune to criminal process, including investigations and subpoenas. The Court thereby sent the powerful message that no president is above the law.
Like ordinary citizens, the president is subject to generally applicable criminal laws, both state and federal. Although the Supreme Court did not address whether a sitting president can be indicted, even the Office of Legal Counsel’s (OLC) opinions that a president should not be indicted while in office accept that he could be indicted and prosecuted immediately following the end of his term. Existing OLC opinions also recognize that a sitting president can be criminally investigated by the Justice Department.
Indeed, that is precisely what Robert Mueller did. There are some extreme scenarios that surely would cause even the OLC to rethink its own preference for deferred prosecution; for example, if the president is in the course of carrying out an ongoing violent crime (shooting people on Fifth Avenue) or a military coup, he should be subject to arrest.
Law Professor John Yoo and other Justice Department lawyers used unitary executive theory during the Bush Administration to justify torture in the face of federal criminal statutes and international treaties forbidding torture. William Barr, as a private lawyer before he became Trump’s Attorney General, auditioned for the job with a 19-page memo in 2018 arguing that the president is constitutionally incapable of committing the crime of obstruction of justice under Article II if he fires an FBI Director or federal prosecutor specifically in order to impede an ongoing criminal investigation, even one investigating himself. Special Counsel Robert Mueller took the opposite stance in Part II of the Mueller Report, where he provided a roadmap for a possible indictment of President Trump for obstruction of justice in the Russia investigation after he leaves office, though Mueller acknowledged that he was bound by the prevailing DOJ practice forbidding indictment of a sitting president.
In 2020, Trump called upon John Yoo for advice on how he could use his power as president under Article II to skirt Congress and impose his own policies on matters such as DACA, healthcare, tax policy, and criminal justice. The same thinking may have helped devise the convoluted legal excuse that nominally allowed the Attorney General to send federal agents into Portland to protect federal courthouses and monuments against protestors seeking to exercise their right to free speech under the First Amendment.
One of us wrote against the invocation of the Insurrection Act then; still more does the idea shock and trouble us now. Clearly it is time for the Justice Department to rethink its policy prohibiting indictment of a sitting president.
An overly expansive interpretation of presidential powers under Article II has misled one administration after another into thinking that the president is above the law, and our democracy has increasingly paid the price. Having reached the point that a sitting president is seriously contemplating using the military to overturn an election, it should be clear that we need to rethink our approach to presidential power.

Hundreds of law enforcement officers have mobilized across Washington as thousands of supporters who refuse to accept President Donald Trump’s election loss flooded the nation’s capital Wednesday in protest – in some cases sparring with authorities – as Congress gathered to put the final stamp on President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.
Thousands of protesters gathered around the Washington Monument Wednesday morning as the Elton John song “Tiny Dancer” played from loud speakers. The song was interrupted by an announcement telling people to leave behind backpacks, chairs and flagpoles so people could get through a security checkpoint.
Hundreds of people carried flags. Some were American, some were Trump 2020 flags, at least one said “F*CK BIDEN” with the letter U replaced by a flag symbol.
The Department of Homeland Security, which has staffed a “Virtual Situation Room” to help communication between different agencies, is “not currently tracking any active threats,” spokesman Alexei Woltornist said. Trump traveled a short distance from the White House to the rally Wednesday morning. About 20 aides were outside awaiting Trump’s departure, audibly shouting “Save our country” as he boarded his SUV. Trump gave a fist bump and appeared to blow a kiss.
Trump addressed a large, tightly packed and largely maskless crowd of supporters on the Ellipse. His remarks got off to an inauspicious start as Trump’s microphone appeared to be turned off as he began speaking.
“We can’t hear you!” members of the audience were heard shouting on the video feed, though he appeared unaware and kept speaking.
Moments later, audio was restored, and Trump was railing against the media. Trump’s speech included calls for his vice president to step outside his constitutional bounds and overturn the results of the election.
Pence released a letter he wrote to congress Wednesday just after noon, saying he wouldn’t object to Biden’s victory. A large glass barrier shielded Trump from the crowd, similar to when he spoke in front of the Lincoln Memorial on the Fourth of July 2019. Ahead of Trump’s speech, Rudy Giuliani was addressing the rally on the Ellipse, baselessly repeating claims that voting machines were “crooked,” and continuing to insist that Pence can do something today to change the election’s outcome, which he does not have power to do.
There is no evidence of widespread voter fraud. “Let’s have trial by combat!” Giuliani told the enthusiastic crowd.
DC Mayor Muriel Bowser said the District is “absolutely prepared” for protests and announced that that at least ten people were arrested overnight related to the protests. At least one person was arrested for carrying an unlicensed gun and six people were charged with assault, including one for assaulting a police officer. “We had several arrests related to that activity, but not a single one of them was a DC resident,” she said.
The Proud Boys’ leader, Henry Tarrio, who goes by Enrique Tarrio, was released from police custody Tuesday on charges related to a protest last month and ordered by a local judge to stay out of DC as he awaits trial, including during this week’s protests. In the days leading up to Wednesday’s planned march, police posted signs declaring areas where they expect protesters gun-free zones between Monday and Thursday.
“ALL firearms prohibited within 1000 feet of this sign,” they read, taped to light poles. Protesters dressed in pro-Trump regalia gathered Tuesday across the city while others posted photos of their travel to Wednesday’s rally on social media.
Several speakers on Tuesday led the crowds in chants of “four more years,” even as Trump has all but exhausted legal avenues for turning the tide against Biden. One after another, speakers put forth claims that the election was stolen, imploring people to “fight” for victory on Wednesday.
Trump’s loss has been reaffirmed by courts and state election officials dozens of times since the election. Tuesday’s speakers included Trump adviser Roger Stone, who was convicted of lying to Congress, obstruction and threatening a witness before being pardoned by the President.
A DC police spokesman, Sean Hickman, would not comment on police staffing for the demonstrations or say whether they’d attempt to keep pro-Trump supporters separate from counterprotesters. It’s also not clear how aggressive police will be in enforcing the district’s gun laws. “As with any known, large demonstration, we will continue to monitor and assess each activity, and plan accordingly with our local and federal law enforcement partners,” Hickman said.
Federal agencies over the summer created confusion during protests by sending agents into demonstrations in unmarked vehicles and without names, agencies or other identifiers on uniforms. Congress passed a law requiring federal agents to wear some unique identifier on their clothing while working protests.
A letter Tuesday from DC Mayor Muriel Bowser to the Department of Justice regarding the upcoming protests noted problems police had encountered when armed officers working for federal agencies staffed protests without identification over the summer, including in Lafayette Park. This “caused confusion among residents and visitors and could become a national security threat with no way for MPD and federal law enforcement to decipher armed groups,” Bowser wrote.
Armed and unidentifiable federal agents dressed in camouflage arrested protesters in Portland, Oregon, over the summer and took them away in unmarked vehicles. Federal officials later identified them as agents of the US Customs and Border Protection, but they weren’t wearing name badges or agency identifiers.
Around the same time, Trump branded anti-racism protesters in the country as “terrorists,” and promised to “surge” paramilitary-style units into other cities. Outrage over the tactics led to Congress passing the law requiring identifying marks on federal agents working protests.
US Sen. Chris Murphy, a Connecticut Democrat, also wrote to federal officials Monday reminding them of this new law. “Members of the armed forces and federal law enforcement personnel responding to civil disturbances are now required to visibly display both their name or an individual identifier, and the name of the armed force, or federal entity by which they are employed,” he wrote.
The US Bureau of Prisons sent 100 “specially trained officers” to the Department of Justice in DC to supplement department facility security, Justin Long, a spokesman for that agency, said Tuesday. They’ll function as a “reserve” for other Justice Department security teams. “Secret Service is at the heart of a lot of this stuff.
They have a long history. … And we’re coordinating, not just the Service coordinating, but to the extent the Federal Protective Service, which is protecting literally dozens of locations around the city, has any need for backup, we’re prepared for that,” Cuccinelli said. Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller on Monday approved a request from the District of Columbia to deploy a limited number of DC National Guard forces to support the Metropolitan Police Department and fire department. The guardsmen will not be armed and be mostly assisting with traffic control.
Expected at the rallies are members of the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at Trump rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters. Affiliates of the group have also shown apparent ties to Stone, including at his criminal trial in late 2019. This comes about a month after a Proud Boys protest ended with stabbings and the burning of a Black Lives Matter banner taken from a Black church.
Tarrio was arrested Monday and charged in connection with the burning of the banner and ordered released from police custody on Tuesday. The judge ordered him to stay out of the District of Columbia except for his own court appearances until further notice, according to court records. Tarrio had two high-capacity gun magazines when police arrested him, according to authorities, and he was also charged with possession of a high-capacity feeding device.
He also posted on social media that Proud Boys members would be “incognito” for this week’s protests. Tuesday’s protesters chanted “Enrique” in support of Tarrio.
A few speakers also went on anti-mask rants, one of them saying masks worn to prevent the spread of coronavirus are a means of “control” for officials “trying to take your freedom away.” A vast majority of the several hundred people at Freedom Plaza were not wearing masks throughout the afternoon and evening.
Founded in 2016, the Proud Boys group lists among its central tenets a belief in “closed borders” and the aim of “reinstating a spirit of Western chauvinism.” In online statements, it’s claimed it has used violence only in self-defense. Members are often seen carrying firearms and bats and donning protective gear. The group’s ideology has been labeled “misogynistic, Islamophobic, transphobic, and anti-immigration” by the Anti-Defamation League.

Updated at 6:06 p.m. ET on January 6, 2021.
Insurrectionists are attacking the seat of American government in an attempted coup, urged on by the president of the United States. Saying that feels melodramatic, ridiculous, and overwrought, but there’s no plainer way to describe what is currently unfolding.
Tens of thousands of supporters of outgoing President Donald Trump gathered in Washington, D.C., where he encouraged them to attend a rally as Congress began to ceremonially certify the Electoral College victory of President-elect Joe Biden. After a speech by the president, protesters overran security at the Capitol building, which seemed unprepared for the onslaught. They knocked over barricades, pushed past cordons of officers, and broke windows. Some carried Confederate battle flags as they got much closer to the heart of the U.S. government than any Confederate troops ever did.
Photojournalists captured images of guards with guns drawn, trying to hold the mob off at the doors of the House chambers. Insurrectionists entered the House and Senate chambers, standing on the dais in both, and roamed through the office of Speaker Nancy Pelosi. NBC News reported that one woman died after being shot inside the Capitol.
The mob disrupted the Constitution, halting certification as required by the document. The Senate and House chambers were locked down, Vice President Mike Pence was whisked away, and demonstrators roamed the halls of Congress. Tear gas was reportedly released inside the Capitol Rotunda, and members were told to don gas masks stored under their seats.
This attempted coup is Trump’s fault. “This is what the president has caused today, this insurrection,” Mitt Romney told a reporter.
It will not work—police may have been unprepared, but they will regain their footing. There’s no apparent endgame for the mob. Those involved in the attack can and should be held responsible, but the president bears the ultimate blame.
He has spent two months insisting to his supporters that the election was stolen in an undemocratic fraud. This is not true—the claim has been conclusively debunked and rejected in court after court.
The participants in the coup ought to know better, but they were lied to by the president of the United States. If what Trump was saying were true, members of Congress would have a patriotic duty to do all they could to save the election, and his supporters would have a patriotic duty to defend the rightful government. But Trump has lied repeatedly and brazenly, practically commanding his supporters to mount an uprising, and now they have done as he asked.
“This attack on our Capitol will not be tolerated and those involved will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” Pence tweeted. He could start with his boss.
Some of Trump’s allies in Congress share blame. While the mob overran security, Republicans were casting doubt on the outcome of the election in the House and Senate. Senator Ted Cruz sent a fundraising text boasting about his attempt to overturn the election in the midst of the melee.
As the chaos spread, Trump’s son Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, “This is wrong and not who we are.” But this is exactly who the members of the Trump clique are.
The president and his circle have mounted a four-year assault on the rule of law, and this is the logical end of both that tendency and the president’s specific words. Indeed, the president continued to fuel the fire throughout the afternoon. He first raged at Pence, who said he did not have the power to overturn the vote, and said, “USA demands the truth!”
He added, in another tweet, “Please support our Capitol Police and Law Enforcement. They are truly on the side of our Country.
Stay peaceful!” Later, demonstrating his tendency to view himself more as the leader of the Republican Party than of the nation, he added, “Remember, WE are the Party of Law & Order—respect the Law and our great men and women in Blue.”
Trump did not, however, call on the protesters to leave. Later in the afternoon, Trump released a video in which he called on the mob to “go home and go home in peace” but did not condemn its behavior, instead saying, “We love you; you’re very special.”
(The moment echoed his coddling of white-supremacist marchers in Charlottesville, Virginia, in 2017.) Moreover, the president once again made false claims that the election had been stolen fraudulently, repeating the same incitement that set off the violence. But clearly Trump has little intention of doing any of that.
At least one person is reportedly dead, more will be hurt, and others may die as a result of today’s events. That’s what happens during attempted coups. Trump has been warned, including by Republican officials, that his words would get people killed, but he has paid them no heed.
Trump himself is not present. Earlier today, he said he would march to the Capitol with his supporters, but instead he retreated to the White House, preferring not to get his hands dirty.
For four years, Trump’s critics have been accused of hysteria and hyperbole for describing his movement as fascist, authoritarian, or lawless. Today, as Congress attempts to certify the election of a new president, the president has vindicated those critics. In attempting this coup, Trump has also vindicated the Americans who voted decisively in November to remove him from office.

Wednesday morning, like most mornings, I woke up to the usual round of politics news sites and newsletters: Politico Playbook, the Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post.
Most of the day’s news concerned Tuesday’s runoff elections in Georgia, which apparently delivered control of the Senate to Democrats; other articles concerned the ongoing pandemic and the future of commuting in the post-pandemic world. Wednesday morning, like most mornings, I woke up to the usual round of politics news sites and newsletters: Politico Playbook, the Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post. Most of the day’s news concerned Tuesday’s runoff elections in Georgia, which apparently delivered control of the Senate to Democrats; other articles concerned the ongoing pandemic and the future of commuting in the post-pandemic world.
Some of the experts quoted in the piece urged calm and even insinuated that being alarmist about the indications that protesters aimed to cause severe unrest could be self-fulfilling. I filed this, and another incident, away and set about my daily business of testing and interpreting theories about politics. I looked forward to spending the day tapping out code in the data analysis tools Stata and R and occasionally checking in to make sure that the counting of ballots was going on as automatically, if a little more dramatically, as expected.
As I write this a few hours later, rioters incited by President Donald Trump have stormed the Capitol building. Both the House and the Senate have suspended their counting because of security threats. Reportedly, shots have been fired.
A photograph of a rioter occupying the House speaker’s chair shows that the Capitol is, essentially, being occupied. C-SPAN is reporting that senior members of leadership of the legislative branch are being held in an “undisclosed location.”
Reporters are refusing to divulge their locations on the grounds—entirely reasonable—that doing so could endanger their safety. The National Guard has been deployed. It’s undeniable at this point.
The United States is witnessing a coup attempt—a forceful effort to seize power against the legal framework. The president has caused the interruption of the process that would certify his removal from office. The mechanics of constitutional government have been suspended.
Americans are in danger of losing constitutional government to a degree unmatched even during the Civil War, a period when secession itself did not postpone either the holding of elections or the transition of power between presidents. The moment we face as Americans, in other words, compares more closely to the August 1991 coup that attempted to remove President Mikhail Gorbachev from the head of the Soviet Union or the 1993 armed standoff between Russian President Boris Yeltsin and the Russian legislature. Yet right up until this moment a chorus of voices was telling us not to worry.
The past several years have been a boom industry for political scientists who work on topics like coups and democratic erosion, including several of the experts quoted in the Post piece. As the United States has entered seemingly uncharted democratic waters, journalists and readers alike have decided that standard horse-race journalism is not up to the task of interpreting politics. As tensions have risen, however, there has been a profound divide between those who believed that, in the end, institutions would save us—that the United States’ democratic traditions would be preserved—and those who were clear that we faced a period that could end with a standoff of this magnitude.
Partly, there was an admirable devotion to scholarly integrity—that we as scholars had rules about what counted as a coup. The Center for Systemic Peace (CSP) coups codebook, for example, specifies: “Social revolutions, victories by oppositional forces in civil wars, and popular uprisings, while they may lead to substantial changes in central authority, are not considered coups d’état.” And until Wednesday, true, nothing like that had quite happened.
But Wednesday’s events qualify as a coup attempt (so far). The CSP codebook defines a coup as a “forceful seizure of executive authority and office by a dissident/opposition faction within the country’s ruling or political elites that results in a substantial change in the executive leadership and the policies of the prior regime (although not necessarily in the nature of regime authority or mode of governance).” Well, we are seeing that right now, as Trump and his loyalists have consistently sought to thwart the legal casting, counting, and certifying of votes, including by bizarrely trying to suborn Vice President Mike Pence into choosing the next president.
It can be difficult to determine intent with mobs and their instigators, but the organizers of the pro-Trump movements in online forums have been consistent and clear in their desire to overturn the results of the election and keep Trump in power, as has Trump himself in his tweets. Mostly, though, the optimists’ reluctance to see what’s in front of their faces has had less to do with scholarly integrity and more to do with wish-casting—making predictions because you want them to be true, not because the evidence supports it.
For U.S. political scientists, coups and paramilitary political forces are axiomatically things that happen out there. Their study fits in the mainstream of comparative politics, which studies foreigners, not U.S. politics (except for the small tribe of specialists in U.S. political development, who are well aware of the history of violence in the country’s political history). Until Wednesday, Americanists modeled what election outcomes would be, not whether their results would matter—those questions mattered for others.
The United States is entering a dangerous phase. The monthslong transition, which those aware of how fragile U.S. democracy is tagged as perilous months ago, still has weeks to go. The president remains in power.
If there is an inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden, it will likely have to be held in a more secure location than the once sacrosanct steps of the Capitol. As paranoid as I have been about the likelihood of serious problems breaking out, even I succumbed. Wednesday morning, after I read the Post article, I took my dog on a walk in my D.C. neighborhood (and, yes, I’m going to avail myself of the privilege of not revealing my location).
We passed a hotel where some out-of-towners, not wearing masks, were standing. One of them complimented my dog for being beautiful. I thanked them.
It was another fine morning in America. Wearing their Trump hats, they headed off to the Capitol.

On Wednesday, a coup attempt was led by the president of the United States.
A rightwing mob attempted the coup in the form of a violent riot that stormed the Capitol building. They disrupted the proceedings that would have completed the recognition of the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. Those proceedings had been disrupted earlier by elected officials bringing forth bad-faith claims that the election was not legitimate and should instead produce a continuation of Trump’s presidency. This too was a coup attempt, an effort to violate the constitution and override the will of the voters in this election.
Inside and outside were two faces of the same thing, and both were fomented by the leaders of the Republican party and by the US president. The mob outside would not exist without the politicians inside. Those insiders will make noises of horror and repudiation, but they own this.
Had Mitch McConnell and other Republican leaders recognized the legitimate winner of the election in early November, had there been no challenge to a legitimate election from inside the government, there would have been no mob. Having failed to suppress enough votes to guarantee a Republican presidential victory, the Republican party and the Trump administration decided to try to suppress them retroactively.
Trump invited the mob and whipped it up for months and set it off today, as surely as if he’d lit a bomb’s fuse. I call it a coup attempt because, though I assume it will not prevent the Biden presidency, it certainly intended to, and is part of a campaign to delegitimize and thereby weaken the incoming administration.
It was a long time coming, building up for years with white rage, especially white male rage fuelled by everyone from Trump himself to the National Rifle Association, Fox News and the various rightwing pundits, the Republican party, the various faces of white supremacy, and far-right groups such as the Proud Boys. It is a rage against the fact that other people might be equal under the law, that women and people of color might also govern as power begins to be distributed more equally, the same rage that attempted to delegitimize a black president with birtherism and obstruction. It is a rage against equality.
Democracy is a set of agreements to make decisions together and respect the outcome whether you like them or not. The kind of violence we saw on Capitol Hill is authoritarian, a way to try to force other people to submit to the will of the perpetrators. This violence comes from the white men who were long the only people with power in this country imagining themselves as marginalized and oppressed outsiders because others might also have power and a voice.
We saw these kind of men last summer, when they invaded the Michigan capital while carrying semiautomatic rifles and saw them again when a handful of them were arrested for a plot to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer. We saw them in racist shootings from the Texas border to a Pennsylvania synagogue. This coup attempt was built by the more and more uninhibited ideology of violence we have seen again and again, in the mass shootings that became a norm in 21st-century America, the fetishization of guns and gun rights that made the killing machines and the death they inflict far more common, so that death by gun recently overtook death by car as a leading American way to die.
As I write, I hear a Republican leader on TV say “Remember we are the party of law and order,” and, of course, the riot going on in the Capitol is technically lawless, but “law and order” as a rightwing slogan means that they are the law and they impose their version of order. Authoritarianism is always an ideology of inequality: I make the rules, you follow them, I change them at will and punish those who don’t obey, or, if I feel like it, those who do because I can.
Political scientist Frank Wilhoit once said: “Conservatism consists of exactly one proposition … There must be in-groups whom the law protects but does not bind, alongside out-groups whom the law binds but does not protect.” They are demonstrating that nothing binds them and that they expect to have whatever they want.
Entitlement is too demure a word for this. What is at stake in America today is the outcome of an election. But it’s also the rule of law and the rights of voters.
And in the end it’s also about the authority of facts and evidence and history and science, that no one has the right to override those things for personal gain. Trump’s position all along has been that he in particular has that right.
Today it came to a head and became a crisis as a mob sabotaged a constitutionally mandated procedure for the peaceful transition of power. This was always going to happen because Trump’s power was always going to be finite in reach and duration under the law, and because he wants that power to be infinite, he was always at war with the law, and he always had a volunteer army willing to help him take it. Today they acted like an army, a hostile occupying force in the nation’s capital.
This is what he wanted and this is what he orchestrated and this is what we got. Trump was the most prolific public liar America has ever seen, and his lies were an essential part of his authoritarianism, a refusal to be bound by facts, even the facts of what he said or did the day before. He demanded a parallel narrative in which he won the election and laid the groundwork long before to claim, if he lost, that it was illegitimate, as he did in 2016.
In a recorded video on Wednesday, Trump said to the crowd “We love you” as he told them to go home but also reasserted that the election was stolen, which is why they’re there in the first place. Ivanka Trump apparently deleted a tweet in which she called them “American patriots”.
The Trumps and their loyalists in office will disavow the worst of what happened and pretend to be surprised by it and continue feeding it. Conversation about what’s been happening over the past several months has often bought into the false binary that either we have a successful coup, in which they steal the election, or we have a failed coup, but there is something insidious in-between: the delegitimization of the democratic process and the incoming administration.
In this in-between state, Trump supporters continue to regard their leader and themselves as above the law and entitled to enforce it however they see fit, on the basis of whatever facts they most enjoy having. They are building a separate reality and appear to wish for a shadow government to beleaguer and undermine the legitimate one. Today, we’ve seen it in action.

• The storming of the Capitol also would seem to qualify as sedition, which is the use of “force to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the United States” or the authority of the U.S. government.
• A good case can be made that the storming of the Capitol qualifies as a coup.
It’s especially so because the rioters entered at precisely the moment when the incumbent’s loss was to be formally sealed, and they succeeded in stopping the count. •
Lawmakers objecting to the electoral vote count are acting within the rules to object, so that would not qualify as a coup. • Some of the things Trump has done since November to contest the election are clearly within the law.
Other actions of his up until Jan. 6 were close calls. •
A coup is shorthand for "coup d’etat," a French term that means the overthrow of the government. The key element of a coup is that it is carried out beyond the bounds of legality.
Coups can be violent but don’t need to be. Are Americans witnessing a coup?
Before the storming of the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, the case was arguable, but not a slam dunk. After the Capitol was breached, the case became more clear cut, experts say.
The questions stem from President Donald Trump’s reaction to losing the 2020 presidential election. Trump and his supporters have filed a string of lawsuits rejected by the courts, sought to strong-arm local officials into changing the results, and suggested incorrectly that Vice President Mike Pence could overturn the will of the electoral college as he presided over the counting of the ballots. Whether the U.S. was witnessing a coup seemed speculative until the violent overrun of the House and Senate on the day the Electoral College votes were supposed to be counted, officially certifying Biden’s victory.
Here are some questions and answers on what makes a coup, as well as another concept that is increasingly being discussed, sedition. A coup is shorthand for "coup d’etat," a French term that means the overthrow of the government.
The key element of a coup is that it is carried out beyond the bounds of legality. "We define a coup d'état as the sudden and irregular (i.e., illegal or extra-legal) removal, or displacement, of the executive authority of an independent government," wrote the Coup D’etat Project at the University of Illinois’ Cline Center for Democracy in 2013.
The Cline Center characterized 12 types of coups. Several of them aren’t relevant to the current situation, including palace coups, military coups, counter coups, foreign coups, internationally mediated transitions, and forced resignations.
Prior to the breach of the Capitol, some officials and commentators suggested that President Donald Trump, with such actions as trying to get Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensberger, to "find" enough votes for him to win the state, was effectively attempting a coup. Others said some lawmakers who opposed counting the certified Electoral College slates in Congress were creating a coup.
These actions might fall into the category of self-coups, in which the leader strong-arms other branches of government to entrench power. Trump’s call to the Georgia secretary of state might well qualify as an "extreme measure" and "illegal or extra-legal," although legal experts have said it might be a hard case to prosecute.
Multiple commentators applied the coup label to the objection to the lawmakers’ counting of the electoral votes, too. It may be harder to argue that the effort in Congress amounts to a coup.
The law governing the counting allows for objections to be registered, debated, and, if the chambers vote them down, dispensed with. This is part of the law, not something outside it.
The actions of some protestors at the U.S. Capitol, however, were clearly outside the law, especially the people who were able to reach the floor of the House and Senate and lawmakers’ personal offices. That said, the actions on the Capitol grounds may strengthen the case for calling this an attempted coup.
The morning the Capitol was breached, and as the House and Senate were preparing to count the electoral votes, Trump spoke in person to thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument. He called the presidential election the most corrupt in the nation’s history, and he repeated the unproven claims of election fraud that have failed to find traction in courts across the country.
He told the crowd that they needed to fight for their country. "If you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore," he said. Trump ended his remarks by urging the crowd to march down Pennsylvania Avenue to Congress, suggesting that he would join them (though he didn’t). At the Capitol, some of the group stormed the building, causing the House and Senate to break off debate and leave the chamber.
Several categories of coups share some elements of this scenario, although none fit perfectly. "Rebel coups," according to the Cline Center, require "an organized, militarized group that is actively contesting government forces," though "militarized" may be too generous a description of the disorganized groups that entered the Capitol.
Another category is "dissident actions," which involve "small groups of discontents," though the tens of thousands of protesters in Washington on Jan. 6 were probably more numerous than this category envisions. "Popular revolts " include "irregular regime changes that are driven by widespread popular dissatisfaction with a government that is manifested by high levels of civil unrest." This doesn’t quite fit either, since the election results did not show "widespread" popular support for Trump remaining in office.
On the other hand, other elements of the actions on Jan. 6 do fit the overall definition of a coup. A sizable number of citizens were urged by the president to move on the seat of legislative power at precisely the moment when the incumbent’s loss was to be formally sealed.
The group proceeded to break laws by entering the building, causing damage inside, and forcing the electoral vote count process to halt. "Invading the national legislature through force sounds like a coup; peaceful protest is obviously not," said Michael Klarman, a Harvard Law School professor. Anthony Clark Arend, a specialist in international law at Georgetown University, said that he’s skeptical of labeling the lawmakers’ challenges to the electoral vote count a coup, but he thinks it could be valid for the storming of the Capitol.
Multiple commentators, including CNN’s Jake Tapper, have cast the actions of the protesters as sedition. Sedition is usually defined as conduct or speech inciting people to rebel against the authority of a government. This appears to be an even clearer descriptor of the events of Jan. 6.
A seditious conspiracy is defined in federal law as two or more persons "conspir(ing) to overthrow, put down, or to destroy by force the Government of the United States, … or to oppose by force the authority thereof, or by force to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the United States, or by force to seize, take, or possess any property of the United States contrary to the authority thereof." The law comes with a fine or imprisonment up to 20 years, or both.
The storming of the Capitol would seem to qualify as the use of "force to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the United States" or the authority of the U.S. government. "The people who stormed the Capitol building would seem to clearly qualify for prosecution under this provision," said Carlton Larson, a law professor at the University of California-Davis. Jon Greenberg contributed to this report.

On the day congressional Republicans will be challenging results in the presidential election, U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville opened a pro-Trump rally near the White House on Wednesday with a fiery speech in which he blasted colleagues who are not standing with him and others in an effort to deliver a second term to President Donald Trump. “Today is the day American patriots start taking down names and kicking ass,” Brooks said.
Brooks last month became the first congressman to publicly state plans to contest the Electoral College results that will come before a joint session of congress today for final approval of Democrat president-elect Joe Biden. Brooks displayed no tolerance in his speech for Republicans not willing to oppose the election results. His 10-minute speech before what appeared to be tens of thousands of people on The Mall near the White House and the Washington Monument received waves of cheers at the pro-Trump rally. Trump is expected to speak from the same stage later this morning.
“Today is a time of choosing and tomorrow is a time of fighting,” Brooks said. “Today is also a day of revelation and separation. Today, the curtain will be pulled back and American patriots will learn by their votes which Republican senators and congressmen have the courage to fight for our America. Today, by their votes, Americans will learn which Republican congressmen and senators love their bourbon, love their cigars, love their prestige, love their personal power, love their special interest group money more than they love America.
Brooks removed his camouflage cap about midway through his speech, replacing it with a bright red cap with the words “Fire Pelosi” – a reference to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Brooks didn’t restrict his criticism to Republicans not opposing the election results, repeatedly referring to Democrats as “socialists.”
He also acknowledged the two Senate runoffs Tuesday in Georgia where Democrat Raphael Warnock had been declared the winner and, at the time Brooks spoke, Democrat Jon Ossoff held a narrow lead in the other race. “Socialist Democrats attack our Bill of Rights on a daily basis,” Brooks said. “They attack freedom of speech, freedom of association, they attack freedom of all kind, including the right to bear arms.
Now, let’s be clear about these socialist Democrats. They also want to destroy our free enterprise system. They don’t trust you with your individual liberty and freedom to do what’s best for yourselves or your families. Updated today, Jan. 6, 2021, at 9:24 a.m. with Brooks’ comments about Democrats.

The invasion of the U.S. Capitol last Wednesday was stoked in plain sight.
For weeks, the far-right supporters of President Donald Trump railed on social media that the election had been stolen. They openly discussed the idea of violent protest on the day Congress met to certify the result.
"We came up with the idea to occupy just outside the CAPITOL on Jan 6th," leaders of the Stop the Steal movement wrote on Dec. 23. They called their demonstration the "Wild Protest," a name taken from a tweet by Trump that encouraged his supporters to take their grievances to the streets of Washington. "Will be wild," the president tweeted.
Ali Alexander, the founder of the movement, encouraged people to bring tents and sleeping bags and avoid wearing masks for the event. "If D.C. escalates ... so do we," Alexander wrote on Parler last week — one of scores of social media posts welcoming violence that were reviewed by ProPublica in the weeks leading up to Wednesday's attack on the capitol. Thousands of people heeded that call.
For reasons that still remain unclear, the law enforcement authorities charged with protecting the nation's entire legislative branch — nearly all of the 535 members of Congress gathered in a joint session, along with Vice President Mike Pence — were ill-prepared to contain the forces massed against them. On Wednesday afternoon, a thin line of U.S. Capitol Police, with only a few riot shields between them and a knot of angry protesters, engaged in hand-to-hand combat with rioters on the steps of the West Front. They struggled with a flimsy set of barricades as a mob in helmets and bulletproof vests pushed its way toward the Capitol entrance. Videos showed officers stepping aside, and sometimes taking selfies, as if to usher Trump's supporters into the building they were supposed to guard.
A former Capitol policeman well-versed in his agency's procedures was mystified by the scene he watched unfold on live television. Larry Schaefer, a 34-year Capitol Police veteran who retired in December 2019, said his former colleagues were experienced in dealing with aggressive crowds. A spokesperson for the Capitol Police did not respond to a request for comment.
In recent years, federal law enforcement agencies have stepped up their focus on far-right groups, resulting in a spate of arrests. In October, the FBI arrested a group of Michigan extremists and charged them with plotting to kidnap the state's governor. Last Monday — two days before the Wild Protest — Washington police arrested Enrique Tarrio, the leader of the far-right group the Proud Boys, on charges of burning a Black Lives Matter banner.
Conversations on right-wing platforms are monitored closely by federal intelligence. In September, a draft report by the Department of Homeland Security surfaced, identifying white supremacists as the biggest threat to national security.
The warnings of the Wednesday assault on the Capitol were everywhere — perhaps not entirely specific about the planned time and exact location of an assault on the Capitol, but enough to clue in law enforcement about the potential for civil unrest. On Dec. 12, a poster on the website MyMilitia.com urged violence if senators made official the victory of President-elect Joe Biden.
click to enlarge Photo by Alex Gakos Rioters supporting U.S. President Donald Trump break into the U.S. Capitol, Washington, D.C., U.S., Jan. 6, 2021. The easily overpowered police force guarding the Capitol posed a stark contrast to the tactics deployed by local police during this summer's Black Lives Matter protests. Then, the city felt besieged by law enforcement. On June 1, following a few days of mostly peaceful protests, the National Guard, the Secret Service and the U.S. Park Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse a nonviolent crowd in Lafayette Square outside the White House, so as to allow Trump to pose with a Bible in front of a nearby church.
"We need to dominate the battlespace," then-Secretary of Defense Mark Esper said on a call with dozens of governors, asking them to send their National Guard forces to the capital during the sustained presence of BLM protesters. On June 2 — the day of the primary election in Washington — law enforcement officers appeared on every corner, heavily armed in fatigues and body armor.
Humvees blocked intersections. Buses full of troops deployed into military columns and marshaled in front of the Lincoln Memorial in a raw show of force.
Police kettled protesters in alleys. Choppers thudded overhead for days and sank low enough over protesters to generate gale-force winds.
Such dominance was nowhere in evidence Wednesday, despite a near-lockdown of the downtown area on Tuesday night. Trump supporters drove to the Capitol and parked in spaces normally reserved for congressional staff.
Some vehicles stopped on the lawns near the Tidal Basin. The contrast shook Washington's attorney general, Karl Racine, who seemed to be almost in disbelief on CNN Wednesday evening. The question of how law enforcement and the national security establishment failed so spectacularly will likely be the subject of intense focus in coming weeks. David Carter, director of the Intelligence Program at Michigan State University, said that sometimes, the best intelligence in the world doesn't translate into adequate preparedness.
Perhaps the security officials responsible for protecting the Capitol simply could not envision that a crowd of Americans would charge through a police line and shatter the glass windows that stood as the only physical barrier to entering the building. Photo by Alex Gakos A discarded flag reading "Treason" lays on the floor inside the U.S. Capitol, Washington, D.C., U.S., Jan. 6, 2021.
Maya Eliahou also contributed reporting. This story was originally published by ProPublica.

Thousands of people will visit Washington, DC, Tuesday and Wednesday to demonstrate their support for President Trump, who lost the November election to Joe Biden but continues to pretend he did not. Authorities expect Trump fans to occupy large swathes of downtown DC both days and have closed many streets and restricted parking. Mayor Muriel Bowser has asked local residents to avoid the demonstrations, and we compiled more reasons to stay away.
Listed organizer: Cindy Chafian. Chafian was previously part of Women for America First, which organized the permits for DC rallies in November and December, but she now appears to be also (or perhaps instead) associated with an entity called Eighty Percent Coalition. The event’s permit lists what sound like three rallies-within-the-rally: March to Save America (though, the permit notes, there will be no marching) from 1-2 PM, Stop the Steal from 3:30-5 PM , and the Eighty Percent Coalition from 5-8:30 PM. Possible speakers: The only listed speaker is organizer James Epley, who plans to deliver addresses at noon, 2 PM, and 5 PM each day. Organizer: Epley is a conservative activist and real estate developer from South Carolina. Possible speakers: The permit lists Rudy Giuliani, Roger Stone, Diamond and Silk.

The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona, helped plan the January 6 event that culminated in a storming of the Capitol, according to Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering. Alexander, a pro-Trump personality, was an early founder of the “Stop the Steal” movement and helped bring together various right-wing factions around a mass event on January 6, aimed to coincide with objections to the counting of Electoral College votes.
Alexander made his claim in three separate livestreams in late December, adding that Reps. Paul Gosar of Arizona and Mo Brooks of Alabama were also involved. “We’re the four guys who came up with a January 6 event,” Alexander said. On December 8, the Arizona Republican Party boosted Alexander, asking supporters if they were willing to give their lives in the fight over the results of the presidential election.
His claim is also buttressed by a fourth video from a December 19 rally at the Arizona State Capitol, at which Alexander played a video that Biggs had supplied. In the video, Biggs mentions Brooks as his ally in the fight. Gosar spoke in person at the event. Gosar did not respond to inquiries from The Intercept.
Alexander did not respond to a text or phone call; his voicemail was full. Alexander, who adopted a new name after pleading guilty to felony property theft in 2007 and felony credit card abuse in 2008, has been suspended from Twitter and other platforms for his role in organizing the January 6 event. As the Daily Beast reported, he has said he has been unfairly blamed for the violence on January 6, and has gone underground. Alexander’s contemporaneous claims have taken on new relevance as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has floated the possibility of expelling members of Congress who are found to have been involved in the riot.
“Your views on the 25th Amendment, 14th Amendment Section 3 and impeachment are valued as we continue,” she wrote to her colleagues over the weekend. No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress, or elector of President and Vice President, or hold any office, civil or military, under the United States, or under any State, who, having previously taken an oath, as a member of Congress, or as an officer of the United States, or as a member of any State legislature, or as an executive or judicial officer of any State, to support the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But Congress may by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such disability.
Alexander made his comments in a livestream posted December 28. Jason Paladino, an investigator with the Project on Government Oversight, archived the video from Alexander’s now-suspended account and provided it to The Intercept. “I was the person who came up with the January 6 idea with Congressman Gosar, Congressman Mo Brooks, and then Congressman Andy Biggs.
We four schemed up of putting maximum pressure on Congress while they were voting so that who we couldn’t lobby, we could change the hearts and the minds of Republicans who were in that body hearing our loud roar from outside,” Alexander said in the livestream. Alexander reiterated the claim of collaborating with Biggs, Gosar, and Brooks a second time, using almost identical language in a December 29 livestream similarly provided by Paladino, who has tracked Alexander.
“I’m the guy who came up with the idea of January 6 when I was talking with Congressman Gosar, Congressman Andy Biggs, and Congressman Mo Brooks. So we’re the four guys who came up with a January 6 event — #DoNotCertify — and it was to build momentum and pressure, and then on the day change hearts and minds of congresspeoples who weren’t yet decided, or saw everyone outside and said, ‘I can’t be on the other side of that mob,’” Alexander said a week before the event he predicted would bring more than a million people to Washington, D.C.
The Office of Congressional Ethics has seen some of the claims made by Alexander and is looking into the connection between him, Gosar, Brooks, and Biggs, according to two sources familiar with the situation. The OCE was unable to confirm or deny whether any specific investigations are underway, in accordance with the office’s rules. At the December 19 rally, two days before that claim, Alexander more clearly delineated the different roles Biggs and Gosar were playing. “Congressman Gosar has been the spirit animal of this movement, and he’s helped out where he could.
He’s offered to call donors. We actually had our first D.C. march because he called me and he said, ‘You need to go to the Supreme Court.’
I said, ‘All right, my captain,’” Alexander told the audience at the Arizona State Capitol.
I wish I could be with you today. I pledge to you that I’m going to keep fighting for President Trump. And when it comes to January 6, I’ll be right down there in the well of the House with my friend from Alabama, Mo Brooks, and dozens of others who will join me as we look at some of the elections around the country and we say, “How do you explain that?” And more than that, we’re going to stand up for this president and for the voters of America.
That’s legal; not only is it legal, that’s constitutional; not only is it constitutional, it’s the moral thing to do. And we’re going to keep fighting. And I implore you to keep fighting too.
On the day of the riot, Gosar used his official Twitter account to call for peaceful protest, urging Trump supporters “not to get carried away” so no one gets hurt, while spreading an entirely different message on Parler, a right-wing social media platform created in opposition to Twitter. “Americans are upset,” he wrote, sharing a photo of the rioters climbing the Capitol walls. At the December 19 rally, Alexander also thanked Arizona Republican Party Chair Kelli Ward. “I want to thank Chairwoman Kelli Ward and the Arizona Republican Party.
I work in seven states, and there is no party like the Arizona GOP Party, so let’s thank Kelli Ward,” Alexander said. Ward spoke at the rally.
“Let me tell you an open secret. The president watches these rallies, and he’s watching you today,” Alexander said, leading the crowd variously in “Fight for Trump,” “1776,” and “Christ is King” chants. Gosar tagged Alexander on Twitter twice on January 6, and tagged him repeatedly in his posts throughout November and December.
As the mob broke into the Capitol, Gosar was in the middle of his speech objecting to the certification of Arizona’s Electoral College votes. Once the Capitol was cleared, Gosar continued to object, as blood dried on the marble floors just steps away.

In the weeks, days and hours ahead of Wednesday’s siege on the Capitol by President Donald Trump’s zealous supporters, the warning signs were clear: online posts from hate groups and right-wing provocateurs agitating for civil war, the deaths of top lawmakers and attacks on law enforcement. And now, as the dust settles and the country struggles to make sense of the violence that left five dead – including an officer with the US Capitol Police – experts warn that the calls for violence have only intensified ahead of Inauguration Day, when President-elect Joe Biden will be sworn in as commander in chief.
Wednesday’s chaos – which erupted during a protest to dissuade Congress from certifying the results of Biden’s unambiguous win – showed a loss of control and sudden breaking of the bond that for four years had held Trump, his supporters and the Republican leadership together in lockstep. After rioters charged through a barricade, assaulted police officers, shattered windows and stormed into the hallowed building that was torched by the invading British military in 1814, Trump made a tepid plea for them to go home – although he repeated the falsehood that the election had been stolen.
Republican leaders that night – including Vice President Mike Pence and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell – condemned the rioters in the strongest terms. But it all appeared to have little effect on the radicalized right.
John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at the Citizen Lab – a group at the University of Toronto that monitors cybersecurity – said he is “terribly concerned” about the inauguration. “While the broader public was aghast at what happened (Wednesday) at the Capitol, in certain corners of the sort of right wing conversation, what happened … is viewed as a success,” he told CNN.
In the days and weeks before the attack on the Capitol, signs that the protest could spiral into violence were in abundance. Ali Alexander, a political activist who has organized pro-Trump rallies, including one of the demonstrations that converged on the Capitol lawn Wednesday, accused the left of “trying to push us to war.”
In late December, Alexander told followers on Periscope that he and three GOP congressman – Reps. Paul Gosar and Andy Biggs of Arizona and Rep. Mo Brooks of Alabama – were planning something big. “It was to build momentum and pressure and then on the day change hearts and minds of Congress peoples who weren’t yet decided or who saw everyone outside and said, ‘I can’t be on the other side of that mob,’” Ali said, though he did not call for violence. CNN reached out to the offices of all three congressman, but only Biggs responded, with a statement from a spokesperson denying that he worked in any way with Alexander or any protestors.
Several organizations that monitor extremism online issued warnings beforehand. On January 4, the ADL published a lengthy blog post detailing threats of violence pertaining to the upcoming rally. “In response to a user who wondered what happens if Congress ignores ‘evidence’ that President Trump won the election, a user wrote, ‘Storm the capitol,’” the ADL’s blog post says. Also on January 4, a risk analysis by the security firm G4S stated that “current rhetoric suggests that there will be attendees who have violent intent, including armed militia groups” between January 6 and Inauguration Day.
Security experts said they were puzzled by the flat-footed response of law enforcement. Federal and local law enforcement officials insist they had no idea the siege would happen.
“There was no intelligence that suggested there would be a breach of the US Capitol,” said DC Police Chief Robert Contee at a press conference Thursday. “But make no mistake – these mass riots were not First Amendment activities; they were criminal riotous behavior,” he said Thursday. As for security on Inauguration Day, the Secret Service issued a statement saying its plans for the event have been long in the making. He added that the US Capitol building seemed to lack the proper fortification.
It isn’t just the fringe elements who have gotten swept up in the current fervor. Mingling with the crowd of militia groups, white nationalists and high-profile conspiracy theorists on the Capitol lawn on Wednesday were other citizens who made the trip to challenge the certification.
After railing against what she described as voter fraud and a stolen election, she called for the death of those who have committed treason. Right-wing news network OANN posted a photo of Cudd on Twitter Wednesday afternoon showing her inside the Capitol, wearing a Trump flag around her as a cape. And that evening, she posted a video from her hotel, where she drank a beer and choked back tears as she took her followers through what had happened that day. “When Pence betrayed us is when we decided to storm the Capitol,” she said. On Friday, Cudd told a local TV news outlet that she did nothing illegal. In response to a CNN request for comment Friday, Cudd texted a link to a video of herself repeating a version of the statement she made to the local outlet, saying, “cancel culture is in full force,” and that she has “received several death threats, along with thousands of one-star reviews” for her business.
Joel Finkelstein, director of the Network Contagion Research Institute at Rutgers University, said conspiracies on the web have mushroomed from smaller, obscure sites like 8kun frequented by adherents of QAnon to more mainstream sites like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. The result, he said, is that many of the people drawn to the protests Wednesday were not extremists but rather ordinary Americans who did not understand that they had been lied to. Some of the more disturbingly violent chatter on social media reflects what appears to be a growing hostility toward Republican leaders on the part of Trump supporters.
“I’m fairly certain seeing Pelosis and Mitch the Bitch swinging bodies from a rope will get more attention from sheeple who normally don’t follow or care about politics,” said a commenter Wednesday on thedonald.win. And as law enforcement has begun to take a heavier hand with right-wing extremist groups – Proud Boys leader Henry “Enrique” Tarrio was arrested by DC police ahead of the January 6 protest – experts are noticing a growing antipathy for police in these circles, which have tended to consider themselves allies of men and women in uniform.

Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington, went on to use “yet” as a code word for violence.
Then Alexander told the Phoenix crowd about his plans for Washington. Alexander led a host of activists in ratcheting up the rhetoric ahead of Congress’ certification of the electoral votes, threatening to “1776” opponents of Trump’s re-election.
Now that five people, including a Capitol Police officer, are dead, however, Alexander has gone into hiding, and the website promoting his Jan. 6 rally has been wiped from the internet. In reality, even as Alexander claimed his supporters were peaceful, he repeatedly raised the prospect of using violence in the weeks ahead of Jan. 6.
On Sunday night, Twitter banned Alexander’s personal account and an account for “Stop The Steal.” Alexander didn’t respond to a request for comment.
In the Trump era, now using a new name, Alexander emerged as an idiosyncratic, trash-talking MAGA die-hard affiliated with figures like InfoWars conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, anti-Muslim Trump booster Laura Loomer, blundering provocateur Jacob Wohl, and Trump ally Roger Stone. Before Trump’s 2020 election defeat, Alexander was perhaps best known for Donald Trump Jr. retweeting his groundless claim that Vice President-elect Kamala Harris is not an “American Black.”
He was invited to the White House for Trump’s “Social Media Summit” with various right-wing internet figures, and began frequently wearing orange clothes, claiming God had given him a message that the color had special significance for 2020. After Trump’s election defeat, Alexander positioned himself as one of the leading Trump re-election dead-enders with his “Stop the Steal” group, which quickly became a clearinghouse for pro-Trump personalities rallying outside of state capitols in contested battleground states. For Jan. 6, Alexander claimed in a video, he had some organizing assistance from pro-Trump Reps. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Andy Biggs (R-AZ), and Mo Brooks (R-AL).
"We four schemed up putting maximum pressure on Congress while they were voting,” Alexander said in a video posted before the Jan. 6 protest. Alexander’s voice grew more menacing in the lead-up to the Jan. 6 rally. He tweeted that he would “give my life for this fight,” a call that was promoted by the Arizona Republican Party.
Most pointedly, Alexander responded to a tweet from QAnon-supporter Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) claiming that top congressional leaders were working to block objections to the electoral vote. If that happened, Alexander said, he and hundreds of thousands of other protesters would “1776” the Capitol.
Alexander’s anger wasn’t limited to Congress. After four people were stabbed after a December MAGA protest outside the Hotel Harrington, a downtown Washington hotel popular with Proud Boys, the hotel announced that it would be closed for several days around the Jan. 6 protest.
“May not one patriot get caught on camera doing anything bad,” Alexander said. Alexander’s “Wild Protest” rally was scheduled to take place on the northeast corner of the Capitol’s lawn, with a website claiming that Greene, Gosar, and Rep. Lauren Boebert (R-CO) would all speak at the event.
Before the rally, Alexander attended Trump’s speech on the White House Ellipse, posting a picture from the front row. Alex Jones claims that he and Alexander had some “deal” with the White House about their protest outside of Congress.
Video posted by InfoWars in an apparent attempt to distance Jones from the riots shows Jones and Alexander on the west side of the Capitol as tear-gas canisters went off in the distance and Trump supporters mounted MAGA flags on the inauguration risers. Jones unsuccessfully tried to convince rioters to move to the east side of the Capitol and attend their rally on the other side of the building instead.
“As much as I love seeing the Trump flags flying over this, we need to not have the confrontation with the police, they’re going to make that the story,” Jones said. But Alexander refused to disavow the riot.
It’s not clear how, however, if Alexander’s supporters can send him money at all. On Saturday, he posted on Parler that he had been banned from Venmo and PayPal. In his Friday video, Alexander claimed that his “rally never turned violent.” But Alexander also read a quote from talk radio host Rush Limbaugh that positively compared the rioters to the heroes of the American Revolution, and said rioters who entered the Capitol should suffer light consequences, if any.

The supporters of President Trump who stormed and occupied the U.S. Capitol building on Wednesday had openly planned a violent action for weeks on social media websites and online forums, prompting questions over why law enforcement appeared so woefully unprepared to protect Congress.
Posts about potential violence if the Trump-endorsed plan to stop Congress’ certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s win failed populated multiple corners of the internet—from apps and forums favored among conservatives like Parler, Telegram and TheDonald to mainstream platforms like TikTok and Twitter. “We came up with the idea to occupy just outside the CAPITOL on Jan 6th,” the leaders of the Stop the Steal movement wrote on Dec. 23, with movement founder Ali Alexander telling Parler: “If D.C. escalates … so do we.”
ProPublica, which tracked social media posts about Trump supporters’ plans for Jan. 6 in the weeks before the Capitol attack, identified Alexander’s as “one of scores of social media posts welcoming violence.” Plans were more explicit on pro-Trump website TheDonald, an offshoot of a banned subreddit by the same name, where users engaged in conversations about breaking into federal buildings, ushering guns into D.C. and committing violence against law enforcement officers who tried to stop them from storming Congress.
“Storm the Capitol,” wrote one user a few days ago in response to a question about what to do if Congress “ignores the evidence” of voter fraud (the post was upvoted 500 times), while a graphic posted to the site showed a map of key streets around Congress that protesters wanted to obstruct: “There’s 535 politicians and ~3500 guards.” Nonprofit research organization Advance Democracy told Buzzfeed News that imminent violence was signaled from all corners of the social web in the days leading up to the riot, with more than 50% of TheDonald’s top posts on Jan. 4 about the Electoral College certification and the site’s top five responses all featuring “unmoderated calls for violence,” and Parler seeing a similar trend.
4. That’s how many people died during the attacks on the Capitol, according to D.C. police.
One was fatally shot inside the building while the other three died of medical emergencies. A total of 52 have been arrested so far.

The day before pro-Trump rioters led an insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week, the FBI’s Norfolk office warned others in the bureau of concerning online chatter threatening violence, according to a new report from The Washington Post.
People in the discussion online also shared a map of the Capitol’s tunnels. Five people died Wednesday when the rioters stormed Congress, including a Capitol police officer and a woman shot by police.
Since then, questions have swirled about how federal and local law enforcement were so unprepared when many of the plans had been made in plain sight online. An FBI official familiar with the document told the Post that the Norfolk office wrote the report within 45 minutes of learning about the online conversation. It was raw intelligence and, at the time, the FBI didn’t know the identities of the people making the online statements, the official told the newspaper. “It was not immediately clear how many law enforcement agencies outside the FBI were told, but the information was briefed to FBI officials at the bureau’s Washington field office the day before the attack,” the Post wrote.
The document contradicts a previous statement from Steven D’Antuono, the head of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, who on Friday told reporters “there was no indication” of anything planned for the day of President Donald Trump’s rally “other than First Amendment-protected activity,” the Post reported. The internal report out of Norfolk, according to the Post, noted that protest activity is protected by the First Amendment and not itself a threat, but that based on history and “known intelligence,” the protest could lead to violence.
A spokeswoman for the FBI Norfolk office on Tuesday referred a Virginian-Pilot reporter to the bureau’s national press office, which did not respond to a request for comment. At a press conference in Washington later in the afternoon, D’Antuono said that the bureau receives “enormous” amounts of information and intelligence.

When die-hard supporters of President Donald Trump showed up at rally point “Cowboy” in Louisville on the morning of Jan. 5, they found the shopping mall’s parking lot was closed to cars, so they assembled their 50 or so vehicles outside a nearby Kohl’s department store.
Hundreds of miles away in Columbia, S.C., at a mall designated rally point “Rebel,” other Trump supporters gathered to form another caravan to Washington. A similar meetup — dubbed “Minuteman” — was planned for Springfield, Mass. That same day, FBI personnel in Norfolk were increasingly alarmed by the online conversations they were seeing, including warlike talk around the convoys headed to the nation’s capital. One map posted online described the rally points, declaring them a “MAGA Cavalry To Connect Patriot Caravans to StopTheSteal in D.C.”
Another map showed the U.S. Congress, indicating tunnels connecting different parts of the complex. The map was headlined, “CREATE PERIMETER,” according to the FBI report, which was reviewed by The Washington Post. “Be ready to fight.
Congress needs to hear glass breaking, doors being kicked in,” read one posting, according to the report. FBI agents around the country are working to unravel the various motives, relationships, goals and actions of the hundreds of Trump supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6.
Some inside the bureau have described the Capitol riot investigation as their biggest case since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, and a top priority of the agents’ work is to determine the extent to which that violence and chaos was preplanned and coordinated. Investigators caution there is an important legal distinction between gathering like-minded people for a political rally — which is protected by the First Amendment — and organizing an armed assault on the seat of American government.
The task now is to distinguish which people belong in each category, and who played key roles in committing or coordinating the violence. Video and court filings, for instance, describe how several groups of men that include alleged members of the Proud Boys appear to engage in concerted action, converging on the West Front of the Capitol just before 1 p.m., near the Peace Monument at First Street NW and Pennsylvania Avenue NW.
Different factions of the crowd appear to coalesce, move forward and chant under the direction of different leaders before charging at startled police staffing a pedestrian gate, all in the matter of a few minutes. An indictment Friday night charged a member of the Proud Boys, Dominic Pezzola, 43, of Rochester, N.Y., with conspiracy, saying his actions showed “planning, determination, and coordination.”
Another alleged member of the Proud Boys, William Pepe, 31, of Beacon, N.Y., also was charged with conspiracy. Minutes before the crowd surge, at 12:45 p.m., police received the first report of a pipe bomb behind the Republican National Committee headquarters at the opposite, southeast side of the U.S. Capitol campus.
The device and another discovered shortly afterward at Democratic National Committee headquarters included end caps, wiring, timers and explosive powder, investigators have said. Some law enforcement officials have suggested the pipe bombs may have been a deliberate distraction meant to siphon law enforcement away from the Capitol building at the crucial moment.
The FBI is also trying to determine how many people went to Washington seeking to engage in violence, even if they weren’t part of any formal organization. Some of those in the Louisville caravan said they were animated by the belief that the election was stolen, according to interviews they gave to the Louisville Courier-Journal. Much of the discussion of potential violence occurred at TheDonald.win, where Trump’s supporters talked about the upcoming rally, sometimes in graphic terms, according to people familiar with the FBI investigation who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss an open matter.
After the riot, a statement posted on the website said moderators “had been struggling for some time to address a flood of racist and violent content that appeared to be coming primarily from a small group of extremists who were often brigading from other sites,” leading to inquiries from the FBI. Some had been preparing for conflict for weeks. Days after the election, Watkins allegedly sent text messages to a number of individuals who had expressed interest in joining her group, which called itself the Ohio State Regular Militia. “I need you fighting fit by innaugeration,” she told one recruit, according to court papers.
In conversations later that month, Watkins allegedly spoke in apocalyptic terms about the prospect of Joe Biden’s being sworn in as president on Jan. 20. In December, prosecutors say, Donovan Ray Crowl, a 50-year-old friend of Watkins’s, attended a training camp in North Carolina, while another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., booked a room at an Arlington hotel, where Watkins also had a reservation for the days surrounding the Jan. 6 pro-Trump rally.
In the week leading up to the rally and riot, Watkins and Caldwell were in regular contact as they talked about various groups of people meeting up on Jan. 5 and Jan. 6, according to an indictment filed this past week against them. At different points, according to court filings and people familiar with the investigation, Watkins and Caldwell indicated a degree of impatience with Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers, for not providing more direction.
Watkins messaged Caldwell that if Rhodes “isn’t making plans, I’ll take charge myself, and get the ball rolling,” according to the indictment. Caldwell replied that he was speaking to another person who expected a bus with 40 people to come from North Carolina.
Caldwell allegedly told her that person, identified only as “Paul” in other court papers, “is committed to being the quick reaction force [and] bringing the tools if something goes to hell.
That way the boys don’t have to try to schlep weps on the bus” — an apparent reference to weapons. Caldwell added in a subsequent message that he didn’t know whether Rhodes “has even gotten out his call to arms but it’s a little friggin late. This is one we are doing on our own.
We will link up with the north carolina crew,” according to court papers and the people familiar with the investigation. Such exchanges are critical early clues in the planning and coordination that went on before, during and after the riot. Videos from the Capitol show Oath Keepers such as Watkins dressed in military-type gear, moving in coordination with Crowl through the crowds around the building.
Caldwell, for his part, posted images to Facebook, writing: “Us storming the castle. Please share.
Sharon is right with me. I am such an instigator!” Sharon Caldwell, his wife, has not been charged with any crime; Caldwell, Crowl and Watkins are accused of conspiring to obstruct Congress and other violations.
Thomas Caldwell’s lawyer has said his client expects to see the charges dropped or to be acquitted at trial. Caldwell, the lawyer said, is not a member of Oath Keepers.
Watkins has previously denied committing any crimes. “I didn’t commit a crime. I didn’t destroy anything.
I didn’t wreck anything,” Watkins told the Ohio Capital Journal, adding that the riot was a peaceful protest that turned violent. Crowl’s lawyer has described his client as a law-abiding citizen who helped protect people during the riot.
In a phone interview this month, Rhodes, the founder of the Oath Keepers, told The Post that he gave no direction or signals to members of his group to storm the Capitol, and that he considers the entry by rioters a mistake that played into the hands of critics. Rhodes said the only “mission” the Oath Keepers had organized to undertake in D.C. on Jan. 6 was dignitary protection for far-right personalities who had traveled to the city to participate in “Stop the Steal” events. At the time of the riot, Rhodes said, he had just escorted one of the VIPs to a nearby hotel.
Rhodes said one of his deputies “called and said, ‘People are storming the Capitol.’ I walked back over and found” fellow Oath Keepers, Rhodes said, but did not enter the building.
Rhodes disavowed any meaningful connection to Caldwell or Crowl. Rhodes said Watkins had played an important part in the group’s mobilization in opposition to demonstrations around police abuse in Louisville last year. Former domestic terrorism investigators say the alleged discussion by Watkins and Caldwell about the group’s leader points to a longtime pattern among such extremists.
Current law enforcement officials said they have not reached any conclusions about the interactions between leaders of extremist groups and their members or followers. Investigators are examining who may have joined Caldwell and Watkins’s group, and whether any of those individuals, “known and unknown,” had links or communications with others at the Capitol that day or elsewhere.

WBEZ brings you fact-based news and information. Sign up for our newsletters to stay up to date on the stories that matter.
A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area has been the primary source of political funding for an ultra-conservative group that participated in the “March to Save America” rally that preceded last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, documents show. Dick Uihlein — the Republican mega-donor who lives in north suburban Lake Forest and is CEO of the Uline business supplies company — has contributed nearly $4.3 million in the past five years to the political action committee of the Tea Party Patriots, including $800,000 in October, according to Federal Election Commission records. The funding sources for last Wednesday’s rally against President Donald Trump’s reelection loss are not publicly documented, and it’s unknown if the Tea Party Patriots used any money from Uihlein toward the event.
The marchtosaveamerica.com website was not working Monday, but archived images of the page show event organizers pressed debunked allegations of widespread voter fraud in Democrat Joe Biden’s defeat of Trump. “At 1 p.m., we will march to the U.S. Capitol building to protest the certification of the Electoral College,” organizers wrote on the website, referring to the scheduled congressional vote to ratify the election results from the states.
Martin urged her followers to RSVP at WildProtest.com. That website was not working Monday.
After Trump spoke at the rally near the White House — telling supporters he will “never concede” and urging them “to fight” and to march on the Capitol — a pro-Trump mob overwhelmed security to storm into the Capitol. The insurrection temporarily suspended Congress and left five dead, including a police officer.
Federal and local prosecutors in Washington have charged dozens of Trump supporters from across the country with contributing to the unprecedented scenes on Capitol Hill. The alleged rioters who were arrested included Bradley Rukstales, a 52-year-old business executive and Trump campaign contributor from northwest suburban Inverness, who was detained Wednesday afternoon on the upper level of the Capitol, court records show. Wednesday’s violent unrest has sparked heated debates over the culpability of Trump and his backers who falsely alleged that he actually won the election.
The Tea Party Patriots did not return messages, and Uihlein did not reply to questions sent by WBEZ to a spokeswoman for his company. The Uline shipping supplies company is based in Pleasant Prairie, a Wisconsin town just over the state line from Illinois. Uihlein and his wife, Liz, have been among the biggest political donors in the country and in Illinois campaigns for years. Dick Uihlein has shelled out more than $136 million to federal candidates and campaign committees, according to FEC records.
He’s also contributed about tens of millions more to campaign in Illinois, most of that to the now-defunct Liberty Principles PAC . In April 2016, Uihlein began to heavily support the Tea Party Patriots Citizens Fund, a PAC started in 2013. Records show he gave it nearly $1.5 million in 2016, more than $1 million in 2017, $950,000 in 2018 and the single, $800,000 contribution last year. That’s made Uihlein by far the single biggest donor to the Tea Party Patriots’ PAC in each of the last three two-year federal election cycles, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group in Washington.
Records show the Tea Party Patriots had contributed in recent years to Trump and to Republican lawmakers, including members of Congress who sought to overturn Biden’s victories in hotly contested states. They included Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas and Reps.
Louie Gohmert of Texas and Mo Brooks of Alabama, whom House Democrats want to censure for his remarks at the Trump rally. In one of Martin’s tweets promoting the rally, she said she would appear in Washington to support Trump with Dr. Simone Gold, who has worked with the Tea Party Patriots to urge the swift reopening of the economy since early in the coronavirus pandemic.
Gold also heavily promoted the the use of hydroxychloroquine to treat COVID-19 sufferers. Trump repeatedly praised the drug, which medical experts say is ineffective in helping coronavirus patients. She told the Washington Post she was in the Capitol for about 20 minutes on Wednesday and gave a speech in the building’s Rotunda, but she said she did not see any of the violence. In addition to the Tea Party Patriots, the other 10 groups listed as participating in the rally before the Capitol riot included Women for America First, which applied for the permit for the event.
Another group that participated in the rally was Turning Point Action, a sister organization of the far-right Turning Point USA group. Between 2014 and 2016, Uihlein’s foundation donated $275,000 to Turning Point USA, which is led by Arlington Heights native Charlie Kirk, according to records. In a tweet he later deleted, Kirk took credit for “sending 80+ buses full of patriots to DC to fight for this president” last Wednesday. Kirk since has said the Trump supporters his group brought to the rally left after it and did not go to the Capitol. A group of Republican attorneys general also have come under strong criticism for funding robocalls promoting the Trump rally , despite the incumbent president’s long string of court defeats in his effort to challenge the November election results.

Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones said his media company paid for the rally in Washington DC on 6 January that preceded the ill-fated insurrection at the US Capitol. Mr Jones explained his involvement in a video he posted from Washington DC on the day of the riots.
Mr Jones said that 80 per cent of the money used in the bookings was provided by a donor. "It cost close to half a million dollars," he said.
He then claims the White House asked him to lead the march to the Capitol. In his words, the Secret Service was supposed to pull him out of the front row of Donald Trump's speech about a half hour before it ended and move him to the march starting point. However, due to the large numbers of people who were still arriving even as Mr Trump spoke, Mr Jones ended up stuck between the group of people watching the president's speech and a second group that was already marching on the Capitol building.
He then claimed - erroneously - that an army of “antifa” was there, and blamed the rioting at the Capitol on them. “And so, by the time I got out there 20 minutes, 30 minutes before Trump finished his speech there were already hundreds of thousands of people ahead of me marching. And before Trump ever took the stage, antifa, dressed up - over a hundred of them - as patriots, was there,” he said.
Sarah Palin and Rep. Matt Gaetz - who is loyal to Mr Trump - have also lied about the involvement of antifascists at the Capitol. Mr Jones was reportedly seen later in the day, standing on top of a car near the Capitol building and shouting into a bullhorn. Though the InfoWars host is never far from headlines, he drew attention after making a perceived threat against Joe Biden. Mr Jones told rally-goers at the "Million MAGA March" that Mr Biden would be removed from office "one way or the other," which prompted calls for the FBI and Secret Service to launch investigations. The conspiracy theorist has also publicly peddled QAnon conspiracies.
Ashili Babbit, the woman who was shot and killed while breaking into the Capitol, was a QAnon adherent. "We will never back down to the Satanic paedophile, globalist New World Order and their walking-dead reanimated corpse Joe Biden, and we will never recognize him," Mr Jones said during the Million MAGA March. The belief in a global cabal of demonic pedophiles that only Mr Trump is working to stop is a central tenet of the QAnon conspiracy theory.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

A video of Kirk, a Newsweek columnist, discussing the deadly event in which far-right extremists and QAnon conspiracy theorists stormed Congress, was shared on Twitter where it went viral with over 500,000 views at the time of writing.
The clip, shared by Media Matters news director John Whitehouse, juxtaposes Kirk speaking on The Charlie Kirk Show on Monday with separate footage of protesters violently beating a Capitol police officer. A police officer was among the five people who died during the disorder.
Among those seen inside the Senate chamber was a person carrying plastic zip ties, with many believing they were brought in order to take hostages. Makeshift nooses and guillotines were also spotted at the Washington protest on January 6.
During the clip, Kirk said that while it was "not wise" to climb the Capitol steps and enter the rotunda, it is wrong to compare those who did to terrorists such as 1995 Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh. Kirk said: "It's bad judgment, all of a sudden, to climb the Capitol steps and walk in the rotunda; it's just not wise. However, 'not wise' does not mean you're an insurrectionist, ok?
Let me be very clear. In a statement to Newsweek, Turning Point spokesman Andrew Kolvet said that the clip is being taken out of context and that elsewhere in Kirk's podcast he described how the rally portion of the event in D.C. was not violent compared to the scenes at the Capitol.
"The small number that actually went inside the building and broke windows and beat cops. Those people deserve to be condemned.
Charlie has said this many times," Kolvet said. "Regardless of what those other criminals did, it does not change the veracity of his larger point, that many others in the area are not criminals, they are simply peace loving, supporters of the president.
A number of people on social media suggested that Kirk was attempting to distance himself from the violence which erupted in the nation's capital after previously claiming that Turning Point Action, the political action committee arm of Turning Point USA, would be sending "80+ buses full of patriots" to attend the capital in a since deleted tweet. "The historic event will likely be one of the largest and most consequential in American history," Kirk tweeted two days before January 6. Turning Point Action have since claimed that Kirk's deleted tweet was "ultimately inaccurate" and the group ended up sending just seven buses to D.C., reported The New York Times. On Sunday, Kirk described how a majority of Trump supporters were "repulsed" by the violence which broke out at the Capitol. "The strength of the president's movement is about giving a voice to working people all across the country," Kirk told Fox News' The Next Revolution on Sunday.
Correction (1/12/21, 1:30 p.m. ET): An earlier version of this article mistakenly referenced Turning Point USA instead of Turning Point Action. This article has been updated to include comment from Turning Point spokesman Andrew Kolvet. The headline of this article was updated for clarity. In addition, an inaccurate reference to Ginni Thomas has been deleted.

Tommy spent some of his first days as a Yew-Nited States senator hob-nobbing with the members of the mob that had gathered at the former president*'s signature hotel in Washington. Of course, events on January 6 went gruesomely pear-shaped, and even a rookie senator like the Tubs realized that attaching himself to armed seditionists was no way to kickoff a political career, at least not until Jeff Davis rises from the dead.
So Tommy denied that he had been doing all that hob-nobbing in deepest Trumplandia. Alas for Tommy, there were witnesses.
And cameras. And witnesses with cameras.
As the Alabama Political Reporter illustrates, Tommy Tuberville is a formidable bag of hammers indeed. But a photo posted to social media appears to show Tuberville in the hotel’s lobby that day, and a company CEO in a separate post describes meeting with Tuberville and others at the hotel that day and discussing “illegal votes.”
Charles W. Herbster, who was then the national chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee in Trump’s administration, in a Facebook post at 8:33 p.m. on Jan. 5 said that he was standing “in the private residence of the President at Trump International with the following patriots who are joining me in a battle for justice and truth. A meeting, you say? At the former president*'s hotel, you say? On the night before the insurrection, you say?
Do go on. Among the attendees, according to Herbster’s post, were Tuberville, former RAGA director Adam Piper, Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump, Trump’s former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, adviser Peter Navarro, Trump’s 2016 campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and 2016 deputy campaign manager David Bossie.
Is there more? Of course, there's more. Daniel Beck, CEO of an Idaho technology company, in a Facebook post at 10:27 p.m. on Jan. 5 wrote that he’d spent the evening with Tuberville, Trump Jr. and girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle, Michael J. Lindell, Navarro and Trump attorney Rudy Giuliani.
They better keep an eye on the Tubs. He's liable to accidentally mail himself to Leavenworth.

Well after dark on January 5, 2021—just 15 hours before an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States—Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration, attended a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate at Trump International Hotel in Washington. Kimberly Guilfoyle , girlfriend of Donald Trump Jr.
Guilfoyle’s presence at the meeting is critical given that Stop the Steal coordinator Ali Alexander claims he received a call from Guilfoyle during the evening of January 5—when she would have been with Trump’s family and advisers at Trump International. As for Tuberville, he now claims, contrary to the statements of Herbster and Beck, that he was never at the Trump International Hotel on January 5.
In Charles Herbster’s Facebook post detailing the meeting—a post that looks forward with anger and trepidation to the upcoming January 6 certification of Joe Biden’s electoral victory, and has since been hidden and reposted, along with all photos of the Trump family on Herbster’s Facebook account posted from December 2020 through January 2021—the Nebraska Republican writes of the “battles and blood” that in the past have been required to “protect our way of life”, as well as his own decision “[not to] choose the easy path” but instead “fight” the “widespread voter fraud that happened on November 3.” Herbster is, as of January 26, not yet speaking to media about January 5, nor about Senator Tuberville’s contrary account of the events of that evening in DC. Herbster’s Facebook feed, prior to its scrubbing, confirmed his high-level access to the Trump family, as it contained many pictures taken at Mar-a-Lago in the 30 days prior to the January 6 insurrection.
These pictures featured Herbster alongside Vice President Mike Pence and his wife Karen Pence, Eric Trump and his wife Lara Trump, Donald Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle, and longtime Trump friend and adviser Jeanine Pirro, whose ex-husband Albert Pirro Trump pardoned as the last official act of his presidency. That Herbster would have access to Trump’s inner circle is clear.
But less clear is why the Trumps had invited, to a private residence outside the White House—and on the eve of an insurrection—(1) Michael Flynn, a man who that very day had organized a D.C. rally to protest the 2020 election, and would the next day conjoin his Jericho March with the Stop the Steal/March to Save America that Trump was to speak at; (2) Peter Navarro, a man who would later say on live television that he believed Trump had the unilateral authority to postpone Biden’s inauguration; (3) Tommy Tuberville, the U.S. senator who in a matter of hours Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani would be calling by telephone to demand that he fraudulently contest ten states’ Biden electors (far more than the five Giuliani had publicly declared contestable); (4) Adam Piper, who in a matter of days would resign from the Republican Attorneys General Association when it was found that he had helped orchestrate robocalls advertising the Stop the Steal/March to Save America event; and (5) Trump’s former campaign manager and deputy campaign manager—Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie, respectively—two men known for their bareknuckle politics and (in Lewandowski’s case) an alleged penchant for violence (see here, here, and here). Meanwhile, the presence of Trump’s personal attorney at the meeting all but ensures that Trump himself was aware of the event.
While of course there’s less question about why Don Jr. and Eric were at the January 5 meeting at their father’s Washington hotel, it’s useful to note that both men would speak alongside their father at the January 6 rally in D.C. that incited an insurrection, and that both (particularly the former) arguably uttered words during their speeches that helped incite that insurrection. Meanwhile, it remains unclear why Trump would have given his sons access to his private residence in Washington if he was not either planning to attend the meeting with them, planning to attend it via speakerphone—a longtime practice of the president in dealing with sensitive meetings, and a practice for which he has become infamous—or expecting his sons to debrief him immediately. Giuliani would also have been expected by his client to offer an immediate debriefing, and Mike Lindell, another meeting participant, was known to have Oval Office access to the president at the time.
But the two men of most importance here, undoubtedly, are (1) the organizer of the Jericho March, and (2) the organizer of robocalls promoting the Stop the Steal/March to Save America—as their presence at a private Team Trump strategy meeting the night before an armed insurrection affirms that the president’s inner circle was in fact coordinating with the very men who were at that moment busy creating an armed mob for Trump to command on January 6. Just so, if Guilfoyle did indeed call Ali Alexander from the meeting, it means that one of the chief Stop the Steal organizers was involved in at least one high-level meeting with Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, and a key member of the United States Senate the night before the January 6 insurrection.
Alexander had been caught on camera earlier in the evening of January 5 leading a crowd in a chant of “Victory or death!” Shortly thereafter, he was on the phone with the most powerful figures in Trump’s inner circle.
This seeming footnote in a mid-size newspaper may become one of the most startling revelations of the ongoing federal criminal investigation of the January 6 insurrection: it means that one of the organizers of the now-infamous Stop the Steal/March to Save America event met with Trump’s top advisers and family members—and possibly, if a speakerphone was employed, Trump himself—on the night before the insurrection to discuss how to “pressure more members of Congress to object to the Electoral College results that made Joe Biden the winner.” It also means that the organizer of the Jericho March, Flynn, which had been timed to coincide with the Stop the Steal/March to Save America, also met with this corps of Trump advisers to discuss how to “pressure more members of Congress.” And for reasons we still don’t know—but perhaps can guess at—the fifteen (minimum) participants at the meeting decided that they couldn’t meet in the White House.
A call from the hotel to Alexander may offer an explanation for this. Not only does this meeting appear to confirm that Trump’s team helped orchestrate the events of January 6, but that it participated in the calibration of those events to exert maximum “pressure” on members of Congress in the midst of them executing a grave constitutional duty.
Moreover, it participated in that calibration in the presence of a member of the United States Senate, who was therefore—we can now conclude, from the reporting of the Omaha World Herald—working in private with the president’s team to advise Trump on how to generate that maximum pressure on his Senate peers. The answer is likely to be clear enough to federal investigators: the events Flynn and Piper orchestrated, along with Alexander, could only exert extraordinary pressure on members of Congress if the participants in those events illegally entered Capitol grounds.
While we cannot know if these co-conspirators discussed the possibility of violence on January 6, that they contemplated the crime that most of the January 6 insurrectionists have now been charged with—Unlawfully Entering a Restricted Building—is all but certain, as is the fact that the purpose of such entries was to put improper pressure on government officials to reverse course on a government action. In simpler terms, the purpose of the January 5 meeting at the Trump International Hotel in D.C. was arguably seditious conspiracy—as it appears to have been intended to promote and incite criminal acts by a mob whose purpose was to intimidate federal officials engaged in the certification of a democratically elected branch of government. That Nebraska was America’s unlikeliest battleground state during the November 2020 election is evidenced by the fact that Donald Trump and Joe Biden actually split the state’s electoral votes on November 3 (Biden received one and Trump received four).
That Nebraska was—and now is—a battleground in presidential politics makes the fact that Herbster is, according to the Omaha World Herald, a “potential Nebraska gubernatorial candidate” all the more significant. Not only did the state Herbster hopes to leading beginning in 2022 account for 1 of the 37 electoral votes that put Joe Biden over the top in 2020, but if Trump hopes to run again in 2024 he may require Herbster’s help to ensure that Republicans sweep Nebraska—rather than split it with the Democrats—in what Trump would have to know will be (at best) a tight election.
While it would be easy to think of Herbster as a mere attendee at the January 6 Trump speech that incited an insurrection—if one who fled the scene immediately thereafter, for unknown reasons—further details about Herbster’s relationship with Trumpworld suggest otherwise. On December 13, 2020, just three and a half weeks before the insurrection, Herbster attended a Moms for America event with the known insurrectionist Lindell, who he would later—according to Daniel Beck—meet with at Trump International Hotel on January 5, and who was last seen several days before the end of Trump’s term carrying paperwork into the Oval Office urging then-President Trump to declare martial law and refuse to vacate the White House on January 20.
Indeed, besides that “small group of guests,” the only attendees at the event were the “members of the Moms for America National Team.” That team, led by Moms for America president and founder Kimberly Fletcher (pictured with Herbster, below) would days later become a sponsor of the coming January 6 Stop the Steal/March to Save America. It remains unclear whether Herbster helped shepherd this key sponsorship in mid-December. But wait—there’s more.
It turns out that the “intimate” December 13 gathering in Washington included more than just Herbster, Fletcher, insurrectionist Mike Lindell, and South Dakota’s GOP governor, Kristi Noem (note: see image #6, above). Also part of the “small group” that met in Washington was, according to an article in Breitbart, Rose Tennet, head of the Women for Trump group and a speaker at the January 5 Stop the Steal/Rally to Save America event that also featured Stop the Steal coordinators Alex Jones and Roger Stone.
More importantly, the gathering featured Rep. Andy Biggs (R-AZ), now known as one of the four chief organizers of the January 6 Stop the Steal/March to Save America event. But it gets still worse—as someone else very important spoke at the self-admittedly “intimate” December 13
Moms for America event that Charles Herbster attended: the aforementioned Ali Alexander, the Stop the Steal coordinator currently on the run from federal law enforcement. That Herbster, Lindell, Biggs, Alexander, and Tennet were all present at the same pro-Trump event in the nation’s capital on December 13—and that three of these people would later participate in the January 5 meeting at the Trump International Hotel—raises the possibility that Herbster was in touch with Alexander at other points between December 13 and January 5.
Federal officials will now need to question Herbster about whether he passed on to the president or his team any messages from or about Alexander, Alexander’s Stop the Steal/March to Save America co-organizer Andy Biggs, or Stop the Steal/Rally to Save America participant Tennet prior to or on January 5. These questions must be added, of course, to an even more foundational interrogation regarding what other topics the group of men and women at the January 5 meeting discussed, including what they discussed when Guilfoyle called Alexander.

The night before the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol, Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville and the then-director of the Republican Attorneys General Association met with then-President Donald Trump’s sons and close advisers, according to a social media post by a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a Trump administration appointee. Tuberville, through a spokeswoman Tuesday, told APR that he did not attend a Jan. 5 meeting at the Trump International Hotel in Washington.
Among the attendees, according to Herbster’s post, were Tuberville, former RAGA director Adam Piper, Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump, Trump’s former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, adviser Peter Navarro, Trump’s 2016 campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and 2016 deputy campaign manager David Bossie. RAGA’s dark-money fundraising arm, the Rule of Law Defense Fund, led by Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall, paid for robocalls directing people to the March to Save America and rally, which took place just before the Capitol attack. “They discussed how to pressure more members of Congress to object to the Electoral College results that made Joe Biden the winner,” The Omaha World-Herald reported.
Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Flynn earlier on Jan. 5 spoke at a rally of pro-Trump supporters in support of Trump’s baseless claims of widespread election fraud. “We stand at a crucible moment in United States history.
This country is awake now,” Flynn told the crowd, according to numerous news outlets. Congressman Mo Brooks, R-Alabama, spoke at the rally prior to the Capitol attack, telling the crowd: “Today is the day that American patriots start taking down names and kicking ass.”
Right-wing political activist and an organizer of the Jan. 6 “Stop the Steal” rally, Ali Alexander, in videos posted on social media claimed that Brooks was involved in the planning of the rally that day, meant to pressure lawmakers inside the Capitol as they prepared to vote on certifying the Electoral College votes. The Jan. 5 meeting, as discussed in the Facebook post, was first reported by journalist Seth Abramson on Tuesday. Abramson in his article states that it’s unclear if Trump himself attended the Jan. 5 meeting at his hotel.
In numerous photos posted to his Facebook page in the months prior to the Jan. 5 meeting, Herbster can be seen posing with Trump and Trump’s sons and close advisors. APR sent questions to a Tuberville spokesperson asking whether the senator had attended a Jan. 5 meeting with Trump, Piper and others at his hotel, and if so, why was he called to the meeting and what was discussed.
The Tuberville spokeswoman replied in an email: “the answers to your questions are No and Not Applicable.” Attempts to contact Herbster on Tuesday were unsuccessful. As pro-Trump supporters, far-right groups and militia members were breaking into the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, Trump and his attorney Rudy Giuliani both mistakenly called Republican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah while trying to call Tuberville, according to multiple news accounts, a recording of a voicemail message by Giuliani left for Tuberville and statements by Lee.
In the recorded voicemail message mistakenly left on Lee’s phone, first reported by The Dispatch, Giuliani asks Tuberville to stall the counting of electoral votes. “I want to discuss with you how they’re trying to rush this hearing and how we need you, our Republican friends, to try to just slow it down so we can get these legislatures to get more information to you,” Giuliani said in a voicemail.
Piper resigned as director of RAGA on Jan. 12 following much public scrutiny over robocalls paid for by the Rule of Law Defense Fund. Marshall has not publicly said why Piper resigned. Attempts to reach Piper for comment Tuesday were not successful.
RLDF was listed as a participating organization for the Jan. 6 “March to Save America” on the march’s website. The website is now down, but archived versions show RLDF as a participating group. Prior to the protest, RLDF sent out robocalls detailing when and where citizens should meet for the Jan. 6 rally, which was first reported by the watchdog investigative journalism group Documented.
Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
“Serving Republican attorneys general has been the honor of a lifetime and honestly a dream job,” Piper said in a statement on his resignation, according to the Associated Press. In a statement to APR on Jan. 7, after APR’s story on the matter had published earlier that day, Piper said neither RAGA nor RLDF was involved with the planning of the rally and seemed to place the blame on staff.
Marshall, speaking to The Montgomery Advertiser on Jan. 12, after a press conference on human trafficking and before Piper’s resignation was announced, said the internal review was ongoing. Asked by the Advertiser whether he felt Trump bore any responsibility for the violence at the Capitol on Wednesday, and for comment on Trump’s potential impeachment, Marshall declined to comment.
Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading. APR’s questions to Marshall’s office Tuesday about the status of Marshall’s investigation into the matter, and whether he has learned of Piper’s possible attendance at that Jan. 5 meeting, weren’t immediately answered.

Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville through a spokeswoman Tuesday denied meeting with the then-director of the Republican Attorneys General Association and others inside Trump’s private residence at the Trump International Hotel on Jan. 5 — on the eve of the deadly U.S. Capitol attack. Among the attendees, according to Herbster’s post, were Tuberville, former RAGA director Adam Piper, Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump, Trump’s former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, adviser Peter Navarro, Trump’s 2016 campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and 2016 deputy campaign manager David Bossie.
Tuberville, through a spokeswoman Tuesday, told APR that he did not attend a Jan. 5 meeting at the Trump International Hotel in Washington. A photo posted to an Instagram user’s account appears to show Tuberville standing in the lobby of the Trump International Hotel on Jan. 5. The user captioned the photo “Newly elected Senator Tommy Tuberville.” In two other separate photos, the person posted images of Flynn and Donald Trump Jr. inside the hotel on Jan. 5. Attempts to reach the person who posted that photo were unsuccessful Tuesday.
Daniel Beck, CEO of an Idaho technology company, in a Facebook post at 10:27 p.m. on Jan. 5 wrote that he’d spent the evening with Tuberville, Trump Jr. and girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle, Michael J. Lindell, Navarro and Trump attorney Rudy Giuliani. APR‘s attempts to reach Beck on Tuesday evening were also unsuccessful.
“They discussed how to pressure more members of Congress to object to the Electoral College results that made Joe Biden the winner,” The Omaha World-Herald reported. The Jan. 5 meeting, as discussed in the Facebook post, was first reported by journalist Seth Abramson on Tuesday.
Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
APR sent questions to a Tuberville spokesperson Tuesday afternoon asking whether Tuberville had attended a Jan. 5 meeting with Trump, Piper and several others at Trump’s hotel, and if so, why was he called to the meeting and what was discussed. The Tuberville spokeswoman replied in an email: “the answers to your questions are No and Not Applicable.”
Attempts to contact Herbster on Tuesday were unsuccessful. Herbster deleted his Facebook post after APR’s story published Tuesday evening, and it’s not clear from the post if Trump attending the Jan. 5 meeting, whether in person or by phone, that Herbster said he attended. Herbster later on Tuesday evening put his post back up.
APR’s questions to Tuberville’s spokeswoman later on Tuesday clarifying that point, and asking whether Tuberville had met with Piper and others that night at the hotel, weren’t immediately answered. APR also sent the spokeswoman screenshots of the photo of Tuberville in the hotel’s lobby that day and of the Facebook post detailing the meeting. APR hadn’t received a response as of Wednesday morning.

This is an opinion column.
You haven’t been a U.S. Senator for a month, and already you’ve gotten yourself into some kind of mess. Maybe a really bad one. Here’s what we know.
On Jan. 5, a day before a violent attack by Donald Trump supporters on our nation’s Capitol, a man named Charles Herbster posted about an unusual get-together he’d attended. Herbster, a Trump appointee who chaired the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee, said on Facebook that he’d been in a meeting with several members of Trump’s inner circle, whom he listed by name. The first name he shared was that of our junior senator from Alabama.
Some others included the then-president’s sons, Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr.; Adam Piper, the director of the Republian Attorneys General Association; Peter Navarro, assistant to the president; Michael Flynn, the confessed felon and former national security advisor Trump recently pardoned; and Corey Lewendowski, Trump’s former campaign manager. “I’ve dedicated my life to promoting and preserving the American Dream. Tonight, as I look at our nation’s flag, I’m reminded of the battles and blood spilled to protect our way of life,” Herbster said in the post.
Initially, Herbster placed the meeting at the White House but later edited his post to say it was at the “private residence” in the Trump International Hotel. Seth Abramson, a journalist, attorney and author of several books critical of the Trump administration, first reported Herbster’s Facebook post in his newsletter.
Next, the Alabama Political Reporter’s Eddie Burkhalter asked Tuberville’s office whether it was true. Through a spokeswoman, Tuberville denied he was in the meeting.
But that’s not where this ends. And from here, it gets kind of weird.
A Trump supporter from Georgia, who was staying at the Trump hotel, had posted pictures of herself posing with Tuberville in the hotel lobby on Jan. 5. She also posted pictures on her Instagram account of Flynn and Trump Jr. passing through the lobby.
Also that same day, Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire, posted on Facebook that he’d been in the Trump hotel meeting, too — with Tuberville. And he shared a picture of himself standing outside the Trump hotel.
Beck also posted a video, from the hotel lobby, in which he talks about the meeting. In his substack newsletter, Abramson asks a lot of open-ended questions and says the meeting could hold the key to the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol. I’m not ready to go there yet.
But there are other things that we know already that make this look messy for Tuberville. While the attack on the Capitol was underway, Trump’s lawyer Rudolph Giuliani left a voicemail message for Tuberville, asking his help in delaying the Senate vote approving the electoral college results. In the sort of hapless gaffe that seems a habit for Giuliani, he left the voicemail on the wrong senator’s cell phone. That senator then shared the message with the Dispatch, which later published it.
He needs to say. He needs to speak. He needs to explain.
There’s plenty of reason to be worried about Tuberville’s gullibility. Before he was a senator, he had been taken in by two separate Ponzi schemes and had ties to a third. He has a history of being a sucker.
And after arriving in Washington, he told Alabama Daily News’ Todd Stacy he planned to use his Senate office for fundraising — a crime under federal law. Whatever Tuberville has done, he’s in over his head. Whatever his involvement in whatever this is, he needs to explain — himself, not through a spokesperson. He needs to tell where he was, who he was with and what they were doing.
And whatever else, he sure as heck shouldn’t participate in the impeachment trial of President Trump. Except, maybe, as a witness. Kyle Whitmire is the state political columnist for the Alabama Media Group.
You can follow his work on his Facebook page, The War on Dumb. And on Twitter. And on Instagram.

Many of Donald Trump’s most dogmatic supporters see a mass protest in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021—as their last chance to disrupt President-elect Joe Biden’s win. But for the president himself, it’s just another day to complain.
Two people familiar with the matter say that in recent days, Trump has told advisers and close associates that he wants to keep fighting in court past Jan. 6 if members of Congress, as expected, end up certifying the electoral college results. “The way he sees it is: Why should I ever let this go?… How would that benefit me?” said one of the sources, who’s spoken to Trump at length about the post-election activities to nullify his Democratic opponent’s decisive victory.
The president’s exact plans for the Jan. 6 events remain unclear, and it has been common for him to lend his support to these rallies or protests via enthusiastic-sounding tweets, only to then stop short of doing much else. Since last week, Trump has asked certain aides and allies what they think would be good ideas for him to mark the occasion, such as a speech, a flyover, or a recorded video, the sources said. The day should not lack for drama. Several House Republicans, as well as Sen. Josh Hawley (R-MO), have signed on to a quixotic, destined-to-fail effort to object to the certification of the electoral college’s results.
Wednesday’s rally-goers want to pressure more Republicans to join the effort—or even, quite literally, block Democrats from reaching Congress. On the day itself, protesters plan to meet in the northeast corner of the Capitol complex, where they’ll hear from a list of speakers that includes Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Trump adviser Roger Stone, and Rep-elect Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA), who has supported the QAnon conspiracy theory. Trump has promoted the protest on Twitter, urging his supporters to attend. “Be there, will be wild!”
Trump tweeted on Dec. 19. The White House, the president’s legal team, and Trump campaign spokespeople did not provide comment for this story.
But among Trump’s most devoted followers the idea that he would continue fighting on, even after the 6th, is a no-brainer. For Lindell, the push to overturn the election results is not just a matter of politics but of religion as well. While others have not spoken in such theological tones, they have shown no less vigor in encouraging Trump’s challenge of the results.
In an appearance on an online talk show, former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn predicted that millions of people would show up on Jan. 6. That prediction seems destined to badly overestimate the actual number of attendees, after an earlier November rally in Washington protesting Trump’s election defeat drew, at best, tens of thousands of people to Washington.
The Jan. 6 rally comes after two earlier Washington protests in November and December failed to save the election for Trump or stop his campaign’s nearly perfect record of courtroom defeats. But the protesters’ mood ahead of the Jan. 6 protest has turned even more desperate. Trump diehards from across the country have organized their travel to Washington on “The Donald” forum.
One of the hottest topics on the site is how protesters can bring guns to D.C., which would count as a local crime in nearly all circumstances under Washington’s strict gun laws. Others have talked about breaking into federal buildings or committing violence against law enforcement officers who try to stop them from storming Congress. Both the November and December rallies in Washington saw violence, especially after nightfall. And that seems likely to be the case this coming rally too.
Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio claimed in a post on conservative social media network Parler that some Proud Boys would dress in black to disguise themselves as left-wing “antifa” protesters. “Watch out, January 6 — you ain’t gonna know who the fuck it is standing beside you,” prominent Proud Boy Joe Biggs said in a video posted to Parler.
Rally supporters did, however, suffer a setback on Monday when the Hotel Harrington, a budget hotel in the nation’s capital, revealed that it would be closed during the protest. The hotel and its bar, Harry’s, have become hubs for MAGA activity in the city, even after the bar was fined for violating COVID-19 restrictions after being packed with Trump supporters. But both the hotel and the bar announced plans to close around the rally, a few weeks after four people were stabbed near the bar after a Dec. 12 pro-Trump event. In response, Trump supporters fumed online and came up with unorthodox plans to find other sleeping arrangements, claiming they would instead camp in parks around the city despite the wintry weather.

The FBI has received information indicating “armed protests” are being planned at all 50 state capitols and the US Capitol in Washington, DC in the days leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20, according to an internal bulletin obtained by CNN. The news comes as security measures are being stepped up ahead of Inauguration Day, with federal, state and local law enforcement agencies preparing for the possibility of more violence after rioters stormed the US Capitol last week leaving five people dead, including a Capitol Police officer. Even as federal investigators continue to track down suspects from last week’s attack, the bulletin highlights concerns that the US Capitol siege was perhaps just the beginning of potentially violent actions from supporters of President Donald Trump who have been animated by his lies about a stolen election. “Armed protests are being planned at all 50 state capitols from 16 January through at least 20 January, and at the US Capitol from 17 January through 20 January,” the FBI bulletin states.
It also suggests there are threats of an “uprising” if Trump is removed via the 25th Amendment before Inauguration Day. “On 8 January, the FBI received information on an identified group calling for others to join them in ‘storming’ state, local and federal government courthouses and administrative buildings in the event POTUS is removed as President prior to Inauguration Day. This identified group is also planning to ‘storm’ government offices including in the District of Columbia and in every state, regardless of whether the states certified electoral votes for Biden or Trump, on 20 January,” the bulletin adds. ABC News was first to report the FBI bulletin.
The government, meanwhile, held Continuity of Government Operations – a standard practice in the event that someone tries to disrupt the transition that took on new urgency in light of threats surrounding this year’s inauguration. According to a senior administration official, the interagency rehearsal aimed to ensure a seamless chain of command in the event of a national emergency in the days leading up to the inauguration and on that day itself. Monday’s rehearsal focused heavily on “readiness in the event that somebody tries to disrupt or stop the inauguration,” the official said. The calls for new protests in Washington and states across the country have law enforcement and local officials bracing for more possible violence in the coming days. Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser on Monday urged Americans to avoid the city during Biden’s inauguration next week and to participate virtually following last week’s deadly domestic terror attack on the US Capitol. “Trumpism won’t die on January 20,” said Bowser, who has asked Trump and acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf to declare a pre-disaster declaration for DC. The White House said in a statement Monday night that Trump approved the emergency declaration requested by Bowser. The mayor had told CBS’ “Face the Nation” on Sunday that she will also ask the Department of Homeland Security to begin a “national special security event” timeline sooner than planned, as well as include the US Capitol in their coverage area for the inauguration.
Security preparations were further complicated when Wolf, one of the key figures coordinating the effort, resigned on Monday. In one of his last acts, Wolf said Monday that he had instructed the US Secret Service to begin the National Special Security Event operations for Biden’s Inauguration on Wednesday, instead of January 19, the day before Biden is set to be inaugurated.
“In light of events of the past week and the evolving security landscape leading up to the inauguration and at the recommendation of Secret Service Director James Murray, I have instructed the U.S. Secret Service to begin the National Special Security Event operations for the 2021 Inauguration effective Wednesday, January 13th instead of January 19th,” Wolf said in a statement. “Our federal, state, and local partners will continue to coordinate their plans and position resources for this important event,” he added. A Department of Homeland Security official told CNN that the breach of the Capitol will sharpen the response and planning for inauguration. Additional security personnel are expected to arrive in Washington to help with the inauguration, CNN has learned. Law enforcement agencies in Virginia, Maryland and New Jersey that deployed to the US Capitol Wednesday to assist propel pro-Trump rioters expect to send officers to Washington, DC, for the inauguration.
The New York Police Department will also be sending 200 officers to Washington to assist with the effort, according to Detective Christopher Pisano, a spokesperson. The National Guard has plans to have up to 15,000 National Guard troops to meet current and future requests for the inauguration, Gen. Daniel Hokanson, the chief of the National Guard Bureau, said Monday.
The dramatic increase in troops comes as law enforcement in the nation’s capital and around the country brace for further extremist violence amid the transition of power. Law enforcement agencies are also ramping up security at the state level in preparation for potentially violent demonstrations leading up to Biden’s inauguration. Shanon Banner, spokesperson for Michigan State Police, said they are aware of the march on state capitols that is being promoted online, and they will continue watching for security threats.
The Michigan State Capitol Commission on Monday also banned the open carry of firearms inside the state’s Capitol building, effective immediately. The policy change only affects public areas inside the building and does not change policy on the Capitol grounds, nor does it prohibit licensed concealed pistol carry that follows state laws, according to the commission policy. Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, citing armed protests at the Michigan state Capitol building in April and the recent violence at the US Capitol, said the commission should recognize the need for a ban on all weapons. This story has been updated with additional developments Monday.

Federal authorities are warning state and local law enforcement about threats of possible violence by right-wing extremists at a series of protests planned for later this month in Washington and in state capitols, according to an FBI document obtained by Yahoo News. The situational information report, produced by the Minneapolis field office of the FBI, is based on information provided by what it describes as “collaborative sources,” and was issued the week before a mob of Trump supporters violently stormed the U.S. Capitol.
It addresses concerns about rallies that the far-right boogaloo movement plans to hold in cities across the country on Jan. 17. The Dec. 29, 2020, report warns that “some followers indicated willingness to commit violence in support of their ideology, created contingency plans in the event violence occurred at the events, and identified law enforcement security measures and possible countermeasures.” Specifically, the report describes evidence of credible threats related to events planned for Jan. 17 at the state Capitol buildings in Michigan and Minnesota.
Those rallies are part of what members of the violent far-right and libertarian boogaloo movement are hoping will be a nationwide “armed march” on Capitol Hill and all 50 state capitols next Sunday. Though it’s not totally clear how many people are expected to participate in the boogaloo-backed protests, the Jan. 17 events appear to be the next major organizing effort by extremist groups following the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, which left five people dead, including a U.S. Capitol Police officer.
The FBI’s warnings about possible violence at Jan. 17 protests carry new weight in light of the apparent failures by federal law enforcement to adequately prepare for the violence in Washington last week. The FBI and an intelligence unit within the Department of Homeland Security did not issue a threat assessment for the Jan. 6 protest, despite an abundance of evidence on social media in the weeks leading up to it showing that pro-Trump rioters planned to storm the Capitol, according to the Wall Street Journal.
ABC News also reported Monday that the FBI has issued an internal bulletin about plans for armed protests at the U.S. capitol and in all 50 states starting this week and lasting through Inauguration Day. According to ABC News, the bulletin also described information the FBI has received about “an identified armed group intending to travel to Washington, D.C.” and calling for the “storming” of various state, local and federal buildings if President Trump is removed from office before Jan. 20. Public affairs officers for the FBI’s Minneapolis field office and the FBI’s national headquarters did not respond to multiple requests for comment, nor did a spokesperson for the U.S. Capitol Police.
At a press conference on Monday, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser outlined several requests she said she’s made to federal agencies regarding additional security measures in light of last week’s attack on the Capitol and additional threats ahead of the inauguration. Bowser said that over the weekend she sent a letter to acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf asking to extend the national security event period for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration to run from Monday, Jan. 11 through Sunday, Jan. 24. She said she also asked the acting attorney general to direct the FBI to provide daily intelligence and threat briefings during that time period, and she called on the secretary of the Interior to deny applications for public gathering permits between now and Jan. 24 and cancel any existing public gathering permits that have already been issued for that time period. On Monday afternoon, acting DHS Secretary Wolf announced that he instructed the U.S. Secret Service to begin the National Special Security Event operations for the 2021 Inauguration effective Wednesday, Jan. 13, instead of Jan. 19. Over the last two years, the term “boogaloo” has evolved from a fringe internet joke referring to a second civil war to an extremist rallying cry that has been linked to a growing number of violent incidents and plots.
Though the term has also been appropriated by some “accelerationist” factions of the white supremacist movement, it is most closely associated with a disparate network of antigovernment extremists and paramilitary groups united by a fervent opposition to gun control and desire to bring about the violent overthrow of what they view to be a tyrannical government. “Boogaloo movement supporters believe an impending insurgency against the government is forthcoming and some believe they should accelerate the timeline with armed, anti-government actions leading to a civil war,” said the December FBI alert.
Since the beginning of 2019, proponents of the more accelerationist wing of the boogaloo movement have seized on moments of civil unrest as an opportunity to incite violence and fuel chaos. Often heavily armed and sporting Hawaiian shirts and igloo patches, so-called boogaloo bois have been easily spotted at gun rights rallies, protests against lockdown measures aimed at stopping the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, and the nationwide demonstrations against police brutality and racial injustice sparked by the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis in May of last year.
A number of them have also been arrested for violent acts or plots related to those protests, including an Air Force sergeant who was charged with fatally shooting a Santa Cruz County, Calif., deputy and a federal security officer during a protest in Oakland over Floyd’s death, and three men who were arrested in June for allegedly plotting to use firebombs and explosives to incite riots at a Black Lives Matter protest in Las Vegas. The antigovernment militia members arrested in October for allegedly plotting to kidnap Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer are also believed to have been tied to the boogaloo movement.
Recently, members of the boogaloo movement have begun organizing their own events. Jared Holt, a visiting research fellow with the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab, through which he tracks extremist online activity, said he started seeing chatter in late November about a nationwide pro-gun rally in the boogaloo forums he monitors.
Around the middle of December, Holt said that boogaloo organizers seemed to be trying to generate interest in the Jan. 17 protests from Trump supporters and other far-right groups by using hashtags like #StoptheSteal to promote the events on platforms like Parler. This effort has only escalated since the attack on the Capitol.
“This is a boogaloo-movement-organized call to arms that’s been spreading with increasing velocity outside of its usual communities,” said Holt, noting that he’s recently observed fliers for the Jan. 17 rallies circulating among many militia groups online, as well as “some run-of-the-mill Trump-supporting groups” and others protesting coronavirus lockdown measures. Still, while the events certainly appear to have caught the attention of broader extremist movements, Holt noted that, so far, he and his colleagues have not seen the same kind of logistical planning for the Jan. 17 rallies, such as discussions about transportation and hotel accommodations, that raised red flags ahead of the pro-Trump gathering in Washington on Jan. 6. “I definitely think that if it continues the way that we’ve been seeing, it could potentially and very quickly become an active threat,” said Holt.
Heidi Beirich, co-founder of the Global Project Against Hate and Extremism and the former longtime director of the Southern Poverty Law Center’s Intelligence Project, said she was encouraged to hear about the alert from the FBI’s Minneapolis division in light of the apparent failure by federal law enforcement to prepare for the violence that took place at the Capitol. The fact that followers of the boogaloo movement are involved in the upcoming Jan. 17 rallies “is scary,” Beirich said. Jana Winter contributed reporting to this story.

WASHINGTON (AP) — The FBI is warning of plans for armed protests at all 50 state capitals and in Washington, D.C., in the days leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration, stoking fears of more bloodshed after last week’s deadly siege at the U.S. Capitol.
An internal FBI bulletin warned, as of Sunday, that the nationwide protests may start later this week and extend through Biden’s Jan. 20 inauguration, according to two law enforcement officials who read details of the memo to The Associated Press. Investigators believe some of the people are members of extremist groups, the officials said. The bulletin was first reported by ABC.
“Armed protests are being planned at all 50 state capitols from 16 January through at least 20 January, and at the U.S. Capitol from 17 January through 20 January,” the bulletin said, according to one official. The officials were not authorized to speak publicly and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.
The FBI issued at least one other bulletin — they go out to law enforcement nationwide on the topic — before the riots last week. On Dec. 29, it warned of the potential for armed demonstrators targeting legislatures, the second official said. “We’re keeping a look across the entire country to make sure that we’re monitoring, and that our Guards in every state are in close coordination with their local law enforcement agencies to provide any support requested,” he said.
The riots followed weeks of online calls for violence in the nation’s capital in the waning days of Donald Trump’s presidency. There have been several arrests, and at least two Capitol police officers, one who took a selfie with rioters, and another who put on a Make
America Great Again hat, were suspended. At least a dozen more are under investigation, according to lawmakers.
A tweet in which Trump promised that last Wednesday’s event in Washington, D.C., “will be wild” fueled a “month-long frenzy of incitements, strategizing, and embrace of violence against lawmakers,” according to a research group that tracks online extremism activity, In a report issued Saturday, the SITE Intelligence Group also warned that the Capitol attack has emboldened Trump-supporting extremists. “No matter how all this plays out, its only the beginning,” posted a user on TheDonald message board, according to the report.
Mark Pitcavage, a senior research fellow at the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism, said authorities in state capitals and other major cities besides Washington should prepare for the possibility of violent protests next week. The talk of armed marches next week isn’t limited to “radicalized” Trump supporters.
State capital events on Jan. 17 appear to be promoted by supporters of the anti-government, pro-gun “boogaloo” movement. Boogaloo followers advocate for a second civil war or the collapse of society, and they don’t adhere to a coherent political philosophy.
Posts on social media sites also have promoted a “Million Militia March” on the day of Biden’s inauguration. Pitcavage said the event, apparently organized by a promoter of the pro-Trump “QAnon” conspiracy theory, appears unlikely to draw a massive crowd. David Deitch, an attorney who was a prosecutor in the Justice Department’s counterterrorism section from 2003 to 2007, said law enforcement must recognize a “tenuous balance” between protected free speech and speech that intends to incites violence.
Kunzelman reported from College Park, Maryland. Associated Press writer Matthew Daly contributed to this report.

WASHINGTON — FBI agents are scouring more than 100,000 digital media files, and federal prosecutors have spent hours presenting felony cases to a Washington grand jury, as they seek to bring to justice those who committed crimes in the riot at the Capitol, authorities said Tuesday.
In a briefing with reporters, Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, and Steven D'Antuono, head of the FBI's Washington field office, discussed the sprawling criminal investigation designed to catch those who broke the law, but said little about the intelligence and security failures that allowed the Capitol to be overrun. They said that the FBI had opened 160 case files, and that "this is only the beginning," as Sherwin put it, outlining a large number of serious crimes that carry decadeslong prison terms. The FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms are investigating, for example, who put two pipe bombs outside the Capitol with timers and detonators.
Sherwin said the diversity of criminal conduct being examined is "mind blowing," including trespassing, theft of mail, and assaults on officers to theft of national security information, civil rights crimes and felony murder. He said he formed a strike force of prosecutors who are focusing only on the organizers and the most heinous crimes, and another to focus on assaults on the media. "People are going to be shocked" at the sum total of the charges, he said.
D'Antuono, who told reporters Friday that the FBI had no intelligence suggesting violence was brewing before Jan. 6, reversed himself and acknowledged that the bureau did, in fact, have some intelligence. The bureau identified extremists who intended to travel to Washington and sought to stop them, he said, confirming a story first reported Sunday by NBC News. He said information about possible violence, gleaned from social media and human sources, was shared through a group known as the Joint Terrorism Task Force, which includes the Metropolitan (D.C.) Police and Capitol Police. But a senior FBI official confirmed that the bureau did not issue a Joint Intelligence Bulletin, a formal report describing threat information that circulates to local law enforcement agencies.

Lawmakers and congressional staffers are demanding answers about how a federal complex in the nation’s capital with its own police force was overrun in broad daylight, leading to four deaths and dozens of injuries. But it’s not only the physical security of members, staff and other employees that was endangered by the breach — congressional offices were ransacked, and at least one laptop, belonging to Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), was stolen, Merkley said.
Rioters were photographed sitting at a staffer’s desk in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office and removing a piece of Pelosi’s mail from the building. “We have to do a full review of what was taken, or copied, or even left behind in terms of bugs and listening devices, etc.,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.), raising the possibility that foreign adversaries could have easily infiltrated the crowd that encircled the Capitol.
The House Chief Administrative Office said in a memo to staff on Thursday evening that “at this time, there have been no indications that the House network was compromised,” noting that the office issued commands on Wednesday to lock computers and laptops and shut down wired network access amid the protests. Classified national security information, moreover, is supposed to be secured in Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities in the capitol, which were not breached during the attack, congressional aides said. But questions remain about whether the attackers were able to remove any physical documents containing personal identifying information, legislative strategy or sensitive logistical details.
The failures of the Capitol Police, which prompted House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to request the police chief’s resignation on Thursday, and the risk that lawmakers might again be targeted makes it all the more urgent that officials get fully apprised what sensitive information — about members’ schedules, for example, or inauguration plans — was stolen, lawmakers said. Gallego is one of dozens of lawmakers, staffers, capitol employees and journalists who were on the Hill on Wednesday when Capitol Police officers — a 2,000-person police force who were mostly in regular uniforms rather than riot gear — were swarmed by thousands of Trump supporters who had marched to the Capitol at the president’s urging to protest the results of the 2020 election.
Standing between the mob and the Capitol building — where lawmakers had assembled that morning to officially count the electoral votes for Biden and ultimately declare him the president-elect — were short, fairly lightweight barriers with “Area Closed” signs that protesters were seen simply ripping off before they charged the fences and the officers standing behind them. Just over 100 people were arrested throughout the day, and dozens of Capitol Police and D.C. Metro Police officers were injured, law enforcement officials said on Thursday.
But Capitol Police are now facing a reckoning after appearing to feed the rioters’ perception that they would not be severely punished for their behavior, as one congressional staffer said — videos have circulated online appearing to show a Capitol police officer taking selfies with the protesters, and some Metro D.C. police officers were seen chatting and joking around with protesters who had breached the perimeter. “The fact is that it’s explicitly because they were white dudes with the support of the president that law enforcement basically did nothing,” the staffer said.
One current Metro D.C. police officer said in a public Facebook post that off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the rioters, flashed their badges and I.D. cards as they attempted to overrun the building. “If these people can storm the Capitol building with no regard to punishment, you have to wonder how much they abuse their powers when they put on their uniforms,” the officer wrote. “I agree they would take over the Capitol in minutes,” said another Democratic lawmaker when asked whether, on an average day with even looser security, an even more organized and militarized terrorist group might be able to breach the building.
“Virtually every member is asking how this could happen,” he said. It remains unclear why the police force was not prepared for the protests to escalate, given the repeated and explicit threats by many of Trump’s supporters — as recently as Tuesday night — that they were prepared to use force if necessary to enter the Capitol. Olivia Beavers and Heather Caygle contributed reporting.

Several pro-Trump protests are being organized on Wednesday, January 6, 2021, in Washington, D.C. to express rejection of the November 2020 election results and to pressure Congress to not certify President-Elect Joe Biden’s electoral victory. These events—which are being timed to coincide with a joint session of Congress where Electoral College votes will be formally counted—have been encouraged by President Trump in multiple inflammatory tweets urging his supporters to show up in D.C.
Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio was arrested on Monday, January 4, 2021 "on suspicion of burning a Black Lives Matter banner torn from a historic Black church in Washington," according to the New York Times. Tarrio, who was taken into custody shortly after arriving at Washington National airport, announced in late December that he planned to attend January's pro-Trump rallies in Washington.
He is expected to be charged with a misdemeanor destruction of property charge for his alleged role in the December 12, 2020 arson, per news reports, and may be released as soon as Monday evening. Tarrio was also charged with two accounts of possession of high-capacity firearm magazines, which were allegedly discovered during the arrest, according to police and the Washington Post.
This collection of protests on January 6 will be the latest major pro-Trump events in D.C. since the election on November 3. Some of the previous protests, including at the November 14 “Million MAGA March” in DC and at rallies on December 12, featured extremists in attendance and violence.
Those included incidents in which black churches were vandalized, individuals were assaulted and a degree of chaos ensued. Various organizers have filed for at least four permits related to the January 6 rallies.
These include a Capitol lawn “Stop the Steal/Wild Protest” organized by right-wing provocateur Ali Alexander, a “Trump March” at Freedom Plaza organized by Women for America First, a march led by James Epley of South Carolina from the Mall to the Capitol lawn and a “MAGA Wild” rally organized by the Eighty Percent Coalition, a reference to a November Gallup poll that found that more than 80% of Republicans do not trust the election results. A fifth event, “Operation Occupy the Capitol” is being promoted on social media, but it is not clear who is promoting the event.
Meanwhile, conspiracies about "antifa" activity at the D.C. rally are spreading on social media. These include accusations that antifa plans to infiltrate the ranks of the attendees, as well as allegations that antifa is preparing to intercept “Patriot” convoys heading to D.C. and plan to attack attendees at Metro stations.
Photos of construction materials are also being shared, accompanied by the theory that antifa has planted them to use against rally attendees. The rising anti-police sentiment on the far right is also evident in the form of conspiracies alleging that police are "escorting" antifa into D.C.
A range of extremist individuals and groups have promoted the events, and some have announced that they will attend, including agitators such as white supremacist and Groyper Army leader Nicholas Fuentes and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, who announced on January 2 that he will attend the "Rally to Save America" at noon on Tuesday, January 5, in Washington, D.C.'s Freedom Plaza. The event will also feature longtime Trump ally Roger Stone.
Clashes between attendees and counter-protesters are possible, especially because the Proud Boys may attend the rallies. Many extremist and mainstream Trump supporters are framing the rallies as a last stand to prevent Biden from being sworn in as the next President, and some chatter indicates that there is a desire to engage in radical and sometimes violent tactics to ensure that the election is not stolen from President Trump. For instance, “Stop the Steal/Wild Protest” organizer Ali Alexander warned in video posted on Twitter on December 27, 2020 that if President Trump tells people not to leave D.C. then he will not leave and he will have truckers sit on the bridges so that no one else can get out.
Oath Keepers announced on January 4 that they will have multiple volunteer "security" teams in Washington D.C. on January 5 and 6, 2021. The organization says their members, who may be "undercover" and not identifiable as Oath Keepers, will provide security for speakers, event attendees and Trump supporters as they walk across the city. Protesters who can't travel to Washington have been encouraged to gather at smaller, pro-Trump rallies scheduled for January 5 and 6 in state capitals across the country.
A few of the capitals mentioned: Indianapolis, Indiana, Sacramento, California, Lansing, Michigan and Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, where former U.S. Rep Matt Shea is scheduled to speak on January 5. At this time, ADL is not aware of any credible threats of acts of violence that are slated to occur at the January 6 protests.
However, if the past is any indication, the combination of an extremist presence at the rallies and the heated nature of the rhetoric suggests that violence is a possibility. A member of the white supremacist and antisemitic New Jersey European Heritage Association, forwarded an article on Telegram about President Trump calling for a protest on January 6 with the caption: “Trump calls for protest in DC on Jan 6., says ‘be there, will be wild.’” Members of his group attended both previous events.
Vincent James Foxx, who runs the media entity The Red Elephants which promotes conspiracy theories, anti-Semitic beliefs and white supremacist mantras, shared an advertisement for the protest on Parler. Members of America First and the groyper Army—including its leader, white supremacist Nicholas Fuentes—have said that they will be at the rally.
Many groypers hold racist and antisemitic views. Fuentes, who holds white supremacist views (but claims not to be a white supremacist), positions the groypers as “Christian conservatives” who oppose immigration (undocumented and legal), globalism, gay and transgender rights, feminism and more. This, however, is a ploy to attract mainstream support and distract from the group’s fundamentally white supremacist ideology.
On several websites frequented by members of the militia movement, supporters—including Three Percenters and Oath Keepers—have said that they are making plans to attend the D.C. rallies both on their own and in groups. Members of the militia movement garnered attention over the spring and summer for carrying firearms at public rallies (even at times when it was illegal to do so) and attempting to occupy a government building in Michigan. Although it is too early to say definitively what will happen, the consensus appears to be that these groups will adhere to D.C.’s strict laws limiting who can carry. However, some members already have talked about bringing baseball bats.

In a day filled with shocking images, one of the most startling was a mob of President Trump's supporters surging into the U.S. Capitol with relative ease.
Armed with pro-Trump banners, the rioters far outnumbered and swiftly overwhelmed the U.S. Capitol Police as they charged up the steps, smashed windows, broke into the Senate chamber and occupied offices, including the one belonging to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Police needed hours to drive them out, and the toll was substantial.
According to police, four people died, including one woman shot dead by Capitol Police, and three who died on the Capitol grounds from unspecified "medical emergencies." More than 60 people were arrested, at least 50 police were injured, and officers confiscated guns, pipe bombs and Molotov cocktails.
Violence was considered a distinct possibility. This was the third major rally in recent weeks to support President Trump's fictional claim that the presidential election was rigged. The most recent one in December included fights in the streets, with several people stabbed.
Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser announced Tuesday that the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department would be the lead agency and would coordinate with the Capitol Police, the U.S. Park Police and the U.S. Secret Service. "To be clear, the District of Columbia is not requesting other federal law enforcement personnel and discourages any additional deployment without immediate notification to, and consultation with, MPD if such plans are underway," Bowser wrote in a letter to the Justice Department earlier this week.
Bowser requested, and received, a limited force from the D.C. National Guard. They numbered 340, though they were unarmed and their job was to help with traffic flow — not law enforcement — which was to be handled by D.C. police.
But as the mob left Trump's rally near the White House and soon reached the western side of the Capitol, it quickly became clear that there wasn't a sufficient security presence to stop them. "We see this huge crush of people coming down Pennsylvania Ave. toward the Capitol," said NPR's Hannah Allam, who covered the riot.
In a video taken inside the Capitol, a lone policeman tries to hold back the mob with a baton. But he eventually retreats up the stairs until he finds additional colleagues, though they still remain outnumbered.
Bowser's approach to security was clearly influenced by events last summer when demonstrators took to the streets near the White House to protest the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis and other police abuses. At the time, President Trump called for a strong show of force, including active-duty military personnel deployed on the streets of the nation's capital.
While Pentagon officials eventually talked Trump out of that demand, federal security forces were called in, including guards from the U.S. Bureau of Prisons who did not wear identifying name tags. The response was widely seen as heavy handed, and included security forces driving out peaceful protesters to clear the way for a photo-op Trump wanted at a church near the White House.
Bowser wanted to avoid a similar scenario this time, particularly by federal forces that do not answer to the D.C. government. The full contingent of the D.C. National Guard, about 1,100 strong, was not mobilized until after the immediate crisis had passed on Wednesday evening. They are being joined by 6,200 Guard members and other law enforcement personnel from Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and New York.
D.C. is known for its fiefdoms of law enforcement agencies, and that was reflected in the four agencies involved in security on Wednesday. The MPD has jurisdiction on city streets; the Park Police on the Ellipse, where Trump's rally took place; the Secret Service in the vicinity of the White House; and the Capitol Police on the Capitol complex. Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who helps oversee the D.C. National Guard, said there were multiple meetings with Capitol Police before Wednesday's rally, and that police force did not request any additional help.
Bowser imposed an overnight curfew and has declared a public emergency that extends for 15 days, through Joe Biden's presidential inauguration on Jan. 20. Due to the pandemic, the gathering at Biden's inauguration will be quite small and therefore place fewer demands on security personnel.
Still, security officials are expected to err on the side of too much, rather than too little, security over the next two weeks. Meanwhile, some in Congress are demanding an accounting of what took place Wednesday. When the Senate resumed its session on Wednesday evening, New Jersey Democratic Sen. Cory Booker observed that the last time the Capitol had come under such an attack was when British forces set it on fire in 1814. Greg Myre is an NPR national security correspondent. Follow him @gregmyre1.

This story was published at 10:33 a.m. Wednesday, prior to the storming of the Capitol by insurrectionists.
There are protests throughout downtown Wednesday in the District as Congress votes to certify the Electoral College vote. Tens of thousands of protesters lined up early Wednesday morning to attend the first of many protests in support of outgoing President Donald Trump, lining up to attend the “March for Trump” on the Ellipse well before the event was scheduled to open at 7 a.m. Congress meets Wednesday to certify the Electoral College vote, which was 306-232 in favor of Biden.
Supporters have refered to the vote as “fraudulant”; the website for the event argues that “Democrats are scheming to disenfranchise and nullify Republican votes.” There is no evidence for these claims, and multiple Republican challenges to election results in court have been dismissed.
According to freedomrally2021, a website providing a “MAGA Rally Map Guide” and info on events this week, at least four events will be held in DC Wednesday. The “March for Trump” is the main one, centered on the Ellipse and the National Mall, with tens of thousands of people already attending by 9 a.m. Trump is supposed to speak at 11 a.m.
Three additional protests are centered on the Capital. The “Wild Protest” and “Freedom Rally” are both set to begin at 10 a.m.
A third, the “Jericho March” will proceed around the capitol starting at 11:45. Moms for America will meet across from the Supreme Court Building at 1 p.m. for a “Save the Republic Rally” with members of Congress as speakers on the agenda. At 2 p.m. near the east lawn of the Capital, Virginia Women for Trump will hold a “One Nation Under God” rally that is supposed to feature Roger Stone.
On the other side of the Mall, at 3 p.m., “Prayer Walk DC” will meet at the Lincoln Memorial to pray and then walk around the reflecting pool. Mayor Muriel Bowser, members of DC Council and Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) officials urged residents not to counterprotest and to avoid downtown DC Wednesday. Bowser called on the DC National Guard to support MPD officers during the protests, but their, Commander Major General William J. Walker, told NBC that guardsmen would be unarmed, largely providing crowd-control services and freeing officers up for law enforcement roles. While there were rumors that protesters might congregate at Lincoln Park, it was quiet as of 9:30 a.m.

On Tuesday, as thousands packed Freedom Plaza for multiple pro-Trump rallies planned in the District this week, members of the mayor’s office confirmed police already arrested six individuals on charges that include bringing illegal guns to the city. The District’s leaders spent the day on Monday warning the public it is illegal to have firearms within 1,000 ft. of a First Amendment demonstration.
The warnings came as D.C.’s new Police Chief Robert Contee told reporters they have knowledge some were planning to come armed as election demonstrations take place throughout the Downtown area. As of 10 p.m. Tuesday, District leaders say the six arrested were charged for offenses that include: carrying a pistol and carrying a rifle without a license, possessing a high capacity feeding device, carrying unregistered ammunition, an unregistered firearm, driving an unauthorized van without a permit, simple assault, possession of a prohibited weapon (taser) and possessing illegal fireworks.
The city’s mayor, police chief and other emergency management partners announced an all-hands on deck approach to this week’s pro-Trump rallies, which are planned to protest Congress’ Wednesday vote to certify Electoral votes for President-elect Joe Biden. That preparation also came with criticism of DC Mayor Muriel Bowser from Trump-supporters and newly elected Congresswoman Lauren Boebert, for activating the National Guard ahead of this week’s protests.
"...Where was the National Guard when ANTIFA and BLM terrorized the streets all summer?" wrote in part of a tweet. Over the summer, D.C. saw a massive, peaceful George Floyd protest on May 30th.
By the evening, however, gatherings erupting into rioting in the Downtown area. There had been rumblings an intense evening might follow. By night, riots erupted.
Mayor Bowser had said then, what struck her was how organized those intent on causing damage were. D.C. officials said some had tools. The next day, on the evening of May 31st, Mayor Bowser shared a tweet announcing that she had activated a curfew and requested the D.C. National Guard.
A spokesperson in the Mayor’s office confirm that request was supposed to last until June 6th. This was for "some" guard members. D.C.
National Guard Spokesperson Senior Master Sgt. Craig Clapper told FOX on the same day, the Secretary of the Army also requested full activation. This was when the President was calling for National Guards across the country to respond. That request took precedence.
That night rioters set fire to the basement of St. John's Episcopal Church. D.C. Police tell FOX 5 they are still investigating that case. June 1st is when federal law enforcement members forcefully cleared the Lafayette Park of peaceful protesters. The President walked out to St. John’s Church for a photo op after.
In both June and now, the D.C. National Guard members called are unarmed, to assist with areas of crowd and traffic control so that police can focus on those looking to cause harm. Also on Tuesday, Mayor Bowser penned a stern letter to the United States Attorney General, Acting Secretary of Defense and Acting Secretary of the Army. "The District of Columbia Government has not requested personnel from any other federal law enforcement agencies," she wrote, calling on the federal leaders to coordinate with and contact D.C. Police immediately if they plan to do so. This is in response to events that happened in June, as the Mayor and President publically battled over who has the authority to mobilize law enforcement in the District. Asking people in the area their thoughts of events in D.C. this week, Patti Hidalgo, a Loudoun County, Virginia mother, told FOX 5 she’s planning to attend with a group on Wednesday.

When FRONTLINE first aired the documentary United States of Conspiracy in July 2020, months before the attack on the U.S. Capitol, President Donald Trump and Alex Jones had already helped weave once-fringe conspiracy theories into the highest levels of American politics. Then came January 6 and a vivid illustration of the consequences of the conspiracies the president and the right-wing conspiracy theorist had been promoting.
The pro-Trump mob that ransacked the Capitol building chanted slogans like, “fight for Trump,” and were spurred on by the conspiracy theory that the 2020 election was stolen from Trump. The unprecedented insurrection left five people dead, including a Capitol Police officer and a woman who was shot by police while participating in the siege.
One person who was later charged with unlawful possession of a destructive device allegedly parked a vehicle with 11 homemade bombs two blocks from the Capitol building. Another who was charged with writing threats was accused of sending texts to acquaintances ahead of time, saying he wanted to run over or shoot House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
Leading up to the attack, carried out while Congress was certifying Joe Biden’s electoral victory, Jones had been at the forefront — along with several other Trump supporters — of amplifying false claims that the election had been rigged and that Trump had actually won. “I don’t know how this is all going to end, but if they want to fight, they better believe they’ve got one,” Jones said that night, according to the same video. Just before the siege, President Trump had incited the crowd, saying, “if you don’t fight like hell you’re not going to have a country anymore,” and said he would be marching with them to the Capitol.
But he never showed up. The relationship between Trump and Jones, brokered by Roger Stone — a political advisor of Trump’s and a frequent guest on InfoWars — goes back to 2015, as detailed in United States of Conspiracy. Jones for years rallied his audience behind Trump and believed himself to be instrumental in getting Trump elected.
Jones’ conspiracy theories have been behind other controversies in the past. An avid follower of Jones and his site InfoWars was sent to prison for stalking the family of a child killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School after Jones claimed the shootings in Newtown, Connecticut, had been staged.
And a man who believed the Pizzagate conspiracy promoted by Jones and others showed up at a restaurant in Washington, D.C., with an assault rifle and opened fire. In the days since the riot, Jones and InfoWars have been claiming antifa was responsible for the violence at the Capitol, despite all of the video and photos of the pro-Trump rioters — and of Jones himself on the scene that day.

A neo-Nazi conspiracist called Baked Alaska.
A rightwing troll formerly known as Ali Akbar. A part-time actor with a horned furry hat who goes by the name QAnon Shaman.
These are some of the Donald Trump supporters who incited and led the storming of the US Capitol on Wednesday. Their pseudonyms and eclectic backgrounds and the chaotic scenes suggested a disorganised rabble but this was an insurrection foretold.
The same far-right activists and groups that have spent the past four years marching, protesting and trolling on behalf of the president came to Washington DC to enact a familiar playbook – except this time on the biggest stage of all. The flags and insignias advertised who they were: the Proud Boys, Oath Keepers, Three Percenters, QAnon, once shadowy groups that now rallied in broad daylight, their assault on democracy performed as public spectacle for a world that watched in horror. Others brandished banners with more recent monikers, such as Stop the Steal, an umbrella term for those who believe Trump won the election and that Joe Biden is a usurper.
Thousands responded, young and old, travelling from across the US to form a river of people in downtown Washington. Many were ordinary people who believe baseless claims about electoral fraud. Others were rightwing social media celebrities and members of quasi-militia groups. Between 2,000 and 2,500 were members of the Proud Boys, according to Enrique Tarrio, a leader of the violent group that has repeatedly clashed with leftwing activists.
Tarrio was arrested on Monday, two days before the riot, for the burning of a Black Lives Matter banner during a pro-Trump rally in Washington last month. While Congress prepared to declare Biden the winner on Wednesday, Trump urged his agitated supporters to march from the White House along the national mall to the Capitol to “save our democracy”. Go “peacefully and patriotically”, he told the crowd. And then mayhem erupted.
A minority of the crowd, perhaps several hundred, brushed past a meagre police presence and stormed into the marbled halls of Congress. Senators and staffers fled while the invaders roamed and ransacked the republic’s inner sanctum. Why security was so feeble and unprepared is unclear – an extraordinary lapse – but there is little mystery about Trump’s raiders.
Since his election in 2016, white supremacists and other militants have staged protests-cum-riots, notably in Michigan, and advertised their activities on social media. Since Trump’s defeat in last November’s election the protests have multiplied and intensified in places such as Oklahoma, Georgia, Arizona, Nevada and Washington state. Some groups planned the Washington DC rally on Facebook.
Others used more freewheeling social media platforms such as Parler and Gab popular with the right. A repurposed quote from the thinker Thomas Sowell foreshadowed what was to come: “If you are not prepared to use force to defend civilisation, then be prepared to accept barbarism.”
Others on the platforms vowed to occupy the Capitol and posted pictures of guns they planned to bring. Before and during the mayhem Gab and Parler were reportedly used to share tips on routes to avoid police, and the best tools to pry open doors.
Some users posted pictures of guns carried into the Capitol. A mob chased a lone black police officer up the stairs.
Others seemed content to take selfies as they roamed the corridors and offices. Anthime “Tim” Gionet, a libertarian-turned neo-Nazi conspiracist better known as Baked Alaska, livestreamed the tumult and occupied the office of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi.
Jake Angeli, an actor and voiceover artist from Arizona who goes by the name QAnon Shaman, cut a surreal sight with a horned hat, a painted face and a bare, tattooed chest. A regular sight at protests, he takes his adopted name from QAnon, a baseless internet conspiracy theory that has festered on the far-right fringe for years and mushroomed during the coronavirus pandemic and Trump’s efforts to overturn the election.
A woman shot and killed by police during the storming of the Capitol was named as Ashli Babbitt, 35, a Trump-supporting air force veteran who had travelled from San Diego. Three other people died from “medical emergencies” during the siege.
Inciting the crowd outside was Ali Alexander, a rightwing troll formerly known as Ali Akbar who is a prominent voice in the Stop the Steal movement. He led chants of “victory or death”.
The US was astonished last May when armed anti-lockdown protesters tried to enter the legislative chamber of Michigan’s state capitol. “These are very good people,” Trump said. Storming a chamber of democracy seemed a shocking breach of political norms, a freak one-off. But it was just a warm-up.

Three of the key advisers who helped engineer Donald Trump's' rise to the presidency in 2016, and who fell from grace under the weight of federal criminal charges, resurfaced during Trump's final days in office to help engineer his ill-fated attempt to cling to power.
Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn all participated in efforts to promote the Jan. 6 "Stop the Steal" event that ultimately devolved into a riotous and deadly melee at the United States Capitol, leaving five dead and causing Trump to become the only president to be impeached for a second time. "And we say, No way!"
Stone said at the Jan. 5 rally. Bannon also played a significant role in promoting the Jan. 6 rally, which was co-organized by "March for Trump," and he previously served as a prominent sponsor of the group's cross-country December bus tour ahead of the rally. Shortly after Trump lost the 2020 election, Bannon's "War Room" podcast was banned from Twitter for suggesting Dr. Anthony Fauci and FBI Director Christopher Wray should be beheaded.
All three men played pivotal roles in Trump's rise to power, only to see their reputations tainted by criminal investigation. Stone was one of Trump's earliest political advisers, working with the real estate mogul long before he ventured into campaign politics. After a brief period working directly for Trump's presidential bid, Stone took on the role of outside adviser, even as he maintained regular contact with Trump.
Stone was later swept into the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 elections, and faced allegations that he helped coordinate the release of hacked documents by WikiLeaks that were meant to damage Trump's opponent, Hillary Clinton. In 2019, Stone was convicted on federal charges of obstruction of justice, lying to Congress and witness tampering, and sentenced to 40 months in prison.
Trump commuted the sentence and ultimately issued Stone a pardon. After leading Trump to victory as a top campaign strategist, Bannon also served in Trump's White House. He left after seven months and, like many top campaign officials, became swept up in the Russian investigation.
He was never charged with wrongdoing in that probe. Last August, though, he was charged in federal court in an unrelated case with defrauding donors to a private fundraising effort called "We Build the Wall," which said it was raising private funds to help expand the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. He pleaded not guilty and is out on bail awaiting trial.
Flynn served briefly as Trump's first national security adviser before he was dismissed for lying about conversations he had with the Russian ambassador. He, too, became a focus of the federal prosecutors and pleaded guilty to lying to investigators. He later recanted before being sentenced, and was also pardoned by Trump.
Trump had invited Flynn and his family to the Jan. 6 rally but the source said they left disgusted at what the confidant said was a pointless gathering on the Ellipse, followed by outrageous political violence on Capitol Hill. All three men resurfaced in Trump's orbit as advisers became increasingly concerned that Trump would lose his bid for reelection to Joe Biden. And as Trump mounted his drive to convince his supporters that he had actually won the 2020 race "in a landslide," all three picked up the messaging and spread it to their followers.
After the election, Stone encouraged protesters to come to Washington to voice objections to the outcome. He was billed as a featured speaker for the Jan. 6 rally that preceded the assault on the U.S. Capitol, but did not appear. Since that day, he has sought to distance himself from the effort, telling ABC News in a statement that he condemned the violence perpetrated on the Capitol by the mob.
In the days after Trump's election loss, Flynn joined forces with Sidney Powell, the attorney who had helped engineer Flynn's decision to recant his earlier guilty plea. The two helped lead Trump's effort to dispute the election defeat, both in court and through a social media blitz that engaged, among others, followers of the conspiracy-driven movement known as QAnon. The two even met with Trump in the Oval Office, not long after Flynn appeared on the conservative network Newsmax to advocate that Trump impose martial law and command the military to "rerun" the election.
At a Dec. 12 rally Flynn falsely told followers "there are paths that are still in play" for Trump to remain in office for a second term. "There's a lot of activity that's still playing out," he said before Trump flew over the crowd in Marine One.
Of the three, Bannon kept the lowest profile in the days after the election. Only in recent days did he surface as someone who appeared to be back in touch with the president about the election, according to Bloomberg News.
Bannon was also helping efforts by 501(c)(4) political nonprofits, so-called dark money groups, to overturn the election results, including the bus tour. In public, Bannon repeatedly used his platform to promote the Jan. 6 rally, hosting rally organizers on his podcast at least 16 times amid the push to overturn the election results.
Bannon did not return a request for comment from ABC News. Two of Bannon's longtime associates also served in key roles on Jan. 6.
Dustin Stockton was one of the lead organizers of the rally, and Jennifer Lawrence ran media relations. Until 2017, Stockton and Lawrence worked as writers at the far-right media outlet Breitbart when Bannon was executive chairman, according to their LinkedIn profiles. The pair most recently worked with Bannon on his crowdfunding campaign "We Build the Wall," which in August 2020 resulted in the federal indictments over allegations of defrauding donors.
Neither Stockton or Lawrence returned ABC News' requests for comment. Stockton served as "We Build the Wall's" vice president of strategy and marketing, according to his LinkedIn and social media posts, while Lawrence was the group's communications director before joining the "March for Trump" group. Stockton and Lawrence were both served warrants for their cellphones, as well as subpoenas to appear before a grand jury, in connection to the "We Build the Wall" group, but neither has been charged, according to CNN.

On January 5, a day before rioters stormed Capitol Hill, George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president, was at a rally in a Washington, DC square.
It was a bitterly cold day, but outgoing President Donald Trump’s supporters patiently waited to listen to him and his former national security adviser Michael Flynn speak. “Who won the election on the 3rd?”
Flynn shouted. “Trump!” the crowd roared back.
Papadopoulos took the stand, relaxed at first but soon riled up. “There are but two parties right now: traitors and patriots. And both are exposing themselves right now.
You should not forget their names,” he shouted to the cheering crowd. “What was the rally about and who organized it?”
I asked him a week later on Skype. “I can’t remember. It was something like the ‘Stop the Steal’ organization.
I don’t know what the name of the event was, but it was a very interesting rally. When I spoke, it was the day before. I wasn’t there for the day after, when then violence happened,” he says.
The former Trump adviser obviously wants to distance himself from the particular group which is being accused of methodically stoking public anger and mobilizing pro-Trump supporters behind the outgoing president’s narrative of election fraud. “Who are the traitors you mentioned?” I ask the 33-year-old political scientist.
“Well, obviously the people who did not want to look at the facts about what might or might not have occurred in the election. And I think that’s actually what instigated a lot of violence,” Papadopoulos answers.
I comment that CNN’s chief correspondent in Washington had used the exact same phrase (which actually belongs to former US president Ulysses S. Grant) about terrorists and traitors being the only two parties now, but was actually referring to Republican voters who continued to argue that the election result was fraudulent, even when such theories have been debunked by numerous courts. I ask whether the rhetoric he used in his speech and, of course, whether Trump’s overall stance had stoked this division and triggered the kind of extreme reactions we saw on Capitol Hill, also mentioning that the president called on the rioters to stand down but only after saying that they’re “very special” and “we love you.”
Papadopoulos rejects the notion and argues that Trump is constantly being misunderstood. Papadopoulos’ relationship with politics – and with Trump – has been tempestuous.
Even though he never made it to the White House, the young and ambitious Greek American did manage – albeit not as he’d hoped – to find himself at the center of the American political scene on several occasions. When he first heard that Trump was running for president in 2015, he remembers telling colleagues at the institute where he was working that he wouldn’t be surprised if he won. With this important feather in his cap, Papadopoulos traveled to Greece and Cyprus, where he arranged a series of meetings that got him as far as the presidential mansions of both countries.
One of his appointments in Athens ended in a Piraeus ouzo restaurant. “Panos was a gregarious, funny man and there was instant chemistry,” he says of Greece’s former defense minister Panos Kammenos.
“Among others, we talked about his objective to have the United States move its nuclear weapons from Incirlik Air Base in Turkey to Souda Bay [on Crete].” During that same visit, he told then-Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias of information he had received suggesting that the Russians had Hillary Clinton’s emails. Indeed, his contacts across Europe in the runup to the 2016 election and his knowledge of Russian involvement had already put Papadopoulos on the radar of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
When Trump was elected in November, his phone started ringing nonstop, among others with a congratulatory call from Greece’s prime minister at the time, Alexis Tsipras. The new president had very few people of his own to take over hundreds of political appointments and the overwhelming feeling in his campaign team was that they could pick a post.
Two days after Trump was inaugurated, however, the FBI knocked on Papadopoulos’ door. The countdown had begun for him, and when he was proved to have lied to investigators probing Russia’s possible interference in the 2016 elections, he was convicted to 14 months in federal prison. Trump seemed to sever all ties with his campaign adviser at the time, but relations appear to have since grown warmer again.
Papadopoulos would not confirm whether he is in communication with the outgoing US president, but he admits to being grateful. “The only thing I would say about the president is if he distanced himself from me initially, that was probably the right move back then.
In fact, he stayed out of my situation until he learned the facts. Then he endorsed my book. Then he began to retweet me and talk about me in a very positive light in interviews. And then he pardoned me.
In the end, I think he did the right thing. And I appreciate it,” says Papadopoulos.

Fight disinformation: Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily newsletter and follow the news that matters.
Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month, was a lead promoter of the election lies that led to the January 6 attack on Congress. Now the self-styled dirty trickster is covering his tracks.
At that event, Stone appeared to be receiving protection from a security detail composed of members of the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia group. And Stone for years has maintained close ties to members of the Proud Boys, whose leaders treat him as a mentor. Members of both groups face criminal charges for their role in the assault on Congress.
Stone did not respond to Mother Jones’ questions about his connections to these outfits and his role in rallies preceding the attack. But elsewhere Stone has insisted that he had nothing to do with the insurrection.
Stone in 2016 publicly bragged that he was in contact with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange and sold himself to Trump’s campaign as an “access point” to the group. When investigations into Russian’s interference took off after Trump’s victory, Stone pivoted.
He claimed that he had exaggerated his role and denied direct contact with WikiLeaks. In a September 2017 interview with the House Intelligence Committee, Stone lied about his efforts, as an informal Trump campaign operative, to contact WikiLeaks and about his communications with Trump and the Trump campaign regarding his interactions WikiLeaks, as prosecutors later showed.
In late 2019, a Washington DC jury convicted Stone of five counts of making false statements of Congress, obstruction of a congressional inquiry, and witness tampering. Stone escaped a 40-month prison term when Trump commuted his sentence in July.
A pardon followed in December. By then, Stone was pushing a new Trump lie: the false claim that Trump was cheated of an electoral victory by fraud in key states.
Prior to the election, Stone, in an interview with conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, urged Trump to invoke martial law if he lost in November. In a way, Stone had been preparing for this moment for years.
In 2016, he launched a nonprofit and website under the name Stop the Steal. The group originally raised money that Stone said he would use to prevent the Republican Party from denying Trump the delegates he needed to secure the GOP presidential nomination at its July 2016 convention.
In 2020, as Trump allies adopted that name for their effort to overturn Joe Biden’s victory, Stone relaunched the site, which began redirecting readers to an article on Stone’s personal webpage arguing Biden had not legitimately won. An employee at a law firm that often does work for Stone set up a new nonprofit, Committee to Stop the Steal, on October 16.
After midnight on Saturday, December 12, as Proud Boys and others right-wing activists gathered in Washington, Stone addressed a large group from the steps of the JW Marriott, calling Trump the election’s rightful winner. “Nothing is over until we say it is,” Stone said. “We will fight until the bitter end for an honest count of the 2020 election.
Never give up. Never quit.
Never surrender and fight for America.” The next day, Trump supporters engaged in a violent rampage in downtown DC.
Stone has also claimed to have personally advised Trump against accepting the election results. In a post on the Parler social media platform that conservatives flocked to late last year, Stone said he had urged Trump in a late December meeting to “appoint a special counsel with full subpoena power to ensure those who are attempting to steal the 2020 election through voter fraud are charged and convicted and to ensure Donald Trump continues as our president.” Trump tried early this month to take such a step, but was rebuffed.
As Trump backers began planning to descend on Washington on January 6, when Congress was set to officially certify Biden’s Electoral College victory, the Stop the Steal site was updated to redirect to a fundraising page. In that post, Stone did urge a “peaceful” protest.
But he baselessly asserted the election was stolen from Trump through “systematic voter fraud and cyber manipulation of the vote.” Stone also falsely stated that George Soros, the financier and philanthropist featured in many far-right conspiracy theories, had funded violent “attacks on our peaceful patriots.” Stone requested contributions “for private security at every one of our events, as well as funds for permits, staging, transportation, and legal fees.”
The solicitation was taken down after the January 6 attack, but is archived by the Wayback Machine. Stone did not respond to inquiries about how much money he raised or how he used the money. In posts on its website, the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia organization composed of current and former military, police, and others announced its members would be providing security in case of any violence targeting pro-Trump demonstrators.”We
Welcome Coordination With Other Patriot Groups,” the organization said in a January 4 post. When Stone spoke to Trump backers at two events on January 5, men in “Oath Keepers” hats and jackets appeared to act as a security detail for him. On Wednesday, federal prosecutors indicted three members of the Oath Keepers with conspiring weeks in advance to assault the Capitol and participating in the riot.
The organization is loosely organized, and there is no evidence the individuals charged were directly connected to Stone’s apparent security detail. On Monday, YouTube said it had removed a video of Stone’s remarks for violating the company’s terms of service.
At that evening rally, Stone also told the audience of Trump loyalists, “I will be with you tomorrow shoulder to shoulder.” That wasn’t true.
On Wednesday afternoon, while Trump backers were rampaging in the Capitol, Stone was headed to Dulles Airport for a flight back to his Florida home. Five people died during that attack.
More than 150 people have so far been charged with crimes related to this insurrectionist raid. And the House impeached Trump for a second time. But Roger Stone, once again, says he did nothing wrong.

The FBI has shared a photo of the person responsible for placing the suspected explosive devices outside the Republican National Committee and Democratic National Committee Wednesday, prior to the U.S. Capitol protests.
At around 1 p.m. on Wednesday, law enforcement agencies received reports of two suspected pipe bombs with wires outside the RNC and DNC headquarters in Washington, D.C. ABC News then obtained an exclusive photo of the suspected explosive device found outside the RNC, which is located just a couple blocks away from the Capitol. "The USCP Hazardous Materials Response Team determined that both devices were, in fact, hazardous and could cause great harm to public safety," police said in statement.
Bomb technicians used water cannons to blast the devices to break them apart and render them harmless just as violent pro-Trump protesters broke though police lines and stormed into the Capitol. The FBI has updated its poster about the suspected D.C. pipe bomber Monday. The new photos show the bomber’s distinctive backpack and shoes.
The Capitol siege left five people -- including one female protester who was shot by law enforcement officers and one police officer -- dead. The FBI is is still seeking information on those involved in the siege, and on Thursday night tweeted photos of some of the pro-MAGA protesters, asking the public for help in identifying them.
ABC News' Jack Date contributed to this report. This report was featured in the Wednesday, Jan. 13, 2020, episode of “Start Here,” ABC News’ daily news podcast. "Start Here" offers a straightforward look at the day's top stories in 20 minutes. Listen for free every weekday on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, the ABC News app or wherever you get your podcasts.

WARNING: This event is streaming live and may contain adult language and footage not suitable for all viewers. Viewer discretion is advised.
A "Save America March" is expected to take place on Wednesday in Washington, D.C, the same day Congress is to meet and certify the Electoral College results for President-elect Joe Biden, the validity of which U.S. President Donald Trump continues to dispute. Hundreds of supporters of Trump descended on the nation’s capital Tuesday to cheer his thus-far baseless claims of election fraud a day before the congressional vote, with police facing violence and making some arrests. The rallies had local officials and law enforcement bracing for potential violent street clashes. Many businesses in downtown Washington boarded up their windows, fearful that the protest could devolve into the unrest seen in May and June when dozens of businesses were vandalized.

WASHINGTON — Thousands of supporters of President Donald Trump braved the cold weather at the Ellipse in Washington, D.C., Wednesday as they sought to show their support for the president and protest the certification of the Electoral College votes for the 2020 presidential election. Trump supporters from across the country waited in line for hours to get into the Save America March, an event hosted by the Women for America First, a pro-Trump group.
The event was one of many taking place on Capitol Hill as the results of the 2020 presidential election continue to be plagued by allegations of fraud. Ahead of the protests, several Republican members of Congress announced that they would object to the certification of the electoral votes in a handful of contested swing states and called for a commission to investigate election irregularities. Immediately following the Save America March and the other protests, violence broke out on Capitol Hill as hundreds of Trump supporters and others stormed the United States Capitol while members of Congress were debating the certification of electoral votes.
Members of the Electoral College met in their respective state capitals on Dec. 14 to certify the results of the 2020 presidential election. Democrat Joe Biden received 306 electoral votes while Trump received 232 electoral votes. Congress is mandated by the 12th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution to count the electoral votes and members of the House and Senate have the ability to challenge results in certain states.
Following the breach of the Capitol, Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and evangelical leaders quickly condemned the acts of violence. The “Save America March,” when it was gathered at the Ellipse, was not violent and had a positive atmosphere, although several attendees had choice words and hand gestures for members of the media. Several attendees of the Save America March spoke with The Christian Post to affirm their support for Trump and share their thoughts about the 2020 election. John Scoggins of Knoxville, Tennessee, and Kelly Edwards of Salt Lake City, Utah, spoke separately to CP, both said that they attended the “stop the steal” rally.
“This country was built on God and it needs to stay on God, and this president is all about doing that … bringing this country back to God,” Rowe added. As attendees anxiously awaited an address from President Donald Trump scheduled for 11 a.m., many other Trump supporters addressed the crowd.
Georgia state Rep. Vernon Jones, a Democrat who has become an outspoken Trump supporter, used his speech to announce that he was “officially joining the Republican Party” as the crowd erupted into cheers and applause. Other speakers at the event included Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Ala., Rep. Madison Cawthorn, R-N.C., Eric Trump, Donald Trump Jr., as well as former New York City mayor and Trump attorney Rudy Giuliani. Like many of the other speakers, Trump stressed the importance of defeating Republicans who refuse to challenge the results of the election: “We have to primary the hell out of the ones that don’t fight.”
He cited Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., as an example of a House Republican he would like to see primaried, specifically highlighting his disagreements with her view on foreign policy. Trump also discussed his displeasure with Gov. Brian Kemp, R-Ga., and the elected officials in Georgia who signed a consent decree spearheaded by liberal activist Stacey Abrams that loosened signature requirements for mail-in ballots. “She took them to lunch,” Trump noted, as he recalled how he helped Kemp beat Abrams in the 2018 gubernatorial election by endorsing him in the Republican primary and the general election.
Additionally, the president directed a message at Vice President Mike Pence: “I hope you’re going to stand up for the good of our Constitution and of our country. And if you’re not, I’m going to be very disappointed in you.”
As president of the Senate, Pence presides over the counting of Electoral College votes in a largely ceremonial role. “Despite all that’s happened, the best is yet come,” he continued, as the crowd erupted into cheers and applause.
Should Republicans’ efforts to challenge the electoral votes in certain swing states succeed, an event that seems unlikely given the makeup of the 117th Congress and several Republicans expressing unease about challenging the election results, Biden’s electoral vote total would drop below 270, leading the House of Representatives to pick the president. Under this scenario, each state gets one vote regardless of size and since Republicans control a majority of state delegations, Trump would presumably win.

Many are calling for the firing of a Chapman University law professor after he spoke out at a pro-Trump rally in Washington, D.C., just hours before the deadly siege on the Capitol. ORANGE, Calif. (KABC) --
Many are calling for the firing of a Chapman University law professor after he spoke out at a pro-Trump rally in Washington, D.C., just hours before the deadly siege on the Capitol. John Eastman stood alongside Rudy Giuliani at a "Stop the Steal" rally, where the crowd was urged to march to the Capitol building. More than 1,400 people, including Eastman's colleagues, have signed an online petition demanding he be fired.
Lisa Leitz, a professor of peace studies at Chapman, is one of more than 150 faculty members there who penned a letter to the university demanding Eastman be fired. Eyewitness News reached out to Eastman for comment, but hasn't heard back.
Leitz says his appearance at the rally and his past Trump campaign activities have scarred the university's reputation. "It associates us with a racist insurrection against the U.S. democracy and it undermines the credibility of every faculty member," she said.
University President Daniel Struppa says he can't do that since the school only allows for termination of a faculty member if they're found guilty of a felony or disbarred. "The Manual does not allow me to decide on my own that any faculty is a criminal or that they should be disbarred and therefore fired, which is what I am being asked to do," Struppa said in a statement.
Some students aren't buying it. "If you're literally inciting a terrorist attack on our nation is this who we want to be teaching our law students?" asked one Chapman University student.

Credit Andrew Harnik / AP Angry supporters of President Donald Trump have stormed the U.S. Capitol in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Updated at 9:08 p.m.
Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. They forced lawmakers to be rushed from the building and interrupted challenges to Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory. A woman who was shot during the violent protest has died, according to officials familiar with the matter who spoke to The Associated Press on Wednesday.
UPDATE: Supporters of President Trump breached the Senate chamber and broke through glass doors to the House chamber. Trump posted a video on Twitter, asking people to go home — but not before reiterating his baseless claims about the election being stolen and saying: "You're very special,” NPR reported.
Earlier, in a huge rally near the White House, the president had egged his supporters on to march to Capitol Hill. He also continued to repeat his false claims that President-elect Joe Biden had won the election through voter fraud.
A large contingent of Proud Boys members were present at the morning rally, some chanting "storm the Capitol," according to reporting from NPR. The Pentagon says about 1,100 D.C. National Guard members were mobilized to help support law enforcement.
North Carolina Congressional delegates took to Twitter to update the public on their personal welfare and to project political messages regarding the violent protest. Democratic Rep. G. K. Butterfield released a statement a little after 3 p.m. confirming that he was safe and monitoring the situation. A number of other North Carolina Congressional representatives, including Republicans Reps. Ted Budd and Greg Murphy, also confirmed they were safe via social media.
Ahead of Wednesday, more than 100 Republican lawmakers had announced their intentions to object to elections results. A number of North Carolina representatives were among that group, including Reps. Dan Bishop, Ted Budd, Madison Cawthorn, Richard Hudson, Greg Murphy andDavid Rouzer. Members of Congress reconvened on Wednesday night to continue the process of certifying President-elect Biden's White House win. Elizabeth Baier contributed to this report.

Donald Trump’s sons stoked civil war within the Republican party at a rally protesting the results of the 2020 election in Washington DC on Wednesday.
Donald Trump Jr said the gathering in DC, which drew thousands of Trump supporters, should be a wakeup call to the GOP. He went on to claim the GOP did not do enough to help his father overturn the election results. "This gathering should send a message to them; this isn't their Republican party anymore, this is Donald Trump's Republican party, this is the Republican party that will put America first," the president’s eldest son said.
He said Republicans in Georgia “didn’t like the way the game was played” so they did not participate in the president’s attempt to steal the election. Mr Trump Jr then told Congressional Republicans that they had “an opportunity” to be heroes when they gathered to count the Electoral Votes on Wednesday.
Some Republican House and Senate members are expected to challenge the count which will delay the process. However it is extremely unlikely to change the outcome of the election which was won by president-elect Joe Biden and VP-elect Kamala Harris.
“We are watching,” Don Jr said. The president’s son said that the Republicans needed to fight in the face of “irregularities” and “statistical impossibilities", a claim he made without evidence.
He then threatened to support primary challenges against Republicans who his father has deemed disloyal. His younger brother, Eric, also similarly prophesied that Mr Trump's influence on the political right would continue past his time in the White House.
"My father has started a movement, and this movement will never, ever die," Eric Trump said. Eric Trump said the movement “will transcend [Donald Trump], it will transcend all of us” before bringing his wife, Lara Trump, on stage.
Ms Trump is expected to run for a Senate seat in her home state of North Carolina, making her the first member of the Trump family to seek office in the president’s wake. The pro-Trump march was scheduled to take place while Congress gathers to count and certify Electoral College votes.

“These guys better fight for Trump. Because if they’re not, guess what?
I’m going to be in your backyard in a couple of months!” Donald Trump Jr. said, suggesting he would support primary campaigns against Republicans who did not side with his father on Wednesday. In a meandering, expletive-filled speech delivered almost entirely in shouts, Donald Trump Jr. thanked the “red-blooded, patriotic Americans” in the crowd “for standing up to the bulls---,” lamented that his personal Instagram account is “being censored to hell right now,” and complained that transgender women have a competitive advantage in all-female sporting events.
“No s---!” he said.
Fox News, which had been carrying the remarks live, dropped its feed of the rally after the expletives uttered by the president’s son aired uncensored. Donald Trump Jr.’s girlfriend, former Fox News personality Kimberly Guilfoyle, also appeared on stage, as did his brother and sister-in-law, Eric and Lara Trump.
“We live in the greatest country in the world, and we will never, ever, ever stop fighting,” Eric Trump said, before egging on his wife to pursue a potential Senate bid in North Carolina. In November, Donald Trump Jr. similarly criticized the “total lack of action from virtually all of the ‘2024 GOP hopefuls’” in the days following the presidential election — prompting several of the president’s allies to issue tweets and statements championing him.

On Jan. 6, 2021, a violent mob of Trump supporters gathered at the U.S. Capitol to support outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump's false claims that the November 2020 presidential election was fraudulent.
They fought with police and broke into the Capitol building. One person was killed. But before that transpired, the rhetoric of speakers at the so-called "Save America" rally held earlier in the day came under scrutiny.
For example, during a speech, Trump's personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, made a reference to the HBO drama "Game of Thrones" when he called for a "trial by combat" while talking about conspiracy theories alleging massive scale voter fraud. Trump also spoke at the rally and urged his supporters to march to the Capitol. They did so, and then breached barriers and broke inside.

John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, is under fire again for appearing onstage with Rudy Giuliani at the rally that preceded Wednesday’s attack on the Capitol. Giuliani called for “trial by combat.”
Eastman did not object and told the crowd that the 2020 presidential election was illegitimate. Asked if he supported the insurrection, Eastman said via email, “What a ridiculous question. Of course I do not condone the violence at the capitol.
But it was not a riot. It was perhaps a hundred thugs out of a quarter-million or half-million people.”
Eastman also said that some of the rioters were “clearly Antifa,” even though the Federal Bureau of Investigation said on Friday that there was no evidence of that. Eastman said he didn’t think the riot was “incited by anything I said,” either. “My short statement at the rally is verifiably true.
It is a fact that state election officials violated state law in the conduct of the election.” Eastman’s statements directly contradict assessments from the Department of Homeland Security and other groups that the November election was the most secure in American history.

Chapman University professor John Eastman stands next to Rudy Giuliani, personal lawyer to President Donald Trump, during a rally near the White House in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021.
Chapman University’s president says he cannot and will not fire a professor and former law school dean amid growing campus calls for action against the faculty member’s participation in a pro-Trump rally during which he made claims about election fraud on the day a violent mob stormed the Capitol. “I am not the Emperor of Chapman University, nor am I the Supreme Leader of Chapman University. I am the President of the university, and as such, I am bound by laws and processes that are clearly spelled out in our Faculty Manual,” Daniele Struppa said in a statement.
John Eastman, an endowed professor and constitutional law scholar at Chapman, spoke alongside Trump’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani at the “Save America” rally Jan. 6, citing “secret folders” in ballot machines that were used to skew vote totals. “They were unloading the ballots from that secret folder, matching them, matching them to the unvoted voter, and voilà, we have enough votes to barely get over the finish line,” Eastman said at the Jan. 6 rally. “We saw it happen in real time last night and it happened on Nov. 3rd as well.” Two Democrats won U.S. Senate seats in closely contested runoff elections Jan. 5.
A Jan. 8 letter signed by more than 160 Chapman faculty members called for the university’s faculty senate, provost, president and law school dean to take action against Eastman, including stripping him of his endowed professorship and removing him from teaching students. “Free speech is sacred, and tenured academics like Eastman have the privilege of speaking their mind without fear of repercussion. But Eastman abused that freedom,” they wrote, saying that his conspiratorial claims about a stolen election formed the basis of the insurrection.
But Struppa said he would follow the guidelines laid out in the faculty manual — which in his second statement Saturday said allowed for the termination of faculty members if they are found guilty of a felony or disbarred. “The university has no right to substitute itself for these formal bodies,” he said.
Lisa Leitz, department chair of peace studies at Chapman and a lead author of the faculty letter, said in an interview that Eastman’s “outright lies related to electoral fraud” amounted to a violation of academic integrity and professional misconduct, which can be grounds for disciplinary action, according to the faculty manual. “Academic freedom is sacrosanct in our business ... but inciting a riot that attempts to overthrow a government — it’s a little different than just speaking your mind in politics,” Leitz said.
In an emailed response, Eastman said his claims are backed up by evidence, and that the breach at the Capitol was instigated by the leftist, anti-fascist group known as antifa. “Without bothering to check with me about the evidence I have to support every statement I made, they simply made scurrilous, defamatory, and unfounded claims that my statements had no basis in law or fact,” Eastman wrote.
There has been no evidence of widespread voter fraud in the presidential election, nor that leftist extremist groups led the violence at the Capitol last week. A university spokesperson did not respond to questions about whether any investigatory or disciplinary process had begun in Eastman’s case, but if one had, such personnel matters are usually confidential.
Eastman is on leave from Chapman this year and serving as a visiting professor at the University of Colorado Boulder. Boulder Chancellor Phil DiStefano called Eastman’s advocacy of conspiracy theories “repugnant” but said he would not fire him, citing First Amendment protections, according to local newspaper The Daily Camera.
Eastman, who has testified before Congress about presidential impeachment and written extensively about freedom of religion, citizenship and immigration, served as dean of Chapman’s law school from 2007 to 2010. He stepped down to pursue a bid for California attorney general the year that Kamala Harris was elected to the position. And last August, members of the Black Student Union led a protest against racism at Chapman, including over an essay by Eastman in Newsweek in which he questioned Harris’ birthright citizenship and eligibility to become vice president.
Newsweek later apologized. Alison McKenzie, president of Chapman University’s faculty senate, said the senate plans to hold an emergency meeting Friday to vote on a resolution acknowledging faculty members’ right to due process but urging the university to separate itself from Eastman’s statements and to explore the possibility of terminating his endowed professorship and preventing him from teaching especially vulnerable students who may feel uncomfortable working with him.

Capping days of growing uproar, Chapman University announced Wednesday that a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol would retire immediately. John Eastman, an endowed professor and constitutional law scholar at Chapman, spoke alongside Trump’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani at the “Save America” rally Jan. 6, making the unsubstantiated claim that “secret folders” inside ballot-counting machines skewed both the presidential and Georgia Senate race results in Democrats’ favor.
Chapman President Daniele Struppa said in a statement that the university and Eastman had reached an agreement and Eastman would retire immediately. Both parties agreed not to take any kind of legal action, including over claims of defamation, which Eastman had alleged.
“Dr. Eastman’s departure closes this challenging chapter for Chapman and provides the most immediate and certain path forward for both the Chapman community and Dr. Eastman,” Struppa said in a statement. More than 160 Chapman faculty members had signed a letter calling for the university’s faculty senate, provost, president and law school dean to take action against Eastman, including stripping him of his endowed professorship and removing him from teaching students. Struppa had rejected demands to fire Eastman, saying that while Eastman’s actions and statements were in “direct opposition to the values and beliefs of our institution,” he was its president, not its “Supreme Leader,” and appropriate processes for investigating the actions of faculty must be followed. In an emailed statement Wednesday, Eastman said it was “with mixed feeling” that he announced his retirement, noting that he spent his entire academic career at Chapman and that the university’s law school achieved its highest national ranking under his leadership.
He called the letter “defamatory” and said the claims he made at the rally were factual. He also said it was “scurrilous” to claim he had participated in a riot.
“This charge is really an attempt to shut down the exercise of First Amendment rights,” he wrote. Eastman said he would finish out his term as a visiting professor at the University of Colorado Boulder, then turn his focus to the Claremont Institute’s Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence, which he directs.

President Donald Trump conceded publicly for the first time Thursday that he will not serve a second term, stopping short of congratulating President-elect Joe Biden but acknowledging a transfer of power is now underway.
It appeared to end, for now, Trump’s false and corrosive attempt to overthrow the election results, which culminated in a violent attempt at insurrection at the US Capitol a day earlier. It did not reckon with Trump’s role in fomenting that violence, nor did it contain a vow to change his behavior. But with 13 days until Biden is inaugurated, the President’s comments in a prerecorded video amounted to as much of a concession as he is likely to offer before he departs the White House for good.
A White House adviser in discussions with senior officials said Trump recorded the video only because his presidency is threatened by looming resignations and potential impeachment. “I think that video was done only because almost all his senior staff was about to resign, and impeachment is imminent,” the adviser said.
“That message and tone should have been relayed election night … not after people died,” the adviser added. Trump’s recognition of his loss comes two months after the fact and amid growing calls for either his removal from office or a fresh impeachment.
It also came as legal questions swirled about his culpability for inciting rioters who invaded the US Capitol a day earlier. In the video, released more than 24 hours after Wednesday’s riot, Trump called for “healing and reconciliation” and said the country must move forward. That video, had been taped in the Rose Garden, was more ad-libbed and did not accomplish what many of his advisers had hoped, which was to tamp down the violence and accusations the President had incited it. Thursday’s video was more staid, taped indoors and appeared heavily edited.
Trump demonstrated little emotion as he admitted his time as president was nearing its end. Throughout Wednesday evening and into Thursday, Trump faced resignations from senior staffers and sped-up efforts among Democrats interested in filing new articles of impeachment. Talk of invoking the 25th Amendment also appeared to escalate, though Vice President Mike Pence — whose participation in such an effort would be required — has not discussed the matter with members of the Cabinet.
Trump also appeared to be confronting potential legal questions about his role in inciting the riots. Those factors seemed to contribute to a starkly different approach from Trump, who in the Thursday video condemned the protests in far stronger terms than he did on Wednesday. Still, he did not address his own role in fomenting the unrest and continued to make claims, however vague, that the 2020 presidential election was marred by fraud. Earlier Thursday, Trump had issued a dark-of-night statement vowing an “orderly transition,” which came about in part to stanch a wave of resignations from within the West Wing and the broader administration, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The resignations began Wednesday with the first lady’s chief of staff, the White House social secretary, a deputy press secretary and Trump’s deputy national security adviser all exiting before the night’s end. Other officials, sources told CNN, had been considering resigning. And a growing number of Republican leaders and Cabinet members told CNN on Wednesday that they were considering having Trump removed from office by impeachment or through the invocation of the 25th Amendment.
But at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning is now planning to remain in the administration. National security adviser Robert O’Brien has told aides he now intends to remain in his post until Trump leaves office, though his plans could still change depending on how Trump approaches the day. He made his decision before Trump released the statement. O’Brien was persuaded to stay by other senior staffers, who expressed concern about the national security implications of a vacant post in the final days of the administration.
The statement from the President, released through his deputy chief of staff Dan Scavino’s Twitter account at 3:50 a.m. ET, said “there will be an orderly transition on January 20” even though he disagreed with the outcome of the election. Trump agreed to the statement after being advised of the dismay and disgust among many of his aides, though the person familiar said it was not the sole reason for its release.
It also came after reports that early discussions were underway about invoking the 25th Amendment and restarting impeachment proceedings. It was meant as a signal from Trump that the next 13 days will proceed without incident.
But it came months after Joe Biden won the election and hours after Trump urged his supporters to protest at the Capitol. Even among his team and close allies it is viewed as coming far too late and offering far too little condemnation for what happened at the Capitol building. Trump, who has repeatedly refused to concede the election, on Wednesday egged on his supporters who would later breach the US Capitol in an attempt to stop lawmakers from counting the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election.
“We’re going to walk down to the Capitol. And we’re gonna cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women.
And we’re probably not going to be cheering, so much for some of them, because you’ll never take back our country with weakness, you have to show strength and you have to be strong,” Trump said, addressing his supporters who gathered maskless on the Ellipse near the White House Wednesday morning. After a speech filled with lies and misrepresentations that incensed the crowd, Trump returned to the White House to watch a violent crescendo to his constant spreading of misinformation about the electoral process. The mob broke into the Capitol, stormed both the House and Senate floors and Trump supporters could be seen lounging in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. A woman was shot and killed in the chaos.
Police have yet to release more details about her death. Three others had medical emergencies and died, according to police.
Republicans and Democrats alike condemned the rioters for entering the country’s legislative chambers and destroying federal property, and several lawmakers blamed Trump for the violence that broke out. Multiple people told CNN that Trump was borderline enthusiastic over the protests and did not wish to condemn them. He only agreed to record a short video after multiple staffers and Republican lawmakers lobbied him to make a statement.
On Wednesday night, once the Capitol was secured again, lawmakers returned from lockdown to the House and Senate chambers, to continue counting the votes nearly six hours after the crowd wreaked havoc on America’s symbol of democracy. The House and Senate defeated Republican objections lodged against the votes sent by two states, Arizona and Pennsylvania.
Before 4 a.m. ET, the joint session of Congress had completed tallying up the electoral votes and Vice President Mike Pence, who presided over the count, declared that Biden won the Electoral College by 306 votes to 232 for Trump. Trump did not say in either statement whether he plans to attend the inauguration of Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on January 20. This story has been updated with additional reporting.

Many top political figures are converging on a stunning consensus: President Donald Trump personally incited a violent attack on the U.S. Capitol building on Jan. 6, leaving four dead and an indelible scar on American democracy.
Those assessments are coming not just from Trump’s political opponents, but also from members of his own party and even former members of his administration. They include Gen. James Mattis, Trump’s first secretary of defense, who said last night that the “effort to subjugate American democracy by mob rule…was fomented by Mr. Trump.”
Gen. Joseph Dunford, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Trump, also laid blame on the President. Republican Sen. Mitt Romney directly blamed Trump for last night’s events, and Republican Rep. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois this morning called for the invocation of the 25th Amendment, which gives the Vice President and the cabinet the power to remove an unfit President.
Many Trump staffers and deputies have already resigned, and others have reportedly discussed acting to remove him, largely out of fear that Trump could directly trigger more violence if not removed. White House counsel Pat Cipollone has reportedly urged remaining staffers to not speak to or take orders from Trump to avoid future prosecution for treason.
Trump’s statements leading up to and during the storming of the Capitol building, however, did not include explicit calls for a violent attack on America’s democratic institutions. Instead, those laying blame on Trump are pointing in part to rhetoric that agitated his followers with conspiratorial lies and instilled a sense of imminent doom—while relying on them to make the final decision to act. This is a version of the “stochastic terrorism” tactics common to authoritarian leaders around the world.
In recent weeks, Trump heavily promoted the rally that led directly to the assault on the Capitol. The rally was part of the “Stop the Steal” movement, which, fueled by Trump’s own conspiratorial fantasies, explicitly aimed to halt the certification of Joe Biden’s election victory. On Dec. 19, Trump promised a “big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!”
Trump promoted the rally again on Dec. 27, Dec. 30, and Jan. 1, in tweets compiled by the New York Times. At the rally, Trump delivered the same inflammatory rhetoric and false claims that have characterized his entire presidency. For most of an hour, he reiterated claims that the election had been stolen—claims which have been rejected as unfounded by at least 59 courts, including many headed by Trump-appointed judges.
Trump also repeatedly intimated that his followers should take action. Near the beginning of his speech, Trump even made what appeared to be an indirect threat to Vice President Mike Pence, who, Trump incorrectly told his supporters, had the power to overturn the Nov. 3 election results. As the speech continued, Trump edged ever closer to calling for direct action by his supporters. Supporters followed Trump’s call to march to the Capitol.
Within less than two hours, they had forced their way through barricades, then through the doors of the Capitol building, forcing the evacuation of legislators. After the takeover of the Capitol building was in full swing, Trump issued a recorded statement ostensibly intended to defuse the violence. Trump was reportedly supposed to speak from a script, but he instead ad-libbed, repeating false claims about election fraud and expressing support for the rioters. Similar improvisation reportedly led to his infamous “many sides” remarks about the 2017 white supremacist riots in Charlottesville, Va.
“We had an election that was stolen from us. It was a landslide election, and everyone knows it, especially the other side,” Trump said in the video, before begrudgingly telling supporters, “You have to go home now.
We have to have peace, we have to have law and order. “There’s never been a time like this where such a thing happened, where they could take it away, from all of us—from me, from you, from our country,” he also said in the recording. “This was a fraudulent election.
The repeated vague references to a broad cast of nefarious enemies—“they” and “others” who “are so bad and so evil”—is typical of authoritarian tactics for cementing loyalty by invoking powerful but nonspecific threats. Though ostensibly intended to slow violence, Trump’s message was instead rapidly removed from Facebook and other social media platforms over fears that it would make things worse. Trump’s rhetoric has been leading up to this moment not for weeks or months but years.
Trump began building his political base by promoting the racist “birther” conspiracy theory as early as 2011. That theory falsely claimed that President Barack Obama was not born in the U.S. and therefore was not the legitimately elected leader of the nation. A steady drumbeat of false and conspiratorial claims has continued ever since, amplified many times over by political allies as Trump gained power. It remains to be seen what consequences Trump and his proxies might face, but yesterday’s assault on American democracy was the clear result of their efforts.

correction Correction: An earlier version of this story described Barry McCaffrey as a retired four-star Marine Corps general. He is a retired Army general.
The “American carnage” that Donald Trump vowed to end at the dawn of his presidency was revived in terrifying, treacherous form at its sunset Wednesday, as Trump made a fiery last stand and incited his supporters to storm and sack the U.S. Capitol as part of an attempted coup. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight The extraordinary anarchy that interrupted the tallying of electoral college votes in a joint session of Congress brought America’s democracy to the brink. After Trump rallied thousands of people outside the White House by demanding the results be overturned and declaring his duly elected successor “an illegitimate president,” pro-Trump rioters breached police barricades, scaled walls and smashed windows to enter the Capitol. The marauders freely roamed the building’s stately halls, some carrying Confederate flags. They occupied the Senate and House chambers and rummaged through desks.
They vandalized the offices of congressional leaders. They assaulted police and other public servants. They trampled on the gleaming white platform constructed for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration.
One tried to replace the U.S. flag flying above the balcony with a Trump campaign flag. Lawmakers and staffers hid in locked bunkers.
Vice President Pence and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) were spirited away by security to undisclosed locations. For hours through the afternoon, police struggled — and failed — to contain and disperse the mob.
One rioter was shot under unclear circumstances during the melee and later died. The pandemonium would seem to be a natural culmination of what Trump and compliant Republicans have wrought on the nation they swore an oath to protect. Since his first presidential campaign, Trump has instigated his supporters to express their political views through physical demonstration and violence, and he has declined time and again to repudiate the actions of white supremacists, neo-Nazis and other extremists.
Prompted in a presidential debate last fall to condemn white supremacists and right-wing militia-style groups, Trump instead gave extremists an open invitation to act. “Proud Boys, stand back and stand by,” Trump said Oct. 2.
During his four years in office, Trump has been enabled and abetted by his Cabinet and staff, his family members and a battery of Republican elected officials — including the scores of House and Senate members who had indulged the president by vowing to object to Wednesday’s scheduled certification of Biden’s victory. And the president himself fomented the uprising by encouraging attendees of his morning rally to march to the Capitol “to try and give [lawmakers] the kind of pride and boldness that they need to take back our country.” Trump told his crowd that he planned to walk with them, though he headed straight to the White House after his speech and did not leave the secure compound for the remainder of the day.
Trump, fuming about Pence’s decision to perform his constitutional duty to certify the election result rather than go rogue at the president’s demand, then ignored the urgent pleas of advisers and allies to forcefully call an end to the violence and chaos. “We have to have peace.
We have to have law and order,” he said. Former president Barack Obama said Wednesday’s insurrection was to be expected, considering how Trump and his allies have responded to the president’s election loss.
The National Association of Manufacturers, one of the nation’s premier business groups, which has long been friendly to Republicans, called on Pence and the Cabinet to consider invoking the 25th Amendment to force Trump from office. The only other living Republican past president, George W. Bush, issued a statement that was stunning in the sharpness of its language, considering how long he had resisted criticizing Trump for his transgressions.
History will remember Jan. 6, 2021, as a day without precedent in America’s 243-year experiment with democracy. Some past presidential election outcomes have been contested; in 1860, the dispute led to the Civil War. And the Capitol has been occupied before; it was attacked and set ablaze by British forces in 1814.
But never before has American democracy been so strained, the seat of representative government so imperiled and a president so at fault — so much so that Twitter, adhering to its rules for civic integrity and threats of violence, removed three of Trump’s messages and locked his account for 12 hours. David Blight, a Civil War historian at Yale University, said the only possible parallel to the insurrection that unfolded in Washington on Wednesday is secession. Leaders around the globe watched, aghast, not knowing who was in charge of the world’s greatest democracy or whether order would be restored.
Presidents and ministers in Ukraine, Estonia, Denmark and a host of other countries weighed in with alarmed concern about the fragility of government in the United States. In the aftermath of World War II, the United States helped build an alliance of Western democracies.
On Wednesday, the leader of that alliance, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, felt compelled to guide the United States on how to repair its own democracy. Mabel Wilson, an architecture professor at Columbia University who has studied the history of the Capitol and other civic buildings, said the images she saw Wednesday not only represented a subversion of democracy, but also were a painful reminder of the racial injustice that had so animated Americans last year.
The day began with tensions running high and Republicans deeply divided. Protesters surrounded Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) outside the Russell Senate Office Building just after 11 a.m.
Young said that though he had hoped Trump would win a second term as president, he would not be joining the 14 of his Republican colleagues, led by Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Josh Hawley of Missouri, who planned to object to certifying Biden’s victory. “I think it’s a hijack effort,” Young said. Objecting, he explained, would violate the Constitution.
“I took an oath under God,” he said. At the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, meanwhile, Trump addressed his rally crowd at the Ellipse, with the White House as his grand backdrop.
He began with a lie, declaring that there were hundreds of thousands of people there; attendance was far smaller. In fact, Biden won with 306 electoral college votes to Trump’s 232.
Biden also won the popular vote by 7 million votes, or a 4.5 percentage point margin. Inside the Capitol, lawmakers began the ceremonial process of certifying the electoral college results.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) delivered an impassioned plea to the rebels in his GOP conference who were determined to stay in Trump’s good graces by objecting. McConnell called this certification vote the most important he would take in his 36 years as a senator. Minutes later, however, the rioters breached the barricade.
Soon, Pence, who had been presiding as president of the Senate, was whisked away. Doors to the chamber were locked.
Senators went into hiding. Seven hours passed before the rioters were cleared, the chamber was secured and senators returned to the floor. With Pence presiding at the dais, one senator after another, both Republicans and Democrats, condemned the violence that had occurred. Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah, the lone Republican who voted to convict Trump in his impeachment trial last year, drew sustained applause in the chamber as he delivered an impassioned affirmation of democracy and truth. And Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), Trump’s frequent golfing partner and arguably one of his closest confidants in Congress, said he was effectively giving up on this presidency, 14 days before its expiration.

Prior to the violence that disrupted Congress’ counting of the electoral votes, President Donald Trump gave an indignant speech filled with falsehoods about the presidential election he lost two months ago to Democrat Joe Biden. Trump wasn’t there with them.
But that was the least of his false statements on a day when a pro-Trump mob stormed the Capitol and halted the constitutionally mandated counting of electoral votes in a joint session of the House and Senate. Vice President Mike Pence, who presides over the counting of the electoral votes, directly contradicted Trump’s baseless claim that somehow Pence could overturn the election results and declare Trump the winner.
Trump falsely claimed that Pennsylvania had “205,000 more ballots then [it] had voters.” That figure comes from a flawed partisan analysis that was “based on incomplete and inaccurate data,” according to the Pennsylvania Department of State.
according to the Pennsylvania Department of State. He falsely claimed that “more than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania were illegally counted, even though they were received after Election Day.”
About 10,000 ballots arrived within three days after the election, but they have not been counted, pending a court ruling. Trump reprised a familiar false claim about “thousands” of dead people voting, as many as 8,000 in Pennsylvania and 10,300 in Georgia. But there has been only one verified report in Pennsylvania, as of Dec. 20, and two in Georgia.
Trump wrongly claimed that in Georgia “an illegal and unconstitutional settlement agreement … drastically weakened signature verification.” The state strengthened its signature matching processes, says Georgia’s Republican secretary of state.
The president falsely claimed that “Georgia’s absentee ballot rejection rate was more than 10 times lower than previous levels.” He is wrongly comparing the rate of ballots rejected for signature issues in this election — which is roughly the same rate it has been in recent elections — to the number of ballots rejected in past elections for all reasons, usually for being received too late. all reasons, usually for being received too late.
He falsely claimed that Republican poll watchers in Fulton County, Georgia, were told to leave “under the false pretense of a pipe burst” and then election officials pulled “suitcases of ballots out from under a table.” Poll watchers were not told to leave after a water leak, and videos show boxes of legitimate ballots –not “fraudulent” ones — pulled from under a table.
In a tweet before his speech, Trump wrongly claimed Georgia “just happened to find 50,000 ballots late last night” in the Georgia Senate run-off election. Georgia election officials say those were routine absentee ballots being counted.
Trump claimed without evidence that more than 36,000 ballots “were illegally cast by noncitizens” in Arizona. The secretary of state’s office said about 23,000 eligible voters didn’t submit proof of citizenship with their applications but legally attested to their eligibility. He falsely claimed “11,600 more ballots and votes were counted … than there were actual voters” in Arizona.
In fact, turnout was about 80% of registered voters. Trump falsely said “150,000 people” registered in Maricopa County, Arizona, “after the registration deadline.” Fewer than 20,000 voters registered during a legal extension of the original deadline.
Pence, who serves as president of the Senate, said he does not have the right to do it. That process was supposed to play out on Jan. 6, as stipulated by U.S. law, but was derailed by violent protesters who stormed the U.S. Capitol.
Trump, for one, believed that Pence could reject electoral votes, as he said in a Jan. 5 tweet. “The Vice President has the power to reject fraudulently chosen electors,” Trump claimed. Garrett Epps, professor of law emeritus at the University of Baltimore School of Law, told us he didn’t know of “any text anywhere” upon which Trump could base this claim of Pence being able to change or reject the electoral votes. “This just has been made up out of whole cloth,” he said.
The Constitution doesn’t say the vice president shall count the votes, Epps said. “It says the votes shall be counted.”
And the Electoral Count Act says that counting is done by tellers in Congress. The Electoral Count Act, which was signed into law in 1887, says that the Senate and House each shall appoint two tellers to count the votes.
The president of the Senate (the vice president) is supposed to hand the tellers the state certifications after he opens them, and the tellers are then to read those documents and make a list of the votes. Once all the votes are counted in that manner, the result is given to the president of the Senate, who announces the result.
There is a process under that law for objections by members of Congress — which Pence referred to in his letter. But that procedure “is lodged in the two Houses, not in the VP,” Epps said. That procedure, which began to play out on Jan. 6 with the announcement of Arizona’s certified electoral votes in a joint session of Congress, requires any objection to be made in writing, signed by one senator and one representative at least, as a Congressional Research Service report explains.
Trump falsely claimed that in Pennsylvania there were “205,000 more ballots then you had voters.” That figure comes from a flawed partisan analysis that was “based on incomplete and inaccurate data,” according to the Pennsylvania Department of State. Trump, Jan. 6: There were over 205,000 more ballots counted in Pennsylvania. Now think of this.
You had 205,000 more ballots than you had voters. … Where did they come from? You know where they came from? Somebody’s imagination.
The president first made this claim in a tweet on Dec. 28 — the same day a group of Republican legislators in Pennsylvania issued a press release that said there were “202,377 more votes cast than voters voting,” citing an “extensive analysis” of state and county election data. “A comparison of official county election results to the total number of voters who voted on November 3, 2020 as recorded by the Department of State shows that 6,962,607 total ballots were reported as being cast, while DoS/SURE system records indicate that only 6,760,230 total voters actually voted,” the press release said, explaining how it arrived at the 202,377 figure. The data contained in the Department of State’s Statewide Uniform Registry of Electors, or SURE, system were incomplete at the time of the GOP analysis because some counties had “not yet finished entering into the SURE system what are called voter histories,” the department said in a Dec. 29 statement.
In a series of tweets, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf urged the Pennsylvania congressional delegation and Trump to drop their baseless claims of fraud and accept Pennsylvania’s Electoral College votes for Biden. But those 10,000 votes have not been counted, contrary to Trump’s claim, and they would not change the outcome even if they were counted.
Trump is referring to about 10,000 ballots that were postmarked by Election Day on Nov. 3, but were received between 8 p.m. on Nov. 3 and 5 p.m. on Nov. 6. The Trump campaign sought to block Pennsylvania from counting those late-arriving ballots in a case that went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court. On Oct. 28, Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito ordered county election officials to comply with a Pennsylvania Department of State directive to keep those late-arriving ballots segregated from the rest of the ballots, pending the high court’s review of the case.
There were 10,097 late-arriving ballots, but they were not counted, according to a Dec. 20 Philadelphia Inquirer story. “SCOTUS ordered counties to strictly segregate these ballots, and it was determined that they would be most clearly segregated by not adding them to the totals until further action by the court,” Department of State spokesperson Wanda Murren told the Inquirer. Biden won Pennsylvania by more than 80,000 votes.
Trump reprised a familiar false claim about “thousands” of dead people voting in Pennsylvania. Trump, Jan. 6: Over 8,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were cast by people whose names and dates of birth match individuals who died in 2020 and prior to the election.
Think of that. Dead people! Lots of dead people, thousands.
Previously, the president claimed that as many as 20,000 “dead people” voted in Pennsylvania. Now, he is saying “thousands,” possibly 8,000. He’s still wrong.
As of Dec. 20, there has been only one verified case of a vote being cast in the name of a deceased person, according to Newsweek. The man arrested was a Trump supporter, Bruce Bartman, who admitted that he cast a ballot in his dead mother’s name.
In October, Robert Lynn, a registered Republican, was charged with applying for a ballot application in his dead mother’s name, but no vote was cast in that case. In another case cited by Trump supporters, Denise Ondick of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, died on Oct. 22, but election officials received her application for a mail-in ballot on Oct. 23, according to online records from the Pennsylvania Department of State. Those records also show that her ballot was then received back by the county on Nov. 2, and that her vote was recorded.
When Trump raised the issue in a Jan. 2 phone call with Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger — during which Trump pressured him to recalculate the state’s vote in his favor — Raffensperger told the president his data was wrong. As we have written, claims of dead people voting are common, and often overblown. Most often, claims about large numbers of votes from deceased people turn out to be due to list-matching or clerical problems, such as confusing two people with identical or similar names, Charles Stewart III, a political science professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who specializes in elections, told us via email back in November.
As we have written before, votes cast illegally in the name of a dead person are exceedingly rare. Such few illegal votes would not affect the outcome in a state that Biden won by more than 80,000 votes (Pennsylvania) or more than 11,000 (Georgia).
Georgia election officials check signatures when a voter requests a mail-in ballot, and then again when the ballot is returned. According to a state law passed last year, election officials must “promptly notify” voters about a ballot rejection due to an issue with the signature, allowing them to “cure” their ballot by casting a provisional ballot — along with supplying identification information — within three days of the polls closing on Election Day. As for the consent decree Trump mentioned, that refers to a settlement agreement in federal court reached in March that was crafted by Raffensperger to settle a lawsuit brought by Democrats over absentee ballots rejected in the 2018 general election.
According to the consent decree, voters must be contacted the next business day — by phone or email — if their absentee ballot is rejected due to a signature issue. Raffensperger contends that agreement had little impact on the presidential election.
Trump falsely claimed that “Georgia’s absentee ballot rejection rate was more than 10 times lower than previous levels” and that “if Georgia had merely rejected the same number of unlawful ballots, as in other years” he would have won the state. As he has in the past, Trump is comparing the rate of ballots rejected for signature issues in this election to the number of ballots rejected in past elections for all reasons, usually for being received too late. Georgia hasn’t released data on the total number of mail-in ballots rejected; it has only released the number of mail-in ballots rejected because of signature issues (missing or mismatched signatures).
And it is about the same percentage as in the 2018 midterm and only slightly lower than in the 2016 presidential election. When considered as a percentage of mail-in ballots cast, the rejection rate for signature issues was nearly identical in 2020 (0.15%) to what it was in 2018 (0.16%), according to figures from the Georgia secretary of state’s office.
In a Nov. 17 press conference, Sterling said the rejection percentage for signature issues was about the same in the 2016 election as well — with about 580 ballots with missing or mismatched signatures out of 246,000 mail-in ballots cast that year. That comes to a rejection rate of about 0.24%.
“So this is pretty consistent on this,” said Sterling, a Republican. According to the U.S. Election Assistance Commission, a total of about 3.1% mail-in ballots were rejected in Georgia in 2018 (see Table 2), and about 6.4% were rejected in 2016 (see Table 2). Most ballots are rejected because they arrive late, and rejections for signature issues are just a fraction of the overall rejection totals.
As the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported on Nov. 3, a water leak at State Farm Arena in Atlanta, which served as a ballot processing site, caused a several hours delay in vote-counting on Election Day. The leak occurred at 6:07 a.m., according to the arena, and it was fixed within two hours.
Later that night, election workers thought they’d be knocking off for the night, and began putting uncounted ballots in storage boxes with numbered seals, per policy, Sterling explained in a Jan. 4 press conference. At that point, poll watchers left, though no one told them to, Frances Watson, chief investigator for the Georgia secretary of state, later said.
Affidavits from two Republican field organizers who were in the room did not claim they were instructed or forced to leave because of the leak, as Trump said; they instead said they were under the impression counting had ceased. But Raffensperger directed election officials to continue working through the night.
As for the “suitcases” of “fraudulent” ballots pulled from under a table, the secretary of state’s office publicly posted video of the entire thing. According to Sterling, it shows nothing more than the legitimate counting of votes that had been boxed up only an hour before.
Update, Aug. 1, 2023: On June 20, the Georgia secretary of state’s office released an investigative report concluding that there was “no evidence” of any fraud regarding the claim that “suitcases” of illegal ballots were counted on election night. Investigators from the FBI, Georgia Bureau of Investigation and the secretary of state’s office interviewed Fulton County election workers and reviewed “the entire unedited security video footage of the events in question” in response to a complaint referred by a state senator and specifically naming two election night workers in the video, Ruby Freeman and her daughter, Wandrea “Shaye” Moss.
“There was no evidence of any type of fraud as alleged. … All allegations made against Freeman and Moss were unsubstantiated and found to have no merit,” the report, dated March 7, concluded. In congressional testimony, the two women described how they had been harassed and received death threats after members of the Trump campaign and others pushed false claims that they had engaged in voter fraud.
Freeman and Moss filed a defamation suit against One America News Network and Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani. In a tweet sent just hours before his speech, Trump wrongly claimed Georgia “just happened to find 50,000 ballots late last night” in the Georgia Senate run-off election, but Sterling said they were just routine absentee ballots being counted as a matter of course. Less than an hour after Trump posted his tweet, Sterling responded on Twitter, explaining that there were no “found” ballots, only absentee ballots received the day of the election.
Sterling said election officials have known since last week that there were going to be over 2 million votes in “the advanced bucket” — votes via absentee ballots and early voting. Trump claimed, “In the state of Arizona, over 36,000 ballots were illegally cast by noncitizens.”
There’s no evidence that happened. C. Murphy Hebert, a spokeswoman for the Arizona secretary of state, told us the president’s claim is false. “You must be a citizen to vote in an election in Arizona, so that number appears to be completely fabricated,” she wrote in an email. So Trump may have been distorting what Townsend told Giuliani.
But Hebert told us it is wrong to assume that “federal only” voters are not U.S. citizens. Hebert said there are actually about 23,000 voters in Arizona who qualify for a federal-only ballot.
Trump claimed in Arizona “11,600 more ballots and votes were counted … than there were actual voters.” That’s false. For the 2020 general election, Arizona’s state certified election results show 3,420,565 ballots cast and 4,281,301 voter registrations.
That’s an eligible voter turnout of almost 80%. Trump claimed that “150,000 people” registered in Maricopa County, Arizona, “after the registration deadline.” That’s wrong.
Because of a lawsuit filed by progressive advocacy groups, the deadline to register to vote in Arizona’s general election was extended from Oct. 5 until Oct. 15. During that period, however, fewer than 20,000 additional voters were registered in Maricopa County.
The public information officer for the Maricopa County Recorder’s Office, Diana Solorio, told us 17,407 people registered to vote in the county between Oct. 6 and Oct. 15. Of those people, 5,191 were registered Republicans, 4,245 were registered Democrats, 263 were registered Libertarians and 7,708 were not registered with a party. Solorio said she had no idea where the president got the 150,000 figure.
In fact, in mid-October, the Arizona Republic, based on estimates from the state’s secretary of state’s office, reported that “more than 35,000 people” all across the state “signed up to vote during a 10-day extension of Arizona’s voter registration deadline.” Again, more registered Republicans (10,922) than registered Democrats (8,292) signed up to vote in that time.
Editor’s note: FactCheck.org does not accept advertising. We rely on grants and individual donations from people like you.
Please consider a donation. Credit card donations may be made through our “Donate” page.
If you prefer to give by check, send to: FactCheck.org, Annenberg Public Policy Center, 202 S. 36th St., Philadelphia, PA 19104. This fact check is available at IFCN’s 2020 US Elections FactChat #Chatbot on WhatsApp. Click here for more.

Warning: This graphic requires JavaScript. Please enable JavaScript for the best experience.
Jan. 6, 2021, was always on the country’s radar. Two runoff elections that would determine control of the Senate still had not been decided as Tuesday became Wednesday. A joint session of Congress convened to certify Joe Biden’s electoral-vote win while thousands gathered on the Mall in support of President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him. As the scene in D.C. continued to darken, smaller demonstrations across the nation also flared, forcing officials in several statehouses to evacuate. This is how the day unfolded.
Crowds began forming early in the morning on the White House Ellipse for Trump’s “Save America” rally. During his speech, Trump reiterated multiple falsehoods, claiming the election was rigged and that Democrats had committed voter fraud. By midday, the Capitol was buzzing as Congress convened in a joint session and pro-Trump protesters began to gather around the building’s perimeter. Soon after Trump ended his speech, violence broke out as a mob forced its way into the Capitol building. They broke down doors and shattered windows to enter, forcing Congress to adjourn and take shelter.
Smaller demonstrations began around the country. Trump remained relatively quiet, even as the country called on him to make a statement that could end the chaos. Though he eventually told the mob to go home, he simultaneously expressed his love for the rioters and rationalized their feelings. After more than four hours, the mob was cleared and Trump’s Twitter and Facebook accounts were temporarily locked for policy violations.
Congress reconvened to certify the electoral-vote tally. Around 3:40 a.m., more than 13 hours after the Capitol was breached, Vice President Pence officially affirmed the election results, declaring Biden the winner.
In the days that followed, shaken and angry members of Congress demanded that Trump take responsibility for inciting violence. Democrats, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), called for Trump’s immediate removal from office, either through the 25th Amendment or impeachment.
Five people died as a result of the Capitol breach, one from gunfire and three from medical emergencies. Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick died Thursday night of unspecified injuries he suffered in the attack.

Democrats are on the verge of impeaching President Trump again. On Monday, they introduced a single article of impeachment alleging that Trump incited the violent attempted insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week.
Trump’s culpability for the violence is the topic of much debate. But even many of his Republican allies have tied it to his long-running, baseless claims about a stolen election.
And others have said Trump went too far in his fiery speech to protesters that preceded their storming of the Capitol. Trump’s speech included no overt calls for his supporters to actually enter the Capitol or resort to violent means.
But it included plenty of allusions to the idea that Congress accepting Joe Biden’s victory — an all-but-assured outcome at the time — was a result that simply couldn’t be countenanced and must be stopped. He urged his supporters to “fight” and “fight like hell” and lamented that they didn’t do so as hard as Democrats.
The speech must also be viewed in the context of a president who has often alluded to the idea that his supporters might one day get violent. And while he said those who would march to the Capitol after his speech should “peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard,” his speech was also littered with allusions to the protesters having the power to stop what Congress was doing — and indeed, that he was counting on them to do so.
All of it will be at issue in the looming impeachment proceedings, but it’s also worth an in-depth look at precisely what Trump said shortly before the historic siege of the Capitol. Below is the full speech, with annotations providing analysis and context.
TRUMP: Media will not show the magnitude of this crowd. Even I, when I turned on today, I looked, and I saw thousands of people here, but you don’t see hundreds of thousands of people behind you because they don’t want to show that.
We have hundreds of thousands of people here, and I just want them to be recognized by the fake news media. Turn your cameras, please, and show what is really happening out here, because these people are not going to take it any longer, they’re not going to take it any longer.1 1 Trump's speech begins with a suggestion that his supporters -- whose numbers he vastly overstates as being in the hundreds of thousands -- are "not going to take it any longer."
The speech ahead will be littered with references to the idea that his movement is in a desperate moment. Go ahead, turn your cameras, please. Would you show they came from all over the world actually, but they came from all over our country.
I just really want to see what they do. I just want to see how they cover it. I’ve never seen anything like it, but it would be really great if we could be covered fairly by the media.
The media is the biggest problem we have as far as I’m concerned, single biggest problem. The fake news and the big tech, big tech, is now coming into their own. We beat them four years ago, we surprised them.
We took him by surprise and this year they rigged an election, they rigged it like they have never rigged an election before, and by the way, last night, they didn't do a bad job either, if you notice. I am honest, and I just again, I want to thank you.
It's just a great honor to have this kind of crowd and to be before you and hundreds of thousands of American patriots who are committed to the honesty of our elections and the integrity of our glorious Republic. All of us here today do not want to see our election victory stolen by bold and radical left Democrats, which is what they are doing, and stolen by the fake news media.
That is what they have done and what they are doing. We will never give up. We will never concede.
It doesn’t happen. You don’t concede when there’s theft involved.2 2 Trump spoke less than two hours before Congress would begin making his loss official But he assured the crowd that he will "never concede."
What's notable here is that he lumps in his supporters in that posture, also saying, "We will never give up." It's important to emphasize here that, once Congress accepts the results, there is no more legal recourse. Trump is urging people to continue a fight that in a few hours will have no method of success through the normal processes. Our country has had enough.
We will not take it anymore, and that is what this is all about.3 3 Another reference to the desperation of the moment. As with some of the above, it includes no reference to the crowd using force — which Trump will avoid throughout the speech — but pitches the moment as some kind of last stand.
And to use a favorite term that all of you people really came up with, we will stop the steal4. 4 "Stop the Steal" is a group that organized this rally and others like it across the country. One of its organizers is Ali Alexander, a conspiracy theorist who has inhabited the fringes of the conservative movement.
The name, as with much of Trump's rhetoric, references the idea that the election is being deliberately stolen rather than that there are simply doubts about its legitimacy. Here, Trump assures his audience that the stolen election "will" be stopped. Almost 75 million people voted for our campaign, the most of any incumbent president by far in the history of our country; 12 million more than four years ago.
He had 80 million computer votes. It’s a disgrace. There’s never been anything like that.
You can take Third World countries, just take a look, take Third World countries, their elections are more honest than what we have been going through in this country. It’s a disgrace.
It’s a disgrace. Even when you look at last night, they were all running around like chickens with their heads cut off with boxes, and nobody knows what the hell is going on.
There’s never been anything like this. We will not let them silence your voices. We’re not going to let it happen.
Not going to let it happen. CROWD:
Fight for Trump. Fight for Trump. Fight for Trump.
Fight for Trump. Fight for Trump.
Fight for Trump. TRUMP:
Thank you. CROWD: Fight for Trump. And Rudy, you did a great job.
(APPLAUSE) He’s got guts.
You know what? He’s got guts, unlike a lot of people in the Republican Party, he’s got guts, he fights,
he fights.5 And I will tell you thank you very much, John [Eastman], fantastic job.
I watched — that’s a tough act to follow those two. John is one of the most brilliant lawyers in the country and he looked at this, and he said what an absolute disgrace that this could be happening to our Constitution, and he looked at Mike Pence, and I hope Mike is going to do the right thing.
I hope so. I hope so because if Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the election.
5 "Rudy" refers to Trump's personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani. Shortly before Trump's speech, Giuliani had called for a "trial by combat" — one of the more overt references to violence at the rally. It is not clear whether Trump was aware of that controversial remark, but here he endorses what Giuliani said.
All he has to do — all — this is — this is from the number one or certainly one of the top constitutional lawyers in our country. He has the absolute right to do it. We're supposed to protect our country, support our country, support our Constitution and protect our Constitution. States want to revote, the states got defrauded.
They were given false information, they voted on it. Now they want to recertify; they want it back.
All Vice President Pence has to do is send it back to the states to recertify, and we become president, and you are the happiest people. And I actually, I just spoke to Mike.
I said, Mike, that doesn’t take courage, what takes courage is to do nothing. That takes courage, and then we are stuck with a president who lost the election by a lot, and we have to live with that for four more years. We’re just not going to let that happen.6 6
This is a crucial section: Trump concludes his recounting of a conversation with Vice President Pence by, again, suggesting that his supporters won't abide a lack of compliance. Legal experts and many Republican lawmakers agreed that Pence could do nothing to prevent Congress from accepting the certified results of these states, and Pence had signaled that he would not attempt to. But Trump suggests that there is something the rally could — and will — do to halt that.
Many of you have traveled from all across the nation to be here, and I want to thank you for the extraordinary love. That is what it is; there's never been a movement like this ever, ever for the extraordinary love for this amazing country.
And this amazing movement. Thank you. CROWD:
We love Trump. We love Trump.
We love Trump. We love Trump.
We love Trump. We love Trump.
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump.
TRUMP: By the way, this goes all the way back past the Washington Monument.
Do you believe this? Look at this. Unfortunately, they gave the press the prime seats.
I can't stand that. No, but you look at that behind.
I wish they would flip those cameras and look behind you. That is the most amazing site.
It all stopped, and they could use Rudy back in New York City, Rudy. They could use you.
Your city is going to hell. They want Rudy Giuliani back in New York.
We will get a little younger version of Rudy. Is that okay, Rudy?
We're gathered together in the heart of our nation's capital for one very, very basic and simple reason, to save our democracy. [*]TRUMP: You know they try and get you to go, they say, sir, in four years you are guaranteed.
I said, I’m not interested right now. Do me a favor.
Go back eight weeks. I want to go back eight weeks.
Let’s go back eight weeks. We want to go back, and we want to get this right, because we’re going to have somebody in there that should not be in there, and our country will be destroyed.
And we’re not going to stand for that.7 7 Another reference to the immediacy of the moment — including the idea that Biden being allowed to win would mean the country "will be destroyed." And Trump yet again alludes to the idea that his supporters won't just let it happen.
I could name 24 of them, let's say. I won't bore you with it. And then all of a sudden, you have something like this.
There is like oh, gee, maybe I'll talk to the president sometime later. No, it's amazing.
The weak Republicans. They're pathetic Republicans, and that's what happens. If this happened to the Democrats, there’d be hell all over the country going on.
There’d be hell all over the country.8 But just remember this, you’re stronger, you’re smarter. You’ve got more going than anybody, and they try and demean everybody having to do with us, and you’re the real people.
You’re the people that built this nation. You’re not the people that tore down our nation.9 8
This is a favorite rhetorical device of Trump's: alluding to the idea that Democrats are somehow tougher and more willing to raise "hell" in such situations. Given how often Trump employs this device, it's not difficult to read it as implying that he'd like to see his own supporters respond more forcefully — whatever form that force might take.
9 A particularly striking line given that shortly after this speech, Trump's supporters would storm the Capitol — a deliberate attempt to tear down our government. The weak Republicans — and that’s it, I really believe it.
I think I’m going to use the term. The weak Republicans. You’ve got a lot of them and you’ve got a lot of great ones. But you’ve got a lot of weak ones. They’ve turned a blind eye.
Unbelievable, what we have to go through. What we have to go through — and you have to get your people to fight. And if they don't fight, we have to primary the hell out of the ones that don't fight.
We primary them. We’re going to — we’re going to let you know who they are. I can already tell you, frankly. But this year, using the pretext of the China virus and the scam of mail-in ballots, Democrats attempted the most brazen and outrageous election theft. And there’s never been anything like this.
It’s a pure theft in American history. Everybody knows it. That election, our election was over at 10 in the evening.
We’re leading Pennsylvania, Michigan, Georgia. By hundreds of thousands of votes, and then late in the evening or early in the morning, boom. These explosions of bullshit, and all of the sudden — (APPLAUSE) — all of a sudden, it started to happen.10 10 Trump has employed coarse language plenty of times as president, but this line whipped up his supporters like few in the speech. CROWD: Bullshit.
Bullshit. Bullshit. I wonder if he enjoyed his flight in last night. But when Romney got beat, you know, he stands up like your more typical — well, I'd like to congratulate the victor.
The victor. Who was the victor, Mitt?
I'd like to congratulate. They don't go in and look at the facts. Oh, I don't know. You've got — he got slaughtered, probably.
Maybe it was okay, maybe it was — that's what happened. But we look at the facts, and our election was so corrupt that in the history of this country, we've never seen anything like it.
You could go all the way back. You know, America is blessed with elections.
All over the world they talk about our elections. You know what the world says about us now? They said we don't have free and fair elections. Republicans are constantly fighting like a boxer with his hands tied behind his back.
It’s like a boxer. And we want to be so nice. We want to be so respectful of everybody, including bad people.
And we’re going to have to fight much harder.11 And Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us. And if he doesn’t, that will be a sad day for our country because you’re sworn to uphold our Constitution.
11 Another reference to the idea that Democrats, whom Trump previously said would raise "hell" in such a situation, are willing to go further than his supporters.
As with much of the speech, Trump's references to fighting don't include overt references to using literal force. But he suggests that more extreme measures are warranted and not being undertaken. Now it is up to Congress to confront this egregious assault on our democracy.
And after this, we’re going to walk down and I’ll be there with you.
We’re going to walk down — (APPLAUSE) — we’re going to walk down. Anyone you want, but I think right here, we’re going to walk down to the Capitol — (APPLAUSE) — and we’re going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women, and we’re probably not going to be cheering so much for some of them.
(LAUGHTER) Because you’ll never take back our country with weakness.12 You have to show strength and you have to be strong. 12 Trump makes his first reference to the crowd descending upon the Capitol. He says he will be with them, but he did not do so due to obvious security concerns. Trump notably suggests that the purpose is to either cheer on lawmakers who do the right thing or protest those who don't.
We have come to demand that Congress do the right thing and only count the electors who have been lawfully slated. Lawfully slated.
I know that everyone here will soon be marching over to the Capitol building to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard.13 Today, we will see whether Republicans stand strong for the integrity of our elections. But whether or not they stand strong for our country — our country, our country has been under siege for a long time.
Far longer than this four-year period. 13
This is the line that Trump's allies — including Giuliani — have regularly used to defend him against allegations that his speech incited the violence. It is worth noting that Trump directly urged people to "peacefully" make their voices heard at the Capitol. As is often the case, though, Trump co-mingled that with far different messages: The idea that this couldn't be allowed to happen, the idea that it would lead to disaster, and the idea that Democrats wouldn't respond so peacefully.
And many of Trump's supporters seemed to internalize that message more than this one. We set it on a much straighter course, a much — and we — I thought, you know, four more years.
I thought it would be easy. We created the greatest economy in history.
We rebuilt our military. We get you the biggest tax cuts in history, right?
We got the biggest regulation cuts. There is no president, whether it's four years, eight years, or in one case more got anywhere near the regulation cuts. It used to take 20 years to get the highway approved.
Now we’re down to two. I want to get it down to one, but we’re down to two. And it may get rejected for environmental or safety reasons, but we got it down, the safety.
We created Space Force. We — and look what we did.
Our military has been totally rebuilt. So we create Space Force, which by and of itself is a major achievement for an administration.
And with us, it’s one of so many different things. Right to try. Everybody know about right to try. We did things that nobody ever thought possible.
We took care of our vets. Our vets. The VA now has the highest rating.
91 percent. The highest rating that it's had from the beginning.
91 percent approval rate rating. Always, you watch the VA. It was on television.
Every night, people living in a horrible, horrible manner. We got that done and we got accountability done.
We got it so that now in the VA, you don’t have to wait for four weeks, six weeks, eight weeks, four months to see a doctor. If you can’t get a doctor, you go outside, you get the doctor, you have him taken care of, and we pay the doctor.
And we’ve not only made life wonderful for so many people, we’ve saved tremendous amounts of money, secondarily. But we’ve saved a lot of money. And now we have the right to fire bad people in the VA. We had 9,000 people they treated our veterans horribly.
In prime time, they would not have treated our veterans badly. But they treated our veterans horribly and we have what's called the account — VA Accountability Act.
And the accountability says if we see somebody in there that doesn't treat our vets well or they steal, they rob, they do things badly, we say Joe, you're fired. Get out of here. Before, you couldn't do that.
You couldn't do that before. So we've taken care of things.
We've done things like nobody's ever thought possible, and that's part of the reason that many people don't like us because we've done too much. But we've done it quickly.
And we were going to sit home and watch a big victory and everybody had us down for a victory. It was going to be great.
And now we’re out here fighting. I said to somebody, I was going to take a few days and relax after our big electoral victory. 10:00, it was over
and I was going to take a few days. Even, you know, the press said we’re going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points. Even though the press said Ohio’s going to be close, we set a record.
Florida’s going to be close. We set a record.
Texas is going to be close. Texas is going to be close.
We set a record. And we set a record with Hispanics, with the Black community. We set a record with everybody.
Today, we see a very important event, though, because right over there, right there, we see the event that’s going to take place, and I’m going to be watching because history is going to be made. We’re going to see whether or not we have great and courageous leaders or whether or not we have leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity. They’ll be ashamed.
And you know what? If they do the wrong thing, we should never, ever forget that they did. Never forget.14 14
The "very important event" wound up being something quite different than Congress making a decision about accepting Biden's win. We should never, ever forget.
With only three of the seven states in question, we win the presidency of the United States. And, by the way, it’s much more important today than it was 24 hours ago because — and don’t — I spoke to David Perdue.
What a great person. And Kelly Loeffler, two great people.
But it was a setup and you know, I said we have no back line anymore. The only back line, the only line of demarcation, the only line that we have is the veto of the president of the United States.
So, this is now, what we’re doing, a far more important election than it was two days ago. — Senator Josh Hawley, Kelly Loeffler.
And, Kelly Loeffler, I'll tell you, she has been — she has been so great. She works so hard, so let's give her and David a little special hand, because it was rigged against them. Let's give her and David — Kelly Loeffler, David Perdue.
They fought a good race. They never had a shot.
That equipment should never have been allowed to be used. And, I was telling these people, “Don't let them use this stuff.” Marsha Blackburn, terrific person, Mike Braun, Indiana, Steve Daines, great guy, Bill Hagerty, John Kennedy, James Lankford, Cynthia Lummis, Tommy Tuberville, the coach, and Roger Marshall.
We want to thank them. Senators have stepped up.
We want to thank them. I actually think, though, it takes, again, more courage not to step up
and I think a lot of those people are going to find that out. And you better start looking at your leadership because your leadership has led you down the tubes. I think it’s the primary reason — one of the primary reasons, the other was just pure cheating — that was the primary — super primary reason.
But you can’t do that. You’ve got to use your head.
As you know, the media has constantly asserted the outrageous lie that there was no evidence of widespread fraud. You ever see these people?
“While there's no evidence of fraud.” Oh, really? Well, I'm going to read you pages. I hope you don't get bored listening to it.
Promise? Don't get bored listening to it, all those hundreds of thousands of people back there.
Move them up, please. Yeah.
All they — all these people, don't get bored. Don't get angry at me because you're going to get bored, because it's so much.
The American people do not believe the corrupt fake news anymore. They have ruined their reputation. But you know, it used to be that they’d argue with me.
I’d fight. So, I’d fight, they’d fight, I’d fight, they’d fight, bump, bump, you’d believe me, you’d believe them. Somebody comes out.
You know, they had their point of view, I had my point of view. But you’d have an argument.
Now what they do is they go silent. It’s called suppression and that’s what happens in a communist country.
That’s what they do. They suppress.
You don’t fight with them anymore unless it’s a bad story. If they have a little bad story about me, they make it ten times worse and it’s a major headline.
But Hunter Biden, they don’t talk about him. What happened to Hunter? Where’s Hunter?
Where is Hunter? They don’t talk about him. Now watch, all the sets will go off. Well, they can’t do that because they get good ratings.
Their ratings are too good. But we don't have that anymore.
We don't have a fair media anymore. It's suppression and you have to be very careful with that, and they've lost all credibility in this country.
We will not be intimidated into accepting the hoaxes and the lies that we've been forced to believe. Over the past several weeks, we've amassed overwhelming evidence about a fake election.
This is the presidential election. Last night was a little bit better because of the fact that we had a lot of eyes watching one specific state, but they cheated like hell anyway.
You have one of the dumbest governors in the United States. And, you know, when I endorsed him at — I didn't know this guy — at the request of David Perdue. He said, “A friend of mine is running for governor,” “What's his name?”
and you know the rest. He was in fourth place, fifth place. I don't know, he was way — he was doing poorly.
I endorsed him. He went like a rocket ship and he won.
And then I had to beat Stacey Abrams with this guy, Brian Kemp. I had to beat Stacey Abrams and I had to beat Oprah, used to be a friend of mine. You know, I was on her last show, her last week.
She picked the five outstanding people. I don’t think she thinks that anymore. Once I ran for president, I didn’t notice too many calls coming in from Oprah.
Believe it or not, she used to like me. But I was one of the five outstanding people and I had to campaign against Michelle Obama and Barack Hussein Obama, against Stacey. But I look at that and I look at what’s happened and he turned out to be a disaster.
This stuff happens. You know, look, I’m not happy with the Supreme Court. They love to rule against me.
I picked three people. I fought like hell for them.
One in particular I fought. They all said, “Sir, cut him loose, he's killing the senators.” You know, very loyal senators.
They're very loyal people. “Sir, cut him loose. He is killing us, sir.
Cut him loose, sir.” I will never — I must have gotten half of these senators. I said no, I can’t do that.
It’s unfair to him, and it’s unfair to the family. He didn’t do anything wrong. They made up stories.
They were all made-up stories. He didn’t do anything wrong.
Cut him loose, sir. I said no, I won’t do that.
We got him through, and you know what, they couldn’t give a damn. They couldn’t give a damn.
Let him rule the right way, but it almost seems that they are all going out of their way to hurt all of us and to hurt our country, to hurt our country. You know I read a story in one of the newspapers recently how I control the three Supreme Court justices.
I control them. They are puppets. I read it about Bill Barr that he is my personal attorney, that he will do anything for me, and I said you know it really is genius because what they do is that and it makes it really impossible for them to ever give you a victory because all of the sudden Bill Barr changed, if you hadn’t noticed. I like Bill Barr, but he changed because he didn’t want to be considered my personal attorney.
In every single swing state, local officials, state officials almost all Democrats made illegal and unconstitutional changes to election procedures without the mandated approvals by the state legislatures that these changes paved the way for fraud on a scale never seen before, and I think we would go a long way outside of our country when I say that. So just in a nutshell, you can’t make a change on voting for a federal election unless the state legislature approves it.
No judge can do it; nobody can do it, only a legislature. So as an example, in Pennsylvania or whatever, you have a Republican legislature, you have a Democrat mayor, and you have a lot of Democrats all over the place; they go to the legislature, the legislature laughs at them says we’re not going to do that, they say thank you very much and they go and make the changes themselves, they do it anyway, and that is totally illegal, that is totally illegal.
You can’t do that. In Pennsylvania, the Democrat secretary of state and the Democrat state Supreme Court justices illegally abolished the signature verification requirements just 11 days prior to the election. So think of what they did.
No longer is there signature verification. That's okay. We want voter ID, by the way, but no longer is there signature verification.
11 days before the election, they say we don't want it. Do you know why they don't want them?
Because they want to cheat, that's the only reason. Who would even think of that?
We don't want to verify a signature. There were over 205,000 more ballots counted in Pennsylvania.
Now think of this, you had 205,000 more ballots than you had voters. That means you had to — where did they come from?
Do you know where they came from? Somebody’s imagination, whatever they need it. So in Pennsylvania, you had 205,000 more votes than you had voters, and it’s — the number is actually much greater than that now. That was as of a week ago, and this is a mathematical impossibility unless you want to say it’s a total fraud.
So if Pennsylvania was defrauded. Over 8,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were cast by people whose names and dates of birth match individuals who died in 2020 and prior to the election.
Think of that. Dead people, lots of dead people, thousands, and some dead people actually requested an application.
That bothers me even more. Not only are they voting, they want an application to vote; one of them was 29 years ago died.
It's incredible. Over 14,000 ballots were cast by out-of-state voters, so these are voters that don’t live in the state, and by the way, these numbers are what they call outcome-determinative, meaning these numbers far surpass — I lost by a very little bit. These numbers are massive, massive.
More than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania were illegally counted even though they were received after Election Day. In other words, they were received after Election Day. Let’s count them anyway and what they did in many cases is they did fraud, they took the date, and they moved it back so that it no longer is after Election Day. 25,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were requested by nursing home residents, all in a single giant batch, not legal, indicating an enormous illegal ballot harvesting operation. You are not allowed to do it.
It's against the law. The day before the election, the state of Pennsylvania reported the number of absentee ballots that had been sent out, yet this number was suddenly and drastically increased by 400,000 people. It was increased; nobody knows where it came from by 400,000 ballots one day after the election.
It remains totally unexplained. They said, well, we can't figure that. Now that's many, many times what it would take to overthrow the state, just that one element, 400,000 ballots appeared from nowhere right after the election.
By the way, Pennsylvania has now seen all of this. They didn't know because it was so quick they had a vote, they voted, but now they see all of this stuff, it has all come to light. It doesn't happen that fast.
And they want to recertify their votes. They want them recertified, but the only way that can happen is if Mike Pence agrees to send it back.
Mike Pence has to agree to send it back. CROWD:
Send it back. Send it back.
Send it back. Send it back.
Send it back. Send it back. TRUMP:
And many people in Congress want it sent back. Think of what you are doing.
Let’s say you don’t do it, somebody says, well, we have to obey the Constitution and you are because you are protecting our country, and you are protecting the Constitution, so you are, but think of what happens. Let’s say there are stiffs and they are stupid people and they say, well, we really have no choice even though Pennsylvania and other states want to redo their votes, they want to see the numbers, they only have the numbers go very quickly and they want to redo their legislature because many of these votes were taken, as I said, because it wasn’t approved by their legislature, you know that in itself is legal, and then you have the scam and that is all of the things that we are talking about.
But think of this: If you don’t do that, that means you will have a president of the United States for four years with his wonderful son, you will have a president who lost all of these states, or you will have a president, to put it another way, who was voted on by a bunch of stupid people who lost all of these states. You will have an illegitimate president. That is what you will have, and we can’t let that happen.16
These are the facts that you won’t hear from the fake news media. It’s all part of the suppression effort.
They don’t want to talk about it. They don’t want to talk about it.
16 Again, Trump pitches Biden's ascension to the presidency as unconscionable, saying that "we can't let that happen" — even though it was a foregone conclusion through the regular processes. In fact, when I started talking about that, I guarantee you a lot of the television sets and a lot of those cameras went off, and that's a lot of cameras back there. But a lot of them went off, but these are the things you don't hear about, you don't hear what you just heard, and I'm going to go over a few more states, but you don't hear of the people who want to deceive you and demoralize you and control you big tech media just like the suppression polls that said we are going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points.
Well, we won Wisconsin. They don't have it that way because they just buy a little sliver, but they had me down the day before. Washington Post ABC poll, down 17 points.
I called up a real pollster. I said, what is that? “Sir, that's called a suppression poll.
I think you are going to win Wisconsin, sir.” I said, “But why don't they make it four or five points,” because then people vote.
But when you're down 17, they say, ‘Hey, I'm not going to waste my time. I love the president, but there's no way.’
Despite that — despite that, we won Wisconsin. It's going to see — I mean, you'll see.
And just like the radical left tries to blacklist you on social media, every time I put out a tweet that's — even if it's totally correct, totally correct — I get a flag. I get a flag. And they also don't let you get out. You know, on Twitter, it's very hard to come on to my account.
It's very hard to get out a message. They don't let the message get out nearly like they should. But I've had many people say I can't get on your Twitter. I don't care about Twitter.
Twitter is bad news. They are all bad news.
But you know what? If you want to — if you want to get out a message and if you want to go through big tech, social media, they are really — if you're a conservative, if you're a Republican, if you have a big voice, I guess they call it shadow ban, right?
Shadow ban. They shadow ban you and it should be illegal.
I've been telling these Republicans get rid of Section 230. And for some reason, Mitch and the group, they don't want to put it in there and they don't realize that that's going to be the end of the Republican Party as we know it, but it's never going to be the end of us. Never. Let them get out.
Let — let the weak ones get out. This is a time for strength. They also want to indoctrinate your children in school by teaching them things that aren’t so.
They want to indoctrinate your children. It’s all part of a comprehensive assault on our democracy, and the American people are finally standing up and saying no. This crowd is, again, a testament to it.
I did no advertising. I did nothing.
You do have some groups that are big supporters. I want to thank that. Amy and everybody.
We have some incredible supporters. Incredible.
But we didn't do anything. This just happened.
Two months ago, we had a massive crowd come down to Washington. I said what are they there for?
Sir, they're there for you. We had nothing to do with it. These groups are formed — they’re forming all over the United States.
And we’ve got to remember, in a year from now, you’re going to start working on Congress and we’ve got to get rid of the weak congresspeople, the ones that aren’t any good, the Liz Cheneys of the world. We’ve got to get rid of them. We’ve got to get rid. You know, she never wants a soldier brought home.
I brought a lot of our soldiers home. I don't know.
Some might like it. They're in countries that nobody even knows the name. Nobody knows where they are.
They're dying. They're great, but they're dying. They are losing their arms, their legs, their face.
I brought them back home. Largely back home.
Afghanistan, Iraq. Remember I used to say in the old days, don't go in Iraq.
But if you go in, keep the oil. We didn't keep the oil.
So stupid. So stupid, these people. And Iraq has billions and billions of dollars now in the bank. And what did we do?
We did get nothing. We never get — but we do, actually.
We kept the oil here. We kept — we did good. We got rid of the ISIS caliphate.
We got rid of plenty of different things. Everybody knows, and the rebuilding of our military in three years, people said it couldn’t be done and it was all made in the USA. All made in the USA.
Best equipment in the world. In Wisconsin, corrupt Democrat-run cities deployed more than 500 illegal unmanned, unsecured drop boxes, which collected a minimum of 91,000 unlawful votes. It was razor thin, the loss.
This one thing alone is much more than we would need, but there are many things. They have these lockboxes. And you know, they pick them up and they disappear for two days.
People would say where’s that box? They’d disappeared. Nobody even knew where the hell it was. In addition, more than 170,000 absentee votes were counted in Wisconsin without a valid absentee ballot application. So they had a vote, but they had no application and that’s illegal in Wisconsin.
Meaning, those votes were blatantly done in opposition to state law and they came 100 percent from Democrat areas such as Milwaukee and Madison. 100 percent.
In Madison, 17,000 votes were deposited in so-called human drop boxes. You know what that is, right? Where operatives stuff thousands of unsecured ballots into duffel bags on park benches across the city in complete defiance of cease and desist letters from state legislature.
The state legislatures said don’t do it. They’re the only ones that could approve it. They gave tens of thousands of votes.
They came in duffel bags. Where the hell did they come from? According to eyewitness testimony, Postal Service workers in Wisconsin were also instructed to illegally backdate approximately 100,000 ballots. The margin of difference in Wisconsin was less than 20,000 votes.
Each one of these things alone wins us the state. Great state.
We love the state. We won the state. In Georgia, your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican. He loves recording telephone conversations. You know, that was a — I thought it was a great conversation, personally.
So did a lot of other — people love that conversation because it says what’s going on. These people are crooked. They are 100 percent — in my opinion, one of the most corrupt.
Between your governor and your secretary of state — and now you have it again last night. Just take a look at what happened. What a mess. And the Democrat Party operatives entered into an illegal and unconstitution — unconstitutional settlement agreement that drastically weakens signature verification and other election security procedures.
Stacey Abrams, she took them to lunch. And I beat her two years ago with a bad candidate, Brian Kemp.
But they took — the Democrats took the Republicans to lunch because the secretary of state had no clue what the hell was happening — unless he did have a clue. That’s interesting.
Maybe he was with the other side.17 17 Trump completely baselessly suggests that Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger (R) was acting as something of a double-agent. Raffensperger has said his family has received death threats amid Trump's regular attacks on him. It's a great example of Trump whipping his supporters up with completely evidence-free claims.
But we’ve been trying to get verifications of signatures in Fulton County. They won’t let us do it.
The only reason they won’t is because we’ll find things in the hundreds of thousands. Why wouldn’t they let us verify signatures at Fulton County, which is known for being very corrupt?
They won’t do it. They go to some other county where you would live. I said that's not the problem.
The problem is Fulton County, home of Stacey Abrams. She did a good job.
I congratulate her, but it was done in such a way that we can't let this stuff happen. We won't have a country if it happens. As a result, Georgia's absentee ballot rejection rate was more than 10 times lower than previous levels because the criteria was so off. Forty-eight counties in Georgia with thousands and thousands of votes rejected zero ballots.
There wasn’t one ballot. In other words, in a year in which more mail-in ballots were sent than ever before and more people were voting by mail for the first time, their rejection rate was drastically lower than it had ever been before.
The only way this can be explained as if tens of thousands of illegitimate votes were added to the tally. That's the only way you could explain it. By the way, you're talking about tens of thousands.
If Georgia had merely rejected the same number of unlawful ballots as in other years, there should have been approximately 45,000 ballots projected. Far more than what we needed to win, just over 11,000. They should find those votes.
They should absolutely find that. Just over 11,000 votes.
That's all we need. They defrauded us out of a win in Georgia.
And we are not going to forget it. There's only one reason the Democrats could possibly want to eliminate signature matching, oppose voter ID, and stop citizenship confirmation.
Are you a citizen? You're not allowed to ask that question. Because they want to steal the election.
The radical left knows exactly what they were doing. They are ruthless, and it’s time that somebody did something about it.18 And Mike Pence, I hope you’re going to stand up for the good of our Constitution and for the good of our country.
(APPLAUSE) And if you’re not, I’m going to be very disappointed in you. I will tell you right now. I’m not hearing good stories. 18 "It's time that somebody did something about it" is followed immediately by suggesting that Pence should be that "somebody."
But Trump is yet again alluding to supposedly extraordinary measures that he believes his side won't emulate Democrats in taking. It's one of many nebulous calls to some kind of action that Trump's supporters seem to have taken in a very specific way.
In Fulton County, Republican poll watchers rejected in some cases physically, the individuals whose names and dates of birth match incarcerated felons in Georgia prison, people who are not allowed to vote. More than 4,500 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who do not appear on the state’s own voter rolls.
Over 18,000 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who registered to vote using an address listed as vacant, according to the Postal Service. At least 88,000 ballots in Georgia were cast by people whose registrations were illegally backdated. Sixty-six thousand votes — each one of these is far more than we need. Sixty-six thousand votes in Georgia were cast by individuals under the legal voting age, and at least 15,000 ballots were cast by individuals who moved out of the state prior to the November 3 election.
They say they moved right back. They moved right back. Oh, they moved out, they moved right back, okay. They missed Georgia that much?
I do, I love Georgia, but it’s a corrupt system. Despite all of this, the margin in Georgia is only 11,779 votes. Each and every one of these issues is enough to give us a victory in Georgia, a big beautiful victory. Make no mistake, this election was stolen from you, from me, and from the country, and not a single swing state has conducted a comprehensive audit to remove the illegal ballots.19 This should absolutely occur in every single contested state before the election is certified.
19 After the violent scenes at the Capitol, a number of Republicans have cited Trump's rhetoric about a "stolen" election as being beyond the pale and potentially fomenting the violence.
It's worth noting that, while most of them didn't echo this charge for the past two months, few of them objected to it in real time or cautioned of the dangers it could pose. So, you have more votes, again, than you have voters. 150,000 people registered in Maricopa County after the registration deadline. 103,000 ballots in the county were sent for electronic adjudication with no Republican observers.
In Clark County, Nevada, the accuracy settings on signature verification machines were purposefully lowered before they were used to count over 130,000 ballots. If you signed your name as Santa Claus, it would go through.
There were also more than 42,000 double votes in Nevada. Over 150,000 people were hurt so badly by what took place and 1,500 ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match Nevada residents who died in 2020 prior to November 3 election.
More than 8,000 votes were cast by individuals who had no address and probably didn't live there. The margin in Nevada is down at a very low number.
Any of these things would have taken care of the situation. We would have won Nevada also. Every one of these we're going over, we win.
In Michigan, quickly, the secretary of state, a real great one, flooded the state with unsolicited mail-in ballot applications sent to every person on the rolls in direct violation of state law. More than 17,000 Michigan ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match people who were deceased.
In Wayne County, that’s a great one. That’s Detroit — 174,000 ballots were counted without being tied to an actual registered voter.
Nobody knows where they came from. Also in Wayne County, poll watches observed canvassers rescanning batches of ballots over and over again up to three or four or five times.
In Detroit, turnout was 139 percent of registered voters. Think of that. So, you had 139 percent of the people in Detroit voting.
This is in Michigan, Detroit Michigan. A career employee of the Detroit — City of Detroit testified under penalty of perjury that she witnessed city workers coaching voters to vote straight Democrat while accompanying them to watch who they voted for. When a Republican came in, they wouldn’t talk to them. The same worker was instructed not to ask for any voter ID and not to attempt to validate any signatures if they were Democrats.
She also was told to illegally … and was told backdate ballots, received after the deadline, and reports of thousands and thousands of ballots were improperly backdated. That's Michigan.
Four witnesses have testified under penalty of perjury that after officials in Detroit announced the last votes had been counted, tens of thousands of additional ballots arrived without required envelopes. Every single one was for a Democrat.
I got no votes. At 6:31 a.m. in the early morning hours after voting had ended, Michigan suddenly reported 147,000 votes. An astounding 94 percent went to Joe Biden who campaigned brilliantly from his basement.
Only a couple of percentage points went to Trump. Such gigantic and one-sided vote dumps were only observed in a few swing states and they were observed in the states where it was necessary — you know what's interesting? President Obama beat Biden in every state other than the swing states where Biden killed them, but the swing states were the ones that mattered.
They're always just enough to push Joe Biden barely into the lead. We were ahead by a lot and within a number of hours, we were losing by a little.
In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion voting systems. In one Michigan County alone, 6,000 votes were switched from Trump to Biden and the same systems are used in the majority of states in our country. Senator William Ligon, a great gentleman, chairman of Georgia Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, Senator Ligon, highly respected on elections, has written a letter describing his concerns with Dominion in Georgia.
He wrote, and I quote, “The Dominion voting machines employed in Fulton County had an astronomical and astounding 93.67 percent error rate.” It's only wrong 93 percent of the time.
In the scanning of ballots requiring a review panel to adjudicate or determine the voters' interest in over 106,000 ballots out of a total of 113,000. The national average for such an error rate is far less than 1 percent, and yet you're at 93 percent.
The source of this astronomical error rate must be identified to determine if these machines were set up or destroyed to allow for a third party to disregard the actual ballot cast by the registered voter. The letter continues, “There is clear evidence that tens of thousands of votes were switched from President Trump to former Vice President Biden in several counties in Georgia.” For example, in Bibb County, President Trump was reported to have 29,391 votes at 9:11 p.m. Eastern time while simultaneously, Vice President Joe Biden was reported to have 17,213.
Minutes later, just minutes, at the next update, these vote numbers switched with President Trump going way down to 17,000 and Biden going way up to 29,391. And, that was very quick, a 12,000-vote switch all in Mr. Biden's favor.
So, I mean, I could go on and on about this fraud that took place in every state and all of these legislators want this back. I don't want to do it to you because I love you and it's freezing out here. CROWD:
We love you, we love you, we love you. TRUMP:
So, when you hear — when you hear, “While there is no evidence to prove any wrongdoing,” this is the most fraudulent thing anybody’s — this is a criminal enterprise. This is a criminal enterprise.20
And the press will say — and I’m sure they won’t put any of that on there because that’s no good and did you ever see — “While there is no evidence to back President Trump’s assertion.” I could go on for another hour reading this stuff to you and telling you about it.
20 Here, Trump alludes to the idea that the election of an American president was guided by a "criminal enterprise."
It's the ratcheting up of the "stolen" rhetoric, suggesting an expansive and nefarious network of people. There's never been anything like it. Think about it.
Detroit had more votes than it had voters. Pennsylvania had 205,000 more votes than it had more — but you don't have to go — between that, I think that's almost better than dead people if you think, right? More votes than they had voters and many other states also.
It's a disgrace that the United States of America, tens of millions of people are allowed to go vote without so much as even showing identification. In no state is there any question or effort made to verify the identity, citizenship, residency, or eligibility of the votes cast.
It is also widely understood that the voter rolls are crammed full of noncitizens, felons, and people who have moved out of state, and individuals who are otherwise ineligible to vote, yet Democrats oppose every effort to clean up their voter rolls. They don't want to clean them up.
They are loaded, and how many people here are — know other people that when hundreds of thousands and then millions of ballots got sent out got three, four, five, six and I heard one who got seven ballots, and then they say you didn't quite make it, sir.
We won in a landslide. This was a landslide.
They said it's not American to challenge the election. This is the most corrupt election in the history, maybe in the world.
You know you could go to third-world countries, but I don't think they had hundreds of thousands of votes, and they don't have voters for them. I mean, no matter where you go, nobody would think this. In fact, it's so egregious, it's so bad that a lot of people don't even believe it.
It is so crazy that people don't even believe it. It can't be true. So they don't believe it.
This is not just a matter of domestic politics; this is a matter of national security.22 So today, in addition to challenging the certification of the election, I’m calling on Congress and the state legislatures to quickly pass sweeping election reforms, and you had better do it before we have no country left. Today is not the end; it’s just the beginning.
22 Trump suggests that allowing Biden's win to move forward would actually be a danger to the country — again, extreme rhetoric that plenty of people seemed to take to warrant extreme measures. With your help over the last four years, we built the greatest political movement in the history of our country, and nobody even challenges that. I say that over and over, and I never get challenged by the fake news, and they challenge almost everything we say.
But our fight against the big donors, big media, big tech, and others is just getting started. This is the greatest in history; there's never been a movement like that.
You look back, there are all of the way to the Washington Monument. It's hard to believe.
We must stop the steal, and then we must ensure that such outrageous election fraud never happens again, can never be allowed to happen again, but we are going forward; we will take care of it going forward. We have got to take care of going back.
Don't let them talk, “Okay, well, we promise.” I have had a lot of people, “Sir, you are at 96 percent for four years.”
I said I'm not interested right now. I'm interested in right there.
With your help, we will finally pass powerful requirements for voter ID. You need an ID to cash a check, you need an ID to go to a bank, to buy alcohol, to drive a car; every person should need to show an ID in order to cast your most important thing, a vote.
We will also require proof of American citizenship in order to vote in American elections. We just have a good victory in court on that one, actually.
We will ban ballot harvesting and prohibit the use of unsecured drop boxes to commit rampant fraud. These drop boxes are fraudulent. They get — they disappear, and then all of the sudden, they show up.
It is fraudulent. We will stop the practice of universal unsolicited mail-in balloting.
We will clean up the voter rolls and ensure that every single person who cast a vote is a citizen of our country, a resident of the state in which they vote, and their vote is cast in a lawful and honest manner. We will restore the vital civic tradition of in-person voting on Election Day so that voters can be fully informed when they make their choice.
We will finally hold big tech accountable, and if these people had courage and guts, they would get rid of Section 230, something that no other company, no other person in America, in the world has. All of these tech monopolies are going to abuse their power and interfere in our elections, and it has to be stopped; and the Republicans have to get a lot tougher, and so should the Democrats. They should be regulated, investigated, and brought to justice under the fullest extent of the law.
They are totally breaking the law. Together we will drain the Washington swamp, and we will clean up the corruption in our nation’s Capitol.
We have done a big job on it, but you think it’s easy; it’s a dirty business. It’s a dirty business.
We have a lot of bad people out there. Despite everything we have been through, looking out all over this country and seeing fantastic crowds, although this I think is our all-time record.
I think you have 250,000 people — 250,000. Looking out at all of the amazing patriots here today, I have never been more confident in our nation’s future.
Well, I have to say, we have to be a little bit careful. That’s a nice statement, but we have to be a little careful with that statement. If we allow this group of people to illegally take over our country because it’s illegal, when the votes are illegal, when the way that they got there is illegal, when the states that vote are given false and fraudulent information —23 23 This is a key section — and one that merits probing.
Trump doesn't finish his thought, but he seems to suggest that he might not be so proud of the people gathered if they "allow" the wrong outcome to happen. Their power to stop it — beyond protesting and supporting lawmakers who fall in line — though, would seem to have been quite limited. Nonetheless, Trump suggests that the situation is somehow under their control, and that they will be judged by the results.
We are the greatest country on Earth, and we are headed and were headed in the right direction. You know the wall is built; we are doing record numbers at the wall.
Now they want to take down the wall. Let’s let everyone flow in.
Let’s let everybody flow in. We did a great job on the wall. Remember the wall; they said it could never be done, one of the largest infrastructure projects we have ever had in this country, and it has had a tremendous impact and we got rid of catch and release, we got rid of all of the stuff that we had to live with.
But now the caravans, they think Biden is getting in, the caravans are forming again. They want to come in again and rip off our country, can’t let it happen. As this enormous crowd shows, we have truth and justice on our side. We have a deep and enduring love for America in our hearts.
We love our country. We have overwhelming pride in this great country. We have it deep in our souls. Together we are determined to defend and preserve government of the people, by the people, and for the people.
Our brightest days are before us. Our greatest achievements still wait. I think one of our great achievements will be election security, because nobody, until I came along, had any idea how corrupt our elections were.
And again, most people would stand there at 9 o’clock in the evening and say, “I want to thank you very much,” and they go off to some other life. But I said something is wrong here, something is really wrong, can’t have happened, and we fight. We fight like hell, and if you don’t fight like hell you’re not going to have a country anymore.24 24 Another key line, toward the end, urging supporters to "fight like hell" and warning them that failure to do so would be the very downfall of their country.

WASHINGTON (AP) — Defying President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence said Wednesday that he does not have the power to discard electoral votes that will make Democrat Joe Biden the next president on Jan. 20.
In the days before the joint session, Trump has pressured his vice president to toss electors from battleground states that voted for Biden to overturn the will of voters in a desperate and futile bid to undo President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the November election. “If Mike Pence does the right thing we win the election,” Trump told thousands of supporters who rallied Wednesday on the Ellipse, just south of the White House, an hour before the count in Congress was to begin. “All Vice President Pence has to do is send it back to the states to recertify and we become president and you are the happiest people,” Trump said, repeating a falsehood he has been promoting leading up to the congressional session.
Shortly before the 1 p.m. start of the joint session and even as Trump continued his verbal haranguing, Pence made clear in a three-page letter that he would follow the Constitution, not the commander in chief. While Trump was speaking, Pence’s motorcade carried him through a heavily-secured Washington toward the Capitol, where thousands of Trump supporters were marching. Pence has no unilateral power under the Constitution and congressional rules that govern the count.
It is up to the House and Senate to voice objections, and states’ electors were chosen in accordance with state law, not fraudulently. Beginning at 1 p.m., Pence began to open the certificates of the electoral votes from each state and present them to the appointed “tellers” from the House and Senate in alphabetical order. At the end of the count, Pence, seated on the House of Representatives’ rostrum, has the task of announcing who has won the majority of votes for both president and vice president. Despite his largely ceremonial assignment, Pence has faced intense pressure from the president and legions of supporters who want the vice president to use the moment to overturn the will of the voters in a handful of battleground states. Read Vice President Mike Pence’s full statement on the electoral count.

Addressing his backers, some of whom held signs bearing slogans such as “Save America” and “Stand With Trump,” the president said “these people are not going to take it any longer,” referring to his cheering supporters. He also heaped words of praise on the crowd.
In addition, Trump criticized “weak Republicans” unwilling to stand up to Democrats and said “you have to get your people to fight. And if they don’t fight we have to primary the hell out of the the ones that don’t fight,” referring to GOP lawmakers.
Bedlam soon followed at the Capitol. Brennan wrote that “incitement of a lawless mob that has assaulted the center of our democratically elected government is unforgivable, unconscionable, & likely indictable. Resign, and never darken America’s political system ever again. Travis Andersen can be reached at travis.andersen@globe.com.

Six days earlier, Cheney was in the House chamber, urging that Republicans reject efforts pushed by Trump and many others in her party to challenge the electoral college results that determined Trump had lost his reelection bid.
She did not know she was being attacked by Trump, who was delivering the speech that would incite a mob to storm the Capitol, until her father reached her by phone in the House cloakroom. “We got to get rid of the weak congresspeople, the ones that aren’t any good, the Liz Cheneys of the world,” Trump said in the speech, singling her out as he urged the mob to march to the Capitol.
After being informed of the president’s tirade by her father, Cheney walked out on the House floor, still hoping to stop the effort backed by Trump to overturn the electoral college votes. Then she heard a mob banging on the chamber’s doors and a shot fired, and realized that an attempted insurrection was underway.
She hustled to a secure location and later called Fox News. The dramatic moments, recounted by a source familiar with them, led her to back impeachment.
The decision marked an extraordinary denouement for Cheney and her potentially precarious perch in the party’s leadership. She had feuded for months with Trump and lately had been at odds with the majority of her caucus, even as speculation mounts about whether she might one day seek the speakership. The move was applauded by those in the party who have urged a clean break with Trump.
Tuesday night, Rep. Matt Rosendale (R-Mont.) called for Cheney to step down as the chair of the House Republican Conference. “She is weakening our conference at a key moment for personal political gain and is unfit to lead,” he said in a statement.
Liz Cheney, 54, has been a member of the House of Representatives for only four years, coinciding with Trump’s presidency. But she rose in meteoric fashion to the top ranks of GOP leadership after just one term representing Wyoming, leaving admirers and enemies in her wake.
Liz Cheney declined to comment. Richard Cheney did not respond to a request for comment.
She and her father have had an up-and-down relationship with Trump that turned toxic. As she heard Trump and many of her colleagues declare several weeks ago that Congress should seek to challenge the electoral college results, she sat down to write a 21-page memo warning Republicans against the effort.
Cheney’s memo was hailed by Democrats. But the advice was not heeded by the vast majority of those in Cheney’s caucus, as 139 out of 211 House Republicans voted to challenge electoral college votes from Arizona, Pennsylvania or both.
Cheney served as deputy assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs during the administration of her father’s first term as vice president. She then played a crucial role in the 2004 Bush-Cheney reelection campaign, after which she returned to her post at the State Department and later served a stint as a Fox News pundit.
In 2016, Cheney sought Wyoming’s lone U.S. House seat, which her father had once held. After winning the seat, Cheney’s ambition was to become one of the most powerful women on Capitol Hill. After winning reelection in 2018, a year in which Republicans lost control of the House, enabling Nancy Pelosi to become speaker, Cheney ran for a post traditionally sought by longtime members: leadership of the House Republican Conference Committee.
Richard Cheney, meanwhile, said in February 2016 that Trump sounded like a “liberal Democrat” and that he would not endorse him. But two months later, CNN reported that Cheney was breaking with the two former Bush presidents, who did not support Trump, and endorsed him at a time when the candidate had all but wrapped up the nomination.
After the election, with Liz Cheney winning a House seat at the same time Trump captured the presidency, Trump baldly tried to win the Cheney family’s goodwill. He pardoned the elder Cheney’s former chief of staff, I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, who was convicted of perjury and obstruction of justice.
Trump said Liz Cheney had pushed for the pardon. Soon, however, Cheney and Trump were at political war. Cheney blasted Trump’s proposal to withdraw U.S. troops from Germany as “dangerously misguided,” prompting a rebuke from Trump, who tweeted that “Liz Cheney is only upset because I have been actively getting our great and beautiful Country out of the ridiculous and costly Endless Wars.”
The dispute prompted some House Republicans to launch a failed effort to oust her from her leadership post. Cheney, who was unanimously reelected to her leadership position in November, has a voting record that underscores her conservatism. She has high ratings from right-leaning organizations and zero percent ratings from groups such as the Human Rights Campaign, which advocates for gay rights; the League of Conservation Voters; and the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, according to GovTrack.
Cheney’s recent actions helped mend a family rift. She was once criticized by her sister, Mary, who is openly gay and married, for opposing same-sex marriage. Alice Crites and Mike DeBonis contributed to this report.

How direct is the connection between what President Donald Trump communicated to his supporters and their actions in laying siege to the U.S. Capitol? Videos recorded by many individuals over the course of the day provide some answers.
A portion of these videos have not been seen widely before, including video footage largely from the platform Parler showing how the crowd reacted in real time to some of the most potent lines in Trump’s speech at the Ellipse. The videos, along with other information in the public record, provide strong evidence of a causal link between Trump’s messages to his supporters and their dangerous, illegal conduct. The collection of videos, viewed chronologically, also shows the ways in which Trump placed the life of Vice President Mike Pence, among others, in grave danger.
What’s revealed by these videos is not only relevant to the impeachment trial of Trump, where the House has charged that Trump “willfully made statements that, in context, encouraged—and foreseeably resulted—in lawless action at the Capitol.” The video evidence may also be relevant to an investigation by the Attorney General of the District of Columbia for potential incitement to riot.
And it may be relevant down the road to other federal prosecutors. Ultimately, the greatest relevance of these videos will be how parts of the public understands the events of the day, and how history records it.
Below is the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors. The video segments sourced from Parler include a number of clips made publicly available previously by ProPublica, as well as separate footage that has not been widely referenced in the news media that was made available for download following the much publicized scraping of publicly available information from the Parler site.
“Fight For Trump” Just Security – Incitement at US Capitol (click on “CC” to see the captions). The video contains strong evidence that Trump did incite the insurrection, regardless of whether that was his intent.
The rioter’s words “we were invited here” were exactly right, and the refrain “fight for Trump” was directly responsive to Trump’s demand. In criminal law, we would say this video proves the act but perhaps not the mental state – that Trump intended to cause the insurrection or knew it would happen as a result of his words. It would be difficult to convict Trump in a criminal court because of the high level of proof required but the standard for impeachment is different.
The circumstantial evidence, including Trump’s bellicose words, his reported glee at the invasion of the Capitol, and his failure to immediately speak out against the violence, and his ultimate stunningly weak admonition to the insurrectionists to “go home” should persuade most Senators that he was either intentional or extremely reckless. His culpability is enhanced because the stakes were so high – Trump seemed willing to risk people’s lives and our democracy in service of a lie about the integrity of the election. At minimum, the video makes a strong case that everyone who illegally occupied the Capitol should be prosecuted – no member of that angry mob was an innocent bystander (plus the idea that prosecuting roughly 800 people would overwhelm the courts is ludicrous in a country where more than 10 million people are arrested each year).
Unable effectively to lead a country beset with a pandemic and critical challenges from foreign adversaries, Donald Trump gave criminal aid and comfort to a mindless minority whose aim was to overthrow its constitutional government and replace it with an autocracy alien to the republic our founders gave us. Just Security‘s important and insightful video demonstrates just how close we came to losing that treasured republic.
Trump will be remembered, if at all, as a would-be dictator, a narcissist beset by irrational grievances, tolerant, even encouraging of racism, and a threat to the rule of law and the will of a free people. He appealed to the worst in us at a time when we critically need to call upon what is the best in us. Now, the protective shield of national office gone, Donald Trump must face the judgment of the Senate concerning his fomenting of insurrection and improper interference in the electoral process, and the judgment of citizen-juries in potential federal and state criminal cases against him.
It is clear from the video that at least some of the insurrectionists believed that they had been told by Trump to storm the Capitol and that they literally believed he was at the Capitol with them. In evaluating whether Trump’s words incited violence, courts would consider all of the facts and circumstances around his statements, including how they were understood by his audience.
The fact that at least some of his audience understood him to be personally leading them on an attack on the U.S. Capitol suggests that Trump was inciting imminent lawless action, which a court would consider and the Senate should consider when it weighs whether to convict Trump. Trump’s legal culpability depends on his intent when he made repeated false claims that the election had been stolen, encouraged his supporters to travel to Washington, D.C., on January 6, and exhorted them to go to the Capitol and “fight like hell” and “show strength.”
He had reason to know that his followers would act on his words because they’ve done so before–storming state Capitols against state-imposed public health orders during the pandemic and threatening state election officials not to certify the vote for Biden, just to name a few. If he knew that they were planning to use violence at the Capitol when he spoke to them before the siege, he could bear legal responsibility for inciting insurrection.
And he certainly bears moral responsibility, as the video shows that many in the mob believed they were doing exactly what Trump asked them to do. The evidence in this video strengthens the case against President Trump for inciting an insurrection by showing the direct line from Trump’s statements to the violent actions of the insurrectionists.
The juxtaposition of statements makes clear that the insurrectionists came to Washington at Trump’s behest, they chanted the (baseless) slogans he taught them, they explicitly targeted the enemies he identified for them (most notably Vice President Mike Pence), and they followed his instructions to the letter to “be strong” and “fight” like a “boxer” by marching to the Capitol and delivering the message he fed them — which was no less than that the elections results Congress was in the process of certifying should be thrown out. Put up against the timeline of Trump’s actions that day, including that he waited hours after the violence began to say anything at all, and even then did not condemn what was happening, a compelling case can be made that not only did the insurrectionists believe that what they were doing what Trump wanted, but that it actually was what Trump intended.
And of course other evidence of Trump’s many and varied efforts to overturn the election, much of which is still being developed, supports that conclusion. I think there is overwhelming evidence that Trump should be convicted by the Senate, and that even with the elevated burden of proof in criminal cases, there is now more than enough to justify a criminal prosecution as well.
From a legal point of view, the key question any criminal exposure the former president may have turns on his state of mind. In the video, we see many of his followers, who believe they are acting on his orders. But the question a jury would have to decide is what was in Trump’s mind that morning on the Ellipse (and in his previous tweets/statements), not just how people reacted.
For instance, in order to prove someone committed the crime of soliciting violence in violation of 18 USC § 373, the government has to establish that the defendant acted, “with intent that another person engage in conduct constituting a felony that has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against property or against the person of another in violation of the laws of the United States.” In the video, we hear Trump tell the crowd to act “peacefully.” I would expect his lawyers to focus on that.
But, he also says “we fight, we fight like hell. If you don’t you’re not going to have a country anymore.”
So when we talk about proof in court, prosecutors will have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he intended the “fight” part, not the “peaceful” part. Trump’s prior awareness that his followers take him literally and act on his words, as well as his “delight” as opposed to horror when he learned the Capitol was being overrun and failure to do anything to tamp down on the insurrection, suggest prosecutors may have fertile ground to seek evidence in here.
As to the moral question, we see a president set the mob on the Capitol, Democratic leaders and even his own vice president, desperate to use force to retain power after losing an election. There can be no argument that this conduct is anything other than abhorrent and that Trump, in the words of Federalist 65, must be convicted on the impeachment charge of insurrection against him, because he has abused and violated the public trust.
Under the criminal law, a person is presumed to intend the natural and foreseeable consequences of his actions. What happened on 1/6 meets both prongs to establish criminal intent for incitement. Moreover, If Trump did not intend there to be violent rioting, his actions during and after the violence would have been abject horror and strenuous efforts to stem and condemn the violence.
That did not occur. Special thanks to ProPublica for its excellent repository of Parler videos. A review of two hundred additional videos from Parler was conducted with special assistance from Vidrovr , a company that makes video searchable. Thanks to The New Yorker, CNN, and CBS 11 Dallas-Forth Worth for their coverage.

When President Trump railed against the election results from a stage near the White House on Wednesday, his loyalists were already gathering at the Capitol. Soon, they would storm it.
We analyzed a crucial two-hour period to reconstruct how a rally gave way to a mob that nearly came face to face with Congress. The day’s events were captured by protesters and witnesses who live-streamed the action or posted the scenes on social media. The footage shows the simultaneous and alternating perspectives of Mr. Trump at the podium, the lawmakers inside the Capitol and the swelling numbers — and growing violence — of the rioters on the ground.
A Brewing Storm President Trump prepares to go onstage. Supporters gather at the Capitol.
For weeks, Mr. Trump had urged his supporters to go to Washington to stop the certification of the election results, and several simultaneous rallies were planned for Wednesday. As the morning arrives, hundreds assemble on the Capitol lawn, more than a mile away from where Trump will soon speak near the White House.
Among them are the Proud Boys, a far-right group, identifiable here by their orange hats. At the same time, near the White House, Donald Trump Jr. films the president and his inner circle backstage before his father’s speech. In a video uploaded to his Facebook page, they are listening to the song “Gloria” and marveling at the size of the crowd.
Capitol Crowds Grow Trump calls for march on Capitol. A large crowd heads in that direction.
About 15 minutes into his speech, Mr. Trump tells rally attendees to walk to the Capitol. “You have to show strength,” he says.
At this moment, the Capitol grounds are protected by temporary perimeter fences, and there are few officers equipped to defend them. Supporters leave the rally in a steady stream before Mr. Trump’s speech ends, and they head toward the Capitol. As they arrive, another crowd of Trump supporters that has already gathered along the west perimeter fence becomes more agitated.
Around this time, a pipe bomb is reported at the Republican National Committee building, just a block away from the Capitol. Not long after, another device is discovered nearby at the Democratic National Committee headquarters. First Barriers Breached Trump continues speaking.
Rioters topple a fence to the Capitol’s west. Congress begins joint session.
About 20 minutes before Trump’s speech ends, some people in the Capitol crowd harass officers posted at the barricades and start to get physical. Others follow suit, until they violently overwhelm the police and breach the building’s outer perimeter. The mob quickly breaks through three additional barricades, forcing officers back onto the west Capitol steps.
12:53 p.m. First barricades breached Fencing N Capitol steps Supporters gathering Supporters marching from Trump rally East side barricades NATIONAL MALL U.S. CAPITOL 1 p.m. Joint session of Congress convenes in House chamber 12:53 p.m. First barricades breached Fencing Capitol steps N Supporters gathering Supporters marching from Trump rally East side barricades NATIONAL MALL U.S. CAPITOL 1 p.m. Joint session of Congress convenes in House chamber N Fencing Supporters gathering 1 Supporters marching to the Capitol East side barricades 2 Capitol steps U.S. CAPITOL 1 12:53 p.m. First barricades breached.
2 1 p.m. Joint session of Congress convenes in House chamber. Once at the steps, the group clashes with a small contingent of officers. After a few minutes, Capitol Police officers in riot gear arrive to help control the crowd.
At this time, the speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, begins the proceedings to certify the Electoral College vote at a joint session of Congress, alongside Vice President Mike Pence. Trump’s Call to Action Trump again calls for a march on the Capitol. Mob continues to clash with police.
Ted Cruz objects to certification. As Mr. Trump’s speech comes to an end, he calls on his supporters to “walk down Pennsylvania Avenue” toward the Capitol.
Rioters there continue to violently clash with officers, including reinforcements from the local police department who have arrived on the scene. Both sides spray chemical agents. Inside the Capitol, members of Congress seem unaware of the extent of the violence outside.
The House and Senate have moved to their separate chambers to debate certifying the vote. Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, argues that the Senate should not certify Arizona’s electoral votes.
A minute later, Chief Steven Sund of the Capitol Police makes the request for immediate assistance from the D.C. National Guard. Outside, rioters tear through scaffolding in front of the Capitol’s northwest steps and make their way closer to the building.
Assault on the East Side Groups breach police barricades. Amy Klobuchar and other legislators debate.
On the east side of the Capitol, where the police presence is much smaller, another mob is about to reach the doors of the building. The police remove a barricade at the northeast corner of the building after violent confrontations between officers and the crowd. A YouTube live stream captures the exact moment a massive crowd also breaches a separate, larger barricade on the east side. This is the last physical barrier protecting that side of the Capitol.
Mob Reaches Doors on West Side Group breaches west side barricades. Legislators continue debate.
Back on the northwest side of the Capitol, another YouTube livestream captures the mob chasing officers up the steps and breaching the final barrier on that side. Violent clashes with the police have been ongoing for more than an hour by the time the mob finally breaks through. The mob approaches an entrance near the Senate chamber, one floor below where senators continue to debate.
Rioters Break Into the Building Mob enters the building. Senators continue debate just steps away.
Rioters on the west side break into the building around 2:11 p.m. Two minutes later, as they reach the stairs next to the Senate chamber, the Senate is called into recess.
Rioters continue to stream into the building. They enter through a door and a broken window on the northwest side.
Rioters chase an officer to the top of a staircase where there are entrances to the Senate chamber in both directions. The officer leads the rioters one way, and backup arrives — while the police inside the chamber are still trying to lock the doors. Now rioters stand off with the police in the hall, feet away from the entrance to the Senate chamber.
Senators are still milling about inside. The Siege Continues Thousands reach the Capitol. Congress is halted.
More than five minutes after the first rioters break into the building, the House also goes into recess. Now, the police are clashing with the mob inside the building as some members of Congress are able to evacuate. Others are trapped inside while rioters pound on the doors.
Outside the building, the crowd grows as attendees from President Trump’s rally continue to stream in. The mob becomes more violent, dragging and beating officers. Three hours will pass before the sergeant-at-arms declares the building secure.

Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund says he believes the Capitol riot was part of an orchestrated plan. He also says reports of pipe bombs planted nearby may have been used to distract police.
Former U.S. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund says he increasingly believes the insurrection at the Capitol was part of an orchestrated plan. Sund resigned shortly after the deadly riot. He says his agency received warnings of potential violence on January 6, but nothing prepared them for what they saw that day.
STEVEN SUND: This was not a demonstration. This was not a failure to plan for a demonstration.
This was a planned, coordinated attack on the United States Capitol. CHANG:
As part of that planned, coordinated attack, Sund believes pipe bombs planted nearby were intended to distract police from the mobs. NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales spoke with Sund today and joins us now to talk about their conversation. Hey, Claudia.
CLAUDIA GRISALES, BYLINE: Hi there. GRISALES:
These pipe bombs were found at the Republican and Democratic National Committee offices near the Capitol. No one has been arrested in that case.
And while we don't have any official confirmation that these incidents were linked, Sund says new developments point in that direction. SUND: Yeah, I think that's all part of the concerted and coordinated efforts that led to the violent attack.
Those were diversionary tactics to pull resources away from the Hill in advance of that attack. I honestly believe that. GRISALES: Sund said he worked from the operations center at the Capitol Police headquarters.
He and others were watching the rally at the Ellipse, where President Trump spoke. But they diverted their attention just as these violent mobs headed to the Capitol.
GRISALES: Yes. He says two days before the attack, he told the then-House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving that he wanted assistance from the National Guard. Sund said Capitol Police were expecting a large event, so they pushed out their security perimeter with police bike racks.
And they wanted the guard support along that perimeter, but he said Irving expressed concerns of the optics of having a military presence surrounding the Capitol. GRISALES: He is quite a bit. He said that he called for all hands on deck that day for his agency, with 400 to 1,500 officers on duty.
And he saw them fighting for their lives. And while they expected violence, he disputes reports that his agency received warnings of the scale of attack that we saw.
He also rejects that bias or systemic racism played a role in the decisions leading up to or on that day. And he says he spoke to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi three times on the 6, the last time being at 6:25 p.m. that evening. That was a joint call with Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to ensure their return to their chambers. The following afternoon Pelosi said she hadn't heard from Sund and asked for his resignation, so he submitted it. He did say perhaps congressional oversight of Capitol Police may have had a role to play in security failures.
SUND: I know a number of groups are investigating this incident. I think they'll find that it's a very convoluted, bureaucratic method of maintaining security in the nation's capital.
GRISALES: We're likely to learn more in the review of what happened, which will be led by retired Lieutenant General Russel Honore, who commanded the troops during Hurricane Katrina. Sund, meanwhile, says he's cooperating with all of the ongoing investigation - so lots more still to learn here. CHANG: That's NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales.
Thank you, Claudia. GRISALES:
Thanks for having me, Ailsa. Copyright © 2021 NPR.
All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor.

This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.
ST. LOUIS – Missouri Republican U.S. Senator Josh Hawley is facing criticism in the wake of the insurrection and rioting at the Capitol. Hawley was the first senator to object to Joe Biden’s Electoral College win. Many other Republican lawmakers then followed suit with more objections.
Critics say those actions helped fuel the emotions and beliefs of people like those who converged on the Capitol Wednesday convinced that somehow the election was stolen from President Trump. Wednesday Hawley acknowledged the Capitol protesters with his fist in the air.
The photo of the acknowledgment was taken before protesters stormed the Capitol. When the Senate and House finally got back to work, Hawley spoke condemning the violence but also saying election security is an issue.
“I hope that this body will not miss the opportunity to take affirmative action to address the concerns of so many millions of Americans to say to millions of Americans tonight that violence is never warranted, that violence will not be tolerated, those that engage in it will be prosecuted but that this body will act to address the concerns of all Americans across the country. We do need an investigation into irregularities, fraud, we do need a way forward together. We need election security reforms,” Hawley said.
His specific objection was about the process in Pennsylania, but like all the other objections it was defeated in a vote. Pundits and others are saying that Hawley may have done this as part of his own future political aspirations including a potential presidential run in 2024. Blunt also called the attack on the Capitol a sad day for America but said we will move forward.

A little over an hour before the U.S. Capitol was stormed by rioters Jan. 6, Madison native Karlin Younger was at her home in Washington, D.C. — blocks away from what would soon become the historic insurrection.
She would soon discover one of the first signs of the day taking a dangerous turn. Younger, 36, was working from home in her position as investment lead for First Responder Network Authority, a project of the U.S. Department of Commerce to make a broadband network for first responders that is as fast and reliable as possible, even in large crowds when cellphones won’t work.
Born and raised in Madison, Younger graduated from West High School in 2002 and from UW-Madison in 2006. In October 2019, she moved to Washington so she could do her job in person, rather than remotely from Madison.
Then the pandemic happened, and she had to work remotely anyway. On her lunch break on Jan. 6., Younger decided to do a load of laundry.
At about 12:40 p.m. EST, she walked through an alley, past the Republican National Committee office and into the laundry room to put the load in the dryer. On her way back to her apartment with her damp sweater in tow, something caught Younger’s eye.
She thought someone had missed the recycling bin, and she’d be able to throw away the trash for them. But when Younger looked closer, she noticed the wires were attached to a pipe that was capped on both ends.
The wires were also connected to a radial dial, almost like an “old-school kitchen timer,” with a red hand pointing at the number 20. She’s grateful it was for 20 minutes and not 20 seconds. Younger ran over to the guard stand outside of the RNC headquarters.
The guard radioed to three other security personnel, who came out of the RNC headquarters and confirmed the device appeared to be a viable bomb. The guard then contacted law enforcement, who showed up almost immediately, Younger said. The explosive device Younger found was the first of two pipe bombs discovered that day just blocks away from the U.S. Capitol shortly before thousands of rioters in support of President Donald Trump breached the building.
Madison Magazine was the first to report Younger’s role in finding the pipe bomb. Younger said she’s grateful she happened to decide to do laundry. That, along with taking out the trash, are two of the only reasons residents in the area ever go into that alleyway.
She’s even more grateful that she decided to say something. U.S. Capitol Police, FBI agents and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were called to the alleyway around 12:45 p.m. to deactivate the bomb.
About 30 minutes later, as the agents and bomb technicians were still investigating at RNC headquarters, another call came in for a second, similar explosive device found at the Democratic National Committee headquarters nearby. Both devices were about a foot long with end caps and wiring that appeared to be attached to a timer, according to two law enforcement officials familiar with the matter who spoke with The Associated Press.
Investigators are examining the devices and their components to determine the specific compounds inside the pipe bombs, but they both appeared to contain an unknown powder and some metal, the officials said. The officials spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing.
It’s unclear what damage the bombs could have caused. The FBI is seeking the public’s help in identifying whoever is responsible.
In photos released by the FBI, an individual suspected of placing the bombs is seen in the area wearing a gray hooded sweatshirt, black gloves, black pants, black-and-white shoes and a face mask, and carrying a backpack. The FBI is offering a reward of $50,000 for information that leads to the location, arrest and conviction of those responsible.
Tips can be submitted at fbi.gov/USCapitol. The threat of explosives remains a primary concern for law enforcement ahead of next week’s inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden.
The threat is substantial in Washington, where many government buildings, including the U.S. Capitol, are usually open to the public and thousands of tourists wander through massive museums and some of the most iconic monuments in the country at all hours of the day and night and can even get close to the White House. Thinking back on last week, Younger said she feels lucky and grateful that no one got hurt, but she also sometimes feels angry.
Whoever planted the bombs put innocent lives at risk, she said. The Associated Press contributed to this report.

The devices were found in Washington, D.C., during large-scale protests.
“The USCP Hazardous Materials Response Team determined that both devices were, in fact, hazardous and could cause great harm to public safety,” police said in statement. A federal law enforcement source told ABC News that the suspected pipe bombs were active and not fake devices.
ABC News has obtained a photo of one of two suspected explosive devices discovered Wednesday. The device in the photo appears to be wired with a timer and was found adjacent to the Republican National Committee headquarters on First Street, S.E.
After the initial device was discovered near the RNC, police searched the area near the Democratic National Committee headquarters building, a couple of blocks away, and found a second device under a bush. authorities said. Both buildings are a short distance from the U.S. Capitol, where violent protesters broke through police lines and stormed into the complex just over an hour after the devices were discovered.
"Two suspected explosive devices were rendered safe by the FBI and our law enforcement partners," the FBI said in a statement Wednesday evening. Bomb technicians used water cannons to blast the devices to essentially break them apart and render them harmless.
Investigators are examining the recovered pieces to look for clues about how the devices was constructed and about the sources of the components, sources said. Forensic experts are also conducting chemical analyses on any substances found in the devices to determine if they were filled with explosive materials.
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department are assisting with the investigation. "The investigation is ongoing," the FBI said.

Two days before Congress was set to formalize President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund was growing increasingly worried about the size of the pro-Trump crowds expected to stream into Washington in protest. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight To be on the safe side, Sund asked House and Senate security officials for permission to request that the D.C. National Guard be placed on standby in case he needed quick backup. But, Sund said Sunday, they turned him down. In his first interview since pro-Trump rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol last week, Sund, who has since resigned his post, said his supervisors were reluctant to take formal steps to put the Guard on call even as police intelligence suggested that the crowd President Trump had invited to Washington to protest his defeat probably would be much larger than earlier demonstrations.
House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving said he wasn’t comfortable with the “optics” of formally declaring an emergency ahead of the demonstration, Sund said. Meanwhile, Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger suggested that Sund should informally seek out his Guard contacts, asking them to “lean forward” and be on alert in case Capitol Police needed their help.
Irving could not be reached for comment. A cellphone number listed in his name has not accepted messages since Wednesday.
Messages left at a residence he owns in Nevada were not immediately returned, and there was no answer Sunday evening at a Watergate apartment listed in his name. A neighbor said he had recently moved out.
Stenger declined Sunday to comment when a reporter visited his Virginia home. “I really don’t want to talk about it,” he said.
It was the first of six times Sund’s request for help was rejected or delayed, he said. Two days later on Wednesday afternoon, his forces already in the midst of crisis, Sund said he pleaded for help five more times as a scene far more dire than he had ever imagined unfolded on the historic Capitol grounds.
An army of 8,000 pro-Trump demonstrators streamed down Pennsylvania Avenue after hearing Trump speak near the White House. Sund’s outer perimeter on the Capitol’s west side was breached within 15 minutes. With 1,400 Capitol Police officers on duty, his forces were quickly overrun. “If we would have had the National Guard we could have held them at bay longer, until more officers from our partner agencies could arrive,” he said.
Just before 2 p.m., the pro-Trump mob entered the Capitol, sending lawmakers and staff scrambling for safety. D.C. police had quickly dispatched hundreds of officers to the scene. But it wasn’t enough.
At 2:26 p.m., Sund said, he joined a conference call to the Pentagon to plead for additional backup. On the call were several officials from the D.C. government, as well as officials from the Pentagon, including Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff.
The D.C. contingent was flabbergasted to hear Piatt say that he could not recommend that his boss, Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, approve the request. “I don’t like the visual of the National Guard standing a police line with the Capitol in the background,” Piatt said, according to Sund and others on the call.
Pentagon officials have emphasized that the Capitol Police did not ask for D.C. Guard backup ahead of the event or request to put a riot contingency plan in place with guardsmen at the ready, and then made an urgent request as rioters were about to breach the building, even though the Guard isn’t set up to be a quick-reaction force like the police. Despite Sund’s pleas, the first National Guard personnel didn’t arrive at the Capitol until 5:40 p.m. — after four people had died and the worst was long over.
Sund, 55, offered his resignation the next day, telling friends he felt he had let his officers down. Many lawmakers, infuriated by the breach and angry that they had been unable to reach Sund at the height of the crisis, were only too happy to accept it. Under pressure from lawmakers, Stenger and Irving also resigned.
In a wide-ranging interview, Sund sought to defend his officers, who, he said, had fought valiantly. And with threats of violence looming ahead of Biden’s Jan. 20 inauguration, he said he remains worried. “My concern is if they don’t get their act together with physical security, it’s going to happen again,” he said. As he prepared for last week’s demonstrations, Sund drew on decades of experience.
Hired as chief in 2019, two years after joining the Capitol Police, he worked for 23 years on the D.C. police force, leaving as commander of the Special Operations Division. Widely respected in the District and among leaders of U.S. Secret Service and Park Police, he had helped to run 12 national security events, including Barack Obama’s 2013 inauguration. He also served as incident commander during the 2013 Navy Yard shooting. Last Monday, Sund said, he began to worry about the Jan. 6 demonstration.
Sure, there were claims that alt-right instigators had discussed storming the building and targeting lawmakers. But Sund said such threats had surfaced in the past.
Still, he decided to call Irving and Stenger to ask for permission to request that the National Guard be put on emergency standby. Irving didn’t like the idea, Sund said; he said it would look bad because it would communicate that they presumed an emergency. He said he’d have to ask House leaders. Walker said he thought he could send 125 personnel fairly quickly.
Over the weekend, Sund had also conferred with D.C. Police Chief Robert J. Contee III, who also had offered to lend a hand if trouble arose. On Tuesday, Sund said he briefed Irving and Stenger, who said that backup seemed sufficient. Just before noon Wednesday, Sund was monitoring Trump’s speech to the crowd on the Ellipse when he was called away.
There were reports of two pipe bombs near the Capitol grounds. So Sund didn’t hear the president call on protesters to “fight” against lawmakers preparing to confirm Biden’s victory.
Nor did he hear Trump’s personal attorney, Rudolph W. Giuliani, urging the crowd to engage in “trial by combat,” an eerie reference to battles to the death in the series, “Game of Thrones.” Sund said he now suspects that the pipe bombs were an intentional effort to draw officers away from the Capitol perimeter.
The first wave of protesters arrived at the Capitol about 12:40 p.m. Using video footage from the Capitol and radio transmissions from his incident commanders, Sund could see his officers trying to hold the line. But the rioters immediately yanked the barricade fence out of the way and threw it at his officers’ heads. Sund immediately called Contee, who sent 100 officers to the scene, with some arriving within 10 minutes.
But at 1:09 p.m., Sund said he called Irving and Stenger, telling them it was time to call in the Guard. He wanted an emergency declaration.
Both men said they would “run it up the chain” and get back to him, he said. Minutes later, aides to the top congressional leaders were called to Stenger’s office for an update on the situation — and were infuriated to learn that the sergeants at arms had not yet called in the National Guard or any other reinforcements, as was their responsibility to do without seeking approval from leaders. Sund said he called Irving twice more and Stenger once to check on their progress.
At 1:50 p.m. — nine minutes before the Capitol was breached — Sund said he was losing patience. He called Walker to tell him to get ready to bring the Guard. Irving called back with formal approval at 2:10 p.m.
By then, plainclothes Capitol Police agents were barricading the door to the Speaker’s Lobby just off the House chamber to keep the marauders from charging in. Sund finally had approval to call the National Guard. But that would prove to be just the beginning of a bureaucratic nightmare to get soldiers on the scene.
At 2:26 p.m., Sund joined a conference call organized by D.C’s homeland security director, Chris Rodriguez. Among those on the screen were the District’s police chief, mayor and Walker.
Unlike anywhere else in the country, the D.C. Guard does not report to a governor, but to the president, so Walker patched in the office of the Secretary of the Army, noting that he would need authorization from the Pentagon to order soldiers to the Capitol. Piatt noted the Pentagon still needed authorization from Capitol Police to step foot on Capitol grounds.
Sund ticked through details on the severity of the breach, but the call got noisy with crosstalk as officials asked more questions. But Piatt, dialed in from across the river at the Pentagon, pushed back, according to Sund, saying he would prefer to have Guard soldiers take up posts around Washington, relieving D.C. police, so that they could respond to the Capitol instead of guardsmen.
Sund’s account is supported by four D.C. officials on the call, including Bowser. Falcicchio said that once Contee confirmed that Sund wanted the National Guard, D.C. officials echoed his request.
But the entire discussion was in vain. Only McCarthy, the secretary, could order the Guard deployed — and only with the approval of the Pentagon chief. McCarthy has since said that, at the time of the call, he was busy taking the requests to activate more Guard to acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller.
At one point, according to a defense official, Contee said, “Let me be clear, are you denying this?” To which Piatt responded that he wasn’t denying the request; he simply didn’t have the authority to approve it. At 3:45 p.m., Stenger told Sund that he would ask his boss, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), for help getting the National Guard authorized more quickly.
Sund never learned the result. More of Contee’s officers had arrived and were helping remove rioters from the grounds.
Capitol Police worked with other federal authorities, including the Secret Service, the Park Police and the FBI, to secure lawmakers, eject rioters and sweep the building so lawmakers could return to finish counting the electoral college votes that would allow them to formally recognize Biden’s victory later that night. According to a timeline the Defense Department published Friday, Miller verbally authorized the activation of the entire D.C. Guard at 3:04 p.m. It would take two more hours for most of the citizen soldiers to leave their jobs and homes, and pick up gear from the D.C. Armory.
Sund, who was officially replaced as chief Friday, said he is left feeling that America’s bastions of democracy need far more security. He said the violent crowd that mobbed the Capitol was unlike anything he has ever seen. “They were extremely dangerous and they were extremely prepared.
I have a hard time calling this a demonstration,” he said. Sund blamed Trump for putting his officers at risk, saying “the crowd left that rally and had been incited by some of the words the president said.” Sund said he fears what may come next. On Sunday, the Capitol’s rolling green lawn was ringed by high black fencing and patrolled by personnel in green camouflage keeping the public at bay.

This clip, title, and description were not created by C-SPAN.

Claim: On Jan. 6, 2021, Trump and his closest associates held a private tent party near the U.S. Capitol to livestream footage of supporters breaking into and vandalizing the federal building. Rating: About this rating Mixture
What's True A video by Donald Trump Jr., the president's son, showed Trump and members of his inner circle dancing, smiling, and watching television screens inside a private tent at Ellipse Park near the White House on Jan. 6, 2021. The footage was recorded roughly one hour before some supporters started breaking security barriers at the Capitol.
What's False The screens inside the tent did not show supporters breaching or vandalizing the Capitol. Rather, they depicted a crowd gathering in front of a stage where Trump would later speak for 70 minutes.
The president reportedly watched the peak of the insurrection on television from inside the White House. In the aftermath of an attack by American right-wing extremists on the U.S. Capitol — which resulted in the deaths of five people, including a police officer, numerous injuries and arrests, and damage to the federal building — a video from one of U.S. President Donald Trump's sons, Donald Trump Jr., surfaced online as alleged evidence that the president watched the siege from a private tent party.
Just awesome patriots that are sick of the bullshit, so thank you all for that. In fact, it's hard to believe. Unfortunately, there's no room in between the main ground and then the masses.
Love to see them getting closer 'cause I think it'd be pretty awesome, but this is pretty incredible. Then, at about the 21-second mark, the camera flipped to show what was in front of Trump Jr.: a few dozen people including the president standing around several screens depicting a crowd of supporters. The group was gathered inside a large outdoor party tent.
While panning the scene for the viral 2:20-minute clip, Trump Jr. briefly stopped the camera on his girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News personality and adviser for Trump's 2020 presidential campaign. Trump Jr. yelled her name, she noticed the camera, and then she smiled and danced for about 10 seconds.
The video was indeed authentic and was recorded on the day the pro-Trump mob breached the Capitol in an unsuccessful attempt to halt a Congressional vote to certify Joe Biden's presidential win. However, it depicted the moments before Trump addressed supporters at the Ellipse Park (which is directly south of the White House and a roughly 20-minute walk from the Capitol), but it did not show him watching a livestream of supporters breaking into and vandalizing the Capitol. We will lay out our evidence for those findings.
According to an archive of Trump Jr.'s Facebook history, the video was posted to his official account with the title, "A Little Backstage Time With POTUS Before His Speech" and garnered tens of thousands of shares. By the time of this report, the video no longer existed on the social media platform.
Additionally, the screens depicted in Trump Jr.'s footage showed a crowd of people in front of a stage and signs with slogans for the pre-planned event, such as "SAVE AMERICA MARCH" and "THE BEST IS YET TO COME!" There was no evidence of the party-goers watching footage of the nearby Capitol, which was where violence and chaos ensued. During the approximately 70-minute speech, members of the far-right crowd began leaving the park and heading toward the Capitol, Saliba reported.
See the below-displayed map by BBC to visualize the scene. Shortly before 1 p.m. (approximately an hour after Trump Jr. posted the livestream), posts started surfacing on social media showing extremists breaching barriers around the Capitol designed to prevent trespassing. Then, by 1:05 p.m., Saliba reported hundreds of people were charging toward the Capitol. In other words, it was true that some extremists started breaking into the federal property during Trump's speech, which immediately followed the backstage tent party. However, once he finished his remarks, he did not follow through with the pledge to join them in walking down Pennsylvania Avenue to the Capitol.
Instead, Trump returned to the White House, according to New York Times reporter Maggie Haberman. The president holed up in the Oval Office, speaking with Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, who was said to have been rattled by the day, and Pat A. Cipollone, the White House counsel.
In other words, while the exact location of the president at the peak of the chaotic insurrection was unknown, no evidence showed he was at a tent party. Rather, a reputable news outlet said he was in the West Wing. Later, he posted a video on social media sites saying he loved the rioters and that they should "go home in peace" — footage the platforms later deleted for violating policies aiming to prevent violence and misinformation.
Additionally, Twitter locked the account of @realDonaldTrump for 12 hours. The final days of Trump’s presidency are spinning toward a chaotic end as he holes up at the White House, abandoned by many aides, leading Republicans and Cabinet members. He was tweeting again after his Twitter account was reinstated, reverting to an aggressive statement that his supporters must not be “disrespected” after he sent out a calmer Thursday video decrying the violence.

As rioters stormed the Capitol building in January, Capitol Police forces were quickly overwhelmed and showed relative restraint in the immediate aftermath of the attack.
Early in the Black Lives Matter protests in Washington, D.C., police used methods designed to dominate the crowd, including chemical irritants and lines of police in full riot gear charging at protesters. The police response to the assault and vandalism of the federal Capitol building has unleashed a wave of comparisons to the summer Black Lives Matter protests in Washington, D.C.
President-elect Joe Biden said the restrained handling of the Trump supporters at the Capitol reflected unequal justice. His granddaughter had sent him a photo of row upon row of soldiers in riot gear guarding the Lincoln Memorial taken in June.
"No one can tell me that if it had been a group of Black Lives Matter protesting yesterday, they wouldn’t have been treated very, very differently than the mob of thugs that stormed the Capitol," Biden said Jan. 7. There is no way to know how events might have unfolded differently if the protesters’ cause on Jan. 6 had been police brutality rather than supporting a president who lost an election. But we can put the clashes side by side.
Already, we’ve documented major differences in the initial posture of police and how both conflicts took shape. And there is no escaping that the people the police faced looked different in the two situations.
People of color and whites came out for Black Lives Matter, while whites predominated among the Trump supporters. Domestic protest researchers said that in the summer, the deployment of forces revealed the official belief that the Black Lives Matter crowd represented a threat, and police took steps to prevent violence. In contrast, despite many red flags, the U.S. Capitol Police expected a largely peaceful protest from Trump’s backers.
That expectation set the stage for the chaos that followed. After Minneapolis police killed George Floyd, Black Lives Matter protests spread across the nation.
On Friday, May 29, around 1,000 people marched through D.C. to call for justice and an end to police brutality. Tensions flared when some protesters stopped at the White House, pushing down metal barriers that separated them from law enforcement before the march continued on through the city.
Around 11:30 p.m. that night, a more intense round of protests took place outside the White House, and Secret Service, D.C. police, and park police used chemical agents to disperse demonstrators. The crowd split apart around 3:30 a.m. after a line of officers advanced through Lafayette Park, holding shields and firing chemical agents. News outlets reported that the White House briefly went into lockdown, and that Trump was rushed to an underground bunker.
However, no protesters penetrated the grounds. The next day, Trump tweeted that protesters would have met with "vicious dogs" and "ominous weapons" if they had breached the enclosure. He also appeared to invite his supporters to clash with protesters outside the White House.
In the days that followed, police officers used tear gas, horse-mounted charges, pepper spray, shields, batons and rubber bullets on protesters and journalists covering the demonstrations. Nearly 300 protesters were arrested on the night of Jun. 1.
By the end of the week, 5,800 active-duty troops, agents and officers from a mixture of federal agencies – including the Bureau of Prisons, the U.S. Marshals Service, and Immigration and Customs enforcement – had been deployed to the city. Then-Secretary of Defense Mark Esper referred to the city as a "battlespace" on a call with governors.
Armored vehicles patrolled the streets, and helicopters sank low over protesters, generating winds strong enough to shatter glass. The crackdown was aggressive, but no protesters or police died in the District, according to lists of deaths related to the protests compiled by Forbes and the Associated Press.
Fast forward from June to Jan. 6. When Trump supporters walked up to a portable metal barricade on the Capitol grounds, they saw a handful of officers in their regular uniforms standing on the other side.
In the first moments, there was little sense that the marchers would plow through. But as soon as one person decided to press on, the momentum swelled.
The marchers and officers struggled over control of the barricade. The weight of the crowd soon sent officers sprawling backwards.
A marcher punched an officer. An officer punched a Trump supporter, and the march became a riot.
The police ran back towards the Capitol building, with the mob running close behind. By 1:15 p.m, a line of police were tussling with Trump supporters on the steps of the Capitol.
Rioters shoved police officers, spraying chemical irritants and hitting them with lead pipes. Police deployed flash bangs and pepper spray in an attempt to ward off the crowd.
At 1:46 p.m, Rep. Elaine Luria was evacuated from her office after a report that a pipe bomb had been discovered nearby. "Supporters of the president are trying to force their way into the Capitol and I can hear what sounds like multiple gunshots," she tweeted. At 2:11 p.m, rioters penetrated the police perimeter on the west side of the Capitol and began to climb the walls. A male intruder shattered windows at the south side of the building and climbed inside with other members of the mob.
Ten minutes later, Vice President Mike Pence was escorted from the Chamber. A video posted to Twitter at 2:21 p.m shows rioters breaking the glass on the doors of the Capitol. Minutes later, police were photographed attempting to talk down the mob after tear gas was set off inside the building.
Capitol Police escorted lawmakers and journalists from both the House and Senate Chambers to secure locations. An armed standoff between police and rioters occurred at the doors of the House Chamber. Rioters gained access to the Senate Chamber and paraded around the room. Around 2:45 p.m., a plain-clothed Capitol Police Officer shot a woman as she attempted to break into the Speaker’s Lobby.
The woman – later identified as Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt – eventually died from the injuries. Around 3 p.m. the Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy activated the entire D.C. National Guard. Agents from the FBI, U.S. Marshal Service and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were deployed to gain control of the building.
An officer told CNN that police had cleared the Senate floor of rioters by 3:30 p.m., although protesters were still massing in other parts of the building. According to the sergeant-at-arms, the Capitol was finally cleared at 5:40 p.m., 20 minutes before Washington’s curfew set in.
After curfew, law enforcement officers clad in body armor began to use aggressive tactics similar to the ones they had used on Black Lives Matter protesters, advancing on rioters and whacking them with batons. According to Robert J. Contee III, chief of the city’s Metropolitan police department, 68 individuals were arrested over the course of the night, mostly for violating the curfew order. The next day, Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick died from injuries sustained from engaging with rioters.
In the view of Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, head of the House committee that controls the Capitol Police budget, the assault on the Capitol stemmed from a false premise behind Capitol Police planning. Ryan said that a week before the march, the Capitol Police assured him that everything was under control. Ryan said he was told they expected a "pretty vanilla" protest.
The people who study crowds and police say there was ample reason to plan for a much more aggressive group. Just a month earlier, a Dec. 12 pro-Trump rally had attracted members of the Proud Boys, a violence-prone group that showed up again on Jan. 6. In December, they were involved in street fights that led to multiple stabbings.
The D.C. mayor urged residents to stay home and avoid any confrontation with people coming to the rally. Ryan said rioters on Jan. 6 came armed with metal pipes and pummeled officers, sending a half dozen to the hospital with head injuries.
The outnumbered and poorly equipped Capitol Police fell back. The mob freely entered the Capitol, and once inside, researchers say the police had limited options to end the chaos. That situation produced the scenes that have drawn the harshest comparisons to the Black Lives Matter protests. Heavily armed police hugged the walls as the mob swirled past them.
One helped a rioter down the steps as she left the building. Another paused as a departing rioter snapped a selfie with a Capitol Police officer.
The grave exception to that atmosphere was when an officer shot and killed a woman as she tried to enter a secure area. But as much as the limited effort to make arrests, it’s the casual demeanor of police that has angered Black Lives Matter supporters. They point to that image of soldiers at the ready at the Lincoln Memorial, and the line of officers firing pepper balls and charging at protestors in front of the White House.
Maguire said the comparison is valid. The only reason to use that riot gear and those weapons, he said, is to intimidate the crowd. But the problem on Wednesday was a massive under-response, he said.
It’s fine to start with officers wearing a "soft" uniform, because that tends to de-escalate tensions. But out of sight, officers in hard riot gear should be nearby, he said. After Capitol Police lost control, de-escalation became the prime option, said University of Texas-Austin professor Michael Sierra-Arévalo.
One other factor likely shaped the responses of police at the Capitol in ways different from the Black Live Matter protests. That’s the perceived attitude toward the police. The chief of the Capitol Police announced he would resign in a week, and two other top officials responsible for security at the Capitol stepped down.

The Senate stopped its proceedings, with Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.) interrupted by an aide who said protesters were in the building.
The House doors also were closed. In a notification, U.S. Capitol Police said no entry or exit is permitted in the buildings within the Capitol Complex. “Stay away from exterior windows, doors. If outside, seek cover,” police said.

This afternoon, a mob of pro-Trump extremists stormed the Capitol, where Congress had convened to certify Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 election.
The insurrectionists clashed with police, scaled walls, broke windows, and carried Confederate and Trump flags throughout the Capitol’s halls. Members of Congress and their staffers sheltered in place before being evacuated from the building. Collected here are a few images depicting the chaos of this American coup attempt, a scene unlike any other witnessed in recent U.S. history.

Blinded by smoke and choking on gas and bear spray, stripped of his radio and badge, D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and his battered colleagues fought to push back rioters trying to force their way into an entrance to the U.S. Capitol.
The officers had been at it for hours, unaware that others in the mob had already breached the building through different entrances. For them, the West Terrace doors — which open into a tunnel-like hallway allowing access to an area under the Rotunda — represented the last stand before the Capitol fell.
An officer since 9/11, the 40-year-old Fanone, who has four daughters, had been working a crime-suppression detail in another part of the District on Jan. 6. He and his partner sped to the Capitol when dispatchers broadcast an urgent citywide emergency call.
“They were overthrowing the Capitol, the seat of democracy, and I f---ing went,” Fanone said. The officers at the West Terrace eventually pushed people away from the doors.
It was only then that Fanone saw the immense, volatile crowd stretched out in front of him and realized what police were up against. Someone in the crowd grabbed Fanone’s helmet, pulled him to the ground and dragged him on his stomach down a set of steps. At around the same time, police said, the crowd pulled a second officer down the stairs.
Police said that chaotic and violent scene was captured in a video that would later spread widely on the Internet. Rioters swarmed, battering the officers with metal pipes peeled from scaffolding and a pole with an American flag attached, police said.
Both were struck with stun guns. Fanone suffered a mild heart attack and drifted in and out of consciousness.
All the while, the mob was chanting “U.S.A.” over and over and over again. The 3,800-member D.C. police force, responsible for protecting city streets, not federal buildings, had all hands on deck that day and asked neighboring jurisdictions to line up help if needed. The mayor asked the D.C. National Guard to assist with traffic control, freeing officers for more-urgent duties.
But no such preparations were being made at the Capitol building, a prime target on social media postings calling for an armed insurrection. The Capitol has its own 2,100-member police force controlled by Congress. Its police chief at the time, Steven Sund, who resigned in the riot’s aftermath, said that he began to worry Jan. 4 and that his requests to enlist the Guard were repeatedly thwarted until the Capitol was already overrun. Acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III has said D.C. officers “saved democracy” by coming to the rescue of Capitol Police personnel overwhelmed by the crowd.
Authorities said the attack resulted in the deaths of Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick, who had been confronting the mob, as well as four rioters, including a woman fatally shot by a Capitol officer. This account is based on interviews with Contee, in the top job just four days before the riot, along with members of his command staff and officers on the front lines. These police leaders talked of battles using metaphors typically reserved for wars, describing fighting on three fronts, including the West Terrace, one of the few places where police prevented rioters from breaking through.
Had those rioters succeeded, authorities said, thousands more people could have poured into the Capitol, with possible catastrophic consequences. Nearly 60 D.C. police officers and an unknown number of Capitol officers were hurt in the siege, with injuries that included bruised and sprained limbs, concussions and irritated lungs.
Sicknick, who police said physically engaged rioters, died the next day. Authorities said he was injured, but they did not elaborate.
A time-lapsed security-camera video police played for The Washington Post shows the crowd building along First Street, near the Capitol Reflecting Pool, around 11:15 a.m. First, a couple hundred showed.
Trump started his incendiary speech outside the White House shortly before noon. Inside the Capitol, the House convened at noon and the Senate at 12:30 p.m. in preparation for the joint session, with some Republican lawmakers preparing to contest the count. By then, thousands of Trump supporters were starting to stream toward the Capitol.
The demonstrators were mostly White people, many wearing red Make America Great Again hats or other similar regalia, and some carrying Confederate battle flags. They began encircling an expanse of grass protected only by some makeshift metal fences and bicycle racks — and only a few Capitol Police officers. At 12:50 p.m., protesters jumped bike racks, the first of many breaches that day, and headed en masse toward the Capitol steps and the towering scaffolding prepared for the inaugural viewing stands and media tower.
Capitol Police called D.C. police for help around 1 p.m., and the first officers quickly arrived, dressed in bright yellow jackets. Within 15 minutes, they streamed down the Capitol steps toward the surging crowd, led by Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander. He declared a riot at 1:50 p.m.
By then, congressional staffers were being told to rush to secure locations. Suspected pipe bombs had been found outside the grounds.
Glover, a 26-year veteran who headed the force’s Special Events Branch, overseeing security for presidential inaugurations and large-scale demonstrations, met with a Capitol Police supervisor to coordinate a response. Glover sent in two civil-disturbance units and kept a third on standby. The front of the Capitol is divided into terraces linked by stairs, and Glover first positioned officers on the middle terrace.
Cmdr. Ramey Kyle of the D.C. police was directing officers on a lower terrace. Capitol Police turned their focus inside the building, confronting protesters who had gotten inside and securing members of Congress and Vice President Pence, there in a ceremonial role overseeing the proceedings.
Rioters who had scaled the scaffolding were on an upper terrace pelting officers with debris from above. Others were hitting them from below, armed with metal poles ripped from scaffolding, wooden 2-by-4 boards, bats, sledgehammers, table legs and 50-pound fire extinguishers. The mob erected a barricade from the debris, using bleacher and scaffolding parts to block officers from moving along the upper terrace.
Police had exhausted their chemical munitions, which Glover said had done little to slow the attackers, and rioters inside maneuvered through the many passageways, only to suddenly appear in the middle of police lines, causing further havoc. “As we’re pushing, literally foot by foot, we were taking law enforcement injuries, serious in nature,” Glover said. Glover ordered officers to take back the inauguration bleachers first, the “high ground,” to stop attacks from above.
Help soon arrived. Police from Virginia — from Arlington and Fairfax counties, along with state troopers — and from Maryland, from Montgomery and Prince George’s counties, replaced hurt and tired D.C. officers on the front lines. Pushing people down from the Capitol proved difficult.
“We were literally taking 15 to 20 minutes to get each stair back,” Glover said. Looking over the chaotic scene in front of him from the Capitol steps, Glover grew concerned as the battle raged. There were people caught up in the moment, he said, doing things they would not ordinarily do.
But many appeared to be on a mission, and they launched what he and the police chief described as a coordinated assault. “Everything they did was in a military fashion,” Glover said, saying he witnessed rioters apparently using hand signs and waving flags to signal positions, and using what he described as “military formations.”
They took high positions and talked over wireless communications. In all the commotion, Glover lost sight of Kyle.
Kyle has the rank of commander and works in the criminal investigation division, two things that on most occasions keep him out of immediate danger. He went to the Capitol to help process mass arrests and found himself battling.
He ended up retreating through West Terrace doors. It had been a public entryway before it was closed several years ago for security. The ground-floor entrance leads into a tunnel-shaped hallway that ends at a T-section.
To the left are private offices for lawmakers. To the right is the basement on the House side.
Kyle got the officers inside and closed the doors. He thought they were safe, that the Capitol doors and windows were fortified to withstand blows and bullets.
He found out quickly they were not. Thirty seconds later, people outside had already bashed them open and were headed inside. Officers raced forward to confront the mob in the vestibule.
The violent standoff would last hours. The number of officers changed by the minute — anywhere between 30 and 60 — depending on injuries and how long it took to step aside, recover from the gas that seared their lungs, and get back into battle.
Rioters took shields and batons and used them against the officers. One person threw a ladder.
Kyle wondered whether police could keep holding the door. D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit, entered the Capitol grounds with the riot well underway.
He was quickly separated from colleagues, and someone in the mob grabbed his radio. He found it at the West Terrace doors.
He had a gas mask and put it on, then worked his way to the front of the police line. He tried to hold the rioters back “as best I could,” he said. Shortly after 3 p.m., Hodges got caught between the interior glass doors, sandwiched by rioters pushing forward and by police behind him pushing the other way. His arms were trapped, then his head, on the rioter’s side. “I really couldn’t defend myself at that point,” he said.
A rioter grabbed his gas mask from the bottom and shoved upward, tearing it off his helmet. Another took his baton “and started beating me in the head with it.”
He took face-fulls of bear spray with no way to shield himself, and a video captured his agonizing groans and twisted face as the assault continued before he was finally freed and pulled back. Still, Hodges said, he did not want to turn to his gun.
Fanone and his partner, Jimmy Albright, entered the Capitol through a door on the east side and rushed through the building. They ended up at the West Terrace, where they saw the backs of officers pressing against the mob.
Another officer, dressed in a white uniform worn by upper-level supervisors, an eight-point hat and a trench coat, was doubled over in a hallway, hacking from the bear and pepper spray. Fanone recognized him as Kyle, whom he first met 20 years ago when both were on the Capitol Police force. Fanone made his way to the front of the line, relieving officers who by then could stay upright only by leaning on someone else. “It was body against body, just crushing, like a barbaric scene,” Fanone recalled.
Fanone and Albright had started their Wednesday tour as usual at 7:30 a.m. Assigned to a crime-suppression unit in the 1st District, which includes Capitol Hill, they usually patrol in plain clothes.
But to increase visibility on a day fraught with tension, they had been ordered to wear their uniforms. Now they were in the thick of things.
Injured officers were passed back through the line, one bleeding from the mouth and nose. As people in the mob dragged Fanone down the steps, he said he feared he would be stripped and dragged through the Capitol. With other officers swinging clubs, Albright pulled Fanone back inside.

The violent mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 came perilously close to Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex — enough time for the marauders to rush inside the building and approach his location, according to law enforcement officials and video footage from that day.
Secret Service officers eventually spirited Pence to a room off the Senate floor with his wife and daughter after rioters began to pour into the Capitol, many loudly denouncing the vice president as a traitor as they marched through the first floor below the Senate chamber. About one minute after Pence was hustled out of the chamber, a group charged up the stairs to a second-floor landing, chasing a Capitol Police officer who drew them away from the Senate.
Pence and his family had just ducked into a hideaway less than 100 feet from that landing, according to three people familiar with his whereabouts, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation. If the pro-Trump mob had arrived seconds earlier, the attackers would have been in eyesight of the vice president as he was rushed across a reception hall into the office.
The proximity of the Jan. 6 mob to the vice president and the delay in evacuating him from the chamber — which have not been previously reported — raise questions about why the Secret Service did not move him earlier and underscore the jeopardy that top government leaders faced during the siege. As an increasingly hostile and violent crowd surrounded the Capitol, Pence remained at center stage, presiding over a joint session of Congress for more than an hour after the Capitol Police chief said he alerted his superiors that his force was being overrun and needed emergency reinforcements.
The potential exposure of the vice president underscores how law enforcement agencies struggled to manage the rapidly expanding crisis in real time. The Secret Service declined to comment on any element of Pence’s movements in the Capitol or his evacuation, other than to say that he was “secure” during the siege. “While the Secret Service does not speak specifically about the means and methods of our protective operations, Vice President Pence was secure at all times on Jan. 6,” Secret Service spokeswoman Catherine Milhoan said in a statement.
A spokesman for Pence declined to comment. Pence was ultimately evacuated from his office off the Senate floor to a more secure location elsewhere in the Capitol complex. It is unclear exactly how long that took.
But as the vice president made his way through the building, a growing number of rioters were joining their cohorts and coursing through the Capitol’s labyrinthine halls. Once inside, they used pipes, flagpoles and other weapons to shatter windows and break furniture.
One police officer later died of injuries sustained during the onslaught. Dozens of officers were wounded, including some who were struck with a fire extinguisher and another who was dragged down a set of steps and attacked by the crowd.
Many of those in the mob had their sights on Pence — enraged that he had refused President Trump’s demand that he head off the electoral college count that formalized President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. At one point, a group of rioters began chanting, “Hang Mike Pence!” as they streamed into the main door on the east side of the Capitol.
One man who made his way into the Senate chamber reached Pence’s chair on the Senate dais. Shirtless, wearing face paint and a furry coyote-tail hat and ­carrying a six-foot-long spear, Jacob A. Chansley of Arizona left a note on the vice president’s desk that read in part, “It’s only a matter of time, justice is ­coming,” according to court filings. Chansley — who has been charged with two felonies, including threatening congressional officials — told investigators he was glad to reach Pence’s desk because he believes the vice president is a child-trafficking traitor, but said he did not mean the note as a threat. Pence had just begun presiding over the joint session of Congress that afternoon when law enforcement officials realized that the crowd massing around the Capitol had grown dangerous. Rioters had pressed up against the barriers surrounding the building — with some using them as weapons against the police.
Sund said he immediately called acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III, who rushed 100 officers to the scene. Meanwhile, the joint session of Congress convened at 1 p.m. in the House chamber for an alphabetical roll call of each state’s electoral college results, quickly pausing when Trump’s allies protested Biden’s victory in Arizona, which sent Pence and senators across the Capitol to their chamber to debate challenges to that state’s electoral vote. At 1:09 p.m., Sund said, he told the top Capitol security officials — House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger — that he wanted an emergency declaration and to call in the National Guard.
At 1:50 p.m., the D.C. police on-scene commander declared a riot. At 1:59 p.m., Sund said, he received the first report that rioters had reached the Capitol’s doors and windows and were attempting to break at least one window.
About 2:11 p.m., video footage shows, the rioters successfully broke through a window with a piece of lumber. A minute later, a member of the mob entered through the window, the footage shows.
At 2:13 p.m., Pence suddenly left the Senate floor and was moved to the nearby office, according to C-SPAN footage and a Post reporter on the scene. But the rioters were not far behind.
They chased Capitol Police officer Eugene Goodman up a flight of stairs, arriving on the landing at 2:14 p.m., video footage shows — seconds after the vice president had been whisked inside the office. Pence’s Secret Service detail stood guard at the door. Inside the office with the vice president were his wife, Karen Pence, his daughter, Charlotte Pence Bond, and his brother, Rep. Greg Pence (R-Ind.), who had come to the Senate and was watching its debate over Arizona’s electoral vote with his sister-in-law and niece as the Capitol was being invaded.
Agents on the Secret Service’s protective details are drilled in training to focus on one strategy at the sign of danger: They must “cover and evacuate” their protected VIP. Yet, on the afternoon of Jan. 6, danger was already all around them and streaming through different parts of the building. Twice the vice president’s agents told Pence that they recommended he and his immediate entourage evacuate the Capitol, according to two people briefed on the episode.
Pence declined the recommendation both times, saying he did not want to be driven out of his own office and the Capitol by an unruly mob, the people said. The third time, the Secret Service didn’t give Pence a choice, the people said.
Detail agents told Pence they were all going — that instant. They left the office for a secure room in the Capitol complex. The evacuation route they took is unknown.
A group of snipers on the counterassault team that travels with Pence would have scoped out the path and ensured that it was clear. Pence and his detail did not encounter any rioters on their way through the overrun Capitol, according to the people familiar with the events.
In addition to the vice president, the group that evacuated to the second location included Pence’s family, his chief of staff Marc Short, his press secretary Devin O’Malley and several other staffers. The Post is not identifying the location in the Capitol complex where Pence was taken for security reasons.
Once shepherded to the secure location, Pence remained there throughout the entire siege, even as most key congressional leaders were evacuated to an off-site secure location, according to administration and congressional aides. It would take several hours before Capitol Police — aided by hundreds of D.C. police officers, FBI SWAT team members, Secret Service officers and National Guard soldiers — ejected the rioters from the grounds and secured the building.
As lawmakers debated where and how they should reconvene to continue the electoral vote count disrupted by the violent mob, Pence pushed to continue the session where it had begun — in the Capitol. Once the Capitol Police gave the all-clear, Pence left his secure location and returned to the Senate chamber after 8 p.m. Before Congress resumed its work, the vice president addressed the day’s violence in an unusual speech as president of the Senate.

Chaos erupted at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday as a pro-Trump mob stormed the seat of the country’s legislative branch in a violent scene that was reminiscent of an attempted coup or an insurrection.
Lawmakers were evacuated as the rioters breached barricades, interrupting the certification of the results of the recent presidential election. Thousands of rioters, waving “Don’t Tread on Me” flags and shouting “stop the steal,” flooded Capitol Hill and paraded through National Statuary Hall, creating a tense standoff with law enforcement that dissolved into violence.
Tear gas was reportedly deployed in the rotunda and shots were fired. CNN reported that a woman was in critical condition after being shot in the chest on the Capitol grounds. Multiple outlets later reported that she had died. Several others, including a police officer, were injured.
Shortly afterward, Trump posted a pre-recorded video calling on his supporters to “go home in peace,” and saying that the rioting was “playing into the hands” of his opponents. The governors of Maryland and Virginia said they would dispatch the state troopers and activate the National Guard to help quell the violence. Kayleigh McEnany, the president’s press secretary, also said that federal officers and National Guard would be deployed. As law enforcement officers attempted to get the rioters to disperse, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser ordered a citywide curfew beginning at 6 p.m. E.T.
Before the protests escalated, thousands of Trump supporters gathered in Washington, D.C. this week to take part in a rally held on the National Mall. There, Trump addressed the cheering crowd shortly before Congress met to certify the results.
“We will never give up. We will never concede,” Trump said.
Trump riled up the crowd, and then said that they would walk up to the Capitol to “cheer on our brave senators” who were opposing certification. Spurred on by his bellicose rhetoric, a typically ceremonial counting of the electoral votes submitted by each state, devolved into a shocking riot.
Numerous Republican members of the House and Senate had vowed to contest the legitimacy of the presidential election in key battleground states, but their efforts were halted amidst safety concerns. Both chambers went into recess as police struggled to contain a situation that quickly spun out of control.
Vice President Mike Pence, who earlier announced that he would defy President Trump and refuse to attempt to stop Biden from becoming president, was among the top officials who were evacuated. The chaos in D.C. meant that viewers across the country watched news networks in which members of Congress gave telephone interviews while sheltering in their offices or in secure locations.
For some, the fear was evident in their voice. “My colleagues and I are a little shell-shocked,” said Rep. Jim Himes, D.-Conn., told CNN by phone.
Even before protesters flooded the Capitol, the vote certification had become uncharacteristically contentious. Republicans issued objections to certifying Arizona’s electoral votes, which closed the joint session and kicked off debate in both chambers over whether or not there were election irregularities that would nullify Biden’s victory in the state.
The effort has been spearheaded by rising stars on the far right including Josh Hawley, who was elected to the Senate from Missouri in 2018, and Jim Jordan, who has represented the Columbus, Ohio area in the House since 2007. Their effort is widely expected to fail. Democrats control the House of Representatives and several Republicans in the Senate such as Mitt Romney, Susan Collins and Kevin Cramer have said they will back the Electoral College. Schumer, the Democratic leader who seems poised to replace McConnell as majority leader after his party picked up two seats in the Georgia runoff election, echoed his warnings.

3:55 a.m.
President Donald Trump now says there “will be an orderly transition on January 20th” after Congress concluded the electoral vote count certifying President-elect Joe Biden’s victory and after a day of violence when his supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol. Trump’s account is currently locked by Twitter. Trump has spent the last two months refusing to concede the election and making baseless allegations of mass voter fraud that have been rejected by dozens of courts and Republican officials, including his former attorney general.
Vice President Mike Pence presided over the formal session that ended early Thursday morning tallying the electoral college vote. Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power, forcing lawmakers to be rushed from the building and interrupting challenges to Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory. Congress returned later Wednesday to resume their proceedings after the Capitol was cleared by law enforcement.
3:41 a.m. Congress has formally validated Joe Biden’s presidential election victory on a day that saw a time-honored ceremony become a nightmare of unprecedented political terror. The House and Senate certified the Democrat’s electoral college win early Thursday after a violent throng of pro-Trump rioters spent hours Wednesday running rampant through the Capitol.
A woman was fatally shot, windows were bashed and the mob forced shaken lawmakers and aides to flee the building, shielded by Capitol Police. The rampage began shortly after President Donald Trump repeated his unfounded claims of election fraud to thousands of rallying demonstrators he’d invited to Washington. Many then surged to the Capitol after he incited them to go there as lawmakers debated the electoral votes.
More than six hours after the violence erupted, lawmakers resumed their session. Thirteen Republican senators and dozens of GOP representatives had planned to force debate and votes on perhaps six different states’ votes.
The assault on the Capitol made some Republicans squeamish about trying to overturn Biden’s win, and challenges were lodged only against Arizona and Pennsylvania. Both efforts lost overwhelmingly.
Biden defeated Trump by 306-232 electoral votes and will be inaugurated Jan. 20. 3:25 a.m. The Texas senator condemned the violence that erupted as supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol in an extraordinary attack over the election outcome.
Cruz led the first challenge to Joe Biden’s defeat of President Donald Trump by objecting to Arizona’s results. He sought to have Congress launch a commission to investigate the election.
His effort was roundly defeated in the House and Senate. Cruz said he was confident the country will have a “peaceful and orderly transition of power.”
Biden is set to be inaugurated Jan. 20. 3:10 a.m.
The House has joined the Senate in turning aside Republican objections to Pennsylvania’s electoral vote for President-elect Joe Biden. Lawmakers in the House voted 282-138 against the objection as the counting of Electoral College votes continued into the early hours of Thursday morning. The Senate shut down the same objection 92-7 just after midnight, and unlike the House, declined to debate before voting.
After a long day dominated by pro-Trump rioters’ deadly storming of the Capitol, it was the second state for which a group of Republicans tried and failed to reverse the will of voters. Some GOP lawmakers have backed President Donald Trump’s bogus claims that the election was fraudulent. Those objecting to Pennsylvania’s votes included 80 House Republicans and Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender.
2:20 a.m. A small group of House lawmakers came close to physically fighting early Thursday morning as the congressional count of electoral votes stretched into the wee hours and a Pennsylvania Democrat charged that Republicans had been telling “lies” about his state’s votes.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi shot down the objection, but a few minutes later Republicans and Democrats streamed to the middle aisle, with around a dozen lawmakers getting close to each other and arguing. But the group quickly broke up when Pelosi called for order on the floor.
President Donald Trump has falsely claimed there was widespread fraud in Pennsylvania and other states and Republicans have echoed those claims as they have challenged electoral votes. 12:55 a.m.
The Senate has quickly killed Republican objections to Pennsylvania’s electoral vote for President-elect Joe Biden. Senators voted 92-7 after midnight to derail the GOP attempt to overturn Pennsylvania’s support for the Democrat.
In a long day dominated by pro-Trump rioters’ deadly storming of the Capitol, it’s the second state for which a group of Republicans tried and failed to reverse the will of voters. Some GOP lawmakers have backed President Donald Trump’s bogus claims that the election was fraudulent.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says he believes no other states’ votes will be challenged. That means Congress’ formal certification of Biden’s victory could finish quickly once the House votes on the Pennsylvania challenge. The Senate rejected the effort to cancel Pennsylvania’s votes without any debate.
Those objecting to Pennsylvania’s votes included 80 House Republicans and Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender. Republican Rep. Scott Perry of Pennsylvania and Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri have objected to the counting of Pennsylvania’s electoral votes, triggering up to two hours of debate in the House and Senate.
The objections come 11 hours after the congressional count to confirm Democrat Joe Biden’s presidential victory began, and after lawmakers had to evacuate both chambers for several hours to escape a mob that had violently breached the Capitol. Hawley said last week that he would object to Pennsylvania’s electoral votes, saying Congress should investigate voter fraud.
President Donald Trump has falsely said since his defeat that there was widespread fraud in the election. Biden won Pennsylvania by just over 80,000 votes.
Since the Nov. 3 election, Trump and his allies filed at least a half-dozen lawsuits challenging Biden’s win on various grounds, including that many or all of the state’s mail-in ballots were illegal. The lawsuits failed as judge after judge found no violation of state law or constitutional rights, or no grounds to grant an immediate halt to certifying the election.
11:20 p.m. The House has voted overwhelmingly to reject an objection to President-elect Joe Biden’s win in Arizona, joining the Senate in upholding the results of the election there.
The objection failed 303-121 on Wednesday night, with only Republicans voting in support. Earlier Wednesday, supporters of President Donald Trump breached the U.S. Capitol, forcing a lockdown of the lawmakers and staff inside. Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away his defeat to Biden, though election officials have said there wasn’t any.
Now that Arizona is out of the way, Congress will reconvene as the joint session and make its way through the rest of the states that have objections. 11:10 p.m. Four people died as supporters of President Donald Trump violently occupied the U.S. Capitol.
Police said both law enforcement and Trump supporters deployed chemical irritants during the hourslong occupation of the Capitol building before it was cleared Wednesday evening by law enforcement. The woman was shot earlier Wednesday as the mob tried to break through a barricaded door in the Capitol where police were armed on the other side.
She was hospitalized with a gunshot wound and later died. D.C. police officials also say two pipe bombs were recovered, one outside the Democratic National Committee and one outside the Republican National Committee.
Police found a cooler from a vehicle that had a long gun and Molotov cocktail on Capitol grounds. 10:15 p.m.
The Senate has overwhelmingly turned aside a challenge to President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in Arizona, guaranteeing the result will stand. The objection to the results in Arizona -- spearheaded by Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz -- was rejected 93-6 on Wednesday night.
All votes in favor came from Republicans, but after violent protesters mobbed the Capitol earlier Wednesday a number of GOP senators who had planned to support the objection reversed course. The Republicans raised the objection based on false claims pushed by President Donald Trump and others of issues with the vote in Arizona, which were repeatedly dismissed in Arizona’s courts and by the state’s election officials.
10:10 p.m. Graham, a South Carolina Republican and longtime ally of President Donald Trump, called it a “uniquely bad idea to delay this election,” referencing the commission idea proposed by his fellow South Carolina Republican, U.S. Sen. Tim Scott. Earlier Wednesday, supporters of Trump breached the U.S. Capitol, forcing a lockdown of the lawmakers and staff inside. Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away his defeat to President-elect Joe Biden, though election officials have said there wasn’t any. 10 p.m. Police have arrested 30 people for violating a curfew imposed in Washington, D.C., after rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol.
Officials say the 30 people were arrested Wednesday evening after being found on the streets after the 6 p.m. The curfew had been imposed after scores of supporters of President Donald Trump broke into the Capitol, halting the constitutional process of voting to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s win.
They were later forcibly removed from the Capitol. The Metropolitan Police Department said 15 other people had been arrested on Tuesday and Wednesday in various protest-related arrests on an array of charges, including weapons possession and assault.
Fire officials also took 13 people to area hospitals on Wednesday from protest-related injuries. 9:55 p.m.
Republican Sen. Josh Hawley says he is going forward with his objection to the Electoral College results in Pennsylvania despite the violent breach at the Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump. The Missouri senator said he did not support violence but said the Senate should go forward with a legal process that includes his objections. Hawley says his objections should be debated “peacefully, without violence, without attacks, without bullets.” He says he hoped lawmakers would not brush his concerns aside because of the violence earlier Wednesday, including the death of a protester inside the Capitol.
Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away his defeat to President-elect Joe Biden, though election officials have said there wasn’t any. 9:45 p.m. House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy is comparing violence at the U.S. Capitol to protests against racial injustice over the summer after the killing of George Floyd by police. The U.S. Capitol was overrun by a mob supportive of President Donald Trump on Wednesday as Congress counted electoral votes to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s win.
Trump has falsely said there was widespread fraud in the election to explain his defeat and encouraged his supporters to come to Washington. The comment got loud applause from Republicans. Democrats in the chamber sat silently.
Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed, was killed in May after a white police officer pressed his knee against Floyd’s neck for several minutes even after he said he couldn’t breathe. McCarthy, an ally of Trump’s, said Wednesday was the “saddest day” he’s ever had in Congress.
9:15 p.m. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says Congress’ certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s election win will show the world it won’t back down. Pelosi made her comments as the House reconvened after being shut down for hours Wednesday by unruly pro-Trump protesters.
She said that every four years the ritual provides an example to the world of American democracy. Pelosi, a Roman Catholic, noted that Wednesday is the feast of the Epiphany and prayed that the violence would be “an epiphany to heal” for the country.
9:10 pm. Cuomo, a Democrat, said 1,000 troops would be sent for up to two weeks at the request of U.S. National Guard officials.
It comes after a mob of President Donald Trump’s supporters rampaged through the U.S. Capitol. They will join law enforcement from Virginia, Maryland and New Jersey who are also coming to D.C.’s aid.
The president’s supporters incited chaos in a protest over a transfer of power to President-elect Joe Biden. Trump convinced them that he was cheated out of a victory by rampant, widespread voter fraud, a false claim.
8:55 p.m. Multiple Republican senators have reversed course and now say they won’t object to congressional certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. Their change of heart came after a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol earlier Wednesday and interrupted their proceedings.
One person was fatally shot. Sens. Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia all said in light of the violence they would stand down from planned objections to Biden’s win.
All three had previously signed on to Trump’s false claims of widespread voter fraud to explain his defeat. Loeffler has just days left in her term. She lost her Senate race to Democrat Raphael Warnock earlier Wednesday.
8:45 p.m. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says Congress “will not be deterred” in confirming the results of the presidential election hours after supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol. The Republican leader reopened the Senate late Wednesday vowing to finish confirming the Electoral College for President-elect Joe Biden.
It was interrupted earlier in the way when rioters breached the security perimeter and clashed with law enforcement before disrupting Congress’ tallying of the Electoral College votes. One person was fatally shot.
McConnell plans to keep the Senate in session Wednesday to finish confirming the results. Trump has repeatedly told his supporters that the November election was stolen from him, even though that is not true.
He reiterated the claim in a video filmed as his demonstrators were storming the Capitol. 8:35 p.m. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer says President Donald Trump “bears a great deal of the blame” after a mob loyal to him stormed the U.S. Capitol.
As the Senate reconvened to count electoral votes that will confirm Democrat Joe Biden’s win, Schumer said that Jan. 6, 2021, will “live forever in infamy” and will be a stain on the democracy. Trump has falsely claimed that there was widespread fraud in the election to explain away his defeat.
Schumer says the protesters should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. 8:20 p.m.
Former President Barack Obama says history will rightly remember the violence at the Capitol as a moment of great dishonor and shame for the nation. Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Obama say the violence was “incited by a sitting president” who baselessly lied about the outcome of the presidential election.
He has convinced his supporters that he lost the election to President-elect Joe Biden only because Democrats cheated, a false claim. 8:10 p.m. The Senate has resumed debating the Republican challenge against Democrat Joe Biden’s presidential election victory, more than six hours after pro-Trump mobs attacked the Capitol and forced lawmakers to flee.
Scores of Republican representatives and 13 GOP senators had planned to object Wednesday to the electoral votes of perhaps six states that backed Biden. It was unclear whether those objections would continue in light of the day’s violent events.
President Donald Trump has falsely insisted that the election was marred by fraud and that he actually won. He reiterated those claims in remarks to thousands of protesters outside the White House early Wednesday and goaded them to march to the Capitol, which many of them did.
The mayhem had forced the House and Senate to abruptly end the day’s debates and flee to safety under the protection of police. And it prompted bipartisan outrage as many lawmakers blamed Trump for fostering the violence.
8:05 p.m. Former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who resigned in protest over President Donald Trump’s Syria policies, blamed the president for the violence at the U.S. Capitol. Mattis, a retired four-star Marine general who stepped down as Pentagon chief in December 2018, had an embattled relationship with Trump, but largely remained publicly quiet and avoided direct criticism. Since he left the job, however, he has been more openly derisive of Trump, including a pubilc condemnation of the president’s heavy-handed use of military force to quell protests near the White House last June.
7:55 p.m. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for first lady Melania Trump, has resigned following violent protests at the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump. Grisham says in a statement Wednesday that it was an “honor” to serve the country in the White House and be part of he first lady’s “mission” to help children.
Grisham was one of Trump’s longest serving aides, having joined the campaign in 2015. She served as the White House press secretary and never held a press briefing.
Wednesday’s violent occupation of the U.S. Capitol by the president’s supporters sparked renewed conversations inside the White House about mass resignations by mid-level aides who are responsible for operations of the office of the president. Two people familiar with the conversations said the aides were torn between fears of what more would happen if they left and a desire to register their disgust with their boss. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.
7:45 p.m. 7:40 p.m. Former President Bill Clinton says the attack on the U.S. Capitol was fueled over four years of “poison politics” and lit by President Donald Trump.
Clinton said in a statement Wednesday night that the riot at the Capitol resulted from a combination of deliberate disinformation that created distrust in the system and pit Americans against one another. His wife, Hillary Clinton, lost a bitter election to Trump in 2016 and conceded to him immediately. Trump has refused to accept his defeat by Democrat Joe Biden in November and is trying to cast him as an illegitimate president.
7:20 p.m. A West Virginia lawmaker took video of himself and other supporters of President Donald Trump rushing into the U.S. Capitol after they breached the security perimeter.
In the video by Republican Del. Derrick Evans, later deleted from his social media page, he is shown wearing a helmet and clamoring at the door to breach the building in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday. He said he has not spoken to Evans yet about his involvement. 6:55 p.m. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says Congress will resume the Electoral College proceedings once the Capitol is cleared of pro-Donald Trump protesters and safe for use.
Pelosi said she made the decision Wednesday in consultation with the Pentagon, the Justice Department and the vice president, who will preside. Trump supporters breached the Capitol building and clashed with law enforcement before disrupting Congress’ tallying of the Electoral College votes. Trump has repeatedly told his supporters that the November election was stolen from him, even though that is not true.
6:45 p.m. Dozens of pro-Trump protesters remain on the streets of the nation’s capital in defiance of the curfew imposed after rioters stormed the Capitol.
The mostly maskless crowd was forcibly removed from the Capitol on Wednesday after breaking into the building and halting the constitutional process of voting to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s win. They were pushed out of the immediate area and moved down the hill, where they taunted law enforcement and moved barricades.
Police said anyone found on the streets after the 6 p.m. curfew would be arrested. Officers in full riot gear with shields lined the streets near the U.S. Capitol.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said their debate on affirming Biden’s victory would continue after the Capitol was secured. 6:40 p.m.
The head of the nation’s largest union of flight attendants says people who took part in the violent protest at the Capitol must be banned from flying. Nelson and the union endorsed President-elect Joe Biden over President Donald Trump before the November election.
Trump supporters on a Delta Air Lines flight from Salt Lake City to Washington heckled Utah Sen. Mitt Romney, the lone Republican senator to vote to oust Trump after he was impeached. On an American Airlines flight from Dallas, a large contingent of Trump supporters got in an angry yelling match with other passengers after one of the president’s supporters projected “Trump 2020” on the cabin ceiling and walls.
6:30 p.m. Republican Sen. Mitt Romney is blaming President Donald Trump for inciting a violent “insurrection” at the Capitol. 6:25 p.m.

Robert Moore, the Washington correspondent for Britain’s ITV News, has gone viral and won widespread praise from peers for an extraordinary report following Donald Trump’s supporters as they forced their way into the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.
Moore was in the thick of the carnage on a historic day in the U.S. capital, surfing the mob wave as it battered down the doors and windows of the Capitol building, and calmly reporting on the events as they unfolded around him. “For four years we have witnessed turmoil in America, but nothing quite like this,” Moore said, as he opened a seven-minute report, in which he captured tear gas canisters being detonated and was jostled by protestors inside the Capitol building. He also filmed protesters wielding shards of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s nameplate after it had been ripped from the wall.
“This is exactly what was feared, but in no way is this a surprise. It has been fueled by the president’s rhetoric, and it’s increasingly clear, this nation has not healed the wounds, it has simply amplified them,” Moore added.

WASHINGTON (AP) — As President Donald Trump’s supporters massed outside the Capitol last week and sang the national anthem, a line of men wearing olive-drab helmets and body armor trudged purposefully up the marble stairs in a single-file line, each man holding the jacket collar of the one ahead. The formation, known as “Ranger File,” is standard operating procedure for a combat team that is “stacking up” to breach a building — instantly recognizable to any U.S. soldier or Marine who served in Iraq and Afghanistan.
It was a chilling sign that many at the vanguard of the mob that stormed the seat of American democracy either had military training or were trained by those who did. An Associated Press review of public records, social media posts and videos shows at least 22 current or former members of the U.S. military or law enforcement have been identified as being at or near the Capitol riot, with more than a dozen others under investigation but not yet named. In many cases, those who stormed the Capitol appeared to employ tactics, body armor and technology such as two-way radio headsets that were similar to those of the very police they were confronting. Experts in homegrown extremism have warned for years about efforts by far-right militants and white-supremacist groups to radicalize and recruit people with military and law enforcement training, and they say the Jan. 6 insurrection that left five people dead saw some of their worst fears realized.
Among the most prominent to emerge is a retired Air Force lieutenant colonel and decorated combat veteran from Texas who was arrested after he was photographed wearing a helmet and body armor on the floor of the Senate, holding a pair of zip-tie handcuffs. Two police officers from a small Virginia town, both of them former infantrymen, were arrested by the FBI after posting a selfie of themselves inside the Capitol, one flashing his middle finger at the camera.
Also under scrutiny is an active-duty psychological warfare captain from North Carolina who organized three busloads of people who headed to Washington for the “Save America” rally in support the president’s false claim that the November election was stolen from him. While the Pentagon declined to provide an estimate for how many other active-duty military personnel are under investigation, the military’s top leaders were concerned enough ahead of President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration that they issued a highly unusual warning to all service members this week that the right to free speech gives no one the right to commit violence. The chief of the U.S. Capitol Police was forced to resign following the breach and several officers have been suspended pending the outcome of investigations into their conduct, including one who posed for a selfie with a rioter and another who was seen wearing one of Trump’s red “Make America Great Again” caps.
The AP’s review of hundreds of videos and photos from the insurrectionist riot shows scores of people mixed in the crowd who were wearing military-style gear, including helmets, body armor, rucksacks and two-way radios. Dozens carried canisters of bear spray, baseball bats, hockey sticks and pro-Trump flags attached to stout poles later used to bash police officers.
A close examination of the group marching up the steps to help breach the Capitol shows they wore military-style patches that read “MILITIA” and “OATHKEEPER.” Others were wearing patches and insignias representing far-right militant groups, including the Proud Boys, the Three Percenters and various self-styled state militias. The Oath Keepers, which claims to count thousands of current and former law enforcement officials and military veterans as members, have become fixtures at protests and counter-protests across the country, often heavily armed with semi-automatic carbines and tactical shotguns.
He later posted a since-deleted follow-up video after the riot saying he was “proud” of the assault. Newbold, 45, did not respond to multiple messages from the AP but in an interview with the Task & Purpose website he denied ever going inside the Capitol.
He added that because of the fallout from the videos he has resigned from a program that helps prepare potential SEAL applicants. Retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. of Texas was released to home confinement Thursday after a prosecutor alleged the former fighter pilot had zip-tie handcuffs on the Senate floor because he planned to take hostages.
Federal authorities on Friday also arrested Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys. The FBI identified Pezzola as the bearded man seen in widely shared video shattering an exterior Capitol window with a stolen Capitol Police riot shield before he and others climbed inside.
He also appears in a second video taken inside the building that shows him smoking a cigar in what he calls a “victory smoke,” according to a court filing. In an online biography, Pezzola, whose nickname is “Spazzo,” describes himself as “Marine vet/ boxer/
patriot/ Proud Boy.” Service records show he served six years stateside as an infantryman and was discharged in 2005 at the rank of corporal. According to court filings, an unidentified witness told the FBI that Pezzola was with a group at the Capitol whose members said they would have killed “anyone they got their hands on,” including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
The witness further stated that members of this group said they would have killed (Vice President) Mike Pence if given the chance,” the affidavit said.
Army commanders at Fort Bragg in North Carolina are investigating the possible involvement of Capt. Emily Rainey, the 30-year-old psychological operations officer and Afghanistan war veteran who told the AP she traveled with 100 others to Washington to “stand against election fraud.” She insisted she acted within Army regulations and that no one in her group entered the Capitol or broke the law. “I was a private citizen and doing everything right and within my rights,” Rainey said.
More than 125 people have been arrested so far on charges related to the Capitol riot, ranging from curfew violations to serious federal felonies related to theft and weapons possession. Brian Harrell, who served as the assistant secretary for infrastructure protection at the Department of Homeland Security until last year, said it is “obviously problematic” when “extremist bad actors” have military and law enforcement backgrounds.
The FBI is warning of the potential for more bloodshed. In an internal bulletin issued Sunday, the bureau warned of plans for armed protests at all 50 state capitals and in Washington, D.C., in the coming weeks.
Meanwhile, police departments in such major cities as New York, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Houston and Philadelphia announced they were investigating whether members of their agencies participated in the Capitol riot. The Philadelphia area’s transit authority is also investigating whether seven of its police officers who attended Trump’s rally in Washington broke any laws.
A Texas sheriff announced last week that he had reported one of his lieutenants to the FBI after she posted photos of herself on social media with a crowd outside the Capitol. Bexar County Sheriff Javier Salazar said Lt. Roxanne Mathai, a 46-year-old jailer, had the right to attend the rally but he’s investigating whether she may have broken the law. A lawyer for Mathai, a mother and longtime San Antonio resident, said she attended the Trump rally but never entered the Capitol. In Houston, Police Chief Art Acevedo said an 18-year veteran of the department suspected of joining the mob that breached the Capitol resigned before a disciplinary hearing that was set for Friday.
Bleiberg reported from Dallas and LaPorta from in Delray Beach, Florida. Robert Burns and Michael Balsamo in Washington; Jim Mustian, Michael R. Sisak and Thalia Beaty in New York; Michael Kunzelman in College Park, Maryland; Juan A. Lozano in Houston; Claudia Lauer in Philadelphia; Martha Bellisle in Seattle; Stefanie Dazio in Los Angeles; and Carolyn Thompson in Buffalo, New York, contributed.

NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Federal prosecutors said a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters is a danger to his community and a serious flight risk, and are asking that he be detained until trial. In a court filing ahead of a Friday detention hearing in Nashville, prosecutors described a Jan. 10 search of Eric Munchel’s home that turned up assault rifles, a sniper rifle with a tripod, shotguns, pistols, hundreds of rounds of ammunition and a drum-style magazine.
Prosecutors also said they have reason to believe Munchel may have had weapons with him in Washington that he stashed Jan. 6 outside the Capitol before entering. Munchel is charged with violent entry and disorderly conduct on the Capitol grounds, conspiracy and civil disorder. He faces up to 20 years if convicted. An attorney for Munchel did not immediately return phone and email messages Thursday.
Munchel “perceived himself to be a revolutionary, in the mold of those who overthrew the British government in the American Revolution,” according to court filings. He was “dressed for combat” with “combat boots, military fatigues, a tactical vest, gloves, and a gaiter that covered all of his face except for his eyes,” documents state. He also wore a stun gun on his hip and mounted a cellphone to his chest to record events. Investigators later recovered the cellphone from a friend who had been given it by Munchel, according to court documents.
In cellphone video, Munchel recorded himself speaking to Eisenhart about not entering the Capitol with weapons. According to the memorandum, Munchel says he needs to “‘take my weapons off before I go in there.’” Then Munchel and Eisenhart walk to a location where ”a tactical bag and other items appear to have been stashed,” take off items and deposit them in or near the bag.
Later, while walking through the Capitol, Munchel spots plastic handcuffs and says, “‘Zipties. I need to get me some of them,’”
according to the court document. Handcuffs were among the items found when investigators later searched Munchel’s home. Federal prosecutors argue in the memorandum that Munchel’s offenses are serious and he should be detained pending trial to “ensure the safety of the community.” He has “made statements evincing an intent to engage in violent conduct because of his disillusionment with the outcome of the 2020 Presidential election,” the document states.

During the United States’ long Civil War, no Confederate flag came within the shadow of the US Capitol, but on January 6, 2021, an insurrectionist carried one right through its halls. In an attempt to stop Congress’ affirmation of President-elect Joe Biden’s clear Electoral College victory in November’s elections, rioters stormed the Capitol lawn. President Donald Trump’s supporters forced their way inside, where lawmakers were diligently exacting democracy, and once the doors were secured, some supporters who had been locked out of the Capitol smashed windows and let themselves in. Lawmakers, staff and journalists inside went into lockdown. Capitol Police drew their guns to defend the House chamber. Four people died.
One of the rioters – a goateed man with a widow’s peak – was dressed more for a trip to the bar than a revolution, but what stood out was the pole he carried, taller than himself, bearing a standard flown in the Confederate rebellion against the nation 160 years ago. Reuters and Getty photographers captured images of the man in a tan vest and jeans trotting across the Minton tile floors of the Capitol – past the portraits of abolitionist Charles Sumner and slaveholder John Calhoun. The man has not been identified. Where he went after the photographers snapped his photo is unknown. While there were dozens of arrests January 6, it’s unclear if the man is among them.
While versions of the Confederate flag have appeared in legitimate exhibits in the country’s legislative headquarters, the closest any rebel carrying a Confederate flag ever came to the Capitol was about 6 miles, during the Battle of Fort Stevens on July 11 and 12, 1864. To be clear, the Beauregard battle flag – the red banner with the starred blue cross commonly shorthanded as “the Confederate flag” today – was not the official ensign of the 1861 uprising. The 13-star design was used by the Second Confederate Navy and other military factions before being included in various iterations of the so-called national flag. The version of the flag paraded through the Capitol on January 6 wasn’t so directly associated with the Confederacy at-large until the late 1940s and early 1950s, as Dixiecrats recoiled at the notion of civil rights and racial equality. White supremacists later adopted it as one of their emblems of choice.
Yet it wasn’t until 2021 that an insurgent carried a flag of the rebellion into America’s “citadel of liberty,” to borrow the coinage of the incoming US President. The Battle of Fort Stevens is the closest the Confederacy ever came to conquering Washington DC, according to Smithsonian Magazine. The South was battered, but on July 11, 1864, Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early sat on his horse outside Fort Stevens, the Capitol dome in his view, and determined the city’s defenses were “feebly manned,” the magazine reported. He wasn’t wrong. Early commanded the Second Corps of the Army of Northern Virginia, which fought under a square version of the Confederate battle flag commonly flown today. His commander, Gen. Robert E. Lee, was suffering a slow, bloody defeat, and attacking the Union capital might offer Lee some respite, or at least convince Union Gen. Ulysses S. Grant to divert some of his troops, who were hammering Lee’s forces, Smithsonian reported. Early ordered the commander of his leading division to begin the attack on the capital of the United States. The thousands of cavalry, artillerymen and infantrymen – armed with 40 cannons – began their assault.
Grant, who had re-deployed many of the reinforcements from Washington, taking them to battle in Petersburg and Richmond, Virginia, heard about Early’s charge and ordered 17,000 troops back to the capital, the magazine said. Commanders scrounged up walking wounded and clerks to take up rifles and join the sparsely trained reserves left to defend the city.
At one point, one of Early’s commanders found a gap in the defenses that could’ve provided an avenue to the federal navy yard and its ships, the US Treasury and warehouses of food, medicine and ammunition, but Early had a problem: After vanquishing Union forces in Lynchburg, Virginia, and Frederick, Maryland, in the hot, dry summer, his troops were exhausted, too tired to walk, according to Smithsonian. “General Early rode along the loosening formations, telling staggering, sweating, dust-begrimed men that he would take them into Washington that day. They tried to raise the old Rebel Yell to show him they were willing, but it came out cracked and thin,” the magazine reported. Before the men could muster their strength, some of Grant’s men made it back to the city and opened a counterassault. Early and his men regrouped the night of the 11th and before dawn, Early took his field glasses to survey the federal fortifications. Rather than the sharp, new uniforms worn by the clerks and walking wounded, he now saw men in faded, war-worn sky blue, and “everywhere he saw fluttering battle flags,” Smithsonian said. “I had, therefore, reluctantly to give up all hopes of capturing Washington, after I had arrived in sight of the dome of the Capitol,” Early wrote in his autobiography. Whereas Trump on January 6 released a video to social media that required heavy fact-checking, President Abraham Lincoln traveled to the front lines, albeit after Early was resigned to defeat.
Still, sharpshooters’ rifles cracked and cannons boomed. Lincoln “bounded up to the parapet.” Generals and other military leaders pleaded with him to take cover as bullets “thudded into the embankment,” Smithsonian Magazine said. It marked the only time a sitting President of the United States ever came under fire in combat, according to the National Park Service.
Early ordered his men to stay in place, looking dangerous, and after darkness fell on the 12th, sometime after 10 p.m., he and his army absconded back to Virginia. And thus, no Confederate flag made it within 6 miles of the Capitol. “Although he failed to capture the National Capital, the campaign apparently pleased him, as recounted by Major Henry Kyd Douglas,” said the park service, which maintains the partially restored Fort Stevens in the Brightwood neighborhood of northwest Washington. Early was relieved of command in March 1865, and following the war, he fled to Mexico, then Cuba, then Canada, before returning – promise of amnesty in hand – to Lynchburg, Virginia, where he resumed his pre-war occupation as an attorney and helped in “crafting the narrative of the Lost Cause,” the park service said.

A rioter who stormed the US Capitol Wednesday wearing a sweatshirt emblazoned with the phrase “Camp Auschwitz” has been identified as Robert Keith Packer of Virginia, according to three sources who spoke with CNN.
An image of Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II, has evoked shock and disbelief on social media. The bottom of his shirt stated, “Work brings freedom,” which is the rough translation of the phrase “Arbeit macht frei” that was on the concentration camp’s gates.
Packer did not respond to CNN’s requests for comment. One Virginia resident, who spoke to CNN on the condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter, described Packer as a long-time extremist who has had run-ins with the law. “He’s been always extreme and very vocal about his beliefs,” the resident said.
Another source familiar with Packer described him as an “off-beat” character who has expressed frustrations with the government, though this source did not recall Packer ever talking about President Donald Trump or false allegations of voter fraud. A third source said Packer previously worked as a welder and pipe-fitter.
Virginia court records show that Packer has a criminal history that includes three convictions for driving under the influence and a felony conviction for forging public records. In 2016, he was charged for allegedly trespassing, though that case was dismissed.

“Big protest in DC on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!”
Donald Trump tweeted on December 19, a week after his would-be Brown Shirt followers rioted in the streets of Washington to protest the “stolen” election. When Der Tag – the climactic day of battle arrived – Trump assembled his true believers on the South Ellipse at the White House for a “Save America” rally, waving them up Pennsylvania Avenue as his army to nullify the congressional certification of electoral college votes in the presidential election.
Near the steps of the Capitol, as Trump’s shock troops prepared themselves for the assault on the citadel, they built a bare but dramatic monument to their revenge fantasy: wooden gallows with steps leading up to a swinging noose. Smashing their way through the windows and doors of the Capitol, they rampaged in a mad dash, breaking furniture, slashing paintings and looting offices.
One of the invaders roamed through the corridors carrying a large Confederate flag, the first and only time that emblem of the Slave Power has ever appeared inside the Capitol. Just two weeks earlier, on 21 December, at the request of the commonwealth of Virginia, the statue of Robert E Lee that the state had given as a gift to the Congress in 1909 to represent it in Statuary Hall was replaced with one of Barbara Rose Johns Powell, who as a teenager had integrated Virginia’s public schools.
Trump’s rabble had first rioted in 2017 in defense of another statue of Lee, in Charlottesville, Virginia, after the city council had voted to remove it. The rioter parading through the Capitol with a Confederate flag, as though he had reached the high-water mark of Pickett’s Charge at Gettysburg, was captured in a photo between two portraits on the Senate side, one of Senator John C Calhoun, the proslavery ideologue and nullifier from South Carolina, and the other of Senator Charles Sumner, the abolitionist from Massachusetts. The neo-Confederate rioter appeared indifferent to the images, even as he flaunted the symbol of the Lost Cause for Trump’s lost cause in a new civil war. In a valentine to the vandals of the Capitol, Trump proclaimed, “We love you,” and, “You’re special.”
The rabble was a mélange of true believers in conspiracy theories, paranoid delusions and twisted history. For the QAnon followers, their presence at the Capitol was the moment when the storm of the rapture would bring about the revelation of Trump’s final plan and his restoration to perpetual power. It was the culmination of Trump’s promise for apocalyptic change. For neo-Nazis, carrying flags with abstract versions of broken swastikas, and tattooed latter-day Klansmen, it was a stand for racial supremacy.
Charging the gates of the Capitol was storming the gates of heaven. Or, alternatively, it was a heroic last-ditch defense of Trump’s bunker from the onslaught of hordes of impure infidels led by Joe Biden.
As William Faulkner famously wrote, “The past is never dead. It’s not even past.”
But the warped history that the Trump mob thinks it is enacting, reenacting or conjuring is a costume drama of militant ignorance. The true history sheds more light on their feeble attempted coup than their fervid visions of pedophile liberal celebrities acting in concert with the deep state and the Illuminati.
When senators scrambled for cover from violent assailants, it recalled the nearly fatal attack on Charles Sumner. In 1856, after delivering a stem-winding speech against the effort to turn the Kansas territory into a slave state, “The Crime Against Kansas,” Sumner sat at his desk on the floor of the Senate writing letters. Representative Preston Brooks, of South Carolina, taking umbrage at his remarks, clubbed him with a gold-handled cane until he was almost dead.
Blood ran across the floor of the Senate. The caning of Sumner was a precipitating outrage that helped bring on the civil war.
Lincoln directed the rebuilding of the Capitol dome, originally a wooden structure that had rotted, as a symbol of confidence in the ultimate victory of democracy. The dome was completed in December 1863, a month after Lincoln delivered the Gettysburg Address proclaiming “a new birth of freedom”. Lincoln’s second inaugural took place at the newly restored Capitol.
He ordered that units of Black soldiers, who had been recruited as a result of the Emancipation Proclamation, be present in force. In the Rotunda, where Trump’s rioters so recently frolicked, there was a disturbance as Lincoln passed through.
A man rushing forward was restrained, later identified as John Wilkes Booth. The famed actor had become a Confederate secret service agent stalking Lincoln. Booth edged himself onto the Capitol Portico to observe Lincoln while he spoke.
One hundred and fifty-six years later, Trump’s mob climbed over the spot where Booth had stood. But now, it should be apparent in the last days of Trump, as he invokes the spirit of Calhoun’s nullification, that original Republican party has ceased to exist. The Trump diehard brandishing the Confederate flag in the Capitol mocks the constitutional democracy that Lincoln died for. Not since the intrusion of John Wilkes Booth has there been such a traitorous presence.

An image from the Capitol captures the distance between who we purport to be and who we have actually been. Updated at 5:57 p.m. ET on January 8, 2021.
On Wednesday afternoon, as insurrectionists assaulted the Capitol, a man wearing a brown vest over a black sweatshirt walked through the halls of Congress with the Confederate battle flag hanging over his shoulder. One widely circulated photo, taken by Mike Theiler of Reuters, captured him mid-stride, part of the flag almost glowing with the light coming from the hallway to his left.
Just above and behind him is a painting of Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts. On May 22, 1856, Sumner was attacked by Preston Brooks—a pro-slavery member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina—for a speech Sumner had made criticizing slaveholders, including Brooks’s cousin Andrew Butler, a senator representing South Carolina. *
Brooks attacked Sumner on the Senate floor. “Mr. Sumner, I have read your speech twice over carefully.
It is a libel on South Carolina, and Mr. Butler, who is a relative of mine,” he said. Before Sumner could fully respond, Brooks began beating him over the head with the golden head of his thick walking cane, trapping Sumner under his desk as he tried to escape, until two representatives were finally able to intervene and bring him out of the chamber. Sumner did not return to the Senate for three years, and would experience ongoing, debilitating pain for the rest of his life.
The fact that this photo was taken the day after voters in Georgia chose the first Black person and the first Jewish person in the history of that state to serve in the Senate; that it shows a man walking past the portrait of a vice president who urged the country to sustain human bondage and another portrait of a senator who was nearly beaten to death for standing up to the slavocracy; that it portrays a man walking with a Confederate flag while a mob of insurrectionists pushed past police, broke windows, vandalized offices, stole property, and strolled through the halls of Congress for hours, forcing senators and representatives into hiding and stopping the certification of the electoral process—it is almost difficult to believe that so much of our history, and our current moment, was reflected in a single photograph. This photo seemed to capture the divide between who we purport to be and who we have actually been, the gap between our founding promises and our current reality.
The flag the man carried, which we have all come to associate with the Confederacy, was not the first that flew over the Confederate States of America. The Stars and Bars was not, in fact, readily distinguishable from the American flag, which would prove problematic on the battlefield.
On July 21, 1861, about 30 miles southwest of Washington, D.C., Confederate and Union soldiers met in the First Battle of Bull Run. The Confederacy prevailed, but not without tactical confusion and distress.
Some Confederate soldiers wore blue uniforms instead of gray and some Union soldiers wore gray ones instead of blue. And when soldiers and officers on either side looked out over the field of smoke and blood and bodies, they could not easily tell the difference between the Stars and Bars and the Stars and Stripes.
After the battle, the Confederate general P. G. T. Beauregard appealed for a new flag so as to avoid such dangerous confusion, and in November of 1861, new Confederate battle flags began to appear. There were multiple iterations of the design, but the most common version included 13 stars (for the 11 states that seceded, plus Missouri and Kentucky) inside a blue diagonal cross trimmed with white, all against a red backdrop. In 1863, this design was placed in the top-right corner of a larger white flag to become the Confederacy’s first official national flag, known as the “Stainless Banner.”
That version, however, was criticized because it looked too much like the bare white flag of surrender. As I looked at the photograph on Wednesday, I thought of how the flag had expanded and evolved in meaning, how it had become a staple of Ku Klux Klan rallies, how it had been waved by white people attempting to intimidate Black children who were integrating schools after Brown v. Board of Education, how it had been made a part of flags in states whose legislatures worked tirelessly to disenfranchise Black citizens. And now it will forever be associated with the January 6, 2021, insurrection at the Capitol, when the nation watched a new iteration of white-supremacist violence, incited by a deranged and cowardly president.
During the Civil War, the Confederate Army never reached the Capitol. The rebel flag, to my knowledge, had never been flown inside the halls of Congress until Wednesday. Two days ago, a man walked through the halls of government bearing the flag of a group of people who had seceded from the United States and gone to war against it. Then, presumably, he walked out—carrying so much of this country’s history with him.

There are a number of ride-or-die Trump supporters among prominent evangelicals.
Eric Metaxas, an author who has caused soul-searching among some evangelicals because of his vociferous support for Trump’s election fraud claims, was eager to pin the blame on antifa. He later insisted that the day’s violent events made no difference—that even still, “we must do all we can to expose” the fraudulence of the election.
He was not alone among evangelical public figures. The televangelist Mark Burns called the assertion that Trump supporters were responsible a “lie from the gates of hell.”
And while the evangelist Franklin Graham warned that “our country is in trouble” and called for Christians to pray for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, he also speculated that the people “who broke the windows” were “most likely” antifa. “To tell people to go home, it’s not for me to decide that,” he said. Adam Greenway, the president of the Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, was less verbose: “Violence is never the answer.
God have mercy on and help us all.” The Southern Baptist ethicist Russell Moore, a Trump critic, called the rioters’ actions “inexcusable” and Trump’s response to the crisis “shameful beyond words.”
Turning to his followers, he expressed grief and rage and urged them to accept that Biden was lawfully elected. “If Christians are people of truth, we ought to be the first to acknowledge reality,” he wrote. R. Albert Mohler Jr., the president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, spoke at length about the day’s events and made the boldest statement against the president, calling “the cult of personality” the “greatest danger to the American experiment.”
Mohler, who had opposed Trump four years ago, supported the president’s reelection bid. Rick Warren, one of the most influential evangelical pastors in the country and someone who has voiced concerns about Trump’s policies, also pleaded for Trump to speak to his supporters. “Armed breaching of capitol security behind a confederate flag is anarchy, unAmerican, criminal treason and domestic terrorism,” he said on Twitter. Silence, in some cases, spoke volumes, as when Truett McConnell University president Emir Caner made no comment on the protests but took to Twitter to grouch about Facebook’s Trump ban and urged his followers to use Parler instead. Meanwhile, other pastors tried to offer solace in an awkwardly apolitical way, posting prayers for a country in turmoil, with no indication of who might be responsible for that turmoil.

In the wake of Wednesday’s violent protests at the U.S. Capitol, religious leaders encourage people to practice peace, even in times of political dissent. Pastor Brian Gibson was among the crowd outside the White House Wednesday, and said the mood was initially calm; focused on legal and peaceful challenges to the Electoral College certification.
He prayed with scores of people, and said the violence that transpired at the Capitol was shocking. "There is no excuse for the lawless behavior we saw," Gibson said. "The Constitution gives Americans the right to peaceably gather, but instigators who incite violence or lawlessness are motivated by something else entirely.
Our nation should demand that all of our citizens, regardless of point-of-view, express their frustrations peacefully. Rabbi Jack Moline, leader of the Interfaith Alliance also denounced the protest Wednesday.
Religious leaders across the board took to social media Wednesday to condemn the violence at the Capitol and also to remind people to prioritize peace over violence. Gibson urged people to remember that even in times of political unrest they have a responsibility to pursue truth and justice, and act accordingly. He encouraged religious leaders to step up and show leadership during this time.
Pastor Robert Jeffress of First Baptist Church in Dallas had a similar message. He said that while he considers President Trump a "valued friend" of five years, he fully condemns the actions that took place at the Capitol.
He offered several suggestions for practicing peace in a time of unprecedented political division. Americans should also remember that what unites us is greater than what divides us, according to Jeffress. "More than Republicans or Democrats we are Americans first," he said.

Those who trusted the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House burst into the Capitol Building, creating chaos and leaving several people dead.
Because they trusted his lies, they viewed themselves as patriots and defenders of election integrity. But in fact they were enemies of democracy, attempting to overthrow a free and fair election.
Other liars have quickly stepped up to mask the guilt of the Trump supporters. Without any credible evidence they have falsely claimed that other actors were the real criminals.
Rabid Trump supporter, Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.) suggested members of antifa had secretly infiltrated the group to cause the chaos. Leading Fox News prime time stars also made the baseless claim that antifa members inserted themselves in the Trump crowd and that they were the real cause of the invasion of the Capitol.
All of these people have for years been eager aids in perpetrating Trump’s stream of lies. And now they are working hard to shelter the Trump supporters from being responsible for the harm they have done. And those ordinary folks on the right who have been quick to believe all Trump’s previous lies and those of his surrogates are again readily believing the liars who are scapegoating antifa to shift blame from the Trump devotees who converged on D.C. The most dependable of supporters in the MAGA coalition have been white religionists, primarily but not exclusively evangelicals.
These are people who traditionally regarded truth telling as a high value. They have often cited from the Ten Commandments, “You shall not bear false witness,” as well as the words of Jesus, “Let your yes be yes and your no be no.”
Many of their leaders have railed against liberals, accusing them of ethical relativism. But especially during the Trump years, they have proven themselves to be the real ethical relativists.
They have echoed Trump’s cry, “Fake news!” every time reliable, internationally respected news sources contradict the claims of Trump and other politicians with whom they have aligned themselves. They have condemned scientists and other renowned experts by derisively calling them “the elite,” preferring instead to trust right-wing pundits and conspiracy theorists. Trump supporting evangelicals have shown that while they may be honest in their personal lives among friends and family, their commitment to truthfulness in public affairs is absent.
Their ethical relativism allowed them to compartmentalize their attachment to honesty. “Truth” is whatever serves their interests and protects their partisan political loyalties. This is what allowed Ralph Reed of the Faith and Freedom Coalition to say, “There has never been anyone who has defended us and who has fought for us, who we have loved more than Donald J. Trump. No one!”
Such words do not represent a people of the truth but a people of the lie who seek power or security at the cost of integrity. Regardless of what they may claim, Christians of this sort are not, to cite the words of Jesus, “salt and light,” influencing the world for good, but agents of darkness and deceit. White evangelicals and other Christians who have willingly embraced the lies of Trump or his surrogates and who have chosen to dismiss the apparent truth have discredited themselves before the nation and the world.
They share responsibility for the deadly and destructive insurrection of January 6. And they shouldn’t be surprised that their trust in the lies of Trump leads many people to distrust them about Jesus.

The meeting of the Senate and House of Representatives at the nation's Capitol Building yesterday, January 6th, should have been a formality. During any other election process, Congress meets before the inauguration date of the next president of the United States to count the electoral votes and confirm his or her win. But yesterday, that didn't happen as planned.
Not only was the confirmation of President-elect Joe Biden objected by several members of Congress, but the confirmation process was interrupted by Trump allies who breached the Capitol and wreaked havoc. Among the photos of "patriots," as the violent rioters were calling themselves, lounging at House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's desk, seating themselves at the vice president's post on the Senate floor, breaking windows and doors, and climbing the statues in Statuary Hall, there were also photos of the Senate aides who transported the crucial electoral ballot boxes out of the Capitol building before rioters had a chance to get their hands on the votes in an attempt to overthrow the 2020 election. A photo of two women aides, each with a hand on one of the centuries-old ballot boxes, calmly escorting the fate of the U.S. out of the Capitol while it was under siege has gone viral, with many speculating that if it wasn't for the aides' quick thinking, the historic boxes and electoral ballotsÂ could have been burned.
As is tradition, the ballot boxes, each filled with the electoral votes from the 50 states, are transported to the Senate during the confirmation process at the conclusion of each election cycle. They are opened, the votes are counted by the vice president, and the winner of the election officially is declared.
If the rioters, with an aim to prove the election was rigged, fraudulent, or actually ended with a Trump win, were able to secure these boxes, it's hard to imagine what further chaos could have ensued. The aides made sure they continued to do their job amid the security breach, thus saving America's democratic process. Because of their actions and calmness, many on social media are calling them the true heroes who prevailed on this dark day in American history. There were several other aides besides the two women pictured who were also part of the Republic-saving escape, and we thank all the aides involved in shuttling the electoral votes out of the Capitol for their courage and swift action.
Though the country is still reeling over what happened yesterday, the confirmation process was able to be completed late last night, and Joe Biden and Kamala Harris will be inaugurated on January 20th. Thanks to those Senate aides, U.S. Democracy continues to move forward.

Electoral College ballot boxes arrive as a joint session of the House and Senate convenes to confirm the Electoral College votes cast in November's election, at the Capitol in Washington, Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021.
Senate staff saved paper Electoral College ballots before pro-Trump rioters broke into the chamber during a formal count Wednesday, according to a Democratic senator. Congress had started to count the ballots expected to confirm President-elect Joe Biden's presidential victory over Trump when rioters forced their way into the Capitol.
Lawmakers evacuated to secure locations as the president's supporters swarmed into the House and Senate chambers. Lawmakers signaled they would work through the night to tally the votes.
"I have faced violent hatred before. I was not deterred then, and I will not be deterred now," Rep. James Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat and the chamber's majority whip, said in a tweeted statement.
The Capitol was secured by about 6 p.m. ET on Wednesday. Washington, D.C., Virginia and Maryland sent National Guard forces, which worked with federal law enforcement to end the occupation of the building.
Before the attack started, Republican lawmakers backed by Trump objected to counting Arizona's electoral votes. The House and Senate broke into separate sessions to debate and vote on affirming the result. When they reconvened, they resumed debate on Arizona.
Trump had alleged, but repeatedly failed to prove in court, that systemic fraud led to his narrow loss in Arizona. States have certified their presidential election results.
The office of Sen. Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican who objected to counting the Arizona ballot, did not say whether he would try to block certification of another state following the Capitol breach. Cruz, who had joined a group of about a dozen Senate Republicans in saying they would challenge key states, earlier urged the mob to stop attacking the Capitol.
The office of Sen. Josh Hawley, a Missouri Republican who has backed the efforts to stop the electoral count in key states, also did not say whether he would object to the electoral count for any states. Other Republicans reversed course and said they would not challenge results Wednesday, including Sen. Kelly Loeffler, who lost her Senate seat in Tuesday's runoff election in Georgia to her Democratic challenger, the Rev. Raphael Warnock.
Trump spoke to his supporters before they marched on the Capitol on Wednesday. He again lied about the election results. "Remember this day forever!" he added.

Warning: This graphic requires JavaScript. Please enable JavaScript for the best experience.
Congressional staff members are evacuated after protesters breached the building during Wednesday's joint session to affirm the electoral college vote. Rioters confront police officers trying to deny them access to the Capitol.
Supporters of President Trump march after his rally Wednesday to the Capitol. Before noon, the president of the United States, their rogue hero, told thousands of his supporters that this was the last stand, the moment to overturn the result of November’s election and ensure a second term for Donald Trump. “We’re going to have to fight much harder,” Trump told several thousand red-clad, flag-waving acolytes gathered on the Ellipse, with the White House as backdrop.
And then the 45th president of the United States unleashed a mob. Thousands of Trump loyalists stormed the Capitol. Members of Congress hid under desks, stripped their identification pins from their lapels to avoid being attacked and escaped into secret passageways.
Rioters ransacked the office of the House speaker. Flag-waving protesters smashed windows and assaulted police inside the nation’s iconic symbol of democracy.
The process of affirming the next president was halted by mob violence. Time will decide whether Wednesday’s assault on the Capitol was a riot, an insurrection, a last gasp of a renegade president or an early skirmish in a civil war organized on far-right social media, but it was already clear that Jan. 6, 2021, would go down in history as one of America’s ugliest days. It began with the president’s false promise: “After this, we’re going to walk down
and I’ll be there with you,” Trump said. He wasn’t going anywhere but back to the White House, where he had 14 days remaining in his term. They did as they were told. By the thousands, they walked 16 blocks down Pennsylvania Avenue NW and surrounded the U.S. Capitol.
By the hundreds, they climbed the grand marble staircase and breached police gates and smashed windows and shoved police officers and broke through doorways and forced their way in. They burst into the offices and chambers of the Capitol, taking over the place as though it were their own, lounging in members’ offices, strolling through the statuaries, halting the constitutional process of completing Joe Biden’s election to the presidency and raising the specter of a coup against this 232-year-old democracy. The attack, which some historians called the most severe assault on the Capitol since the British sacked the building in 1814, was “instigated at the highest level,” said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.).
It was “what this president has caused today, this insurrection,” said Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah), his party’s 2012 presidential nominee. The assault left one woman — a Trump banner draped around her neck — fatally shot inside the Capitol, and three others dead from medical incidents. It led to at least 52 arrests, four hours of chaos, the evacuation of congressional buildings, the paralysis of the city and the humiliation of a nation that has long considered itself the world’s greatest democracy.
Inside the Senate, Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) heard Capitol Police order people away from the doors, and then, suddenly, out of the chamber — now. Some people ran, scrambling to a single exit that police had opened.
It led to a staircase, which led to an undisclosed evacuation area. The attack and siege seemed like a surprise: CNN kept showing the debate on the Senate floor even as the mob breached the building, only a handful of Capitol Police officers were posted at the building’s ceremonial front steps, and as the debate unfolded, not one legislator said anything about the mob outside.
But the insurrection was hardly spontaneous. It was carefully, methodically planned, spelled out on far-right social media, where die-hard Trump supporters openly traded advice on how to steer clear of D.C. police officers, how to pry open the doors of the Capitol and how to get illegal guns into the city. In forums devoted to the QAnon conspiracy theory movement and among hard-right groups such as the Proud Boys, plans to turn a pro-Trump rally into a full-on capture of the Capitol had been plotted, dissected and disseminated for months.
The ultimate inspiration of the mob’s passion, the president himself, had repeatedly urged his followers to come to Washington on the day when Congress would affirm the result of November’s election. A presidency that began with Trump standing on the Capitol steps and declaring that “this American carnage stops right here and stops right now” was now ending in anarchy, with an unchecked mob bringing one of the country’s most sacred ceremonies — and the peaceful transfer of power — to a screeching, scary halt.
The unprecedented interruption of what is ordinarily a moment of pomp and peace sent shock waves throughout the world. D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) ordered a 6 p.m. curfew. The region’s transit system shut down. Shops closed, streets emptied.

A Reuters photographer said he heard at least three pro-Trump rioters at the Capitol on Wednesday saying they wanted to find Vice President Mike Pence and execute him by hanging. "It was a common line being repeated.
Many more were just talking about how the VP should be executed," he added. Trump has repeatedly and falsely claimed that Pence could have stopped Congress from finalizing Joe Biden's victory in the 2020 election, even though Pence has no such legal or constitutional authority. When Pence released a statement saying he could not stop the process, the president publicly turned on him, tweeting that Pence didn't have the "courage" to do what was necessary.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
A Reuters photographer said Friday that he overheard at least three pro-Trump insurrectionists at the US Capitol this week say they wanted to find Vice President Mike Pence and hang him. The riot erupted Wednesday as Congress was counting electoral votes and debating Republican challenges to some battleground states' votes for Joe Biden. The pro-Trump mob breached barriers at the Capitol, broke into the building, and ransacked lawmakers' offices as police officers frantically evacuated Pence and senior lawmakers.
Read more: I never want to hear again about Trump voters needing to 'feel heard.' They were heard when they voted.
They lost. Other members of Congress, Hill staffers, and reporters hunkered down and sheltered in place, behind makeshift barricades, and in offices.
An armed standoff ensued at the House chamber, and a Trump supporter was shot and killed by a Capitol Police officer. The riot resulted in five deaths, including the woman who was shot and a Capitol Police officer who was beaten by the president's supporters.
Three other people died of medical emergencies. At a rally before the joint session, President Donald Trump whipped his supporters into a frenzy, urging them "to fight," march to the Capitol, and stop Congress from counting the votes and finalizing Biden's victory. In the days before the riot, Trump repeatedly and falsely claimed that the vice president had the power to reject or "decertify" electors from battleground states that Trump lost.
"States want to correct their votes, which they now know were based on irregularities and fraud, plus corrupt process never received legislative approval. All Mike Pence has to do is send them back to the States, AND WE WIN.
Do it Mike, this is a time for extreme courage!" Trump tweeted on Wednesday morning.
Pence has no such legal or constitutional authority; he released a statement acknowledging that minutes before Congress convened on Wednesday afternoon. Trump vented on Twitter, saying the vice president lacked the "courage" to do what was necessary.
The insurrectionists who later laid siege to the Capitol could be heard shouting "where's Mike Pence," a source close to the vice president told CNN on Thursday. The source added that the president didn't bother checking on Pence's or his family's safety after unleashing the mob on the Capitol. Republican Sen. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma told the Tulsa World that Pence was furious with Trump in the wake of the riot.

A video of the ransacked office of the Senate Parliamentarian has been viewed more than five million times on Twitter.
The video, which was shared by CNN journalist Ali Zaslav, shows the office of Elizabeth MacDonough after it was wrecked by rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. The office of the Senate Parliamentarian was trashed during the rush on the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump. The video shows files, papers, and face masks scattered across the floors, desks covered with papers and books, and furniture strewn around the room. Journalists and politicians are among those criticizing the state of the office on Twitter. Photos and videos have emerged of the aftermath of the riot, with damage including smashed windows, smashed doors, broken benches, and floors covered in trash. Trump supporters rushed the U.S. Capitol yesterday afternoon and managed to break into rooms including lawmakers' offices and the Senate chamber. Four people died during the riot, including one woman who was shot inside the Capitol. The chaos has been condemned by world leaders, though Trump told the rioters in a video that has since been removed from social media: "We love you, and you're very special," while telling them to go home. Washington, D.C. is now under a public emergency order for 15 days, lasting through Inauguration Day, which will give D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser the ability to call a curfew at any time.

With a mob of election protesters laying siege to the U.S. Capitol, Sen. Mike Lee had just ended a prayer with some of his colleagues in the Senate chamber when his cellphone rang. Caller ID showed the call originated from the White House.
Lee thought it might be national security adviser Robert O’Brien, with whom he’d been playing phone tag on an unrelated issue. It wasn’t O’Brien.
It was President Donald Trump. “How’s it going, Tommy?” the president asked.
Taken a little aback, Lee said this isn’t Tommy. Lee told the Deseret News he realized Trump was trying to call Sen. Tommy Tuberville, the newly elected Republican from Alabama and former Auburn University football coach. Lee walked his phone over to Tuberville who was talking to some colleagues.
“Hey, Tommy, I hate to interrupt but the president wants to speak with you,” Lee said. Tuberville and Trump talked for about five to 10 minutes, Lee said, adding that he stood nearby because he didn’t want to lose his cellphone in the commotion.
The two were still talking when panicked police ordered the Capitol to be evacuated because people had breached security. As police were getting anxious for senators to leave, Lee walked over to retrieve his phone.
“I don’t want to interrupt your call with the president, but we’re being evacuated and I need my phone,” he said. Lee said when he later asked Tuberville about the conversation, he got the impression that Trump didn’t know about the chaos going on in the Senate chamber.
The bizarre scene is among the surreal moments members of Congress and Utah’s delegation experienced Wednesday when pro-Trump rioters took over the Capitol during the counting of electoral votes for president. Meantime in Utah, the state dispatched Utah Highway Patrol troopers to the Utah homes of members of Congress to watch over their families.
Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah, was evacuated from his office in the Cannon Building earlier in the day due to a bomb threat, and was moved to the Capitol and later placed on lockdown. “We were surrounded by angry crowds trying to break into the Capitol building,” he said. Capitol Police moved him and others from room to room to keep them safe.
“The crowd broke through the barricades and entered the building. They filled the hallways and began chanting and tussling with police officers.
It was a mess,” he said. Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah, was in his office in the Rayburn Building waiting to vote on the Arizona objection and watching the protesters move up the Capitol steps on C-Span and cable news.
He said it was alarming to see people breach the doors because that’s a line that nobody gets to cross. “It then reached even a further fever pitch when they got into the chambers,” he told the Deseret News.
Curtis and his staff went into lockdown in his office. He considers the House chamber a sacred space, and watching rioters on the floor felt like having his home burglarized.
“You just feel violated. This our home.
This is the people’s home and it is being violated,” Curtis said. Curtis characterized it as very emotional for him, his staff and his colleagues.
“That feeling of we have lost the Capitol to a mob really is surreal, and hard to get your arms around what that really means. I think in reflection, it’s a very, very serious thing.
Not only is it serious, it’s embarrassing. It’s embarrassing around the world.
It’s embarrassing that the seat of democracy is under siege,” he said. My staff and I are safe— thank you to @CapitolPolice for working tirelessly. Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah, said he could see the crowd rising outside the Capitol through a House chamber window.
As he listened to the debate, he saw security lock down the double doors to the chamber. He said he received text messages from his staff that there had been a breach.
Moore said some of his colleagues barricaded the door. “I think the most eerie time was when you started hearing banging on the House chamber doors.
They were literally just right outside and you could hear them banging on it. That’s when they told us to get our gas masks,” he said.
At that point, police evacuated the chamber. Moore said he saw images of protesters on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s seat while he was still in the House.
Lee said he heard yelling and some of his colleagues heard shots fired outside the Senate chamber. Police ordered them to stay at their desks.
“People were a little bit scared, but everybody had their game-day face on,” he recalled. Lee said the 100 senators were eventually escorted through tunnels to Room 216 in the Hart Building, the largest Senate hearing room.
He saw a parliamentarian carrying boxes of electoral votes submitted by the states. “We had a lot of conversations in there about what we should do,” he said.
Senators considered going into session in the hearing room to finish the electoral vote tally, which they learned was allowed under Senate rules. But Senate majority and minority leadership felt it was best to wait until they could get into the chamber.
Lee said there also was pressure put on senators who had objected or who had planned to object to states’ electoral votes to end the counting as quickly as possible. Some of them changed their minds when the session resumed.
Congress eventually confirmed President-elect Joe Biden as the next president with 306 electoral votes to 232 for Trump. A dozen GOP senators and more than 100 House Republicans had planned to object to the votes in as many as six swing states that Trump lost.
In the end, Republicans objected to the votes from Arizona and Pennsylvania, both of which failed. Stewart and Rep. Burgess Owens, R-Utah, had indicated they would not vote to certify the election. They both voted against the Arizona objection and for the Pennsylvania objection.
The other four members of Utah’s all-Republican delegation voted against both objections. Stewart said he voted that way because the facts “supported that conclusion” in Pennsylvania but said there was not enough evidence in Arizona. The Alliance for a Better Utah called for Stewart and Owens to resign Thursday because of their vote on Pennsylvania.

President Donald Trump and his attorney Rudy Giuliani both mistakenly made calls to Republican Sen. Mike Lee as deadly riots were unfolding at the US Capitol earlier this week, a spokesman for the senator confirmed to CNN – calls that were intended for another GOP senator the White House was frantically trying to convince to delay the counting of Electoral College votes.
Lee’s spokesman said the calls from Trump and his attorney were intended for Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama. The effort by the White House to get Tuberville to delay certification of the votes provides insight into the President’s thinking and priorities as a mob of his supporters lay siege to the iconic building.
As the President worked to convince Tuberville to delay the process, he and other top White House officials did little to check in on Vice President Mike Pence while he and members of his family were inside the breached Capitol, a source close to the vice president told CNN. Trump first called the personal cell phone of Lee, a Utah Republican, shortly after 2 p.m. ET. At that time the senators had been evacuated from the Senate floor and were in a temporary holding room, as a pro-Trump mob began breaching the Capitol.
Lee picked up the phone and Trump identified himself, and it became clear he was looking for Tuberville and had been given the wrong number. Lee, keeping the President on hold, went to find his colleague and handed Tuberville his phone, telling him the President was on the line and had been trying to reach him. Tuberville spoke with Trump for less than 10 minutes, with the President trying to convince him to make additional objections to the Electoral College vote in a futile effort to block Congress’ certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s win, according to a source familiar with the call. The call was cut off because senators were asked to move to a secure location. CNN has reached out to Tuberville’s office for comment.
The second call to Lee came in at 7 p.m. ET from Giuliani. Lee did not answer the call so it went to voicemail. Lee’s office confirmed to CNN that the voicemail was intended for Tuberville and the message left from Giuliani was very similar to one that another unnamed GOP senator received. The transcript of that call was published by the conservative outlet The Dispatch as well as the news blog emptywheel.
“Sen. Tuberville? Or I should say Coach Tuberville. This is Rudy Giuliani, the President’s lawyer,” he said according to to the transcript. “I’m calling you because I want to discuss with you how they’re trying to rush this hearing and how we need you, our Republican friends, to try to just slow it down so we can get these legislatures to get more information to you,” Giuliani said, referring to unfounded claims of voter fraud in the presidential election. Tuberville was unaware that Giuliani had tried to reach him until it was publicly reported, according to the source. Tuberville was likely seen by Trump and Giuliani as someone who could help further their cause on Wednesday, as he was among a group of six GOP senators who voted to sustain an objection raised against Arizona’s electoral votes, which failed 93-6. CNN reported on Wednesday that even after Congress was reconvening that night following the riot, Trump was still urging senators to push ahead with the protest on the certification of Biden as President, according to a source familiar with the discussions. This story has been updated with additional developments Friday.

The officer stood dead smack in the middle of the floor of the United States Senate.
Across his chest, an orange POLICE sash. Hanging from his right shoulder, a semiautomatic weapon.
He said barely a word, just stared straight ahead at the backdoor entrance to the Senate Chamber. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight It was 2:15 p.m. Wednesday and the U.S. Capitol was under assault, the most brazen attack on Congress since terrorists hijacked an airplane and attempted to slam it into the building more than 19 years ago. On Wednesday, a pro-Trump mob crashed into the building in a historic first that sent Washington into lockdown and prompted the type of evacuation that congressional security officials have been planning since 9/11 but had never had to execute. Moments before, I had been sitting in the Senate press gallery high above the Senate floor, watching Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and other senators debate Republicans’ unfounded objections to counting the electoral college votes that would seal President-elect Joe Biden’s convincing victory over President Trump.
Suddenly, Vice President Pence, who had been presiding over the chamber from the Senate dais, got a signal that it was time to move. A growing mob outside had breached the barricades and entered the Capitol.
Pence was quickly ushered away by Secret Service agents. I bolted out of the press gallery hoping to find out whether Pence just needed a bathroom break from the tedious proceedings. I bounded down the stairs to the second floor, where senators enter and exit the Chamber.
Then I heard it: Police clashing with rioters yet another floor below. I could hear a loud thwacking sound — possibly a billy club being wielded against the invaders.
I retreated back up to the third-floor press gallery in time to see Sen. Kyrsten Sinema (D-Ariz.) finish defending her state’s electoral count for Biden. Then Capitol Police and staff ordered everyone into the Senate Chamber.
For our own safety. I was ordered into a gallery that is reserved for family and close friends of senators — Rep. Greg Pence (R-Ind.), the vice president’s brother, had just been there watching the proceedings. But I climbed over several rails and chairs to get back to the usual press location, directly above where Pence had been sitting as the presiding officer.
Soon, the Senate was sealed off and the session was adjourned. Capitol Police raced around the two-story Senate Chamber locking every set of doors. A veteran Capitol Police officer tried to calm the senators, telling them the report might not be accurate.
But at 2:30 p.m., police ordered everyone out. In the most dramatic moments of the siege, with armed officers in every corner of the Senate, police began barking out instructions. They marched us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press — through multiple office buildings in search of the safest grounds to shelter on the Capitol complex. We didn’t know it at the time, but a similar scene was playing out on the other side of the Capitol, where the House Chamber was evacuated and lawmakers ran for cover in a secure location on their side of the building.
We were not allowed to take the stairs, because the mob was on the floors below. So into the elevators and down to the basement we went, racing toward the Capitol Visitor Center.
The CVC is a vast underground bunker of a structure that finally got built after 9/11. It cost roughly $700 million and has multiple secure rooms and blast-resistant doors. An officer, holding back two doors, ordered us to head toward the Russell Senate Office Building because the pro-Trump mob had also breached the CVC.
Some senators ran; some walked. Security guards held Schumer by the shoulders to whisk him along.
In a sign of quick staff thinking, aides to the Senate parliamentarian rounded up several people to grab the boxes containing the electoral college certificates submitted by the states — documents needed to certify Biden’s victory. By 2:45 p.m. most senators and a collection of aides and media had gathered in the secure room. An officer informed us that we were safe but said it would take a while to secure the complex.
In the meantime, they said they were trying to find buses to get us to safer ground. Back in the Capitol, police began a room-by-room search to find senators, staff and reporters who had been left behind. One senior GOP aide, who has an office not far from the Senate floor, said he took a steel rod and barricaded his door when the pro-Trump mob approached. For what seemed like 20 minutes, he said, rioters banged on his door, trying to break in.
Others huddled in silence in small rooms with doors locked and cellphones turned off while the rioters walked past. A few minutes later, she appeared in the secure spot.
Somehow, Capitol food service operations still appeared to be up and running through the melee. At 4 p.m. and 5 p.m., hundreds of box lunches and bottles of water were rolled into the holding spot. Senators, staff, media and police wielding automatic weapons grabbed lunches of chicken and beef. Eventually, reporters were herded out of the main secure room and into an outside lobby.
Senators stayed behind, and began discussing what had gone wrong with the basic fabric of American democracy. Televisions were wheeled into the senators-only room so they could watch the chaos unfold for themselves.
Pressure mounted on the few Republicans who had been objecting to counting Biden’s electoral college votes, giving life to the mob’s delusions of four more years for Trump. Just before 5 p.m., Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) led a contingent of GOP objectors into a separate room to discuss whether to go forward with their challenge in light of the mob violence.
At the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, Trump blamed lawmakers for the chaos. “These are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously and viciously stripped away,” he tweeted.
A few minutes later, Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-Ala.) walked past reporters. He was asked what he thought about Trump’s statement but walked away, saying nothing. Just before 6:45 p.m. — four hours after senators fled the Capitol — loud applause echoed from the secure room.
Congress had decided to reconvene. Nonpartisan staffers from the parliamentarian’s office were carrying the boxes containing the electoral college votes back to the Senate.

11:10 p.m.
Four people died as supporters of President Donald Trump violently occupied the U.S. Capitol. Police said both law enforcement and Trump supporters deployed chemical irritants during the hourslong occupation of the Capitol building before it was cleared Wednesday evening by law enforcement.
The woman was shot earlier Wednesday as the mob tried to break through a barricaded door in the Capitol where police were armed on the other side. She was hospitalized with a gunshot wound and later died.
D.C. police officials also say two pipe bombs were recovered, one outside the Democratic National Committee and one outside the Republican National Committee. Police found a cooler from a vehicle that had a long gun and Molotov cocktail on Capitol grounds.
Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power, forcing lawmakers to be rushed from the building and interrupting challenges to Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory. Congress returned later Wednesday to resume their proceedings after the Capitol was cleared by law enforcement.
10:15 p.m. The Senate has overwhelmingly turned aside a challenge to President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in Arizona, guaranteeing the result will stand.
The objection to the results in Arizona -- spearheaded by Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz -- was rejected 93-6 on Wednesday night. All votes in favor came from Republicans, but after violent protesters mobbed the Capitol earlier Wednesday a number of GOP senators who had planned to support the objection reversed course. The Republicans raised the objection based on false claims pushed by President Donald Trump and others of issues with the vote in Arizona, which were repeatedly dismissed in Arizona’s courts and by the state’s election officials.
10:10 p.m. Graham, a South Carolina Republican and longtime ally of President Donald Trump, called it a “uniquely bad idea to delay this election,” referencing the commission idea proposed by his fellow South Carolina Republican, U.S. Sen. Tim Scott.
Earlier Wednesday, supporters of Trump breached the U.S. Capitol, forcing a lockdown of the lawmakers and staff inside. Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away his defeat to President-elect Joe Biden, though election officials have said there wasn’t any. 10 p.m. Police have arrested 30 people for violating a curfew imposed in Washington, D.C., after rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol. Officials say the 30 people were arrested Wednesday evening after being found on the streets after the 6 p.m. The curfew had been imposed after scores of supporters of President Donald Trump broke into the Capitol, halting the constitutional process of voting to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s win.
They were later forcibly removed from the Capitol. The Metropolitan Police Department said 15 other people had been arrested on Tuesday and Wednesday in various protest-related arrests on an array of charges, including weapons possession and assault.
Fire officials also took 13 people to area hospitals on Wednesday from protest-related injuries. 9:55 p.m.
Republican Sen. Josh Hawley says he is going forward with his objection to the Electoral College results in Pennsylvania despite the violent breach at the Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump. The Missouri senator said he did not support violence but said the Senate should go forward with a legal process that includes his objections. Hawley says his objections should be debated “peacefully, without violence, without attacks, without bullets.”
He says he hoped lawmakers would not brush his concerns aside because of the violence earlier Wednesday, including the death of a protester inside the Capitol. Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away his defeat to President-elect Joe Biden, though election officials have said there wasn’t any. 9:45 p.m. House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy is comparing violence at the U.S. Capitol to protests against racial injustice over the summer after the killing of George Floyd by police. The U.S. Capitol was overrun by a mob supportive of President Donald Trump on Wednesday as Congress counted electoral votes to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s win. Trump has falsely said there was widespread fraud in the election to explain his defeat and encouraged his supporters to come to Washington.
The comment got loud applause from Republicans. Democrats in the chamber sat silently. Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed, was killed in May after a white police officer pressed his knee against Floyd’s neck for several minutes even after he said he couldn’t breathe.
McCarthy, an ally of Trump’s, said Wednesday was the “saddest day” he’s ever had in Congress. 9:15 p.m. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says Congress’ certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s election win will show the world it won’t back down.
Pelosi made her comments as the House reconvened after being shut down for hours Wednesday by unruly pro-Trump protesters. She said that every four years the ritual provides an example to the world of American democracy. Pelosi, a Roman Catholic, noted that Wednesday is the feast of the Epiphany and prayed that the violence would be “an epiphany to heal” for the country.
9:10 pm. Cuomo, a Democrat, said 1,000 troops would be sent for up to two weeks at the request of U.S. National Guard officials. It comes after a mob of President Donald Trump’s supporters rampaged through the U.S. Capitol.
They will join law enforcement from Virginia, Maryland and New Jersey who are also coming to D.C.’s aid. The president’s supporters incited chaos in a protest over a transfer of power to President-elect Joe Biden.
Trump convinced them that he was cheated out of a victory by rampant, widespread voter fraud, a false claim. 8:55 p.m. Multiple Republican senators have reversed course and now say they won’t object to congressional certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.
Their change of heart came after a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol earlier Wednesday and interrupted their proceedings. One person was fatally shot.
Sens. Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia all said in light of the violence they would stand down from planned objections to Biden’s win. All three had previously signed on to Trump’s false claims of widespread voter fraud to explain his defeat.
Loeffler has just days left in her term. She lost her Senate race to Democrat Raphael Warnock earlier Wednesday. 8:45 p.m. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says Congress “will not be deterred” in confirming the results of the presidential election hours after supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol.
The Republican leader reopened the Senate late Wednesday vowing to finish confirming the Electoral College for President-elect Joe Biden. It was interrupted earlier in the way when rioters breached the security perimeter and clashed with law enforcement before disrupting Congress’ tallying of the Electoral College votes.
One person was fatally shot. McConnell plans to keep the Senate in session Wednesday to finish confirming the results.
Trump has repeatedly told his supporters that the November election was stolen from him, even though that is not true. He reiterated the claim in a video filmed as his demonstrators were storming the Capitol.
8:35 p.m. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer says President Donald Trump “bears a great deal of the blame” after a mob loyal to him stormed the U.S. Capitol. As the Senate reconvened to count electoral votes that will confirm Democrat Joe Biden’s win, Schumer said that Jan. 6, 2021, will “live forever in infamy” and will be a stain on the democracy.
Trump has falsely claimed that there was widespread fraud in the election to explain away his defeat. Schumer says the protesters should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
8:20 p.m. Former President Barack Obama says history will rightly remember the violence at the Capitol as a moment of great dishonor and shame for the nation. Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Obama say the violence was “incited by a sitting president” who baselessly lied about the outcome of the presidential election.
He has convinced his supporters that he lost the election to President-elect Joe Biden only because Democrats cheated, a false claim. 8:10 p.m.
The Senate has resumed debating the Republican challenge against Democrat Joe Biden’s presidential election victory, more than six hours after pro-Trump mobs attacked the Capitol and forced lawmakers to flee. Scores of Republican representatives and 13 GOP senators had planned to object Wednesday to the electoral votes of perhaps six states that backed Biden.
It was unclear whether those objections would continue in light of the day’s violent events. President Donald Trump has falsely insisted that the election was marred by fraud and that he actually won. He reiterated those claims in remarks to thousands of protesters outside the White House early Wednesday and goaded them to march to the Capitol, which many of them did.
The mayhem had forced the House and Senate to abruptly end the day’s debates and flee to safety under the protection of police. And it prompted bipartisan outrage as many lawmakers blamed Trump for fostering the violence.
8:05 p.m. Former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who resigned in protest over President Donald Trump’s Syria policies, blamed the president for the violence at the U.S. Capitol.
Mattis, a retired four-star Marine general who stepped down as Pentagon chief in December 2018, had an embattled relationship with Trump, but largely remained publicly quiet and avoided direct criticism. Since he left the job, however, he has been more openly derisive of Trump, including a pubilc condemnation of the president’s heavy-handed use of military force to quell protests near the White House last June.
7:55 p.m. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for first lady Melania Trump, has resigned following violent protests at the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump. Grisham says in a statement Wednesday that it was an “honor” to serve the country in the White House and be part of he first lady’s “mission” to help children. Grisham was one of Trump’s longest serving aides, having joined the campaign in 2015. She served as the White House press secretary and never held a press briefing.
Wednesday’s violent occupation of the U.S. Capitol by the president’s supporters sparked renewed conversations inside the White House about mass resignations by mid-level aides who are responsible for operations of the office of the president. Two people familiar with the conversations said the aides were torn between fears of what more would happen if they left and a desire to register their disgust with their boss. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.
7:45 p.m. 6:10 p.m. A woman who was shot inside the U.S. Capitol during the violent pro-Trump protest has died. That’s according to two officials familiar with the matter who spoke to The Associated Press on Wednesday on condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.
The Metropolitan Police Department said it was taking the lead on the shooting investigation. Police did not immediately provide details about the circumstances of the shooting.
Dozens of supporters of President Donald Trump breached the security perimeter and entered the Capitol as Congress was meeting, expected to vote and affirm Joe Biden’s presidential win. They were seen fighting with officers both inside the building and outside.
Hours later, police had declared the Capitol was secured. 2:47 p.m. After egging on protests, President Donald Trump tweeted to his supporters to “stay peaceful” as they violently clash with law enforcement and breached the Capitol building. 1:55 p.m.
The U.S. Capitol Police are evacuating some congressional office buildings due to “police activity” as thousands gather outside the Capitol to protest the electoral vote. Police told congressional staff members they should evacuate the Cannon House Office Building and the building that houses the Library of Congress. It wasn’t immediately clear what specifically sparked the evacuation.
A police spokeswoman did not immediately respond to calls and emails seeking comment. Thousands of people have descended on the U.S. Capitol as Congress is expected to vote to affirm Joe Biden’s 2020 presidential win. Videos posted online showed protesters fighting with U.S. Capitol Police officers as police fired pepper spray to keep them back. Copyright 2021 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.

I can’t stop thinking about the zip-tie guys.
Amid the photos that flooded social media during Wednesday’s riot at the Capitol—shirtless jokers in horned helmets, dudes pointing at their nuts, dumbasses carrying away souvenirs—the images of the zip-tie guys were quieter, less exuberant, more chilling. And we’d better not forget what they almost managed to do.
It’s easy to think of the siege of the U.S. Capitol as a clown show with accidentally deadly consequences. A bunch of cosplaying self-styled patriots show up, overwhelm the incomprehensibly unprepared Capitol Police, and then throw a frat party in the rotunda. The miscreants smear shit on the walls and steal laptops and smoke weed in conference rooms.
Someone gets shot; someone else has a heart attack, possibly under ludicrous circumstances. When they finally get rousted, they cry to the cameras about getting maced.
Those rioters, the bozos, were the ones who talked to the press, who waved gleefully to photographers, who selfied and streamed the entire afternoon, without even a thought that there might ever be consequences. They were doing it for the ’gram, and their story overwhelms the narrative because their faces and voices dominated the day.
But there were other rioters inside the Capitol, if you look at the images. And once you see them, it’s impossible to look away.
The zip-tie guys. Call the zip ties by their correct name: The guys were carrying flex cuffs, the plastic double restraints often used by police in mass arrest situations. They walked through the Senate chamber with a sense of purpose.
They were not dressed in silly costumes but kitted out in full paramilitary regalia: helmets, armor, camo, holsters with sidearms. At least one had a semi-automatic rifle and 11 Molotov cocktails.
At least one, unlike nearly every other right-wing rioter photographed that day, wore a mask that obscured his face. These are the same guys who, when the windows of the Capitol were broken and entry secured, went in first with what I’d call military-ish precision.
They moved with purpose, to the offices of major figures like Nancy Pelosi and then to the Senate floor. What was that purpose? It wasn’t to pose for photos.
It was to use those flex cuffs on someone. In October, the FBI and state authorities charged 13 men with plotting to kidnap Gretchen Whitmer, the Democratic governor of Michigan. Members of that plot attended protests at the Michigan Capitol in April, real planners of violence mixing easily with those for whom guns are fun protest props.
The plotters discussed a summary execution—“knock on the door,” one wrote in the group chat, “and when she answers it just cap her”—but settled on a kidnapping, pulled off while police were distracted by a nearby explosion. Think of that plot, as these men surely did, as a dress rehearsal for what the zip-tie guys wanted to accomplish at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.
They went into the Capitol, as Congress was counting electoral votes, equipped to take hostages—to physically seize officials, and presumably to take lives. The prospect is terrifying.
But just because it seems unthinkable doesn’t mean we shouldn’t think hard about what almost happened. Don’t dismiss the zip-tie guys as “LARPers” or “weekend warriors.” First of all, given the well-documented overlap between ex-military, law enforcement, and right-wing militias, it’s entirely possible these guys were weekday warriors using their training in service of extracurricular interests.
(One of the Twitter sleuths who are now trying to track them down sure seems to think they’re ex-military.) More importantly, the long awful course of history reminds us how slippery the slope is from playacting as a strike force to actually behaving as a strike force.
Once the zip ties go on, it doesn’t matter whether you’re a “real” terrorist or not. Today, we’re hearing more about the violence that accompanied the buffoonery: the Capitol Police officer killed with a fire extinguisher, the AP photographer dragged away by goons, the New York Times photographer thrown to the floor who feared for her life.
No doubt we’ll hear even more as more stories come out. But it could have been much, much worse. If the rioters had been a little quicker through the doors; if senators and representatives hadn’t just moved from their joint session into separate chambers to debate the Arizona challenge and had instead still been packed into one harder-to-evacuate room; if any number of things had happened differently, the three people next in the line of succession for the presidency might have been face to face with those zip-tie guys.

President Donald Trump and top White House officials did little to check in on Vice President Mike Pence while he and members of his family were inside the US Capitol when Trump-backed rioters stormed the halls of Congress on Wednesday, a source close to the vice president tells CNN. Pence was joined by his wife Karen Pence, daughter Charlotte and brother, Rep. Greg Pence, R-Indiana, for the ceremonial counting of the electoral votes in Congress Wednesday.
Several of the violent Trump supporters who were rampaging the US Capitol were heard screaming “where’s Mike Pence,” the source said, frightening the vice president and his family. Yet, the President and his top aides barely lifted a finger to check in on Pence to make sure he and his family were unharmed, the source added. “Was he concerned at all that an angry mob that he commanded to march on the Capitol might injure the vice president or his family?” the source asked.
The White House did not respond on the record to a CNN request for comment. People close to the vice president now believe he is being set up as a “scapegoat” to shoulder the blame inside Trump-world after Pence refused to buckle to the President’s demands to engineer a procedural coup that would keep Trump in power. On Tuesday, Pence came under intense pressure from Trump to toss out the election results during a meeting that lasted hours in the Oval Office. The vice president’s chief of staff, Marc Short, was banned by Trump from entering the West Wing, the source said, as the President repeatedly warned with “thinly veiled threats” to Pence that he would suffer major political consequences if he refused to cooperate.
“The message was pretty clear,” the source said. The events Wednesday have left some aides to the vice president feeling Pence was betrayed by Trump as well as White House chief of staff Mark Meadows and the President’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani. “Rudy, Meadows and their teams have been trying to set up the vice president to take the fall as opposed to admitting they laid out false hope in all of this,” the source said.
“Trump just can’t admit defeat and wants a scapegoat,” the source added. On Thursday, Charlotte Pence Bond, the vice president’s daughter who had been at the US Capitol with him, tweeted her congratulations to President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.

WASHINGTON — Donald Trump launched a deadly attempted coup on Wednesday by unleashing a violent mob on Washington, DC, with thousands of extremists breaching the US Capitol and forcing senators and representatives to flee as they were certifying Joe Biden’s presidential election win.
The Trump mob, flying MAGA and Confederate flags, sprayed police officers with chemicals, looted, and hung nooses, claiming to avenge their cultish leader’s delusional claims that the election was stolen from him. It was a terrifying and dark moment in American history.
Gunfire erupted in the halls of Congress, and one woman, draped in a Trump flag, was shot by Capitol Police. She was seen on television cameras being wheeled from the building on a gurney, bleeding from the neck, while someone delivered chest compressions. She later died, as did two other men and a woman who police said suffered unspecified medical emergencies near the Capitol, though it was unclear if they were part of the demonstrations.
Law enforcement officers — who in 2020 were quick to use force on anti-racism protesters — were easily overwhelmed by the predominantly white domestic terrorists. They had appeared just minutes after Trump, in a speech to the mob, urged them to “march” to the Capitol in a show of “strength.”
The mob easily pushed through metal police barricades, forced open the doors to the Capitol, and occupied offices. Officers barricaded the doors to the House of Representatives, drawing handguns as the rioters broke through windows and eventually claimed the speaker’s podium. As smoke rose from outside the Capitol and after the National Guard rolled in, the president endorsed the chaos.
“Remember this day forever!” he tweeted.

Two previously unreported video clips obtained by The Washington Post shed new light on the fatal shooting by police of Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt as she and other rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight Babbitt and others were attempting to breach a barricaded door inside the Capitol building on Wednesday afternoon, angrily demanding that three U.S. Capitol Police officers who were guarding the door step aside, one of the clips shows. The officers moved away as colleagues in tactical gear arrived behind the rioters, according to the clip and other video posted online. Roughly 35 seconds after the officers moved away, as she climbed up toward a broken section of the unguarded door, Babbitt was shot by an officer on the other side.
Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, and more than a dozen others appeared to be trying to get into the Speaker’s Lobby, a hallway that would have given them access to the House of Representatives chamber, according to a Post analysis of video footage and plans of the Capitol. A second clip, recorded approximately three minutes before the shooting, appears to show lawmakers and officials in the Speaker’s Lobby, just yards from Babbitt and others trying to get through.
Rep. James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), the chairman of the House Rules Committee, was one of those present, a spokesperson confirmed. As the lawmakers and officials were being evacuated, one rioter wearing a fur-lined hat repeatedly punched the doorway’s glass panels immediately behind the officers, creating extensive damage, the video footage shows.
The rioter tried to get around one officer, identified by a patch on his jacket as K. Yetter, while several rioters yelled at the police to let them through. “We don’t want to hurt no one, we just want to go inside,” one told them.
The Capitol Police did not respond to requests for comment. Two of the officers could not be identified, and attempts to reach Yetter were unsuccessful.
Babbitt, who was wearing a Trump flag as a cape, can be seen in the video footage acting in an agitated manner and remonstrating with officers. Her remarks to the police are not clearly audible.
Sullivan provided the video to the The Post. On Jan. 14, after this story and video were published, federal authorities charged Sullivan with obstructing law enforcement, knowingly entering a restricted building and engaging in disorderly or disruptive conduct on the Capitol grounds.
At this point, one officer guarding the door said to the others, “They’re ready to roll,” and gestured to them to come with him, the video shows. The officers stepped away from the door together and moved to an adjacent wall. With the door clear of law enforcement, some of the rioters renewed their efforts to break through.
One used a helmet, and another tried with a flagpole. About 20 seconds after the officers stepped aside, a loud scream is heard on the footage.
One man shouted three times that an officer on the other side of the door had a gun. An officer with a gun can be seen at the edge of the video’s frame. The warning was repeated by another man, but other rioters continued trying to smash through the doorway.
Around this time, the departing officers were met by colleagues wearing helmets and armed with rifles, who had arrived from a stairwell behind Babbitt and the rioters, according to other video posted to social media. These officers began evacuating the officers who had guarded the door down the stairs.
With help from someone who hoisted her up, Babbitt began to step through a portion of the door where the glass had been broken out. An officer on the other side, who was wearing a suit and a surgical mask, immediately shot Babbitt in the neck.
She fell to the floor. Moments later, the officers armed with rifles and the officers who had guarded the door reemerged from the staircase behind where Babbitt had fallen, according to other video posted online. Some officers tended to Babbitt while others yelled at rioters to clear the area so she could receive treatment.
Timothy McEntee, Babbitt’s ex-husband, told The Post that his ex-wife owned a pool-cleaning business. “She’s a small business owner in California and felt (much like others) that she was being wronged,” McEntee wrote in a text message. The Capitol Police announced Thursday that the officer who shot Babbitt had been placed on administrative leave as the department and D.C. police investigate. This story was updated on Jan. 15 to include Sullivan’s arrest.

A week ago, another impeachment would have seemed out of the realm of possibility, with the Democratic Party just days away from controlling all three levers of power in Washington, D.C., and finally bidding farewell to Trump.
But after those several terrifying hours on Wednesday, Trump’s own supporters made the Capitol one of the least safe places in Washington, D.C., and Pelosi and her entire Democratic Caucus cannot forget it. “I think Nancy also looks at this and says, how do you — when the president has put your people at risk of harm or death — not respond to that in the strongest way possible?” Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.) said in an interview.
The emotional toll will have a lasting effect on Pelosi and her caucus. About two dozen Democrats were locked inside the chamber on Wednesday, some frantically calling their families in case they needed to say goodbye, as members of an armed mob eventually forced their way in. Many more lawmakers barricaded themselves inside their offices, where they worked with staff to push desks and couches in front of the doors.
Pelosi was one of multiple Democrats on that 3.5-hour call Friday to encourage members and their staff to seek counseling for the trauma they experienced that day. Support staff, too, should have access to the same mental health services, Pelosi said, noting how they too are an integral part of the Capitol nucleus.
“Some of the maintenance people call me ‘Momma,’” Pelosi said on the call, according to multiple Democrats.
Pelosi has repeatedly urged both lawmakers and staff to seek out mental health support after living through the horrific assault on the Capitol, including on another long call with her caucus on Monday. For Pelosi and many others, the images of Wednesday’s violence are haunting — rioters in tactical gear storming through the Capitol, ransacking offices, including her own, before turning on police, attempting to crush one in a doorway and dragging another from the building and beating him with a flag pole.
Hours earlier, Trump had instructed his supporters to march to the Capitol, vowing the election was rigged and he would never concede. As she steers her caucus through the emotional wreckage of the attack, Pelosi has also, once again, become the lead voice on impeaching a president who has also been one of her biggest antagonists for four years.
Unlike the long on-ramp to her support for impeachment in 2019, this time Pelosi embraced the move within a matter of hours. “One of the things that people don’t appreciate about her is she has a really heartfelt, deep reverence for our Capitol, democracy and the presidency,” said House Democratic Caucus Chair Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), a close ally of the speaker.
The rest of Pelosi’s caucus has quickly come to the same conclusion as her, with very few exceptions. Democrats announced Monday they will vote Wednesday to impeach Trump after securing enough votes to do so, unless Vice President Mike Pence takes unilateral action before then to declare the president unfit for office.
It’s a remarkable display of caucus unity for Pelosi, who fought her way back to the speakership two years ago after a group of Democratic objectors tried to end her long leadership tenure. And many in her caucus were already predicting a tense atmosphere within the caucus over the next two years, which they saw as inevitable when a big-tent party has such a razor-thin majority.
Instead, nearly every single House Democrat — including freshmen who were sworn in just days ago — quickly lined up in favor of impeachment. Even some of the caucus’ most pro-impeachment Democrats were shocked by the speed of their caucus and their leadership’s support.

Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives, is giving a news conference now where she says she has a message for Trump's cabinet members.
Pelosi goes on to say that the House may be forced to file of articles of impeachment due to Trump's recent "seditious acts". "Although it's only 13 days left, any day could be a horror show," she tells reporters. Pelosi adds that Democrats are contacting her, demanding another attempt to remove Trump from office.
To remind you, Trump has already been impeached once, by the Democrat-led House in December 2019 over allegations he improperly sought help from Ukraine to boost his chances of re-election. If impeached again, he would be the first president in US history to be impeached twice. "My phone is exploding with 'impeach impeach impeach'," she says.

Former Washington, DC, police chief Charles Ramsey told CNN today that authorities must urgently clear the US Capitol building and anyone who breached the building ought to be arrested. "They have to reestablish a perimeter," said Ramsey, speaking on CNN as an unknown number individuals continued to occupy the US Capitol hours after a pro-Trump mob stormed it.
As to why authorities have been unable to secure the US Capitol complex grounds so far, Ramsey said officials may be staging for a coordinated operation. "Maybe they are assembling somewhere trying to get their battle plan together in terms of how they are going to handle it," said Ramsey, who led the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia for nearly 10 years.

One woman was fatally shot by police inside the Capitol building. Four people are dead following Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol.
One woman and two men suffered "medical emergencies" during the anarchy and have subsequently died, according to Robert Contee, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia. Another woman was shot and killed during a standoff inside the Capitol between law enforcement and protesters, Conte said.
An angry mob of Trump supporters had breached the building, forcing a lockdown with members of Congress holed up inside the chambers. The woman was shot by a U.S. Capitol Police officer in plainclothes, after "multiple individuals forced entry into the Capitol building" and "attempted to gain access to the House room, which was still in session," according to Conte. She was transported to an area hospital where she was pronounced dead, Conte said.
Rep. Markwayne Mullin, R-Okla., told ABC News he saw the shooting happen, saying he "never thought" he would witness such a scene unfold in the United States. The rioting began Wednesday afternoon after Trump and his allies held a rally earlier in the day, urging Congress to not certify the results of the November presidential election. Trump vowed to "never concede" and urged his supporters "to fight," as he continued to push baseless claims of election fraud.
Protesters -- some of who were seen wearing body armor -- made their way up the Capitol steps around 2:15 p.m. ET, pushing their way through barricades, officers in riot gear and other security measures that were put in place in anticipation of the protest. Once inside the Capitol building, the pro-Trump mob moved freely and shouted chants while holding "Trump 2020" flags. One person was also seen waving a Confederate flag inside the building.
Law enforcement officers inside the building instructed elected officials, staff and journalists to shelter in place as the protesters broke in. In a bulletin sent to Capitol building staff, the U.S. Capitol Police ordered people to lock their doors, remain quiet and silence their electronics.
"If you are in a public space, find a place to hide or seek cover," the bulletin said. "If our capable floor staff hadn't grabbed them, they would have been burned by the mob," he added.
Trump's former chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, even called out the president for not doing enough to put an end to the violence. "He can stop this now and needs to do exactly that. Tell these folks to go home," Mulvaney tweeted.
Following repeated calls from leaders on both sides of the aisle, Trump finally released a video message via Twitter on Wednesday afternoon, telling his supporters to go home. But he also continued to push baseless, false claims about the election.
Twitter removed Trump's tweet with the video, along with two other tweets. At 7 p.m., Twitter announced that it has locked Trump's account for 12 hours and will continue to keep it locked until the tweets are deleted. "Future violations of the Twitter Rules, including our Civic Integrity or Violent Threats policies, will result in permanent suspension of the @realDonaldTrump account," the social network company tweeted.
Later in the night, Facebook announced that it would not allow Trump's official page to post for 24 hours. The move came just as Trump's successor, President-elect Joe Biden, held a news conference to address the situation. He called on the outgoing president to tell his supporters to stop.
The entire District of Columbia National Guard was activated and the Metropolitan Police Department was deployed to assist the U.S. Capitol Police in dispersing the protesters and restoring order. Several other law enforcement agencies in the region were also deployed to help. A source told ABC News that Pelosi requested the National Guard's help to secure the Capitol building.
Police declared the scene a riot "due to the violent behavior towards the police officers there and their intent on gaining access to the Capitol," Conte, the D.C. Police chief, said at a press conference Wednesday night. Mayor Muriel Bowser issued a citywide curfew that began at 6 p.m. and ended Thursday at 6 a.m.
She called the violence "shameful, unpatriotic" and "unlawful." Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam also declared a 6 p.m. curfew in the nearby cities of Alexandria and Arlington.
It took hours for law enforcement to clear the Capitol building and establish a perimeter around the area. Later in the evening, authorities fired tear gas to disperse the rioters.
As of 9:30 p.m., police had made "in excess of 52 arrests" related to the protests, 26 of which were made on Capitol grounds, according to Conte. Conte said two pipe bombs were recovered, one at Republican National Committee headquarters and the other at Democratic National Committee headquarters, both of which are located near the Capitol building.
A cooler was also recovered from a van on Capitol grounds containing a long gun as well as Molotov cocktails, according to Conte. Meanwhile, Conte said more than a dozen D.C. Police officers were injured while responding to the protests. The Federal Bureau of Investigation issued a bulletin on Wednesday night, calling for witnesses to submit information to assist in identifying individuals who were involved with the "rioting and violence" at the Capitol building and in the surrounding area.
The Senate resumed its session at around 8 p.m., where both Vice President Mike Pence and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell condemned the violence. Both the Senate and the House ultimately went on to vote against Republican objections to certify Electoral College votes in the presidential election, with Pence declaring Biden the winner early Thursday morning. It was the first time Trump has publicly accepted Biden's victory and agreed to a peaceful transfer of power.
This report was featured in the Thursday, Jan. 7, 2020, episode of "Start Here," ABC News' daily news podcast. "Start Here" offers a straightforward look at the day's top stories in 20 minutes.

As President Trump told a sprawling crowd outside the White House that they should never accept defeat, hundreds of his supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol in what amounted to an attempted coup that they hoped would overturn the election he lost.
In the chaos, law enforcement officials said, one woman was shot and killed by Capitol Police. The violent scene — much of it incited by the president’s incendiary language — was like no other in modern American history, bringing to a sudden halt the congressional certification of Joe Biden’s electoral victory. With poles bearing blue Trump flags, a mob that would eventually grow into the thousands bashed through Capitol doors and windows, forcing their way past police officers unprepared for the onslaught.
Lawmakers were evacuated shortly before an armed standoff at the House chamber’s entrance. The woman who was shot was rushed to an ambulance, police said, and later died.
Canisters of tear gas were fired across the Rotunda’s white marble floor, and on the steps outside the building, rioters flew Confederate flags. “USA! USA!” chanted the would-be saboteurs of a 244-year-old democracy. The Senate stopped its proceedings, and the House doors were closed.
In a notification, U.S. Capitol Police said no one would be allowed to come or go from the building as they struggled to regain control. “Stay away from exterior windows, doors. If outside, seek cover,” police warned.
All 1,100 members of the D.C. National Guard were activated, and Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) imposed a citywide curfew. From 6 p.m. Wednesday to 6 a.m. Thursday, Bowser said, no one other than essential personnel would be allowed outdoors in the city.
The mob had arrived hours earlier, charging past the metal barricades on the property’s outer edge. Hundreds, then thousands followed them. Some scaled the Capitol’s walls to reach entrances; others climbed over one another.
By day’s end, four people would be dead: one from gunfire and three from medical emergencies that officials have yet to explain. On the building’s east side, police initially pushed the pro-Trump demonstrators back but soon gave up and fell back to the foot of the main steps.
Within a half-hour, fights broke out again, and police retreated to the top of the stairs as screaming Trump supporters surged closer. After police perimeters were breached, the elated crowd began to sing the national anthem.
For an hour, they banged on the doors, chanting, “Let us in! Let us in!”
Police inside fired pepper balls and smoke bombs into the crowd but failed to turn them away. After each volley, the rioters, who were mostly White men, would cluster around the doors again, yelling, arguing, pledging revolution.
Sometime after 2:10 p.m., a man used a clear plastic riot shield to break through the windows on a first floor to the south side of the building, then hopped in with a few others. Once inside, police suspect, rioters opened doors to let in more of their compatriots.
A Capitol Police officer yelled from a higher stairway at the intruders, ordering them to stop, but when they didn’t, the officer fired at a man coming at him, two law enforcement officials said. Amid shouts and people rushing to get away from the sound of gunfire, rioters saw a woman in their group collapse. Police believe she was unarmed, a law enforcement official said, but the officer who shot her did not know that.
Capitol Police had already been warned by D.C. police that many in the crowds were secretly carrying weapons. “They shot a girl!” someone yelled as a group of Trump supporters ran out of the southeast entrance.
A team of paramedics with a gurney soon arrived and a Capitol Police officer stepped aside to let them pass. “White female, shot in the shoulder,” the officer said as they hurried past. They emerged minutes later.
On the gurney was a woman later identified as Ashli Babbitt. Dressed in jeans, the 35-year-old gazed vacantly to one side, her torso and face covered in blood.
Babbitt, a California native and an Air Force veteran, was a staunch supporter of the president. Capitol Police officers with long guns pushed them back, and the ambulance drove off.
Inside, where the lawmakers had donned gas masks kept under their chairs, Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.) could only think of his family as he and other lawmakers hid from the mob. Reeling from the loss of his 25-year-old son last week, Raskin had taken one of his daughters and his son-in-law to the Capitol to watch the debates unfold over certification of Biden’s election, he said, “because we wanted to be together.” Raskin was helping lead Democrats’ arguments against Republican objectors.
Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-Va.) said members were told that chemical irritants had been released in Statuary Hall and, for a moment, braced for the possibility that they would be exposed to tear gas. Capitol Police barricaded the doors with tables and bookshelves.
Spanberger, a former CIA case officer, said that it was a crisis she would only expect to see unfold in fragile, faraway places. The shooting and the breach triggered an instant call for help across Washington to other law enforcement agencies.
At the U.S. Secret Service, headquarters sent out an emergency alert to all gun-carrying Secret Service personnel to report to headquarters in preparation to help secure the Capitol. Meanwhile, dozens of other rioters streamed into the building, where they smashed windows and vandalized offices amid furious clashes with officers desperate to maintain control.
“MURDER THE MEDIA,” read a message written on one door. “WE WILL NOT BACK DOWN,” read another left in the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), who also refused to back down, later directing her colleagues to return and finish validating Biden’s victory.
Rep. Karen Bass, a Democrat from California, shared a photo on Twitter of a long-haired man in a Trump hat carrying a rostrum adorned with the gold-colored seal of the speaker. “Arrest this man,” she demanded.
At 3:30 p.m., more law enforcement in riot gear arrived at the Capitol. For hours, Trump made little effort to quell the violence he had helped instigate, finally sharing a video at 4:17 p.m. in which he told people to “go home” — while continuing to promote the falsehood that he had won the election.
The Capitol has been the target of violence before. In 1954, Puerto Rican nationalists opened fire from a House gallery, injuring five lawmakers on the floor below. In 1971, a bomb planted by a radical left-wing group exploded, though no one was harmed.
In 1998, a gunman opened fire, killing two Capitol Police officers. But not since the British set fire to the Capitol in 1814 has a mob overrun the ultimate symbol of American freedom. The fallout on Wednesday was immediate, stunning the world, the country and, perhaps most of all, political Washington. Former presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton joined Republican Sen. Mitt Romney (Utah) in denouncing Trump for provoking the mob, while Twitter, Facebook and Instagram all temporarily banned him from their platforms.
Several conservative lawmakers who had planned to object to Biden’s certification announced that they had changed their minds. Shortly after 8 p.m., just an hour or so after hundreds of law enforcement officers had at last finished clearing the mob and removing Trump flags left inside the building, heavily armed FBI agents and police officers in riot gear escorted lawmakers back to work.
As discussion inside the battered building resumed, the sense of fear that had gripped the nation’s capital for much of the day had yet to subside. Federal agents were investigating a pickup truck found with weapons, ammunition and potential bombmaking material parked outside the Republican National Committee, according to two people familiar with the inquiry who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it.
The truck, parked across the street from the party offices and near the entrance to a Metro station, contained rifles and shotguns and a mass of ammunition, these people said. Federal agents were still trying to determine whether that vehicle and its contents are connected to suspected pipe bombs found earlier in the day. By late evening, D.C. Police Chief Robert J. Contee III said officers had arrested at least 52 people, including four for carrying pistols without a license, one for possession of a prohibited weapon and 47 for curfew violations and unlawful entry.
Along with the pipe bombs, he said, police discovered a cooler packed with molotov cocktails on the Capitol grounds. In total, 14 D.C. officers were injured Wednesday.
One was hospitalized after being pulled into a crowd and assaulted, and another received “significant facial injuries” after being hit with a projectile. Just past sunset, a man was stabbed at 12th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW, near Freedom Plaza, but it was unclear whether the attack was related to the assault at the Capitol, a mile east.
After she was taken away, the mood soured, though many remained joyous. “We’re making history,” one woman said as she strolled down Independence Avenue with friends. Many called friends and family and took videos.

From his office window at about 7:30 a.m. last Wednesday, the Marine veteran uneasily watched a small, “ragtag” group of Capitol Police officers get briefed on the day’s events. Meanwhile, in her own office in a nearby building later that morning, Representative Lori Trahan unpacked crackers, grapes, and other snacks as she and two staff members prepared to hunker down for a long and contentious day ahead.
WASHINGTON — On the day Congress was set to count the electoral votes certifying President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, Representative Seth Moulton was one of the first members of the Massachusetts delegation to arrive at his office on Capitol Hill. As supporters of President Trump descended upon downtown, Representative Jim McGovern walked to the Capitol alone. “I told my staff to stay home,” he said, worried after reading about the online threats of violence. They were following the instructions from Capitol Police: Arrive early, remain indoors, and use the underground network of tunnels to move throughout the Capitol complex. Those basic guidelines offered a hint of danger from the Trump rally outside of the White House, but no sense of anything like the deadly attack that was to come.
For days, Massachusetts lawmakers said, they and their colleagues had received assurances from police that security would be tight and that they would be shielded from the masses as Trump continued to spout lies and conspiracies, refusing to concede his loss in November. But incited by Trump’s words, the rally morphed into a protest that escalated into an armed insurrection to overturn the election, rattling the world and now embroiling lawmakers in efforts to try to remove Trump from office in his final days. The traumatic events of a day now etched in history are the backdrop for Wednesday’s House impeachment vote. Those early hours a week ago were ominous yet quiet. That’s what Representative Stephen Lynch was expecting as he fielded questions from reporters in the lobby outside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. But Representative Ayanna Pressley had two reasons to be afraid: She has alopecia, an autoimmune disorder that puts her in the high-risk category for coronavirus, and she is one of four Democratic representatives in a group self-dubbed “The Squad,” which has drawn ire and racist attacks from Trump and his supporters.
Because of multiple death threats over the past two years, running through safety drills and threat scenarios has become routine at Pressley’s office, said Sarah Groh, her chief of staff. Groh, Pressley, and her husband had planned to wait in Pressley’s D.C. apartment until later in the afternoon.
That changed as the House sergeant-at-arms pressured lawmakers to come sooner, warning the crowds could get too thick to safely escort them in. As protesters streamed toward Capitol Hill, Moulton’s special assistant, Billy Hennessy, kept a window open.
He poked his head out every so often to watch the group massing outside the Capitol. Soon, he saw some Trump supporters fleeing with blood on their faces. On the House floor, one of Pelosi’s aides asked McGovern to take over in the speaker’s chair.
He figured she just needed to take some calls in her office. “I don’t think she even knew what was about to happen because she left her phone there,” he said. But after a few minutes McGovern was forced to adjourn the House when it became clear Pelosi wasn’t going back to her office but was being evacuated. He was soon relaying information from officers to those in the chamber about how to put on gas masks and safely exit the room.
The House chaplain uttered some prayerful words, as he and others tried to keep people calm. One of the last of roughly 50 members swept out of the House chamber, McGovern saw rioters had shattered windows in the adjacent lobby and were banging on the doors.
“It was like looking at evil,” the Worcester Democrat said. In videos since released, McGovern is seen just moments before one of the rioters, Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt, 35, attempts to jump in through a broken window and is fatally shot by police. McGovern said he probably heard those shots, but didn’t register them in the din of shouts from protesters and commands from officers as he escaped down a marble staircase. As people rushed out of other buildings on the Capitol grounds, staffers in Pressley’s office barricaded the entrance with furniture and water jugs that had piled up during the pandemic.
Groh pulled out gas masks and looked for the special panic buttons in the office. “Every panic button in my office had been torn out — the whole unit,” she said, though they could come up with no rationale as to why.
She had used them before and hadn’t switched offices since then. As they were escorted to several different secure locations, Groh and Pressley and her husband tried to remain calm and vigilant — not only of rioters but of officers they did not know or trust, she said. In her office in another building, Trahan bolted the doors as she toggled between feeling sad and outraged.
As she and her staffers watched the mob on television, Trahan said, she remembered how her husband and two daughters had stood on the same steps of the Capitol just days before. She was relieved her family had gone back to Massachusetts. “You feel like a sitting duck, you feel vulnerable,” Trahan said of the hours sheltering in place with little to no information from Capitol Police. Lynch eventually made the quick walk back to his apartment after sheltering for some time at one of the Capitol buildings.
Representative William Keating hustled back to his office from the underground Capitol tunnels when he heard security officers were rushing evacuees to his building. A former prosecutor who had previously served on the Homeland Security committee, he had walked the grounds with Capitol Police the evening before to learn more about their plans.
He received assurances that security would be tight and their perimeter would be wide enough to keep protesters away from the building. Back in his office, Moulton did a couple of media interviews.
“This is the kind of violence, this is the kind of terrorism that I expected to see in Iraq as a United States Marine, not here in Washington, D.C., not an attempted coup on our own country,” he told WBUR. At one point, Moulton called a friend in the FBI and urged him to get his unit to the Capitol, but it would be hours before they would be given the green light. Moulton and Hennessy were taken to the secret location where other House members were sheltering. It was there that Trahan learned about the acts of bravery during the attack: the combat veterans like Representative Ruben Gallegos of Arizona, who had helped elderly and scared members put on their gas masks as they fled. It was there that Pressley and other colleagues started drafting articles of impeachment.
And it was there that resolve grew among members to return and finish the vote count. On the Senate floor later that night, Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke of the failed presidential runs she and her colleagues had experienced. In the days since, some members of the Massachusetts delegation said they have received more threats from Trump supporters, and many are concerned about violence breaking out on or before Inauguration Day next week.
All have ramped up their calls for investigations into the security breakdowns and accountability against Trump and the Republican lawmakers who they said fanned the flames of hate and white supremacy. Danny McDonald of the Globe staff contributed to this report. Steve Annear can be reached at steve.annear@globe.com. Follow him @steveannear.

"To put into perspective how quickly staff evacuated, emails are still on the screen along side a federal alert warning members of the current revolution," Schaffer wrote. Schaffer has since deleted the tweet.
Both houses of Congress assembled at the Capitol this morning to ratify the election of Joe Biden to be the next president of the United States. But President Donald Trump, who has refused to recognize his defeat, organized a rally outside to protest the results.
Some of the protestors soon tried to make good on Trump's threat. They stormed the capitol building and forced their way past Capitol Hill police. As angry rioters began roaming through the hallways, police escorted Vice President Pence, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and other members of Congress out of the Capitol building. With the capitol building still occupied by a violent mob, it's not clear how much access rioters have gained to sensitive information.
With luck, staffers who had access to classified data managed to log off before evacuating their offices. But with thousands of people working on Capitol Hill, it seems likely that some serious data breaches will occur.

Among the many shocking images from yesterday's Capitol Hill riot were were some that indicated that rioters had access to official computers. One photo, in a subsequently deleted tweet from Elijah Schaffer, a reporter for far-right websites, indicated that a computer in Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office was left unlocked, with email and other applications accessible.
Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon also tweeted a video of the destruction of his office, in which he noted a laptop had been stolen. Speculation abounds that hard drives were also being stolen by the trespassers, but there’s little proof that they’d been removed from the building.
The teams rebuilding Congress’ IT systems should consider everything in the breached offices compromised, according to cybersecurity experts and a former congressional employee. From there, they can make assessments on what went missing, whether anything sensitive was stolen and then how to mitigate the possible impact.
Concerns about foreign snoops using the mob as cover are likely to be unfounded, according to a former Congressional security staffer speaking on the condition of anonymity, given the sudden turn in events that led to the breach of physical security on the Hill, though it wasn’t outside the realm of possibility. They added that if someone wanted to gain access to data on Congressional staff systems, they could do it without having to join a riot, thanks to the gaps in security. Overall security on the Hill has been historically patchy, the ex-Congressional staffer said.
House and Senate systems are handled separately and staff often use their own computers, smartphones and apps to run software like Gmail without any additional government security, they added. IT teams on the Hill should now focus all their attention on cleaning up, first by contacting Capitol Police to identify which rooms were accessed by rioters, the former staffer added. There’s another factor that may limit the damage: Many Congressional staffers have been working from home because of Covid-19 restrictions. If more had been on site with computers open, it could’ve been a good deal worse.

WASHINGTON (AP) — They came from across America, summoned by President Donald Trump to march on Washington in support of his false claim that the November election was stolen and to stop the congressional certification of Democrat Joe Biden as the victor.
The insurrectionist mob that showed up at the president’s behest and stormed the U.S. Capitol was overwhelmingly made up of longtime Trump supporters, including Republican Party officials, GOP political donors, far-right militants, white supremacists, members of the military and adherents of the QAnon myth that the government is secretly controlled by a cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophile cannibals. Records show that some were heavily armed and included convicted criminals, such as a Florida man recently released from prison for attempted murder. The Associated Press reviewed social media posts, voter registrations, court files and other public records for more than 120 people either facing criminal charges related to the Jan. 6 unrest or who, going maskless amid the pandemic, were later identified through photographs and videos taken during the melee.
The evidence gives lie to claims by right-wing pundits and Republican officials such as Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., that the violence was perpetrated by left-wing antifa thugs rather than supporters of the president. Steven D’Antuono, the assistant director in charge of the FBI’s Washington field office, told reporters that investigators had seen “no indication” antifa activists were disguised as Trump supporters in Wednesday’s riot.
The AP found that many of the rioters had taken to social media after the November election to retweet and parrot false claims by Trump that the vote had been stolen in a vast international conspiracy. Several had openly threatened violence against Democrats and Republicans they considered insufficiently loyal to the president.
During the riot, some livestreamed and posted photos of themselves at the Capitol. Afterwards, many bragged about what they had done.
As the mob smashed through doors and windows to invade the Capitol, a loud chant went up calling for the hanging of Vice President Mike Pence, the recent target of a Trump Twitter tirade for not subverting the Constitution and overturning the legitimate vote tally. Outside, a wooden scaffold had been erected on the National Mall, a rope noose dangling at the ready. So far, at least 90 people have been arrested on charges ranging from misdemeanor curfew violations to felonies related to assaults on police officers, possessing illegal weapons and making death threats against House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.
Among them was Lonnie Leroy Coffman, 70, an Alabama grandfather who drove to Washington to attend Trump’s “Save America Rally” in a red GMC Sierra pickup packed with an M4 assault rifle, multiple loaded magazines, three handguns and 11 Mason jars filled with homemade napalm, according to court filings. The truck was found during a security sweep involving explosives-sniffing dogs after two pipe bombs were found and disarmed Wednesday near the national headquarters of the Republican and Democratic parties. Coffman was arrested that evening when he returned to the truck carrying a 9mm Smith & Wesson handgun and a .22-caliber derringer pistol in his pockets.
Federal officials said Coffman is not suspected of planting the pipe bombs, though he was charged with having Molotov cocktails in the bed of his truck. His grandson, Brandon Coffman, told the AP on Friday his grandfather was a Republican who had expressed admiration for Trump at holiday gatherings. He said he had no idea why Coffman would show up in the nation’s capital armed for civil war.
Also facing federal charges is Cleveland Grover Meredith Jr., a Georgia man who in the wake of the election had protested outside the home of Republican Gov. Brian Kemp, whom Trump had publicly blamed for his loss in the state. Meredith drove to Washington last week for the “Save America” rally but arrived late because of a problem with the lights on his trailer, according to court filings that include expletive-laden texts. A participant in the text exchange provided screenshots to the FBI, who tracked Meredith to a Holiday Inn a short walk from the Capitol.
They found a compact Tavor X95 assault rifle, a 9mm Glock 19 handgun and about 100 rounds of ammunition, according to court filings. The agents also seized a stash of THC edibles and a vial of injectable testosterone. Meredith is charged with transmitting a threat, as well as felony counts for possession of firearms and ammunition.
Michael Thomas Curzio was arrested in relation to the riots less than two years after he was released from a Florida prison in 2019 after serving an eight-year sentence for attempted murder. Court records from Florida show that he shot the boyfriend of his former girlfriend in a fight at her home.
The FBI has opened a murder probe into the death of Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick, who was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher, according to law enforcement officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the ongoing investigation publicly. He died at a hospital.
The Trump supporters who died in the riot were Kevin D. Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama; Benjamin Philips, 50, of Ringtown, Pennsylvania; Ashli Babbitt, 35, of San Diego; and Rosanne Boyland, 34, of Kennesaw, Georgia. Boyland’s sister told the AP on Friday she was an adherent of the QAnon conspiracy theory that holds Trump is America’s savior. Her Facebook page featured photos and videos praising Trump and promoting fantasies, including one theory that a shadowy group was using the coronavirus to steal elections. Boyland’s final post on Twitter — a retweet of a post by White House social media director Dan Scavino — was a picture of thousands of people surrounding the Washington Monument on Wednesday. The AP’s review found that QAnon beliefs were common among those who heeded Trump’s call to come to Washington.
Doug Jensen, 41, was arrested by the FBI on Friday in Des Moines, Iowa, after returning home from the riot. An AP photographer captured images of him confronting Capitol Police officers outside of the Senate chamber on Wednesday. Jensen was wearing a black T-shirt emblazoned with a large Q and the phrase “Trust The Plan,” a reference to QAnon.
Video posted online during the storming of the Capitol also appears to show Jensen, who is white, pursuing a Black police officer up an interior flight of stairs as a mob of people trails several steps behind. At several points, the officer says “get back,” but to no avail.
Jensen’s older brother, William Routh, told the AP on Saturday that Jensen believed that the person posting as Q was either Trump or someone very close to the president. Jensen’s employer, Forrest & Associate Masonry in Des Moines, announced Friday that he had been fired.
Tara Coleman, a 40-year-old mother who lives in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, was arrested at the Capitol for a curfew violation and for unlawful entry. On her Facebook page, Coleman re-posted articles supporting the QAnon beliefs about a “deep state” conspiracy to target children. The AP could not find a working phone number for Coleman and her attorney, Peter Cooper, did not respond to an email seeking comment.
And Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies, surrendered to the FBI field office in Phoenix on Saturday. News photos show him at the riot shirtless, with his face painted and wearing a fur hat with horns, carrying a U.S. flag attached to a wooden pole topped with a spear. Chansley’s unusual headwear is visible in a Nov. 7 AP photo at a rally of Trump supporters protesting election results outside of the Maricopa County election center in Phoenix.
In that photo, Chansley, who also has gone by the last name Angeli, held a sign that read, “HOLD THE LINE PATRIOTS GOD WINS.” He also expressed his support for the president in an interview with the AP that day.
The FBI identified Chansley by his distinctive tattoos, which include bricks circling his biceps in an apparent reference to Trump’s border wall. Chansley didn’t respond last week to messages seeking comment to one of his social media accounts.
There were also current and former members of the U.S. military in the crowd. Army commanders at Fort Bragg in North Carolina are investigating Capt. Emily Rainey’s involvement in the Wednesday rally. The 30-year-old psychological operations officer told the AP she led 100 members of Moore County Citizens for Freedom who traveled to Washington to “stand against election fraud” and support Trump.
She insisted she acted within Army regulations and that no one in her group entered the Capitol or broke the law. “I was a private citizen and doing everything right and within my rights,” Rainey told the AP.
Retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. of Texas was charged in federal court on Sunday after he was identified in photos showing him standing in the well of the Senate, wearing a military-style helmet and body armor while holding a pair of zip-tie handcuffs. The insurrectionist mob also included members of the neofascist group known as the Proud Boys, whom Trump urged to “stand back and stand by” when asked to condemn them by a moderator during a presidential debate in September.
Nicholas R. Ochs, 34, was arrested Saturday after returning home to Hawaii, where he is the founder of the local Proud Boys chapter. On Wednesday, Ochs posted a photo of himself on Twitter inside the Capitol, grinning broadly and smoking a cigarette. According to court filings, the FBI matched photos of Ochs taken during the riot to photos taken when Ochs campaigned unsuccessfully last year as the Republican nominee for a seat in the Hawaii statehouse.
Proud Boys leader Henry “Enrique” Tarrio was arrested Monday in Washington on weapons charges and ordered to stay out of the nation’s capital. Tarrio is accused of vandalizing a Black Lives Matter banner at a historic Black church last month. Jay Robert Thaxton, 46, was arrested near the Capitol for curfew violations on Wednesday.
A North Carolina man with the same name has also been linked to the Proud Boys. He told The Stanly News & Press in 2019 that he was a Proud Boys supporter but wouldn’t say if he was an official member of the group.
Another North Carolina newspaper, The Jacksonville Daily News, published a photo of Thaxton wearing a “Make America Great Again” hat at a 2019 protest over the removal of Confederate statues. A man who answered a telephone number associated with Thaxton hung up on an AP reporter. The recipient of a text message to the same number responded with an expletive.
Also arrested at the Capitol was William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York. In an interview Friday, Leary told the AP that he strongly believes the election was stolen from Trump and that he went to Washington to show his support.
Leary said he doesn’t trust information reported by the mainstream media and that one of his main sources of information was Infowars, the far-right conspiracy site run by Alex Jones. He denied he ever set foot in the Capitol and complained that he was held for more than 24 hours and had his cell phone seized.
Leary said he remembers seeing a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, sobbing at the detention center because she had been separated and not allowed to translate for her mother, who primarily speaks Russian. Both women had been charged with curfew violation and unlawful entry. According to a video posted on her Instagram account, the younger Malimon says she was born in Moldova, where her family had faced persecution under the Soviet-era regime for their Christian beliefs.
Malimon, who traveled to D.C. from Portland, Oregon, is vice chairwoman of the Young Republicans of Oregon, according to the group’s website and is also listed as an “ambassador” for the pro-Trump group Turning Point USA. Her social media feeds are full of photos taken at Trump events, including the earlier “Million MAGA March” held in Washington last month.
She also posted photos of herself posing with Donald Trump Jr. and Roger Stone, who was convicted of crimes including obstruction of justice and pardoned by Trump on Christmas Eve. Media reports from Oregon quoted Malimon in August as the primary organizer of a Trump boat parade on the Willamette River, where big waves created by speeding boats flying Trump flags swamped and sank a smaller boat that was not participating, throwing a family into the water to be rescued by the sheriff’s department.
“Oregon, today you came out and showed your love and support for our wonderful President, Donald J. Trump thank you!” Kristina Malimon wrote on Facebook following the parade. Malimon also served as a Republican poll watcher in Georgia and spoke at an event organized by the Trump campaign in December, claiming to have seen voting machines and tabulation computers in Savannah, Georgia, with suspiciously blinking green lights she interpreted as a sign they were being secretly controlled by outside hackers — a claim debunked as false by GOP election officials in the state.
A phone number listed for Kristina Malimon rang without being answered on Friday. At the address listed for her in southeast Portland on Friday night, her teenage brother answered the door as other family members, including young children, ran around.
The family spoke Russian to each other and the brother, Nick Malimon, translated. He said his sister was still in Washington but had called the family following her release from jail and didn’t seem upset about her arrest. Others are facing consequences even beyond arrest.
A Texas sheriff announced Thursday that he had reported one of his lieutenants to the FBI after she posted photos of herself on social media with a crowd outside the Capitol. Bexar County Sheriff Javier Salazar said Lt. Roxanne Mathai, a 46-year-old jailer, had the right to attend the rally but he’s investigating whether she may have broken the law. A lawyer for Mathai, a mother and longtime San Antonio resident, said she attended the Trump rally but never entered the Capitol. Attorney Hector Cortes said Mathai’s contract bars her from speaking directly with the press but that she welcomes an FBI investigation and that her actions were squarely within the bounds of the First Amendment.
Brad Rukstales, a Republican political donor and CEO of Cogensia, a Chicago-based data analytics firm, was arrested with a group of a half-dozen Trump supporters who clashed with officers Wednesday inside the Capitol. Campaign finance reports show Rukstales contributed more than $25,000 to Trump’s campaign and other GOP committees during to 2020 election cycle. He told a local CBS news channel last week that he had entered the Capitol and apologized. He was fired Friday and did not respond to calls and emails seeking comment.
Derrick Evans, a Republican recently sworn in as a delegate to the West Virginia House, resigned Saturday following his arrest on two charges related to the Capitol riot. He had streamed video of himself charging into the building with the mob.
On Saturday he issued a statement saying he regretted taking part. “I take full responsibility for my actions, and deeply regret any hurt, pain or embarrassment I may have caused my family, friends, constituents and fellow West Virginians,” the statement said.
Kunzelman reported from College Park, Maryland, Flaccus from Portland, Oregon, and Mustian from New York. Associated Press writers Jake Bleiberg in Dallas; Michael R. Sisak in New York; Michael Balsamo in Washington; Rebecca Boone in Boise, Idaho; James LaPorta in Delray Beach, Florida; and Heather Hollingsworth in Mission, Kansas, contributed to this report.

With Joe Biden just days away from his inauguration as the nation's president, Pastor Darryl Knappen was still denying reality and even declaring himself willing to take up arms to keep Donald Trump in office.
"It was pastors who led the way in colonial times to encourage our country to shake off the totalitarian regime of the king of England," Knappen said in a Jan. 9 Facebook message to his Minnesota congregation. He was referring to the "Black Robed Regiment," a name given to those ministers who supported the Revolutionary War effort.
Conservative evangelical Christians have been among Donald Trump's most fervent and loyal supporters. While few have gone as far as Knappen and endorsed armed struggle on his behalf, the rhetoric of some evangelical leaders has been notably militant. In a conversation with conservative activist Charlie Kirk on Dec. 9, the right-wing Christian author and radio host Eric Metaxas said he did not care about the overwhelming odds against any effort to overturn the election of Joe Biden.
Three days later, Metaxas was the emcee at the Jericho March in Washington, where he and others implored God to keep Trump in office. The notion that God would take direct interest in a U.S. election is an expression of the ideology of Christian nationalism, says Andrew Whitehead, a sociologist at Indiana University-Purdue University and co-author of Taking America Back For God. "It's the idea that God has a plan for this nation, that God wants a particular outcome," Whitehead says.
Such convictions, Whitehead says, gave extra potency to efforts in support of Trump's attempts to overturn his clear election defeat. Taken to an extreme, Whitehead says, that viewpoint can even be seen as justifying violence.
Speaking at last month's Jericho March prayer rally, the founder of the OathKeepers militia group, Stewart Rhodes, told the crowd he hoped Trump would use the Insurrection Act to "drop the hammer" on his opponents. Among the flags at the rally was a big yellow banner that said "JESUS SAVES."
The same banner was seen again in the crowd that assaulted the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, among other examples of Christian imagery. One of the leaders of the invasion of the Senate chamber, Jacob Chansley, actually asked the rioters to pause in their rampage and join him for a moment of prayer to God. "Thank you for allowing the United States to be reborn," Chansley said, standing on the dais occupied a few hours earlier by Vice President Pence.
The post-election expressions of right wing Christian protest suggest that Christian militancy on occasion can lead to political extremism. "Inherent in the idea of Christian nationalism is the idea that America is representative of God's truth, and for that reason it needs to be defended. It needs to be protected," says Kristin du Mez, a historian at Calvin University and author of Jesus and John Wayne: How White Evangelicals Corrupted A Faith and Fractured A Nation.
But not all Christian militants have been chastened. In his Jan. 9 Facebook message, Knappen issued a call to arms. "There is a need in every one of our localities to have individuals, patriots, who are ready to arm up and be part of a citizen militia to protect our freedoms," he said, noting that he was in church, speaking in front of the cross. For Andrew Whitehead, the protests led by Christian militants in the aftermath of Trump's election defeat show that Christian nationalism can be a dangerous phenomenon when it calls into question the idea of sharing power with an adversary, and one not likely to disappear any time soon.

WASHINGTON, Jan 8 (Reuters) -
As the nation recoiled in horror at scenes of rioting and chaos in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, some right-wing and anti-government extremists saw the violence as the fulfillment of a patriotic duty or opportunity to advance their agenda. Among the inspired was Mike Dunn, a 20-year-old follower of the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the federal government or a second U.S. civil war. Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said three or four groups of loyalists under his command helped storm the Capitol this week amid a motley mix of rioters who supported President Donald Trump’s attempts to overturn the results of the November presidential election.
While most “boogaloos” are libertarians who largely oppose Trump, Dunn said the group embraced the moment to strike against the government. The mob swarmed the home of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate, succeeding in temporarily interrupting a formal vote to confirm Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.
Dunn’s hope is that the incident - which resulted in five deaths - will trigger more actions in the months ahead. He said his group would seek to advance its own agenda by participating at protests and other events with those angry over Trump’s loss, even if they held other beliefs. While Dunn said he did not participate in the Capitol siege himself, he shared footage on social media that purported to show boogaloo members tussling with police and forcing their way through barriers outside the building.
The assault - one of the most destructive breaches of the Capitol since invading British forces set it ablaze in 1814 - marks a critical moment for extremists who have seized on false claims, spread by Trump, that the U.S. election system is fraudulent and rigged. Some say they will keep fighting in support of the Republican president’s baseless allegations of a stolen election. Others said they would put immediate activities on hold but threatened to re-emerge later. Bourg said shouts of “traitor” were common among other demonstrators as well.
Pence was presiding over the electoral vote count, a largely ceremonial duty to confirm Biden’s victory. Trump had falsely suggested to his followers that Pence could ignore the official count and hand Trump a second term. Security agents rushed Pence from the Senate chamber after protesters breached the Capitol building.
The assault on the building led to the shooting death of a protester and the death of a U.S. Capitol Police officer from injuries sustained during the melee. Three more people died from medical emergencies, dozens of police officers were injured and congressional offices ransacked as law enforcement failed to control the mob.
U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department said on Thursday they had arrested a combined 82 people during the unrest. The attack generated widespread backlash among U.S. officials of both parties and America’s allies worldwide.
But the mob’s strike at the symbolic heart of the U.S. government suggests that Trump’s baseless claims of election fraud may have unified a broader coalition of extremists who could pose a threat again when Biden takes office on Jan. 20 and into his four-year term in office, experts said. Far-right groups have praised the siege in encrypted chat rooms and defended the participants as “patriots” on social media.
Experts tracking protests expected actions in Texas and the Pacific Northwest in coming weeks, as well as around the inauguration in Washington. But turnout for those events remains unclear as Trump on Thursday finally conceded defeat and said he will be leaving office.
“Tempers must be cooled and calm restored,” Trump later said in a brief video posted to Twitter. Protesters who gathered at the Capitol building on Wednesday included some of the most extreme elements of the president’s base, including white nationalists, militia groups and QAnon conspiracy theorists, according to Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, which tracks extremism.
The mix of ideologies have been drawn together in recent weeks by “Stop the Steal” protests in cities across the country, pro-Trump efforts that seek to overturn the results of the presidential election, Burghart said. “They formed this kind of new coalition and have been holding rallies virtually nonstop ever since the defeat,” he said.
When demonstrators forced their way into Congress on Wednesday, the tumult blurred the lines between more mainstream Trump supporters and adherents of different extremist movements, according to Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism. Some people likely came to the protests with no plans for anything beyond a demonstration and then joined the mayhem, he said.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation and U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued memos last year warning that threats by domestic extremists would likely increase around the election. Alleged domestic violent extremists in the United States killed 48 people in 2019 - more than in any year since the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, according to a DHS report released in October.
The right-wing, white nationalist and militia groups that participated in the Capitol siege have not tended to coordinate in the past, due in part to infighting and clashing personalities, according to Amy Cooter, a senior sociology lecturer at Vanderbilt University who has studied extremist groups for a decade. But Wednesday’s spectacle, which brought them together in Washington, might inspire them to try to work more closely in the future, Cooter said. Biden’s inauguration stands out as a possible target for disruptive or violent protests, but any new Biden policies that deal with race and gender equity could also trigger actions, she said.
Tarrio is under a court order to stay away from Washington following his arrest there Monday for destruction of property and possession of two firearm magazines. He said he did not participate in the siege. Tarrio said the Proud Boys did not have plans to reconvene for Biden’s inauguration later this month, but would be active during the Democrat’s presidency.

WBEZ brings you fact-based news and information. Sign up for our newsletters to stay up to date on the stories that matter.
Correction: An earlier version of this report identified Matthew Heimbach as one of the people pictured inside the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 during an attempted coup. On Feb. 4, law enforcement officials arrested another man whom they have identified as the person in the photo.
The online and audio versions of this story have been edited to remove references to Heimbach. WBEZ regrets the error.
An attempted coup at the nation’s Capitol on Wednesday brought disturbing and, in some cases, bizarre images of insurrectionists to audiences worldwide. But the face paint, flags, tattoos and attire of some of those white extremists weren’t just for shock value. They carry meaning within far-right and hate movements.
WBEZ’s Odette Yousef chronicled the rise of the modern day hate movement in the most recent season of the Motive podcast. She deciphers some of the meaning behind those images.
Photos of a shirtless man in the Capitol, wearing face paint and a horned fur cap, were seen all over the world. Parse that out for us.
We saw Confederate flags and also a green flag used in the white supremacist movement that’s modeled after the Nazi flag. Some folks are claiming that antifascist activists were responsible for these events. But to anyone familiar with all this symbology, it was clear members of the organized white supremacist movement, including neo-Nazis, had breached the nation’s Capitol.
I expected pre-election, election and post-election unrest, such as intimidation at the voting polls or possibly street violence like we saw after the May police killing of George Floyd, a Black man in Minneapolis. But I never imagined insurrectionists storming the U.S. Capitol.
Accelerationism aims for a complete societal collapse. The concept really existed only within the most extreme fringe of the white supremacist movement a few years ago. Its adherents claim that western civilization and democracy have failed, and so the only way forward is to sow chaos — to “accelerate” the downfall of society through violence and government overthrow — so that a new fascist state could be built from the ashes.
Storming the U.S. Capitol fits squarely within accelerationist goals. So do other acts of chaos or terrorism.
One thing that’s not been as widely scrutinized was the discovery this week of suspected pipe bombs at the headquarters of the Republican National Committee and the Democratic National Committee. What’s so disturbing is that a few years ago, accelerationist ideology only existed on the most extreme fringe of the white supremacist movement, in terrorist groups such as Atomwaffen Division . But after the disaster and tragedy of the “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville in 2017, many more white supremacists jumped onto the accelerationist bandwagon. And more recently, with the emergence of far-right groups such as the Boogaloo Boys , we’ve seen accelerationism creep from the margin closer to the mainstream as it gained acceptance by even more extremists.
Close observers of the far right are worried that this was an optics win for extremists, and that these events will be used to recruit more to their cause. We should all be concerned that law enforcement was, at best, unprepared for the mob that descended on the Capitol.
That’s in spite of the fact that plans for violence and chaos had been discussed openly on social media channels in the days prior. According to Advance Democracy, a non-partisan, non-profit organization that conducts public-interest research and investigations, between Jan 1 and Jan 6, there were thousands of calls for violence on platforms including Twitter, Parler, TikTok and TheDonald, a far-right, pro-Trump internet forum. As the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris nears, and even beyond it, experts have grave concerns that worse may yet come.

A pro-Trump mob stormed the US Capitol in Washington, DC, on Wednesday, bringing extremist iconography and some regalia associated with far-right or white-supremacist groups. Some rioters wore clothing associated with the conspiracy-theory group QAnon, Confederate flags waved, and a contingent of Proud Boys made an appearance.
Here are the most recognizable symbols and groups photographed at Wednesday's insurrection. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
Thousands of pro-Trump rioters descended on the US Capitol building on Wednesday during Congress' attempt to certify Joe Biden as the winner of the 2020 Presidential Election. Hundreds of those armed insurrectionists broke into the building, forcing members of Congress to huddle in safe locations until police and members of the National Guard secured the premises. In addition to pro-Trump regalia, groups in and around the Capitol building sported clothing, accessories, and symbols associated with far-right, racist, and extremist groups. Several of the people identifying themselves with these symbols and ideologies participated in storming the Capitol, though not all of them were documented inside the building. Below are images and descriptions of some of the most recognizable groups and symbols present at the Capitol on Wednesday.

The sweatshirt, spotted amid the mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol, seemed designed to provoke fear.
“Camp Auschwitz,” it read, along with the message “Work brings freedom” — a rough translation of the message that greeted Jewish prisoners at the infamous Nazi concentration camp. A photo of the man wearing the sweatshirt was just one of the images of hateful symbols that have circulated from the mob, whose violence led to four deaths and wreaked havoc on Congress.
Swastikas and Confederate flags were among the overt hate signs that the insurrection brought into the Capitol. Other slogans — on flags, clothing or signs — were code for a gamut of conspiracy theories and extremist ideologies. Here’s what you need to know about them and the far-right movements they represent.
Several members of the mob wore or carried signs invoking the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism. QAnon, which began in 2017 and has gained millions of adherents, falsely alleges that an elite cabal of pedophiles, run by Democrats, is plotting to harvest the blood of children and take down Trump.
Trump has praised the movement and espoused its baseless ideas. Here are some of the QAnon symbols present in the Capitol on Wednesday.
“Q” represents the purported high-ranking government official who shares inside information with QAnon followers through cryptic posts on fringe websites. QAnon followers often wear T-shirts emblazoned with a huge Q — and several of them were part of the Capitol mob.
Trust the Plan: As Q’s supposed predictions have proven false over the years — including the election of Joe Biden, which Q predicted would not happen — many QAnon followers became disillusioned. Others told them to “trust the plan” and place their faith in QAnon’s theories.
The phrase has become one of the conspiracy theory’s slogans. “Trust the Plan” logos were also visible in the Capitol, referring to the “plan” QAnon followers believe is happening. Save the Children: Messaging related to saving children is a core tenet of QAnon because it alleges a global pedophile ring.
In the photo above, a woman carries a sign saying “The children cry out for justice,” referencing children who QAnon conspiracists falsely believe have been abducted by Democrats and progressives, including the Jewish billionaire financier George Soros. Prominent Holocaust deniers and neo-Nazis were part of the Capitol mob. A far-right activist known as Baked Alaska livestreamed from inside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office.
Another extremist, Nick Fuentes, a white nationalist who leads the far-right Groyper Army, was said to be in the room with him. Fuentes denies this but was outside the Capitol on Wednesday.
The Neo-Nazi group NSC-131 also joined the insurrection, according to reporter Hilary Sargent. NSC stands for Nationalist Social Club and has small regional chapters in the United States and abroad.
The 131 division is from New England. Other flags on display also were associated with long histories of white supremacy. At least one protester carried a Confederate battle flag into the Capitol building. Meanwhile, nooses — a prominent symbol of racist violence — were placed outside.
Flags bearing the phrase “when tyranny becomes law, rebellion becomes duty” (a version of a quote dubiously attributed to Thomas Jefferson) and the Roman numeral III also were seen. Another symbol favored by militias is a coiled snake above the phrase “Don’t Tread on Me,” known as the Gadsden flag, which symbolizes support for gun rights and individual liberties.
The symbol, emblazoned on a flag, has been used as well by the Boogaloo Bois, a loose affiliate of anti-government militias that comes armed to protests. They are known to wear Hawaiian shirts (not as yet seen at the march) or camouflage (which was very much on display).
The Boogaloo movement, which aspires to start a second Civil War, gained prominence last year when its members showed up to anti-lockdown protests and racial justice marches. At least one man wearing a shirt advocating for a civil war was present at the Capitol, though it’s unclear if he was an adherent of the Boogaloo Bois. The Oath Keepers, an anti-government group like the Three Percenters, according to the ADL, were in D.C. and at a similar protest in Arizona on Wednesday.
Proud Boys founder Gavin McInnes, who said he quit the group in 2018, was spotted in the D.C. crowd. The group’s current leader, Enrique Tarrio, was ordered to leave the city earlier this week after being arrested on weapons charges.
Crusader crosses: The shooter who committed the 2019 massacre at a New Zealand mosque appropriated symbols of the Crusades, and they’ve become popular with other far-right, ethnonationalist groups. The symbols, such as medieval-style helmets or Templar and crusader crosses, are meant to harken to an era of white, Christian wars against Muslims and Jews.
The Punisher: The Marvel comics anti-hero known as the Punisher has been adopted in recent years by white nationalists and neo-Nazis, to the dismay of its creator. The character is known for his black shirt with a distinctive stylized white skull on it; that skull appeared on the clothing of some of the protesters.
Intactivists: Anti-circumcision activists, also known as “intactivists,” support banning all forms of circumcision. Jewish law requires circumcision, and the intactivist movement often features anti-Jewish imagery. An intactivist comic book called “’Foreskin Man” portrays blonde Aryan superheroes fighting Jewish mohels, who perform circumcision. The above image shows a protester in front of the Supreme Court in October, and similar signs and outfits were seen this week in D.C.

Members of armed right-wing groups that stormed the Capitol on Wednesday in blind support of President Trump's futile attempt to stay in office said they supported the mob attack, calling it the beginning of another American revolution. As the rabble pushed through barricades and swept through government corridors, Trump's followers — wearing camo, backpacks and MAGA hats — created a disturbing, surreal scene that revealed the loyalty and violent inclinations among the extreme elements of the president's base.
But Trump's supporters saw themselves in a different light, even as courts, electoral boards, judges and bipartisan members of Congress have agreed that the president's claim that he won the November election was dangerous fantasy and a threat to American democracy. Trump lost by more than 7 million votes.
“You’ve got pissed-off patriots that are not going to accept their form of government being stolen,” said Stewart Rhodes, who traveled to Washington to join the protest with members of the right-wing group he founded, the Oath Keepers. “We’re walking down the same exact path as the Founding Fathers,” said Rhodes, a former Army paratrooper and Yale law school graduate who urged members to monitor the polls during the presidential election. Rhodes said his group, which includes veterans and members of law enforcement, did not enter the Capitol or confront police.
But members of other armed right-wing groups — whipped up by Trump's speech earlier in the day in which he refused to accept his election loss — praised the rioters for entering the Capitol by force. “The second revolution begins today,” Hill said.
Similar elation and bravado filled a national Three Percenter online forum Wednesday, even as much of the nation watched in alarm the scenes that appeared more reminiscent of unstable nations facing coups and insurrections in troubled parts of the world. A number of posts were scary indictments and a window into the rhetoric that has been playing out for years on nationalist and white supremacist channels and chat rooms.
“A start to a new beginning brothers! Let’s set the scales straight and if war sets afoot we will rebel!”
Zachary Wallace wrote Wednesday in an online forum for members of the Three Percenters group. “The time for voting and getting a little piece of the pie for our own labors is OVER. The time for action and a reset is NOW.
ARE YOU AWAKE YET?" wrote a user identified as "Rodger OH" in the same forum, signing off in Latin “God’s Will,” a rallying cry from the Crusades. Some called for peaceful protests at state capitals on Inauguration Day.
Others were disappointed that those who stormed the Capitol appeared to be unarmed and didn’t seize the building. “You took and held the high ground just to walk away without even drawing your sword,” Nino Brunori wrote. Rhodes said his group planned to stay in Washington on Thursday, although he wasn’t sure what would happen.
He dismissed the presidential election as “a sham” and said Congress shouldn’t certify the results. This story originally appeared in Los Angeles Times.

JTA — Once again, diehard supporters of President Donald Trump are gathering for a mass protest of the election results in Washington, DC.
Once again, extremist groups will be among them, and may be violent. And once again, anti-Semitism analysts will be watching — though they stress that they don’t know of any specific threats against Jews or Jewish institutions.
Wednesday’s March to Save America Rally, already underway the previous day, will be the third mass protest pro-Trump activists have held in DC against November’s election results. Despite the certified vote totals and a slew of court rulings affirming them, the protesters claim without evidence that the election was fraudulent and that US President Donald Trump was the real winner. Trump has tweeted that he plans to make an appearance at Wednesday’s event. The rally will take place on the day when Congress and Vice President Mike Pence are legally required to ratify the electoral vote count. A group of Republican senators and congresspeople is expected to vote against the certification, and Trump is pressuring Pence to use powers (which he does not possess) to change the count and declare Trump the winner. But constitutional scholars expect the challenges to fall flat.
The last mass pro-Trump demonstration in the capital, on December 12, acted as a hub for far-right extremists and a breeding ground for violence, as four people were stabbed. The leader of the Proud Boys, a right-wing extremist group, publicly boasted that the group torched a Black Lives Matter sign at an African-American church. He was arrested Monday for the torching. Wednesday’s event is being touted on social media by a string of far-right extremists, from the Proud Boys to right-wing militias to Nick Fuentes, head of the white supremacist Groyper Army.
Supporters of the pro-Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitic tropes, are also promoting the rally. Orthodox Jews who support the president are also organizing bus rides to the rally, according to journalist Jacob Kornbluh. Soros, the progressive financier, has become a leading target of anti-Semitism on the right, while the term “globalist” is seen by some as an echo of anti-Semitic tropes about a Jewish conspiracy to control the world.
Ahead of the election, a range of government agencies and extremism watchdogs issued warnings that violence could occur on or after Election Day. While those scenarios have mostly not come to pass, Trump supporters have been arrested in several instances for breaking the law or planning attacks after echoing rhetoric about the election being stolen. An additional danger, Segal said, is that the rallies give extremists the opportunity to mingle with, and appeal to, fervent Trump supporters who haven’t subscribed to extremist ideologies. The grievances invoked at the rally, he said, could push people in that direction. In advance of the rally, DC Mayor Muriel Bowser advised residents of the city to “stay out of the downtown area on Tuesday and Wednesday and not to engage with demonstrators who come to our city seeking confrontation.”
Per that guidance, a Jewish community center less than a mile from the White House will be closed on Wednesday. Michael Masters, CEO of the Secure Community Network, which coordinates security for Jewish institutions nationwide, said that his organization did not know of any threats to Jews in the area. He said that while the gathering of extremists is concerning, it’s not equivalent to the 2017 far-right rally in Charlottesville, which was explicitly white supremacist. Given the mix of circumstances and fringe groups, Beirich said that it’s impossible to predict what might happen on Wednesday.

Violence grew on Jan. 6, 2021, as a pro-Trump mob stormed the heart of the government, the U.S. Capitol, in opposition to the results of the November 2020 presidential election. The attack came after a “Stop the Steal” speech from U.S. President Donald Trump on the National Mall earlier in the day, where he again refused to accept his election loss. Reports of a Confederate flag being seen around the Capitol were confirmed by journalists on the ground. A Washington Post metro reporter said it was being flown outside the Capitol, a Huffington Post reporter spotted the flag outside the Senate chamber, while a New York Post reporter shared a video taken near Sen. Mitch McConnell’s office, where a protester is seen standing with the Confederate flag.

While congressmen and conservative media pundits continue to blame the violent storming of Capitol Hill on “antifa,” neo-Nazi accounts online have been busy posting photos documenting their intimate involvement in yesterday’s actions.
“I was there as it happened,” posted a known American neo-Nazi account with close to 5,000 followers on Telegram, an encrypted chat app popular with organized racists. The account posted a video of the violent infiltration of Congress.
Following the riots, one of the group’s Telegram accounts posted photos of a police riot helmet it claimed to have acquired as a trophy from the day’s events. During the summer, the same group violently intimidated Black Lives Matter protesters.
The stolen police riot mask appearing on Telegram. “Dear American brothers and sisters, you'll never get a better shot at ending the globalist menace in your country.
It's now or never!” said the post accompanying the photo. It shows a masked man wearing a Black Sun patch—an image synonymous with global neo-Nazism and popularized by the Christchurch shooter who wore it as he massacred 50 worshippers in a mosque. While there is overwhelming evidence that neo-Nazis, QAnon conspiracists and others on the right-wing fringe were responsible for yesterday’s violence, lawmakers continue to hawk ludicrous narratives of an “antifa” conspiracy. Republican congressmen Matt Gaetz and Mo Brooks, both have baselessly claimed that antifascist activists were really the ones responsible for the violence on Capitol Hill. “They were masquerading as Trump supporters and, in fact, were members of the violent terrorist group antifa,” said Rep. Gaetz on the House floor.

As the Trump faithful gathered around the Capitol on January 6, two conspiracy theories peddling in government mistrust converged: The fraudulent belief that the election was stolen, and the dangerous narrative that Covid-19 vaccinations are wildly unsafe.
“We’re being led off of a cliff,” Del Bigtree, an anti-vaccine activist, told the crowd at the “MAGA Freedom Rally D.C.” about a block from the Capitol. In the wake of Trump’s electoral defeat, some leaders of the anti-vaccine movement latched onto the “Stop the Steal” crusade, advancing their own conspiratorial claims and, in some cases, promoting private business ventures, CNN has found. Some prominent anti-vaxxers say they directly coordinated with organizers of the DC rallies in January and pushed their message at other MAGA demonstrations, and on pro-Trump podcasts and social media platforms. The anti-vaccine message may have found a particularly receptive audience among some fervent Trump supporters, many of whom flout wearing masks and contend the lethality of the virus is overblown.
Contrary to the statements of vaccine critics, the two vaccines authorized for emergency use by the US Food and Drug Administration have been shown to be safe and effective. But public health experts warn that anti-vaccine messages now pose a unique threat to the nation’s health given the urgency for widespread coronavirus vaccination. “One of our big concerns is that because people are seeing this anti-vaccine rhetoric we may not be able to reach levels of herd immunity we really need to stop virus proliferation,” Tara C. Smith, an epidemiology professor at Kent State University, told CNN. A national poll published this week from Monmouth University found 24% of people in the US will avoid getting the coronavirus vaccine if they can help it. The poll also found that willingness is driven more by political leanings than demographics.
The rally at the US Capitol featuring Bigtree, advertised as “The MAGA Health Freedom Event of the Century,” included other notable vaccine conspiracy theorists such as Mikki Willis, the filmmaker behind “Plandemic,” which falsely suggests Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, was responsible for the creation of the coronavirus. Bigtree, who says he’s “not anti-vaccine” but rather “pro-science” and neither a Republican nor a Democrat, told CNN he did not speak at the rally to promote or benefit from “Stop The Steal” but rather to share his own message.
“Wherever there is an audience, I want to get the message across that our bodies are ours. We should be in control of what’s injected into them,” he said.
The event was organized in part by a political action committee run by Ty and Charlene Bollinger, a married couple who run websites and sell documentaries that claim to reveal “the truth about vaccines” and range in price from $199 to $499. They also market alternative health books and other products. The Bollingers have engaged for years in what they describe as health-freedom activism. But in recent months they took up another cause.
In early November, they co-authored a post about “voter fraud and election meddling” for the website of political operative Roger Stone, who has taken credit for coining the phrase “Stop the Steal” to help then-candidate Donald Trump in 2016. Last November, Stone wrote in a webpost that he “strategized” with the Bollingers.
On November 21, the Bollingers spoke at a “Stop the Steal” rally in Nashville and blended election conspiracy theories with claims that then President-elect Joe Biden planned to force vaccinations. “There is no pandemic.
It’s all BS,” Ty Bollinger told onlookers. In a video posted on January 4, Charlene Bollinger said she was working with other organizers on plans for the January 6th protests including “Ali” – an apparent reference to Ali Alexander, a leader of the broader “Stop the Steal” movement. Two days later, Charlene Bollinger introduced the speakers at her group’s rally near the US Capitol, plugged her documentaries and blasted what she called, “the forced Covid vaccine, such a scam.”
She also told attendees that her husband Ty wasn’t with her because he had gone to join the siege. “I told him… they are storming the Capitol, and he looked at me and said, ‘Do I need to stay here?’
I knew he wanted to go. I said, ‘Honey go,’ so he did,” she said. The Bollingers did not respond to CNN’s phone calls and emails that requested comment.
While outlandish claims of a stolen election may appear disjointed with vaccine fearmongering, their union at recent political rallies does not surprise Ahmed, of the Center for Countering Digital Hate. Ahmed said fulltime anti-vaccine advocates often search for new audiences within other fringe movements with which they can build alliances. And he said it’s not a coincidence that some of these professionals sell products like health supplements.
A July report by Ahmed’s organization CCDH unpacked what it described as the “Anti-Vaxx Industry.” The report noted that fulltime anti-vaccine campaigners expand their reach by appearing on conspiracy-theory-based YouTube channels and also lend their audiences to anti-vaccine entrepreneurs who seek to sell them products. “What you’re talking about is old fashioned snake-oil salesmen,” Ahmed said.
Another promoter of the stolen-election conspiracy theory is Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on his show InfoWars. The show frequently advertises Jones’ dietary supplements and survival products.
In April, the FDA warned Jones to take down a number of products marketed on his site as possible coronavirus treatments, such as “Superblue Fluoride Free Toothpaste.” Those products no longer appear on his site.
Jones, who previously said a “form of psychosis” made him believe events like the Sandy Hook massacre were staged, has continued to promote other supplements next to segments on his show that stoke fears about coronavirus vaccines. In recent months, he has woven in false allegations of widespread election meddling.
InfoWars did not respond to CNN’s request for comment. Other vaccine skeptics have promoted election conspiracy theories on social media.
Dr. Sherri Tenpenny, a physician, supplement salesperson and author of the books such as “Saying No To Vaccines,” repeatedly promoted the January 6 Washington protests on Telegram. A January 5 post, for example, included a “call to action” and quoted the founder of the Oath Keepers extremist militant group as saying, “Get to DC and STAND!” Those posts were interspersed among her more usual anti-vaccine content.
Tenpenny also shared the “Stop the Steal” hashtag on Twitter in a quote tweet of a post about the DC rally from Dr. Simone Gold. Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors, made headlines last summer for her appearance in a video that was later removed from social media for coronavirus misinformation. Trump retweeted the video, which also featured Stella Immanuel, who said in the past that DNA from space aliens is used in medicine.
The next day, Gold and her colleague entered the Capitol building during the siege, according to an affidavit for a criminal complaint against her. She was later arrested, according to the Department of Justice. Since the riot, she has continued to spread her message. “Definitely you should not be calling this the Covid-19 vaccines.
The reason is, whatever you call it, it’s experimental. It’s not been approved as a vaccine,” Gold said in a video posted January 14 that showed a talk she gave at a Tampa, Florida-based church led by a pastor who has appeared on Alex Jones’ show. While some audiences may have concerns after hearing anti-vaccine messages that reference actual instances of allergic reactions or other anecdotes, context is key, says Smith of Kent State University.
“You’ve had a handful of allergic reactions as compared to 4,000 people dying a day from actual coronavirus infection,” she said. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has reported that severe allergic reactions to Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech’s vaccines are rare.
While the momentum of the “Stop the Steal” movement may have died down, vaccine skeptics and far-right political groups will likely continue to trade audiences and ideas, which could translate into more public demonstrations, says Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research & Education on Human Rights. Burghart, who tracks far-right groups, said he has watched these two movements develop an increasing symbiotic relationship during the coronavirus pandemic. “There is a larger constituency that is mobilized and they have adopted a far more destructive view of vaccines than they had before, and they have united with far-right paramilitaries and others,” he said.

A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine was among those who entered the Capitol building last week during the siege that disrupted the certification of the 2020 presidential election. Simone Gold gained national attention in July when she and other physicians appeared in front of the Supreme Court for a sparsely attended news conference to decry pandemic lockdowns and criticize government efforts to stop the spread of the disease. Video of the event, organized by conservative activists, was retweeted by the president and viewed by millions before social media platforms took it down.
Gold confirmed to The Washington Post that she is the person pictured carrying a bullhorn on the Capitol grounds Wednesday in FBI and D.C. police bulletins seeking more information about individuals who were present. Although dozens of Capitol Police officers were injured when they were overrun by pro-Trump protesters and one later died as a result, Gold said she did not witness any violence. Gold confirmed that she went inside the Capitol, saying she followed a crowd and assumed that it was legal to do so. She said she had not been contacted by anyone in law enforcement.
After Trump supporters gathered on the Capitol grounds, tensions soon boiled over and an angry mob assaulted the building, breaking through doors and windows. Vice President Pence was moved to a secure location in the complex. Police sought to evacuate lawmakers and their staffers, but some locked down in rooms behind makeshift barricades.
Gold said she traveled to Washington to speak at a “Rally for Health Freedom” on the east side of the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon. She attended the rally along with John Strand, the communications director for America’s Frontline Doctors, a group she founded last year to speak out against the government’s efforts to contain the coronavirus. Strand is pictured next to her in the photos circulated by the FBI and D.C. police.
Gold and about a dozen others were expected to speak after President Trump addressed supporters gathered for a large rally near the White House. But Gold said that as she was about to give her speech at 1 p.m., someone in the crowd told her that all speeches were canceled. Gold said she followed the crowd up the steps and into the building. She estimated she was inside the Capitol for about 20 minutes before police ushered everyone out. She used some of that time to give the speech she had planned to make earlier.
A 30-second video of a person who appeared to be Gold speaking on the tiled Rotunda floor has been circulating on social media. Gold confirmed to The Post that the video depicts her. In the video, two police officers stand behind Gold, appearing to gesture at her and others in an attempt to get them to leave. Gold said she gave the same speech she delivered the previous day at a rally in the District’s Freedom Plaza, where Trump supporters were beginning to gather ahead of the “Stop the Steal” events.
The coronavirus vaccines have been tested, and federal regulators have authorized their use. They have been administered to nearly 9 million Americans, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Gold first gained notoriety for an open letter to the president in May in which she called shutdowns imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus “a mass casualty incident.” She claimed that as a hospital physician she had seen hydroxychloroquine work as a treatment against the deadly virus. The following month, the Food and Drug Administration withdrew its emergency use authorization for hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine, drugs that Trump had repeatedly promoted for treatment of covid-19. Federal health officials, citing scientific evidence, said that the drug is “unlikely to be effective” for covid-19 and that any potential benefits are outweighed by safety risks, including heart problems. Gold’s letter led to her participation in the event in July, organized with the support of the Tea Party Patriots group and featuring her group, America’s Frontline Doctors.
The participants’ speeches were live-streamed by the conservative media outlet Breitbart and viewed online more than 14 million times — fueled by a tweet by Donald Trump Jr. and multiple retweets by the president, which have since been deleted. Facebook, Twitter and YouTube later removed the video.
Gold told The Post she worked as an emergency room physician for two hospitals at the time but was “promptly fired” after the event and has not worked as a doctor since. Gold said she was worried that photos of her inside the Capitol would distract from her advocacy work with America’s Frontline Doctors.

Two days before planned demonstrations against the certification of Joe Biden's election as the next US president, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys, was arrested in Washington, DC.
Born in the US to Cuban-American parents, he has been leading the extremist group for more than two years. FRANCE 24 takes a look at this controversial character. When on a march, Tarrio always wears the same outfit.
Baseball cap on his head, sunglasses on his nose, yellow and black polo shirt and bulletproof vest on his back as he leads his troops, the Proud Boys, an increasingly armed alt-right group. Since Joe Biden was announced the winner of the 2020 US presidential election, Tarrio and his men have been pounding the pavement to denounce what they contend was a fraudulent vote.
The group plans to meet in Washington, D.C. on January 6 to protest the certification of Biden’s victory in Congress. This time, however, Tarrio won't be there. The 36-year-old was arrested Monday in the US capital for his participation in the burning of a "Black Lives Matter" banner that was taken from a historic black church in DC during a demonstration last month. Tarrio admitted his role in the destruction of the banner in an interview with the Washington Post newspaper but said his actions didn’t constitute a hate crime because he believes the Black Lives Matter movement “has terrorised the citizens of this country".
He is also charged with a felony possession of two high-capacity firearm magazines, which were found at the time of his arrest. The Cuban-American, raised in Miami’s Little Havana, already had a significant criminal record.
At the age of 20, he was convicted of stealing a motorcycle and sentenced to three years of probation and community service. At 29 he was convicted of selling stolen medical supplies and sentenced to 16 months in jail. The time behind bars forced Tarrio to face his mistakes, according to the Miami New Times.
After that, he created two companies, one installing security systems and another providing GPS systems to businesses. It was in 2017 that Tarrio began socialising with members of the Proud Boys, which had been founded a year earlier by Gavin McInnes, the co-founder of Vice magazine.
Tarrio, who grew up in a conservative Cuban community, was quickly seduced. In August, he was present at the infamous "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville alongside hundreds of white supremacists, nationalists and other neo-Nazis protesting the removal of the statue of secessionist general Robert E Lee.
A protestor drove his car into counter-demonstrators, killing one person. But on social media the picture looks completely different.
On his personal accounts, Tarrio denigrates, among others, transgender people and said that the African-American actress Leslie Jones looked like a "monkey". In 2018, his Twitter profile was suspended.
The Southern Poverty Law Center classifies the Proud Boys as a general hate group known for anti-Muslim and misogynistic rhetoric. Just to join the group requires violence.
Any man who wants to be a Proud Boy must pass four initiation rites: utter the phrase “I am a Western Chauvinist and I refuse to apologise for creating the modern world, and we call ourselves ‘the Proud Boys’", name five brands of cereals while being beaten up, get a tattoo of the Proud Boys logo, renounce masturbation and participate in fights with extreme left-wing groups. Tarrio accomplished the fourth step by punching someone he believed to be a member of Antifa in the face in June 2018. He then climbed the ladder in the organisation until becoming its leader that November.
The New York Times estimates the group has between 1,000 and 3,000 members. Since then, the Proud Boys have made a name for themselves by openly supporting President Donald Trump.
On September 29, during a televised debate with Joe Biden, Trump gave an ambiguous response when asked to condemn the group – he called on them to "stand back and stand by". Roger Stone, a former adviser to Donald Trump, also appeared regularly alongside members of the militia.
During the last presidential campaign, as the state director for Latinos for Trump in Florida, Tarrio worked tirelessly to get the businessman re-elected. He told the New York Times that he "personally knocked on 40,000 doors" to win over voters in the state, which Trump won.
Before his arrest, the leader of the Proud Boys had warned that he would continue the fight. He vowed on social media networks that his group would have an "unprecedented" presence in Washington and that they could be dressed in black, like the far-left Antifa activists, to pass "incognito". This article was translated from the original in French.

President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the Capitol in droves as Congress gathered for a joint session to certify the electoral college votes in favor of President-elect Joe Biden.
Trump has for months falsely declared to his supporters that he won the 2020 election, causing them to protest on Wednesday in Washington D.C. The protests quickly turned violent as rioters overturned barricades in front of the Capitol and physically attacked police officers. According to CNN, a woman was shot in the chest and is described as being in critical condition.
There is no word yet if she was a protester or a Capitol employee. Some elected officials have been ordered to leave their office due to safety concerns, per The Washington Post.
Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee exclusively spoke to theGrio and confirmed the evacuations are taking place at the Cannon House Office Building. In a series of tweets, she also shared what was taking place. There have also been evacuations at the Library of Congress James Madison Memorial Building.
Capitol. Rep. Elaine Luria (D-Va.) took to Twitter to say she was forced to evacuate from the Cannon Building due to bomb threats.
Capitol police drew their firearms at the door of the House floor as a Trump protester reportedly attempted to trespass. Democratic California Congresswoman Maxine Waters predicted the protests would get out of control. In an exclusive interview with theGrio, Waters described Trump’s actions as posturing.
“It is going to be messy and it is going to be ugly,” she warned. Waters is concerned some in the crowd might try to “storm a building “ and or have “open carry” guns like they do in other areas.
Open carry is not allowed in D.C. D.C Mayor Muriel Bowser issued a 6 p.m. curfew and Vice President Mike Pence has also been evacuated. The vote certification processes have been halted.
Additional reporting by April Ryan. The post Chaos ensues as Trump supporters storm Capitol, thwart Biden confirmation appeared first on TheGrio.

The throng of protesters who stormed the US Capitol on Wednesday included some neo-Nazis — including one man pictured wearing a “Camp Auschwitz” shirt.
The unidentified man was pictured among the hundreds of protesters who breached the building and forced Washington, DC, into a lockdown — sporting a shirt emblazoned with the name of one of the Nazi’s deadliest concentration camps during World War II. The shirt included an image of a skull and crossbones, and had the inscription, “work brings freedom” — the German phrase, “arbeit macht frei,” that hung over the camp in German-occupied Poland, the Forward reported.
The image went viral on social media Wednesday, and sparked widespread outrage from Twitter users. “Among the terrorists invading Capitol today was a man (left) wearing a sweatshirt saying, ‘Camp Auschwitz,'” historian Michael Beschloss posted on Twitter.
Another Twitter user expressed outrage at the image. “My great grandfather fought in WWII and I’ll gladly sign up right now to go against Nazis a second time if we need to,” he wrote. The man was among hundreds who stormed the Capitol building following a rally by President Trump, during which he repeated claims that the presidential election won by former Vice President Joe Biden was rigged.
Congress convened to certify the electoral college vote — despite opposition from some Republican lawmakers — when the mob breached the perimeter. It took police, bolstered by National Guard troops, to secure the building.
The building, including Congressional offices and the Senate floor, was vandalized and left with debris strewn about. Images of the crowd show other protesters waving Confederate flags alongside US flags outside the building. More than 1 million people were exterminated by the Nazis at Auschwitz, making it one of the most notorious concentration camp of the war.

Donors to the Tea Party Patriots Foundation, one of the groups that helped organize the January 6 rally preceding the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol, include the Jewish Community Federation and late billionaire Republican donor Sanford Diller, according to a 990 form submitted to the IRS by the tax-exempt nonprofit in 2019.
The right-wing organization was listed on the March to Save America website alongside groups like Stop the Steal, Turning Point Action (an affiliate of Turning Point USA), and Women for America First, according to a report last week from Documented, a watchdog group that investigates corporate influence. The March to Save America website is down, but archived versions list several participating organizations.
Supporters of President Donald Trump gathered for a mass event outside the Capitol last week, aiming to coincide with challenges to Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory. The rally culminated in a mob attack on the Capitol that left five people dead.
The Tea Party Patriots’ tax filing was obtained by Eli Clifton, the a senior adviser at the Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, who shared it with The Intercept. The Intercept sought to reach out to people listed on the form. The form lists a person named Lewis Stahl and a man by that name is in prison for tax evasion.
There was no available contact information for the Will Moose Fund or the John 3:16 FDN. The Jewish Community Federation and Endowment Fund was among the biggest donors on the Tea Party Patriots list, giving the group a total of $100,000. The Jewish Community Federation, which also functions as a donor-advised fund, previously contributed $15,000 to Turning Point USA.
In a now-deleted tweet, Charlie Kirk, leader and founder of Turning Point USA, claimed that Turning Point Action would be sending more than 80 buses “full of patriots” to the Washington rally. The form said a person named Tad Taube donated $70,000 to the Tea Party Patriots, and a philanthropist from the San Francisco Bay area with that name did not respond to requests for comment. John Binkley is listed as giving $29,000. John Binkley from Alaska, a Republican former state senator who launched a failed gubernatorial run and served as one of the state’s three electors to the Electoral College, denied that he had made any donations to any Tea Party groups. And Sanford Diller, a billionaire Republican donor who died in February 2018, made the second-biggest contribution on the list at $150,000.
Martin, the Tea Party Patriots co-founder, tweeted late last year that she would be speaking at the “Stop the Steal” rally and promoted the event in the weeks leading up to it. She called for “peaceful” protest as the rally became violent.
A few hours earlier, Martin had tweeted, “We will not allow them to steal this election!” — though the tweet did not name the perpetrators.
The Tea Party Patriots, which was formed in 2009 and describes itself as the “nation’s largest grassroots Tea Party organization,” is funded by two nonprofits and a political action committee. This story has been updated to include a statement from Tea Party Patriots co-founder Jenny Beth Martin that was made after the piece’s publication.

Editor’s Note: This story contains images and descriptions of extremist groups and their beliefs.
Flags, signs and symbols of racist, white supremacist and extremist groups were displayed along with Trump 2020 banners and American flags at Wednesday’s riot at the US Capitol. The pictures tell part of the story of the beliefs of some of those who chose to show up on that day – from passionate and peaceful Trump supporters to extremists who showed their hate with their symbols as well as their actions. The mixing of the groups is one issue that experts who track extremism and hate have long been concerned about. The certification of the election results proved to be exactly the type of event that brought together various groups and could have led to radical ideas being shared, they say. The initial event, which was heavily promoted and encouraged by President Trump, gave all of these groups something to rally around.
“This was an event designed to oppose the results of a free and fair democratic election and the transition of power that would naturally follow,” Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League said. CNN spoke with him to identify the symbols and understand the chilling messages of tyranny, white supremacy, anarchy, racism, anti-Semitism and hatred they portray.
While a noose on its own is often used as a form of racial intimidation, Pitcavage says he believes in this context the gallows were to suggest punishment for committing treason. “It is suggesting that representatives and senators who vote to certify the election results, and possibly Vice President Pence, are committing treason and should be tried and hanged,” he explains.
That treason rhetoric was seen on right-wing message boards in days leading up to the event. The Three Percenters (also known as III%ers, 3%ers or Threepers) are part of the militia movement in the United States and are anti-government extremists, according to the ADL. Like others in the militia movement, Three Percenters view themselves as defending the American people against government tyranny. “Because many adherents to the militia movement strongly support President Trump, in recent years, Three Percenters have not been as active in opposing the federal government, directing their ire at other perceived foes, including leftists/antifa, Muslims and immigrants,” according to the ADL. The group’s name comes from an inaccurate claim that only three percent of the people in the colonies armed themselves and fought against the British during the Revolutionary War.
The flag seen above is their logo on the traditional Betsy Ross flag. Pitcavage says right-wing groups (mainstream or extreme), which think of themselves as patriotic, sometimes co-opt America’s first flag.
The flag references former Trump lawyer Sidney Powell’s comments that she was going to “release the Kraken.” Powell falsely said she had evidence that would destroy the idea that Joe Biden won the presidency.
The “Kraken,” a mammoth sea creature from Scandavian folklore, has turned into a meme in circles that believe the election was stolen. The Kraken, they say, is a cache of evidence that there was widespread fraud.
On social media, QAnon conspiracy and fringe sites #ReleaseTheKraken has been widely shared along with false theories of fraud. The far right has co-opted the OK sign as a trolling gesture and, for some, as a symbol of white power. The ADL added that symbol to its long-standing database of slogans and symbols used by extremists. A photo from the riot at the US Capitol shows several people making the OK hand gesture.
Some of the people in the photo are also seen in a livestream from the rally, where they identify themselves as members of the Proud Boys, specifically the Arizona chapter. The Proud Boys has been supportive of President Trump and present in large numbers at “Stop The Steal” rallies in Washington, DC.
The Proud Boys’ leader, Henry Tarrio, who goes by Enrique Tarrio, was released from police custody Tuesday on charges related to allegedly burning a Black Lives Matter banner taken from a Black church last month during protests in the city after a “Stop the Steal” event. Tarrio has admitted to CNN he did burn the banner. He was ordered by a local judge to stay out of DC as he awaits trial, including during this week’s protests.
The green, white and black flag was created by some members of the 4chan online community to represent a made-up joke country named for “Kek,” a fictional god they also created. It has long been present at right-wing and far-right rallies.
Altered Confederate and Gadsden flags were seen throughout the crowds at the Capitol. One Confederate battle flag variation included an image of assault rifle and the slogan “Come and take it” to convey an anti-gun control message. The phrase “come and take it” paraphrases the “come and take them” retort uttered by Spartan King Leonidas at the Battle of Thermopylae when the Persian King Xerxes told him and his people to lay down their spears in return for their lives, Pitcavage said.
A man is seen wearing an Oath Keepers hat inside the Capitol after it was breached. The Oath Keepers is a pro-Trump, far-right, anti-government group that considers itself part of the militia movement charged to protect the country and defend the constitution. The group tries to recruit members from among active or retired military, first responders, or police. Their leader has spouted vast conspiracy theories on his blog, accused Democrats of stealing the election, previously threatened violence if it was necessary on Election Day during an interview with far-right conspiracist Alex Jones and said his group would be armed to protect the White House if necessary, according to the ADL.
During the United States’ long Civil War, no Confederate battle flag came within the shadow of the US Capitol, but on Wednesday, an insurrectionist carried one right through its halls. Photographers captured a man carrying it past the portraits of abolitionist Charles Sumner and slaveholder John Calhoun.
The flag was always a symbol of support for slavery. After World War II, it became a prominent symbol of Jim Crow and segregation, Pitcavage says not surprisingly, it is a popular symbol among white supremacists – even outside the United States.
A rioter cloaks himself in an America First flag with the logo of the podcast by far-right commentator Nick Fuentes. Fuentes attended the event at the Capitol, but was photographed remaining outside the Capitol building.
“America First” was also a slogan President Trump used in describing his foreign policy. Its adoption was criticized by the ADL, which said it had an anti-Semitic use seeking to keep the US out of World War II. The ADL says Fuentes is part of the “groyper army,” which the ADL calls a white supremacist group.
A rioter inside the Capitol wore a “Camp Auschwitz” sweatshirt. The bottom of the shirt reads “Work brings freedom,” which is the rough translation of the words “Arbeit macht frei” on the gates of the Nazi concentration camp.
Auschwitz was the largest and most infamous Nazi concentration camp, where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II. Pitcavage says he believes the shirt came from the now-defunct website Aryanwear. The design, which has been around for about 10 years according to Pitcavage, has been popping up on differing websites in recent weeks, though it is often taken down when a complaint is made.
A social media image shows Nationalist Social Club stickers on what appears to be US Capitol Police equipment It’s unclear when the photo was taken, but it was posted Wednesday in a Telegram chat the group uses, which includes a Nazi symbol as part of their name. NSC, apparently a word play on the National Socialists or Nazi party, is a neo-Nazi group that has regional chapters in both the United States and across the globe, according to the ADL. It is unclear if the sticker on the right refers to a New England chapter, or because the group originally called itself the New England Nationalists Club.
There are still many questions about how exactly the attack on the Capitol happened and who led the charge. But the calls for overthrowing the government and for a civil or race war have long been rallying cries in far-right circles.
The shirts worn by these men on the Capitol grounds on Wednesday show there was at least an intention to commemorate the day. They wore pre-printed shirts, referencing Trump’s signature Make America Great Again slogan, alongside the words Civil war and the date of the event that turned into insurrection.
Many commenters in far-right forums have written since the attack, that this is just the beginning of that civil war that many of them have long desired. Update note: This story has been updated with new CNN reporting on the men pictured in orange hats who say they are affiliated with the Proud boys.

Police departments struggled last year to respond evenhandedly to racial-justice and pro-police protests.
Now the Capitol attack has put a spotlight on sympathies within police ranks toward right-wing extremists. “So often we tend to look at far-right militancy as something on the fringes of our society, tantamount to Al Qaeda and ISIS, without realizing that, no, these are members of state legislatures, police officers, military personnel,” says former FBI agent Michael German.
Larger failures of imagination, added to biases of individual police officers, is part of what analysts say makes radicalization among officers possible. Then there’s an apparent institutional discomfort to confront the problem publicly.
In its reporting to Congress it has lumped in antifa, an anti-fascist movement, with right-wing extremists like Boogaloos. But in recent years, lethal threats to law enforcement have primarily come from right-wing extremists. Concerns about right-wing extremist groups recruiting police officers predate the presidency of Donald Trump.
But the attack on the Capitol on Jan. 6, in which more than two dozen police officers are under investigation for their alleged participation, has cast a shadow on the seemingly hands-off approach to the threat posed by a pro-Trump protest. Critics say police departments are biased in how they handle protests by right-wing groups that claim to be pro-police. But Mr. Erwin, the former sheriff of North Carolina’s Henderson County says he saw those lines blur at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6.
“My whole thing is, that when you’ve got people who are going out here and saying they back the blue ... and the next thing you know you’ve got people carrying ‘back the blue’ flags dragging officers down steps and beating them with a flagpole and his own nightstick, you don’t go there with me,” says Mr. Erwin. Why We Wrote This Police departments struggled last year to respond evenhandedly to racial-justice and pro-police protests. Now the Capitol attack has put a spotlight on sympathies within police ranks toward right-wing extremists.
The vast majority of officers fought valiantly to protect lawmakers from harm. One officer died, 60 were injured, and the department lost another to suicide.
But Capitol Police has opened as many as a dozen investigations into reports that officers aided the mob, and at least two have been suspended. Sworn officers were also on the other side, joining the rioters, a fact that has Mr. Erwin shaking his head. More than two dozen officers are under investigation for their participation in Jan. 6 events.
As the FBI braces the country for more trouble ahead of President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration, the attack on the Capitol revealed a troubling national blind spot: the political radicalization of police that predates the presidency of Donald Trump. “So often we tend to look at far-right militancy as something on the fringes of our society, tantamount to Al Qaeda and ISIS, without realizing that, no, these are members of state legislatures, police officers, military personnel,” says former FBI agent Michael German, who infiltrated and prosecuted neo-Nazi groups in the 1990s.
Since 2000, more than two dozen states have unmasked police officers with connections to white supremacist groups. Hundreds of federal, state, and local law enforcement officials have been caught expressing racist, nativist, and sexist views on social media, according to a September 2020 report by the Brennan Center for Justice in New York.
Those facts provide an uneasy backdrop to the Jan. 6 attack, where police leaders seemingly underestimated the threat, leaving the crucible of democracy vulnerable to a mob. The former chief of U.S. Capitol Police, who resigned in the aftermath, has said that security officials at the House and Senate declined to call in the National Guard in advance of a rally, which included remarks by President Trump, that had been hyped as a final showdown. Larger failures of imagination, added to biases of individual police officers, are part of what analysts say makes police reform so difficult – and makes radicalization among officers possible.
Making the issue harder for Americans to see is institutional discomfort at the FBI, in particular, to confront the problem publicly. The FBI tells its agents, for instance, to not discuss white supremacy cases around local police for fear of tipoffs, says Mr. German. Meanwhile, Congress has struggled to get data to compare the agency’s response to Black Lives Matter protests against right-wing extremist activities last year, which killed dozens of Americans, including officers.
In 2019, the FBI established the Domestic Terrorism-Hate Crimes Fusion Cell. But in its reporting to Congress it has lumped in antifa, an anti-fascist movement, with right-wing extremists like Boogaloos, an equivalency that critics say muddies the threat that should be prioritized.
Brian Corr, a past president of the National Association for Civilian Oversight of Law Enforcement, says the history of U.S. slave patrols has cast a long shadow in Black communities. This contrasts with the story that cops tell themselves that “the public are the police and the police are the public,” he says. “Both of these are historically true.
But part of what’s happening in our society is that people are unable to hold competing truths. For many, there is only one truth: Either police are corrupt and violent and racist or they’re heroes that run toward gunfire when we run away from it,” says Mr. Corr. That divide has only sharpened under President Trump, who has at times attempted to blur the line between politics and policing.
He invoked “law and order” when he sent federal police to quell protests in Portland, Oregon, against the wishes of local authorities and used them last June to clear peaceful protests from Washington’s Lafayette Square so he could be photographed holding a Bible outside a church. His militaristic rhetoric on the border has also energized Border Patrol members.
Evan Vucci/AP/File View caption Hide caption A section of border fence behind law enforcement officers is seen during a tour by President Donald Trump on June 23, 2020, in San Luis, Arizona. According to the Center for Strategic and International Studies, right-wing groups were responsible for 41 politically motivated attacks and plots last year, including attacks that killed police officers in Santa Cruz and Oakland, California; Kimberly, Alabama; and Ely, Nevada. There were 12 left-wing attacks and plots in the same period.
Police officers were also hurt and some seriously injured, at times by gunfire, during last summer’s social justice protests. Still, lethal threats to law enforcement have primarily come from right-wing extremists.
“That is what is hard to understand about the apparent affinity in law enforcement for far-right militants at riots,” says Mr. German. Analysts say the policing of Black Lives Matters protests and of protests by white and armed participants reflects that affinity. Last August, when pro-police groups rallied in Kenosha, Wisconsin, to face down racial justice protesters, police handed out water bottles to militiamen, including Kyle Rittenhouse, an armed white teen who allegedly shot dead two men and injured a third.
To many analysts, the preparation for pro-Trump protests at the Capitol was perhaps the ultimate expression of that bias in terms of which groups pose a threat to public safety. Meanwhile, pandemic malaise, social unrest, and on-the-job traumas endured by police officers, particularly military veterans, have likely boosted radicalization in the ranks.
While veterans make up around 6% of the population, nearly 1 in 5 police officers previously served in the military, according to a 2017 analysis of U.S. census data. Former Baltimore police officer Peter Moskos agrees that the Jan. 6 attack likely caused a “reckoning” for police unions that tend to reflexively blame racial justice protests for endangering police.
But he points to how law enforcement, a naturally conservative institution that is often the target of progressive critiques, actually performed in the hourslong siege at the Capitol. Matt York/AP/File View caption Hide caption Former Graham County sheriff and U.S. representative candidate Richard Mack speaks with a constituent during the meeting of the state committee of the Arizona Republican Party, Jan. 27, 2018, in Phoenix. Still, professionalism is key for police to maintain a public trust that has been battered over the last year, in part because of the anger stirred by the killing last May of George Floyd and the police response to months of protests across the country.
The FBI on Wednesday arrested two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers – both military veterans, including one who was injured in an improvised explosive device attack in Iraq – after they posted pictures of themselves inside the Capitol. The men said they were welcomed in, but also said in social media posts that they “attacked” the building. They face charges of trespassing, disorderly conduct, and using threatening or abusive language inside the Capitol. The Seattle Police Department is investigating two officers for their role in the insurrection at the Capitol.
Oath Keepers, an anti-government militia that boasts of having military and police among its members, were also on hand last week. According to the Anti-Defamation League, Oath Keepers aim much of their propaganda at military and police, reminding them that their oath to the Constitution includes defending it “from all enemies, foreign and domestic.” Their propaganda is of a global order that must be resisted by patriots, lest they are disarmed and sent to concentration camps. Among those who didn’t go to Washington last week was former Sheriff Richard Mack of Arizona’s Graham County, the founder of the Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace Officers Association.
empower and uplift daily. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy Already a subscriber? Log in to hide ads.
Still, some point to Mr. Mack’s organization as a possible nexus for police operating outside the bounds of the Constitution. Constitutional sheriffs contend that they have the power to rebuff federal laws that they – not judges – deem unconstitutional. And they have vowed to not enforce gun restrictions and mask mandates.

Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, organized a Nov. 11 “stop the steal” rally in Michigan. Some conservatives have tried to claim antifascist activists posing as Trump supporters were responsible for storming the Capitol.
Fuentes rebuked that idea in posts to his social media accounts Wednesday. Fuentes is the leader of the “Groypers,” a young, radicalized movement whose views embrace white nationalism.
The Illinois native organized rallies in swing states across the country since the Nov. 3 election, including Michigan, calling for Republicans to prevent Biden from becoming president. Fuentes was suspended from YouTube, Twitch, Reddit, Discord, TikTok and payment websites like PayPal. Research by Megan Squire, a professor at Elon University who tracks online extremism, found Fuentes is one of the top-earning live streamers on DLive. DLive, a website primarily used to broadcast video-game content, has become a popular destination for commentators who are “de-platformed” by tech companies for espousing extreme views that violate the websites’ terms of service.
Fuentes has called for conservatives to “destroy the GOP” and form a new political party around Trump. Earlier in the week, Fuentes ruminated on killing state legislators who don’t support pro-Trump efforts to overturn the 2020 election. Fuentes urged supporters to pressure Michigan lawmakers during a November rally in Lansing. He told his supporters to demand the Republican-led Michigan Legislature to allocate the state’s 16 electoral votes to Trump.
Supporters marched around the Michigan Capitol and posed for pictures while standing on top of the Lansing Black Lives Matter mural. He told the crowd they should hold pro-Trump rallies at state capitols every day. Fuentes railed against Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey, R-Clarklake, in a subsequent stream, since Shirkey has refused to replace Michigan’s Democratic electors with a pro-Trump slate. Fuentes said conservatives should be “more feral” in their tactics to push Republicans like Shirkey to reverse the election result for Trump. Later in the stream, Fuentes said conservatives need to “adopt a mentality of destruction, total annihilation” when discussing his disdain for mask mandates.
The group in Lansing was largely comprised of young, white men, including students from Michigan State University and other colleges. One of Fuentes’ supporters identified himself as a “white identitarian” but several people declined to provide their names over concerns of being harassed by anti-racists.

Known white nationalists Tim Gionet, who goes by the moniker Baked Alaska, and Nick Fuentes, the leader of the so-called Groyper Army were among the insurrectionists who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. Gionet live streamed himself breaking into members’ offices and took a selfie in what appeared to be the office of Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi.

Nooses, swastikas, and the Confederate flag — these images were re-etched in our collective memory on Jan. 6, 2021 when pro-Trump rioters stormed the Capitol.
And they provide us a clear view of their motivations: without subtext or implication, these images evoke the deeply rooted legacy of white supremacy in the United States. Well-meaning people who live in progressive bubbles might be tempted to assume that the kind of bigotry and hatred incited by Donald Trump simply does not exist in liberal enclaves like Boston and its surrounding areas. But it does. We have deep experience with white supremacy in the commonwealth and no good can come from sweeping it under the rug. We cannot be complacent.
Racism is everywhere, including in Massachusetts, and we have an obligation to fight it. Given our state’s progressive reputation, some may find it surprising that white supremacist hate groups from Massachusetts directly participated in the violent attack at the Capitol.
The Nationalist Social Club (NSC-131), which was founded by a group of neo-Nazis in Eastern Massachusetts, traveled to D.C. for the attack. According to the Anti-Defamation League, “NSC members consider themselves soldiers fighting a war against a hostile, Jewish-controlled system that is deliberately plotting the extinction of the white race.” The group has been active since 2019, antagonizing social-justice protesters, vandalizing, and disseminating propaganda. It is one of the largest and most active neo-Nazi groups in the country -- with deep roots here in Massachusetts.
In addition to members of NSC-131, approximately 300 members of the Massachusetts-based hate group, Super Happy Fun America (SHFA), traveled from Natick to D.C. for the assault on the Capitol. In total, some 15 hate groups have been tracked in Massachusetts, including The Base (white nationalists), The Daily Stormer (neo-Nazis), and the Proud Boys. These groups have been emboldened by the Trump administration’s racist rhetoric and refusal to condemn white supremacists like the KKK, as we saw most memorably in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Indeed, many members of these hate groups were present at the Black Lives Matter protests across Massachusetts this summer. One Mansfield attendee of a Black Lives Matter protest reported members doing the Nazi salute and making the “OK” sign that has been adopted by white supremacists.
As such, it shouldn’t be surprising that hate crimes in Massachusetts have been steadily on the rise in recent years. This concerning trend towards white supremacist violence was also display on Election Day, in November.
Throughout the day, Lawyers for Civil Rights received multiple complaints from voters, reporting Trump supporters using intimidation tactics to prevent people of color from exercising their right to vote. In suburban and rural communities, trucks with Trump paraphernalia blocked intersections and parking lots. There were also reports of polling officials targeting Black Lives Matter supporters, as well as anti-Asian voter intimidation in Lowell. Although in some locales officials responded quickly to remove these barriers, in other communities the official response was shockingly subdued.
Racism is everywhere, including in Massachusetts, and we have an obligation to fight it. Maya Angelou said it best: “When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time.”
We are not immune from rampant racism and anti-immigrant sentiment in Massachusetts. Indeed, far too many of our neighbors share the same views as the terrorists who waged the assault in D.C. But we needn’t be this way.
Recognizing the reality of our situation is the first step in making meaningful change after a dangerously divisive presidency. There are many actions we can take to fight racism Massachusetts.
You can support laws and policies that counteract racial and ethnic discrimination by contacting your local, state, and federal government officials; attend Black Lives Matter and other ally protests; donate resources and time to community-based organizations that support historically marginalized populations. You can also push for federal legislation that would require all state and local law enforcement to report hate crime data.
Additionally, this year, you can help ensure that people of color have fair representation by supporting equitable redrawing of electoral district boundaries through redistricting — a process that takes place once every 10 years following the Census. Use your voice to speak out against the injustices you see here and across the country to overcome the messages of hate.
Erin Fowler and Janelle Dempsey are legal fellows at Lawyers for Civil Rights. Oren Sellstrom is the litigation director at Lawyers for Civil Rights. Follow Cognoscenti on Facebook and Twitter.

The mob of U.S. President Donald Trump’s supporters who overran police and stormed Washington’s Capitol Hill included members of several well-known extremist and white-supremacist groups. Federal authorities have begun to ingest thousands of hours of pictures and video of the mob violence in an effort to identify and potentially charge perpetrators.
Other organizations like investigative journalism heavyweight Bellingcat, also put out a call for civilians to save any and all livestreams, footage and pictures they find so that they can begin to “scrape” the material to piece together the sequence of events and identify extremists, like they did for the “Unite the Right” rally in August of 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia. The violence did not come as a surprise to Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University. “I think I was [only] surprised that it took that long for something like this to happen. A lot of us had anticipated that we would see violence immediately following the election, especially if he [Donald Trump] lost,” Perry said in a phone interview with CTV News.ca Friday.
Perry said she agrees that there has been a “mainstreaming of hate,” in recent years, and that the attack on the Capitol was a perfect example of it. “That's an indication, I think, of how deeply embedded this has become in American politics in particular. But it certainly has become much more mainstream, not just in the political context, but in the media and popular discourse as well,” Perry said.
Canada has not escaped the rise in extreme views either. “If we look at even Canadian public opinion polls, you know, we're seeing quite a dramatic increase in attitudes around immigration, around Muslims, around legitimacy of government,” she said.
PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling was on the ground during the violence at the Capitol Wednesday, documenting the extremist hate groups she saw in attendance. “Originally I was hoping to go to a counter-protest, because I have been worried about alt-right, white supremacist groups for a while now,” Ayling told CTV News.ca in a phone interview Friday.
Several militia groups wearing body armour and large weapons, white nationalist flags and paraphernalia, as well as overt Nazi symbols are just some of what Ayling saw that day. CTV News.ca has identified some of the extremist groups Ayling and others saw taking part in the violence by reviewing news footage, social media posts, livestreams and other submitted media.
Some of the most visible and heavily represented among the violent mob were QAnon supporters and other conspiracy theorist adherents. QAnon is the conspiracy belief in a “deep-state” plot to undermine President Donald Trump, and has been linked to several damaging online rumours accusing people of being a part of pedophile, child and sex-trafficking ring. One of the most easily-identifiable people in the Capitol attack was Jake Angeli of Arizona, who is known as the “QAnon shaman.”
Sporting face paint, a furry horned hat and several Norse mythology tattoos (whose symbols have been co-opted by the far-right and white supremacist circles) – Angeli is wanted by the D.C. Police as a “person of interest,” in the aftermath.
Despite giving many interviews to local, state and national media, being identified in local reports and having his own Wikipedia page, the D.C. Police leave him unnamed in their request for information. But QAnon has “morphed quite considerably
and I think what we consider QAnon now is not QAnon when it first emerged four years ago,” Perry said. “It just became sort of a flash point for a whole array of other conspiracies to sort of be hooked onto the QAnon around, you know, the Democratic Party, around COVID, around the BLM and Antifa in the role that they played or were thought to play or are thought to play in disrupting American politics and especially Trump's agenda…
It really has become the flash point for a whole array of conspiracies intended to fit whatever the crisis of the moment is,” Perry explained. Other conspiracy theorists – especially supporters of Alex Jones’ “Infowars” – were spotted in the crowd documented in Ayling’s Twitter thread.
Jones is a continual perpetuator of unfounded conspiracies on “Infowars”, most notably that the 2012 mass-shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary school in Connecticut – where 20 children and six teachers died, plus the gunman – was a hoax. Although the group has denied any affiliation with far-right rhetoric in the past, Proud Boys were involved in the “Unite the Right” Charlottesville, Virginia rally and have been increasingly violent in the wake of Donald Trump’s election in 2016.
“That’s a group that has really evolved from this…”frat boys on a lark” group into one of the most visible vocal and violent, misognystic, xenophobic groups in the movement, both in the U.S. and in Canada,” Perry said. Trump’s infamously told the Proud Boys to “stand back and stand by” in the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests in the summer.
Many of them were present at Wednesday’s attack on the Capitol, seen clearly in footage and on social media sporting Proud Boy colours, patches, flags and apparel affiliated with the group. “Trump has been the catalyst for that sort of mass radicalization.
He knew that the Proud Boys and other extreme fascist groups were going to be there because the Boys have been organising multiple rallies for Trump in the U.S. since he lost the election,” Ayling said. Amongst several armed and body-armoured rioters that day were those sporting patches or apparel with the acronym FAFO, which stands for “F*** around and find out,” a slogan affiliated with the Proud Boys.
Their name and concept comes from the “inaccurate historical claim that only three per cent of Americans fought in the Revolutionary War against the British,” according to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL). They are fiercely anti-government, pro-gun and see themselves as on a quest to rid America of “tyranny.” They also tend to align themselves with white-nationalist and far-right movements.
"Three percenters" are part of a network of broader anti-government militia movements, and are not centralized. Some are part of militias, some forms of non-paramilitary groups or online networks.
“I think the worrying thing about groups like these three percenters and especially the [patriot] term that they've taken and the form that they take in the Canadian context is sort of the unholy triumvirate. They're heavily armed, and they're trained to use those arms.
They're trained in military strategy. Then you add in the xenophobia, whether it's anti-immigrant or anti-Muslim or whatever the case may be.
So you've got those three pieces coming together in what is for me, a very dangerous combination,” Perry said. “The militia movement is a right-wing anti-government extremist movement that arose in 1993-94.
Its core belief centred on the idea that the federal government is collaborating with a shadowy globalist and socialist conspiracy (often referred to as the “New World Order”) in order to strip Americans of their rights and freedoms, starting with their right to bear arms, so that Americans can be made slaves to the New World Order and its agenda,” the ADL says. Ayling documented "Three percenters" at the Capitol in her Twitter thread, and they are visible in other published photos. Her story is corroborated by other news organizationsthat were on site, like The Washington Post.
Similar to the “3%ers,” the Boogaloo Boys, sometimes spelled as “Bois” are a loosely affiliated milita-style group that is convinced there will be, and appears to want, a second civil war in the United States. They are anti-government, pro-gun and often align with far-right and white nationalist movements. “They're best understood as accelerationists where the intent is to, as the name implies, accelerate the coming of the inevitable and hoped for civil war.
And what that looks like depends on the particular cluster or even individual,” Perry said. Usually distinguishable by their patches and Hawaiian shirts, Boogaloo Boys were a threatening presence at many Black Lives Matter protests in the summer, several were arrested and with one member arrested as a suspect in the shooting deaths of two officers in California.
Congresswoman Sheila Jackson from Texas tweeted about potential violence at the hands of the Boogaloo Boys and Proud boys prior to Wednesday’s attack. People wearing Boogaloo patches and those heard expressing support for the movement were seen in footage from the Capitol verified by Storyful, a news-verification agency.
The Oath Keepers is another anti-government, right-wing fringe organization that is a part of the broader “patriot” movement. Many are affiliated with militias and their belief in the “New World Order” threatening Americans, per an ADL report.
They have received increasing media coverage and study after activities after showing up in Ferguson, Missouri in 2014 after the police-shooting death of Michael Brown. The Oath Keepers have notably focused their recruiting efforts on members of the police and military. Ayling documented Oath Keepers present at the Capitol in her Twitter thread. Her story is corroborated by photos of logos and flags in the crowd.
The Nationalist Social Club, known as NSC, or NSC-131 is a neo-Nazi group with chapters around America. “NSC members consider themselves soldiers fighting a war against a hostile, Jewish-controlled system that is deliberately plotting the extinction of the white race,” according to the ADL.
NSC-131 claims members from other extremist groups like The Base, Patriot Front and Aryan Strike Force. NSC-131 posted on social media that they were present at the Capitol.

WASHINGTON --
As a mob of supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol last week clamoring to overturn the result of November's presidential election, photographs captured a man in the crowd wearing a shirt emblazoned with 'úCamp Auschwitz,'Ě a reference to the Nazi concentration camp. Two white nationalists known for racist and anti-Semitic rhetoric livestreamed to their online followers after breaking into the Capitol during the deadly insurrection. And video circulated on social media showed a man harassing an Israeli journalist who was trying to do a live report outside the building.
The presence of anti-Semitic symbols and sentiment at the Capitol riot raised alarms among Jewish Americans and experts who track discrimination and see it as part of an ongoing, disturbing trend. As the threat of further chaos lingers over Washington and state capitals ahead of President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration, they called for more forceful rejection of the conspiracy- and falsehood-driven worldviews on display among the mob. The insurrection was 'únot so much a tipping point'Ě for anti-Semitism but rather 'úthe latest explicit example of how (it) is part of what animates the narratives of extremists in this country,'Ě said Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism. 'úPeople are going to have to ask themselves, were they clear enough in condemning the hatreds that coalesced on Jan. 6?'Ě
he added. On Tuesday, the Miller Center for Community Protection and Resilience at Rutgers University-New Brunswick and the Network Contagion Research Institute released a report that identified at least half a dozen neo-Nazi or white supremacist groups involved in the insurrection.
Anti-Semitic incidents in the U.S. hit a four-decade high in 2019, according to the ADL's internal tracking. Although some high-profile recent anti-Semitic attacks were not linked to far-right groups - such as the 2019 assault on a New York rabbi's Hanukkah party - several others were, most prominently the deadly 2017 white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. Three-quarters of extremist-related murders in the U.S. over the past 10 years were committed by right-wing extremists, Segal said, citing ADL data.
Eric Ward, executive director of the progressive anti-discrimination group Western States Center, linked the far-right conspiracy theory QAnon, adherents of which were at the forefront of the insurrection, to the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, the infamous 20th-century screed that falsely claimed Jews were colluding to take over the world. QAnon's unfounded assertion of a shadowy cabal 'úmirrors exactly the anti-Semitic track, the false narrative, of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion,'Ě
Ward said. ' úThat is the real danger of the anti-Semitism in this moment.
'Ě QAnon believers also allege a false conspiracy to harm children, paralleling another anti-Semitic trope, he noted.
The man photographed wearing the Auschwitz shirt was arrested in Virginia Wednesday. Robert Keith Packer, 56, was arrested in Newport News, charged with violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, and knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority.
Despite anti-Semitic elements, at least one Jewish participant was drawn to take part in the assault on the Capitol: Federal agents on Tuesday arrested Aaron Mostofsky, the son of a New York judge, who was part of the crowd that broke in. Mostofsky, who was seen sitting in the building clad in furs and a police vest, told the New York Post he believed the baseless claim that the election was stolen from Trump.
David Harris, CEO of the American Jewish Committee, said not everyone who came to the Trump-promoted rally that preceded the assault on Congress was 'ústoked'Ě by extremist and hate-fueled ideologies. Many Jewish Americans were dismayed by what they saw broadcast from the Capitol halls, such as one rioter strolling through its halls carrying a Confederate flag.
Rabbi Jay Kornsgold of Beth El Synagogue in New Jersey, who serves as treasurer for the Rabbinical Assembly, said his Holocaust-survivor parents taught their children they should do everything possible to make sure discrimination against Jews doesn't return to the fore. ' úWhen you see it in the nation's capital, right in front of your face, it pierces the heart,'Ě Kornsgold said.
In the wake of the insurrection, which left five people dead including a Capitol Police officer, two online stores that had permitted the creation and sale of 'úCamp Auschwitz'Ě shirts removed them from their sites. Looking ahead, Harris of AJC urged Jewish leaders to do their part in combatting the rise of QAnon. 'úIt seems to me even as a matter of education, Jewish organizations and Jewish clergy have a responsibility to alert members of the Jewish community to the menace of QAnon and its ilk,'Ě he said. Associated Press writers Ben Finley and Denise Lavoie contributed from Norfolk, Va.
Associated Press religion coverage receives support from the Lilly Endowment through The Conversation U.S. The AP is solely responsible for this content.

The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt has been arrested. Robert Keith Packer of Virginia was taken into custody on Wednesday morning, according to CNN.
A week earlier, he was identified as being among a group of Trump supporters who breached the Capitol as Congress counted electoral votes and certified President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. He faces initial charges of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, as well as knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building, according to 11Alive's Brendan Keefe. Packer is expected to make a court appearance in Norfolk at noon.
Packer was photographed wearing a “Camp Auschwitz” shirt, which was emblazoned with a skull and the phrase “Work Brings Freedom,” a rough translation of “Arbeit macht frei.” The German phrase was inscribed on the iron arch that stood at the gates of Auschwitz, a concentration camp where more than 1.1 million people were killed during the Holocaust. One Virginia resident described Packer to CNN as an extremist who was “very vocal about his beliefs,” while another called him “offbeat” and said he was frustrated with the government.
However, the source could not recall any comments about President Trump or alleged voter fraud. The Justice Department has opened more than 170 case files so far related to the storming of the Capitol, and that figure is expected to "geometrically increase," acting U.S. Attorney Michael Sherwin said on Tuesday, emphasizing that "this is only the beginning." The Justice Department has already charged over 70 specific criminal cases, he added. Federal prosecutors have announced new charges for several people recently, including a man photographed in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office, a man from Alabama who was allegedly found with guns and Molotov cocktails in his truck, and a delegate in the West Virginia Legislature who has since resigned. Packer was not the only rioter to wear anti-Semitic clothing. Other participants were wearing "6MWE" shirts, which is an acronym on the far-right standing for “6 Million Wasn’t Enough," a reference to the number of Jewish people who were killed in the Holocaust.

A day that began with President Trump telling his most ardent followers to continue to fight back against the results of an election he lost spun out of control on Jan. 6 when a violent mob broke down the doors to the U.S. Capitol and went on a rampage inside.
Assembled in the crowd were a range of far-right groups, including self-described militias, white nationalists, and sundry conspiracists and agitators. They broke windows with flags poles, raised banners on scaffolding assembled for the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden and charged police lines, attacking officers as they surged forward.
Some wore tactical vests and helmets adorned with far-right symbols and slogans. Proud Boys SYMBOL DETAILS: Orange hats, orange tape (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Amanda Andrade-Rhoades for The Washington Post) (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Amanda Andrade-Rhoades for The Washington Post) The Proud Boys, a far-right group with a history of violence and a reputation for instigating roving street fights with counterdemonstrators, announced in the days before the short-lived insurrection that members would forgo their traditional black-and-gold garb in favor of all-black attire and bright orange hats.
Some members still donned the Proud Boys logo on patches, clothing and helmets. The Proud Boys were founded in 2016 by Vice Media co-founder Gavin McInnes, who has since distanced himself from the group. It rose to national prominence this year when Trump told members to “stand back and stand by” during a presidential debate — a message that many in the Proud Boys took as marching orders.
Historical and far-right flags The flags seen throughout the sea of rioters symbolize their support for far-right causes, white supremacy and anti-government militias. Watch the video above to see examples. ‘OK’ SYMBOL DETAILS: Hand gesture forming in the shape of ‘OK’ (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Amanda Andrade-Rhoades for The Washington Post) The hand gesture commonly used to connote “OK” was co-opted in 2017 by members of the far-right and white supremacists who recast the symbol to mean “white power” — indicated by the W and P formed by the hand. The use of the hand gesture has since become a common occurrence at far-right rallies and among some Trump supporters who make it to taunt opponents.
The Three Percenters, a right-wing anti-government militia group, also utilizes a similar symbol — outstretched middle, ring and pinkie fingers to represent the Roman numeral for three — that can at a glance be mistaken for the “OK” gesture, though Three Percenters is not explicitly white supremacist. 1776 memorabilia SYMBOL DETAILS: The year 1776 surrounded by stars in a circle (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Jose Luis Magana/AP) References to the year 1776 and the American Revolution have grown substantially among the far-right as Trump supporters and conspiracy theorists have hinted at the possibility of a revolution in the wake of Trump’s election loss, which they view, falsely, as illegitimate. Trump allies and surrogates, including first-term Reps. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) and Lauren Boebert (R-Colo.), referred to Jan. 6 as Republicans’ “1776 moment.”
An online shop dubbed “1776.shop” that was founded last year by members of the Proud Boys, including its chairman Enrique Tarrio, hawks merchandise that co-opts 1776 as a symbol, along with other slogans and emblems touting the far-right. Three Percenters SYMBOL DETAILS:
The roman numeral III, surrounded by a circle with stars (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; image from video by Tyler Leikam via Storyful) (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Shannon Stapleton/Reuters) The Three Percenters, often connoted by the Roman numeral for three, is an anti-government paramilitary group that formed in 2008 around the idea that a small number of “patriots” protect Americans from the tyranny of big government. The name itself is a reference to the debunked claim that only 3 percent of the population fought against the British in the American Revolution; historians say the percentage was actually much higher.
The organization is considered by extremism experts to be a “traditional” self-described militia group that espouses right-wing, libertarian ideals, but has in recent years become an ardent supporter of Trump and has mobilized in opposition to more restrictive gun regulation, coronavirus-related shutdowns and racial justice protests. QAnon SYMBOL DETAILS: The letter ‘Q’ (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP) QAnon is a sprawling online conspiracy theory whose adherents believe Trump is leading a crusade against a cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles who encompass a majority of the nation’s elites, including politicians, celebrities and executives.
The loosely organized group exists largely online and follows cryptic messages and instructions from an anonymous person known only as Q. The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) has said the QAnon belief that elites are abducting children to harvest their blood for a chemical used to extend people’s lives is a variation of an anti-Semitic trope that has existed for centuries. Its online campaigns under the hashtag #SaveOurChildren have also been used as an anti-LGBTQ dog whistle.
In 2020, QAnon believers began to coalesce around anti-mask and anti-vaccine coronavirus conspiracy theories. Ashli Babbitt, the 35-year-old veteran who was shot and killed by a Capitol Police officer during the insurrection, was a believer in QAnon. Oath Keepers SYMBOL DETAILS:
Yellow words spelling ‘Oath Keepers’ or image of a male militia figure (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP) (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Roberto Schmidt/AFP/Getty Images)
The Oath Keepers is one of the largest self-described militia groups in the United States. Founded in 2009, the anti-government group is focused on recruiting law enforcement and active or former military members — those the group’s leaders believe will follow its notion of what it means to take an oath to protect the Constitution against “all enemies both foreign and domestic.”
The Oath Keepers has had a presence at many high-profile incidents over the past decade, including the 2014 standoff at the Bundy ranch in Nevada and the Ferguson, Mo., protests. Its yellow logo takes inspiration from the U.S. Army Ranger tab.
Confederate flag SYMBOL DETAILS: A red flag with a blue cross and stars (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Jim Lo Scalzo/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock) (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by John Minchillo/AP)
The Confederate battle flag was first flown during the Civil War by the 11 states that supported secession from the United States and the continuation of slavery. Certain groups now claim it represents “Southern heritage,” but according to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), the symbol is commonly used by white supremacists both inside and outside of the United States.
America First SYMBOL DETAILS: The letters ‘AF’ surrounded by a circle (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Stephanie Keith/Reuters) “America First” is the name of a podcast hosted by far-right activist Nick Fuentes, who appeared at the 2017 “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville and later taunted people protesting the killing of George Floyd in police custody.
Fuentes’s followers and associates call themselves “Groypers” and use Pepe the Frog imagery. According to the ADL, the “Groyper Army” has tried to distance itself from the white supremacist label but continues to espouse racist and anti-Semitic views. Pepe the Frog SYMBOL DETAILS:
A smirking green frog (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The Washington Post) Pepe, a humanoid cartoon frog created by artist Matt Furie, is an Internet meme appropriated by the far-right community online. While many depictions of the meme are innocuous, it is commonly depicted alongside extremist imagery, such as a Pepe clad in the uniform of the Waffen-SS, the military wing of Hitler’s security force, and it has become associated with far-right Internet culture despite Furie’s denunciations of such usage.
Kekistan flag SYMBOL DETAILS: A green and black symbol spelling the words ‘Kek’ (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The Washington Post)
The term “kek” originated in the gaming world but was absorbed into far-right culture, according to the SPLC. Coincidentally, users on the 4chan website discovered that an ancient Egyptian deity called “Kek” could appear as a man with a frog head, something they saw as a parallel with the use of Pepe the Frog as a symbol.
Users have created a flag for the fictional country of Kekistan, where political correctness is supposedly decried. The flag is based on the Nazi swastika. Noose/Day of the Rope SYMBOL DETAILS:
A hanging noose (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Shay Horse/NurPhoto/Getty Images) The nooses seen on Jan. 6 echoed the “Day of the Rope,” a fictional insurrection described in a 1978 novel written by prominent white supremacist William Luther Pierce.
In “The Turner Diaries,” white supremacist rebels lynch politicians, journalists and White people in interracial relationships — groups they consider “race traitors.” In the weeks leading up to the real-world insurrection on Jan. 6, posts on far-right forums referenced hangman knots and hanging “traitors” who betrayed Trump’s cause, including Supreme Court justices and lawmakers.
Valknot SYMBOL DETAILS: Three triangles interlinked (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Victor J. Blue/Bloomberg News) The Valknot tattoo and garb seen on Jacob Anthony Chansley, known as the “Q Shaman,” are nods to Nordic culture and heritage.
The Norse symbol has been associated with Odinism, a strain of white supremacist thought that claims to hark back to pre-Christian belief systems, but is also used by non-racist Pagans, according to the ADL. VDARE SYMBOL DETAILS:
An image of a lion with red, white and blue stripes (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Leah Millis/Reuters) The red, white and blue lion imagery seen on a flag on Jan. 6 is associated with the xenophobic, ethnonationalist website VDARE, which gets its name from Virginia Dare, supposedly the first White child born in the New World, according to the SPLC. VDARE is known to host far-right writers and intellectuals.

Concerns over white nationalism boiled over in the United States after last week’s violent insurrection at the Capitol building in Washington DC. The protest, attended by thousands of Donald Trump supporters attempting to overturn the results of the November 2020 presidential election, temporarily disrupted a largely ceremonial part of the democratic transfer of presidential power.
As images of the uprising made headlines around the world, many noticed that there were international shades of nationalism – including the tricolour – on display at the Capitol as well. Indian American Trump supporter Vincent Xavier (who also goes by Vinson Palathingal) was identified as part of the group which flew the Indian national flag on January 6. Despite facing backlash from prominent Indians and Twitter users alike, Xavier told NDTV that “in no way” was he “disrespecting the Indian flag” by bringing it to the rally. White nationalist symbols on display at the Capitol on January 6 cemented the movement’s ideological extremism. Footage of the federal building’s front steps shows a sea of appropriated historical flags, altered stars and stripes, and conspiracy theory symbolism. Each signifies a whitewashed version of American patriotism, and adherents are easily identifiable by their respective hate symbols.
Here’s what they believe – and how to recognise them. Despite believing in strict traditional gender divisions and being homophobic, their name was inspired by a song from the Broadway production of Aladdin Proud of Your Boy, which was written by a gay Jewish man. They are known for wearing black and yellow Fred Perry-style polo shirts, but came to the Capitol sporting blaze orange armbands and hats. Their symbols include the acronym “6MWE,” which means “6 Million Wasn’t Enough,” an anti-Semitic reference to the number of Jews slaughtered during the Holocaust.
Three Percenters take their name from an inaccurate historical reference. They claim (incorrectly) that only 3% of colonists took up arms against the British in the Revolutionary War and won anyway. Members of this paramilitary group believe they are the next generation of those armed colonists, and that they have a duty to protect Americans against the tyranny of the existing government. Their membership is made up of fervent gun rights activists, and they are known for violent attacks, including their role in the plot to kidnap Michigan governor Gretchen Whitmer. They were also spotted at the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, VA. On January 6, 2021, several Three Percenters took part in the breaching and ransacking of the Capitol. Their flag is a Betsy Ross-style American flag and insignia is a Roman numeral three, with or without a percent symbol.
Oath Keepers are a group of current and former military and law enforcement personnel. Their goal is to protect the Constitution against “all enemies foreign or domestic.” They are an armed militia and also believe in a coming civil war. They, along with the Three Percenters, are one of several “Patriot” groups that are prepared to defend against the “New World Order,” which is a theory of a centralised world government led by an authoritarian regime of elites. They are a government separatist group and align with sovereign citizen and white supremacist movements. Their leader, Stewart Rhodes, encouraged his supporters to bring violence to the Capitol on January 6. They are identifiable by the word “Oathkeeper,” often in yellow, emblazoned on patches and decals.
QAnon is a conspiracy theory with a wide base. It is thought that as many as half of all Trump supporters may believe in some aspect of QAnon. Adherents believe there is a cabal of Satan-worshipping, pedophilic, cannibalistic child sex-traffickers in power – politicians, celebrities, government officials, lawyers, etc. It is a blood libel conspiracy deeply rooted in anti-Semitism and white supremacy. They believe that Trump is a saviour and has been elected to unearth the secrets of the cabal and destroy it. Emma Rose is a PhD student at New York University.

On January 6, a mob of about 800 stormed the U.S. Capitol in support of former President Donald Trump, and many people made quick assumptions regarding who the insurrectionists were. Because a number of the rioters prominently displayed symbols of right-wing militias, for instance, some experts called for a crackdown on such groups.
Violence organized and carried out by far-right militant organizations is disturbing, but it at least falls into a category familiar to law enforcement and the general public. However, a closer look at the people suspected of taking part in the Capitol riot suggests a different and potentially far more dangerous problem: a new kind of violent mass movement in which more “normal” Trump supporters—middle-class and, in many cases, middle-aged people without obvious ties to the far right—joined with extremists in an attempt to overturn a presidential election.
To understand the events of January 6 and devise solutions to prevent their recurrence, Americans need a fine-grained comprehension of who attacked the Capitol. Understanding the ideology and beliefs of those who commit political violence is important, but so is knowing what kind of people they are and what their lives are like.
For the past decade and a half, our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats has conducted demographic studies of international and domestic terrorists. Four years ago, our study of 112 people who U.S. authorities suspected were involved with the Islamic State undercut a widespread assumption that supporters of the group were uneducated, isolated, and unemployed.
In recent weeks, our team of more than 20 researchers has been reviewing court documents and media coverage for information on the demographics, socioeconomic traits, and militant-group affiliations (if any) of everyone arrested by the FBI, Capitol Police, and Washington, D.C., police for offenses related to the January 6 insurrection. As of late last week, 235 people fell into that category, and the number is expected to grow.
Of these suspects, 193 have been charged with being inside the Capitol building or with breaking through barriers to enter the Capitol grounds. We focused our research on these 193. We compared our findings on these suspected insurrectionists with demographic data that we had previously compiled on the 108 individuals arrested by the FBI and local law-enforcement agencies around the country for violence related to right-wing political causes from 2015 to 2020.
We used the same methodology to analyze both groups: Our team reviewed all court documents related to each arrest—which include criminal complaints, statement of facts, and affidavits—and conducted searches of media coverage of each arrestee. Four findings stand out.
Second, a large majority of suspects in the Capitol riot have no connection to existing far-right militias, white-nationalist gangs, or other established violent organizations. We erred on the side of inclusion; we counted an arrestee as affiliated with such an organization if any court documents or news articles describe the person as a member, refer to social-media posts expressing an affinity for a certain group, or attest to patches or apparel that directly indicate support. By these standards, 20 of the Capitol arrestees we studied— one-tenth—can be classified as supporters of gangs, militias, or militia-like groups such as the Proud Boys, Oath Keepers, and Three Percenters.
The role that such groups played in the riot has attracted considerable news coverage. But 89 percent of the arrestees have no apparent affiliation with any known militant organization.
Connections were far more common among the suspected right-wing extremists arrested after incidents of deadly violence from 2015 to 2020. Of these, 26 percent were members of white-nationalist gangs (including skinhead groups and the Aryan Brotherhood), and 22 percent were part of militias and other organized groups (such as the Oath Keepers and Three Percenters). Third, the demographic profile of the suspected Capitol rioters is different from that of past right-wing extremists.
The average age of the arrestees we studied is 40. Two-thirds are 35 or older, and 40 percent are business owners or hold white-collar jobs.
Unlike the stereotypical extremist, many of the alleged participants in the Capitol riot have a lot to lose. They work as CEOs, shop owners, doctors, lawyers, IT specialists, and accountants.
Strikingly, court documents indicate that only 9 percent are unemployed. Of the earlier far-right-extremist suspects we studied, 61 percent were under 35, 25 percent were unemployed, and almost none worked in white-collar occupations.
Fourth, most of the insurrectionists do not come from deep-red strongholds. People familiar with America’s political geography might imagine the Capitol rioters as having marinated in places where they are unlikely to encounter anyone from the opposite side of the political spectrum.
Yet of those arrested for their role in the Capitol riot, more than half came from counties that Biden won; one-sixth came from counties that Trump won with less than 60 percent of the vote. Is there something special about counties that produced the suspected insurrectionists? Remarkably, no.
We found that 39 percent of suspected insurrectionists came from battleground counties, where Trump received 40 to 60 percent of the vote; 12 percent came from counties where less than 60 percent of the population is white. In these and many other ways, the mix of counties from which the arrestees hailed was typical of all American counties. Importantly, our statistics show that the larger the absolute number of Trump voters in a county—regardless of whether he won it—the more likely it was to be home to a Capitol arrestee.
Big metropolitan centers where Biden won overwhelmingly, such as the counties that include New York City, San Francisco, and Dallas, still have hundreds of thousands of Trump supporters. A third of suspected insurrectionists come from such counties; another quarter come from suburban counties of large metro areas.
This breakdown mirrors the American population as a whole—and that is the point. If you presumed that only the reddest parts of America produce potential insurrectionists, you would be incorrect.
The information that our team analyzed has certain limits. While we studied only people whose alleged behavior triggered an arrest by law enforcement, different police agencies have different standards for when to act.
Moreover, the arrests of suspected right-wing extremists as long ago as 2015 might lead to a years-long paper trail that includes evidence of militia or gang affiliations; in contrast, those arrested since January 6 might have affiliations not yet known to investigators. Even so, the court documents about the January 6 insurrection come from FBI, Capitol Police, and D.C. police agents who routinely identify group affiliations of arrested individuals. In fact, it is one of their primary concerns.
What’s clear is that the Capitol riot revealed a new force in American politics—not merely a mix of right-wing organizations, but a broader mass political movement that has violence at its core and draws strength even from places where Trump supporters are in the minority. Preventing further violence from this movement will require a deeper understanding of its activities and participants, and the two of us do not claim to know which political tactics might ultimately prove helpful.
But Americans who believe in democratic norms should be wary of pat solutions. Some of the standard methods of countering violent extremism—such as promoting employment or waiting patiently for participants to mellow with age—probably won’t mollify middle-aged, middle-class insurrectionists. And simply targeting better-established far-right organizations will not prevent people like the Capitol rioters from trying to exercise power by force.

Days after a deadly insurrection at the Capitol, Defense Department officials are unsure how many, if any, active-duty troops took part in the Jan. 6 riots. Finding out how many, and what to do about them, is easier said than done.
“...investigations into service members fall under the services,” a defense official told Military Times on Monday. “If the member is no longer in the military it would fall under DoJ”. The Justice Department is investigating 25 participants in the protest-turned-insurrection that ravaged the Capitol building on Wednesday, but it’s not clear who among them is either a currently serving member of the military, or perhaps a retiree subject to military criminal investigation. Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who has been leading the Pentagon’s efforts to explain its role in the response to the riot, shared the 25 figure during a call with lawmakers Sunday.
That information was relayed to him during an interagency briefing with DoJ officials, the lead investigating organization, his spokeswoman, Lt. Col. Audricia Harris, told Military Times. Some of those may be active or retired service members, though that information will likely trickle out in the coming days and weeks.
Members of Congress are asking military leaders to prosecute any troops — and possibly some veterans — involved the attack on the Capitol, saying those individuals have violated their oath to the Constitution and the country. “Any current or former military members who may have participated have disgraced themselves and committed serious crimes against the people of the United States,” Reps. Ruben Gallego, D-Ariz., and Sara Jacobs, D-Calif., wrote in a letter to Acting Defense Secretary Chris Miller on Sunday. “Any such individuals should have the book thrown at them for violating their oaths and duty to the nation,” they added. The exact number of service members and veterans among the rioters is unknown.
Hundreds of President Donald Trump’s supporters overwhelmed police and occupied the Capitol building on Wednesday, the same day members of Congress were scheduled to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 presidential election. Five people died in the violence, including Capitol Hill police officer Brian Sicknick — a former New Jersey Air National Guard staff sergeant who was struck in the head with a fire extinguisher — and Ashli Babbitt, a Air Force veteran-turned-conspiracy theorist who was shot by security while trying to force her way into the House chamber.
The military’s role in investigating or prosecuting service members’ role in the protest and/or riot is complex. With the FBI leading the investigations, any criminal charges will first fall under DoJ’s purview, as the events took place out of the services’ jurisdiction. Further, the services’ individual investigative commands, as a matter of policy, tend to let federal authorities take the lead when federal crimes are part of the equation.
For those charged by the FBI, there could still be administrative consequences, up to and including involuntary discharges from service. Separate courts-martial for Uniform Code of Military Justice charges not covered by federal indictments are also possible, but not common.
At least one active-duty service member is under a local command investigation. Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer, is under investigation by 1st Special Forces Command at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, spokesman Maj. Dan Lessard told Military Times on Sunday.
Rainey told the Associated Press that she was not involved in the riot that broke out inside the Capitol, and there are no indications she’s under federal investigation. But her presence at the rally, and her admission that she organized a group of 100 community members from back home in North Carolina to attend the protest, could result in administrative or criminal action by the Army. “I was a private citizen and doing everything right and within my rights,” Rainey told AP, although despite having resigned her commission in lieu of discipline for an incident last year, she is still on an active-duty status.
The defense official did not respond to questions from Military Times about whether acting SecDef Miller would issue guidance to the services to report up their local investigations into possible involvement in the protest or riot, for DoD’s own awareness. On Sunday, authorities arrested retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. on trespassing and disorderly conduct charges for his involved in breaching the Capitol. Photographs caught Brook with other rioters on the Senate floor during the attack, wearing military body armor with unit patches and carrying zip-tie handcuffs.
Gallego, who served in Iraq with the Marine Corps, in his letter to Miller suggested that some individuals in inactive service could be recalled to active duty to face prosecution for crimes committed in the Capitol assault. But in Brock’s case, his retirement may present legal challenges.
In recent years a number of retirees prosecuted and convicted of crimes that occurred after they retired have argued that they should not be subject to UCMJ. So far, those arguments have failed. Military high courts have sided mostly with the government, specifically allowing for prosecution of retired military members in a reserve status, which is the case for many who have retired from active service but have not yet reached a full 30 years of combined service, at which point they are considered fully disaffiliated from DoD. In early 2020, the Supreme Court declined to hear a petition from a retired Marine convicted of raping a woman in Japan while working as a contractor. That move meant that his military court conviction held.
Gallego asked DoD leaders to work closely with DoJ and FBI officials to identify any troops or veterans involved in the violence. In addition to the security requests, members of Congress are also pushing military officials to better honor Sicknick’s heroism. Rep. Elissa Slotkin, D-Mich., said the Capitol Police officer’s sacrifice deserves “posthumous special honors” to include burial at Arlington National Cemetery.
Sicknick served in the Guard from 1997 to 2003, but is not eligible for burial at the site. Meghann Myers is the Pentagon bureau chief at Military Times.
She covers operations, policy, personnel, leadership and other issues affecting service members. Leo covers Congress, Veterans Affairs and the White House for Military Times.
He has covered Washington, D.C. since 2004, focusing on military personnel and veterans policies. His work has earned numerous honors, including a 2009 Polk award, a 2010 National Headliner Award, the IAVA Leadership in Journalism award and the VFW News Media award. Todd South has written about crime, courts, government and the military for multiple publications since 2004 and was named a 2014 Pulitzer finalist for a co-written project on witness intimidation.
Todd is a Marine veteran of the Iraq War. Kyle Rempfer was an editor and reporter who has covered combat operations, criminal cases, foreign military assistance and training accidents.

As a violent mob descended on the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, lawmakers and aides hid wherever they could, waiting for the military and police to arrive.
But many of those who stormed the Capitol were military veterans themselves, who had once sworn to protect the Constitution. In fact, an NPR analysis has found that nearly 1 in 5 people charged over their alleged involvement in the attack on the U.S. Capitol appear to have a military history. NPR compiled a list of individuals facing federal or District of Columbia charges in connection with the events of Jan. 6.
Of more than 140 charged so far, a review of military records, social media accounts, court documents and news reports indicate at least 27 of those charged, or nearly 20%, have served or are currently serving in the U.S. military. To put that number in perspective, only about 7% of all American adults are military veterans, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Some veterans who allegedly stormed the Capitol are still serving in some capacity.
Jacob Fracker, 29, was an infantry rifleman in the Marine Corps and deployed to Afghanistan twice, according to the Pentagon. He now serves in the Virginia National Guard, according to widespread news reports, though he was not among the service members deployed to Washington ahead of the inauguration.
He is also a police officer in Rocky Mount, Va. With him at the Capitol on Jan. 6 was his colleague from the Rocky Mount Police Department, Thomas Robertson, 47, who is an Army veteran also facing charges.
Federal prosecutors have also alleged that multiple members of the right-wing extremist group the Oath Keepers took part in the "incursion" at the Capitol. The group has been known to target and recruit active-duty members of the military and veterans, in part for their specialized skills.
Among those charged in relation to the storming of the Capitol are Thomas Edward Caldwell, a Navy veteran and alleged leader among the Oath Keepers, and Donovan Ray Crowl, a Marine Corps veteran. They have been charged with conspiracy to obstruct the Electoral College vote, among other alleged crimes. Attorneys representing those facing charges did not respond to NPR's messages seeking comment.
At least one individual charged in connection with the assault on the Capitol allegedly embraced that extremist ideology. Timothy Louis Hale-Cusanelli, 30, is a Navy contractor who has worked at a naval weapons station with a secret security clearance, according to court documents. He is also an Army Reserve sergeant in the 174th Infantry Brigade and an "avowed white supremacist and Nazi sympathizer," according to court documents.
Some experts argue the military has not done enough to tamp down on extremism in its ranks. "It's not like the military is just tolerating white supremacists," Pitcavage told NPR.
But he said efforts to address the problem need to be more systematic. The problem is not entirely lost on the Defense Department.
After the Jan. 6 insurrection, a senior defense official told NPR there were 68 notifications of investigations by the FBI last year of former and current military members pertaining to domestic extremism. When extremism in the military does go undetected or ignored, the stakes can be high.
In 2019, federal prosecutors said that Coast Guard Lt. Christopher Hasson had planned a series of violent attacks against liberal politicians, and was an avowed white nationalist for decades. Hasson ultimately pleaded guilty to drug and weapons charges.
Timothy McVeigh, who carried out the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing that killed 168 people, was an Army veteran who served in the Persian Gulf War. He had taken inspiration from the white supremacist novel "The Turner Diaries," which continues to hold sway among far-right extremists. Pitcavage cautions that there is limited evidence military veterans are more susceptible to extremist ideology than any other group of Americans.
"Overall, our veteran population is largely reflective of our general population," Pitcavage said. Veterans, for example, have also been on the front lines of the fight against extremism. Brian Sicknick, the police officer who died trying to prevent the mob from storming the Capitol, was also a veteran. Likewise, Biden's pick to lead the Department of Defense, retired Gen. Lloyd Austin, told Congress on Tuesday that, if confirmed, he would work to combat extremism in the military, a problem the Defense Department acknowledged in a report in December. NPR’s Barbara Van Woerkom, Monika Evstatieva, Austin Fast and Emine Yücel contributed to this report.

"Several" U.S. Capitol Police officers were suspended and at least 10 more are under investigation over the deadly pro-Trump insurrection last week, officials said Monday.
Acting U.S. Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman said the suspensions occurred amid an internal probe. Video and other evidence appears to show that some officers and officials violated department policies, Pittman said. Pittman did not provide additional information about the inquiry or specify how many people had been suspended.
Earlier Monday, Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, told reporters that one of the suspended officers appeared to have taken a selfie with members of the mob. Another officer was suspended after he was seen wearing a Make American Great Again hat and directing people inside the building, Ryan said.
Ryan did not identify the officers. During a Zoom call, Ryan said he believed one officer had been arrested, but a spokesman later clarified that he had misspoken.
There have been no arrests, the spokesman said. Ryan said 10 to 15 more officers were being investigated, although he could not provide details about the extent of those investigations. "The main point is the Capitol Police are looking at everybody involved that could have potentially facilitated at a big level or a small level," he said.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund announced his resignation over the events of Wednesday amid intense scrutiny over the department's response to the mob's assault on the Capitol. Five people died as a result of the assault, including Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, who was reported to have been bludgeoned with a fire extinguisher.

Two US Capitol Police officers were suspended and at least 10 more are under investigation for their behavior during last week’s assault on the Capitol, and federal agents will look at whether current and former law enforcement officers played a role in the riot.
One of the Capitol police officers took a selfie with someone who was part of the mob that overtook the Capitol and the other wore a “Make America Great Again” hat and started directing people around the building, according to Rep. Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat. He didn’t disclose how many other officers were under investigation but confirmed it was between 10 and 15, and didn’t say what they were being scrutinized for except that it was their behavior during the riot. Ryan told reporters that one individual had been arrested, but a spokesperson for the congressman later said he was wrong and no members of law enforcement have been arrested.
The spokesperson said at least 10 Capitol Police officers are being investigated for their roles in the riot. A House aide separately said there are as many as 17 officers under investigation as part of eight investigations into the insurrection at the Capitol. In a statement Monday night, Capitol Police acting Chief Yogananda Pittman said several officers were suspended.
The federal investigative interest is a priority and a part of the broader investigation into the mob at the Capitol, sources said. The investigation into insurrectionist ties to law enforcement is a priority because the skills that officers are trained to use during their duties could be useful to an extremist mob, authorities say. This includes clearing rooms, taking custody of people, securing areas and handling firearms.
Democratic members of the House have also raised questions about potential sympathies for the attackers among the ranks of US Capitol Police. That agency hasn’t responded to CNN’s request for comment.
House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat, is among those who have others questions about whether some Capitol Police officers aided the protesters and were complicit in Wednesday’s insurrection. Clyburn, for instance, said it was fishy that the rioters knew the location of lawmakers’ offices. Early videos – one showing a Trump supporter taking a selfie with a police officer near an entrance to the Capitol and another appearing to show police letting protesters into the building – went viral on social media.
The second video was later found to have been taken an hour after the Capitol had been breached. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who chairs one of the House committees that oversee Capitol Police, said there would be an investigation into those videos.
At least seven officers in five other departments across the country have come under internal investigations as their presence in Washington during the assault comes to light through social media or other means. One officer in New York, one in Philadelphia, two in Seattle, two in Virginia and one in Texas are under investigation by their departments for potential rules violations.
Additionally, some departments have been contacted by the FBI as part of their criminal investigation into the overrunning of the Capitol. The number may grow as investigators and the public sift through social media and lodge allegations that officers may have been involved in the siege. Police departments have said their investigation will hinge on what type of involvement officers are found to had with last week’s assault.
“There’s a big difference between walking down Pennsylvania Avenue and expressing yourself and going into a building where rioters pushed police and hit police and pushed them out of the way to get in,” said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum. No law enforcement member has been charged with a crime. The FBI is investigating the attack on the Capitol and members of Congress have promised investigations. A spokeswoman for the Capitol Police has not responded to requests for comment.
Wexler said almost every police department has a “conduct unbecoming” section of its rulebook that could be used to discipline officers for their conduct Wednesday. Officers can exercise their First Amendment rights but need to preserve credibility so they can testify, he said.
Wexler said investigators have will to determine whether they were just attending a rally or if they gained access to the Capitol with the mob seeking to overturn the election. “Did they use the fact they were police officers to gain access in some way?
That would be highly problematic. Did they go into the building and follow others who broke into the building? That would be highly problematic and could cost them their job,” Wexler said.
Spokespeople for the Houston, Los Angeles, San Jose, San Antonio, San Diego, Phoenix and Denver police departments have said their agencies have not been contacted by the FBI and there aren’t any open internal investigations into officers. Chicago police are investigating whether members violated rules or laws but haven’t found any evidence so far, a spokesman said. Dallas police haven’t responded to a request for comment.
The New York Police Department has opened an investigation into one member of the police department, according to New York Police Commissioner Dermot Shea. “There is one investigation that is active on one member,” he told CNN affiliate NY1 Monday. The Philadelphia Police Department is investigating whether one of its detectives participated in the riots.
A department spokesman said the department was aware of social media posts that allegedly show a member of its force at the Capitol on Wednesday. The Seattle police department has placed at least two officers on administrative leave while officials investigate whether they took part in the riot, the department’s chief – Adrian Diaz – said in a statement on Friday night. The chief added he will immediately fire any officer found to have taken part in the mob at the Capitol.
Two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers are on administrative leave after attending the demonstrations in Washington, according to the Rocky Mount Police Department. In Texas, the Bexar County Sheriff’s Office is initiating an internal affairs investigation after a lieutenant, who has been on administrative leave for an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation, posted selfies and photos to social media identifying herself as a Bexar County Sheriff’s Office employee while attending the pro-Trump rally in Washington, according to the office. In a video statement sent to CNN, Sheriff Javier Salazar said he was notified about the posts to his personal social media account.
The lieutenant has been on administrative leave since October, according to Salazar, and she had been stripped of all her agency property and her credentials. “Right now, she doesn’t wear a uniform, she doesn’t carry a badge.
It is unpaid administrative leave. It is not determined yet, at what point that investigation is over with. To be fair, we don’t know what the outcome will be of that, but certainly this is going to tend to complicate that other investigation as it unfolds,” he said. This story has been updated with additional information on police involvement in last week’s riot at the US Capitol.

WASHINGTON, DC (WDTV) - During a national press call, Ken Kohl of the U.S. Attorney’s Office confirmed West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans has been federally charged for his role in invading the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. “I just received word that we have now a signed complaint against a delegate who serves in the West Virginia Legislature,” said Kohl. The Federal Bureau of Investigation filed the charging documents Friday. Special Agent David DiMarco outlines several posts on Evans’ Facebook showing that the delegate went to the Capitol with intent to act as an activist rather than an “independent member of the media” as Evans claims. This is a part of 55 other cases that the US Attorney’s office are persuing and one of the 15 federal charges announced today. At this moment, Del. Evans is still a member of the state legislature and, according to a statement by his lawyer, he has no intent to resign. However, there are growing calls by state lawmakers as well as a petition with over 30,000 signatures, calling for the delegate’s removal. Copyright 2021 WDTV. All rights reserved.

Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob, has resigned from West Virginia’s House of Delegates.
“I hereby resign as a member of the House of Delegates, effective immediately,” Evans said in a one-page letter submitted to Gov. Jim Justice and the House. The House released another statement from Evans expressing regret. “I take full responsibility for my actions, and deeply regret any hurt, pain or embarrassment I may have caused my family, friends, constituents and fellow West Virginians,” Evans stated.
The mob storming the U.S. Capitol disrupted the constitutional duty of counting Electoral College votes and prompted the evacuations of representatives, senators and Vice President Mike Pence. One woman was fatally shot while trying to climb into the chambers, three others died from “medical emergencies” and 50 police officers were injured. Capitol Police announced one police officer died of injuries sustained during the riot.
Evans, a Republican from Wayne County just sworn into House of Delegates, has contended he was videoing history and was swept along with the crowd. But his own video depicts him calling out “Move! Move!”
before going through the Capitol door, as security alarms blare. He was set to be a first-time officeholder. He placed first in a two-member district in the most recent General Election, with 8,227 votes.
Several of his fellow Republicans, including Delegates Steve Westfall of Jackson County, Ben Queen of Harrison County, Joshua Higginbotham of Putnam County and Jason Barrett of Berkeley County, publicly said Evans should resign or be forced out. House Speaker Roger Hanshaw, R-Clay, today described the events in Washington, D.C., as appalling. He indicated he is glad Evans resigned.
“Delegate Evans was unfortunately a part of the events this week that threatened what has historically made America a beacon for the rest of the world: the peaceful transfer of power. Earlier today, Delegate Evans made the decision to resign from his position in the West Virginia House of Delegates.
Now, we return to the work of rebuilding our nation’s political climate,” Hanshaw stated. The Legislature is set to convene next Wednesday for a one-day session to select leadership and set rules.
Lawmakers were already anticipating a motion and vote to expel Evans. Instead, Hanshaw stated, delegates may begin hard work on the many challenging issues facing the state.
The Legislature convenes for a full 60-day session on Feb. 10. “It’s time to turn the page; it’s time for us to move on; it’s time for us to heal,” Hanshaw stated.
Evans was arrested Friday and faces two federal charges after sweeping into the U.S. Capitol with a mob this week. Two federal misdemeanors are both punishable with fines and potential jail time: entering a restricted public building and violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds. After a short federal court hearing Friday afternoon, he was released on a personal recognizance bond.
The charge applies to buildings where anyone protected by the Secret Service is visiting or buildings with an event of national significance. A second charge, violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, is also a misdemeanor with a possible punishment of six months jail time.
An affidavit from FBI agent David DiMarco indicates the investigator relied heavily on the copy of Evans’ own video, comparing the voice to the voice in Evans’ videos promoting his campaign for state office. The agent also relied on Evans’ enthusiastic identification of himself. The FBI agent describes Evans, a minute and a half into the video shouting “the door is cracked!”
as individuals in the front of the crowd appear to successfully pry open the door and begin entering. The video shows a crowd surging through a Capitol door, past security, while an alarm repeatedly blares. As Evans enters an area called National Statuary Hall he celebrates and states his own name: “We’re in!
We’re in! Derrick Evans is in the Capitol!”
At another point, he turns the camera on himself, wearing a motorcycle helmet. “I want to assure you all that I did not have any negative interactions with law enforcement nor did I participate in any destruction that may have occurred,” he stated.
In a statement issued Thursday evening, a lawyer for Evans made that same argument. The three-page statement by attorney John H. Bryan of Union described Evans as an activist and “journalist” who was documenting the day’s events while being swept along in a crowd.
“Derrick Evans, 35, of West Virginia, was charged with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol Grounds. Evans was taken into custody Friday.

After stinging personal critiques from Republicans and Democrats alike, Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, was censured by the Virginia Senate Wednesday, a formal rebuke that came after she repeated baseless election fraud claims and spoke in support of the mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol. Several senators said they wished the censure vote, the first since 1987, didn’t have to happen.
But they said it became unavoidable due to Chase’s loose grip on the truth, lack of respect for her colleagues and the institution and a pattern of inflammatory behavior. “The need to protect the honor of this body is what compelled me to proceed,” said Sen. John Bell, D-Loudoun, who sponsored the resolution censuring Chase.
The vote for censure was 24-9, with three Republicans joining the chamber’s 21 Democrats. Nine Republicans, including Chase, voted against censure. Six Republicans did not vote.
“So much promise, so much ability has been wasted on ambition and a sense of entitlement,” said Stanley, who, despite his floor speech, did not vote on the censure resolution. Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, D-Fairfax, who has served in the body since 1980, said he had never seen a state senator cause as much trouble as Chase. “No one has even come remotely close,” he said.
Elected as a Republican in 2015, Chase’s alienation from her GOP colleagues had already led her to leave the Republican caucus in 2019. The Senate stripped her of her last committee assignment last week. “I really hope that the senator from Chesterfield has the opportunity to get the help that’s needed,” Newman said.
The censure is a mostly symbolic gesture of disapproval and won’t affect Chase’s ability to continue to serve in the Senate. However, it strips of her seniority, which makes her lowest in the chamber when it comes to perks like seating and office space. But it was her rationalizations for the mob attack on the Capitol that prompted the Democratic-led Senate to act.
Speaking in her own defense, Chase’s tone alternated between defiant and apologetic. Her colleagues had already given her a chance to avoid censure by apologizing and clarifying her remarks on the floor. But after a speech she gave last week fell short of those expectations, the censure vote moved forward.
Chase began her remarks by lashing out at other senators for their perceived misdeeds, accusing the body of employing “double standards” to selectively mete out punishment. She then denounced hate groups and anyone who broke the law during the Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol, a shift from previous comments in which she called the mob “patriots.” Chase had also offered up particular praise for Ashli Babbit, a supporter of former President Donald Trump who was fatally shot as she tried to push her way through a broken door into a secure area of the Capitol.
Chase said she was sorry she had “hurt a lot of your feelings in this room” and asked why her colleagues had not spoken to her personally if they had been offended by her conduct. She then threatened to sue the Senate if the censure went through. “If the Senate chooses to humiliate me, to irreparably damage my reputation… I will not be without remedy to clear my name,” Chase said.
Some of her colleagues also seemed to wrestle with the question of when outlandish political rhetoric crosses the line into something worthy of formal censure. No Republicans spoke up in Chase’s defense.
Several said they wouldn’t cast a vote either way lest a no vote be seen as a sign of approval. Saslaw said that, in his view, a non-vote was still a vote against censure. “You’re just not putting it up on the board,” he said. The three Republicans who voted to censure Chase were Senate Minority Leader Tommy Norment, R-James City, and Sens. Bryce Reeves, R-Spotsylvania and Jill Vogel, R-Fauquier.

Hiding from the rioters in a secret location away from the Capitol, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) appealed to Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.
Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) phoned Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight And Kellyanne Conway, a longtime Trump confidante and former White House senior adviser, called an aide who she knew was standing at the president’s side. But as senators and House members trapped inside the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday begged for immediate help during the siege, they struggled to get through to the president, who — safely ensconced in the West Wing — was too busy watching fiery TV images of the crisis unfolding around them to act or even bother to hear their pleas.
Even as he did so, Trump did not move to act. And the message from those around him — that he needed to call off the angry mob he had egged on just hours earlier, or lives could be lost — was one to which he was not initially receptive. Trump ultimately — and begrudgingly — urged his supporters to “go home in peace.”
But the six hours between when the Capitol was breached shortly before 2 p.m. Wednesday afternoon and when it was finally declared secure around 8 p.m. that evening reveal a president paralyzed — more passive viewer than resolute leader, repeatedly failing to perform even the basic duties of his job. The man who vowed to be a president of law and order failed to enforce the law or restore order. The man who has always seen himself as the protector of uniformed police sat idly by as Capitol Police officers were outnumbered, outmaneuvered, trampled on — and in one case, killed.
And the man who had long craved the power of the presidency abdicated many of the responsibilities of the commander in chief. The episode in which Trump supporters rose up against their own government, leaving five people dead, will be central to any impeachment proceedings, critical to federal prosecutors considering incitement charges against him or his family, and a dark cornerstone of his presidential legacy.
This portrait of the president as the Capitol was under attack on Jan. 6 is the result of interviews with 15 Trump advisers, members of Congress, GOP officials and other Trump confidants, many of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity to share candid details. The day began ominously, with a “Save America March” on the Ellipse devoted to perpetuating Trump’s baseless claims that somehow the 2020 election was stolen from him. “So let’s walk down Pennsylvania Avenue,” he concluded.
Trump, however, did not join the angry crowd surging toward the Capitol. Instead, he returned to the White House, where at 2:24 p.m. he tapped out a furious tweet railing against Vice President Pence, who in a letter earlier in the day had made clear that he planned to fulfill his constitutional duties and certify President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala D. Harris as the winners of the 2020 electoral college vote.
By then, West Wing staffers monitoring initial videos of the protesters on TV and social media were already worried that the situation was escalating and felt that Trump’s tweet attacking Pence was unhelpful. Press officials had begun discussing a statement from Trump around 2 p.m., when protesters first breached the Capitol, an official familiar with the discussions said.
But they were not authorized to speak on behalf of the president and could only take the matter to Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, this person said, adding that “the most infuriating part” of the day was how long it took before Trump finally spoke out. Around the same time, Trump Jr. headed to the airport for a shuttle flight home to New York. As he waited in an airport lounge to board the plane, the president’s namesake son saw that the rally­goers they had all urged to fight were doing just that, breaching police barricades and laying siege to the Capitol.
But the president himself was busy enjoying the spectacle. Trump watched with interest, buoyed to see that his supporters were fighting so hard on his behalf, one close adviser said.
But if the president didn’t appear to understand the magnitude of the crisis, those in his orbit did. Conway immediately called a close personal aide who she knew was with the president, and said she was adding her name to the chorus of people urging Trump to speak to his supporters. He needed to tell them to stand down and leave the Capitol, she told the aide.
Conway also told the aide that she had received calls from the D.C. mayor’s office asking for help in getting Trump to call up the National Guard. Ivanka Trump had gone to the Oval Office as soon as the riot became clear, and Graham reached her on her cellphone and implored her for help.
“They were all trying to get him to speak out, to tell everyone to leave,” said Graham, referring to the small group of aides with Trump on Wednesday afternoon. Several Republican members of Congress also called White House aides, begging them to get Trump’s attention and have him call for the violence to end.
The lawmakers reiterated that they had been loyal Trump supporters and were even willing to vote against the electoral college results — but were now scared for their lives, officials said. When the mob first breached the Capitol, coming within mere seconds of entering the Senate chamber, Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification — was hustled away to a secure location, where he remained for the duration of the siege, despite multiple suggestions from his Secret Service detail that he leave the Capitol, said an official familiar with Pence’s actions that day. Instead, the vice president fielded calls from congressional leaders furious that the National Guard had not yet been deployed, this official said.
Pence, from his secret location in the Capitol, spoke with legislative and military leaders, working to mobilize the soldiers and offering reassurance. Even as his supporters at the Capitol chanted for Pence to be hanged, Trump never called the vice president to check on him or his family. Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff, eventually called the White House to let them know that Pence and his team were okay, after receiving no outreach from the president or anyone else in the White House. But the Twitter missive was insufficient, and the president had not wanted to include the final instruction to “stay peaceful,” according to one person familiar with the discussions.
McCarthy did eventually reach Trump, but later told allies that he found the president distracted. So McCarthy repeatedly appeared on television to describe the mayhem, an adviser said, in an effort to explain just how dire the situation was.
McCarthy also called Kushner, who that afternoon was arriving back from a trip to the Middle East. The Secret Service originally warned Kushner that it was unsafe to venture downtown to the White House. McCarthy pleaded with him to persuade Trump to issue a statement for his supporters to leave the Capitol, saying he’d had no luck during his own conversation with Trump, the adviser said.
So Kushner headed to the White House. At one point, Trump worried that the unruly group was frightening GOP lawmakers from doing his bidding and objecting to the election results, an official said.
National security adviser Robert C. O’Brien also began calling members of Congress to ask how he could help. He called Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) around 4 p.m., a Lee spokesman said.
In an unlikely twist, Lee had heard from the president earlier — when he accidentally dialed the senator in a bid to reach Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-Ala.) to discuss overturning the election. Others were still having trouble getting through to the White House. Speaking on ABC News shortly before 4 p.m. Wednesday, Chris Christie, a GOP former governor of New Jersey, said he’d spent the last 25 minutes trying to reach Trump directly to convey a simple, if urgent, message.
Amid the chaos, D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) had implemented a 6 p.m. curfew for the city, and as darkness fell, the Secret Service told West Wing staff that, save for an essential few, everyone had to leave the White House and go home. At 6:01 p.m., Trump blasted out yet another tweet, which Twitter quickly deleted and which many in his orbit were particularly furious about, fearing he was further inflaming the still-tense situation.
Thirteen minutes later, at 6:14 p.m., a perimeter was finally established around the Capitol. About 8 p.m., more than six hours after the initial breach, the Capitol was declared secure.
The following evening, on Thursday, Trump released another video, the closest advisers say he is likely to come to a concession speech. His calls for healing and reconciliation were more than a day too late, many aides said. Yet as Trump watched the media coverage of his video, he grew angry.

As the violent mob incited by President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, some West Wing staffers panicked that they were possibly becoming participants in a coup to overthrow the government.
“What do I do? Resign?” one nervous White House staffer asked a friend on Wednesday afternoon, shortly after news broke that a woman had been shot and killed inside the Capitol.
The West Wing staffer told the friend that White House Counsel Pat Cipollone was urging White House officials not to speak to Trump or enable his coup attempt in any way, so they could reduce the chance they could be prosecuted for treason under the Sedition Act. “They’re being told to stay away from Trump,” the friend said.
The White House declined to comment. Cipollone’s purported concern that Trump was committing treason—a federal crime—illustrates the chaos and fear of Wednesday’s unprecedented events.
At least one staffer isn’t waiting to flee the ship. On Wednesday night, CNN reported that Stephanie Grisham, the former White House communications director and Melania Trump’s current chief of staff, resigned over the Trump-inspired riot. As staff quit or steer clear, Trump is increasingly isolated and alone.
According to a person close to the White House, Trump refused to take calls on Wednesday from business leaders who wanted him to call off the insurrectionists. A former West Wing staffer said Republicans were texting and calling Chief of Staff Mark Meadows to lobby him to intervene, but Meadows wasn’t answering.
In recent days, as Trump’s bid to overturn the election became increasingly desperate, he expressed anarchist comments in private, a second Republican close to the White House told me. The Republican said Trump told people that he wanted David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler to lose the Georgia Senate runoff election as a way of punishing them and Mitch McConnell. “Trump told people he is really angry that the senators and McConnell hadn’t stood up for him to challenge the election.
He’s happy they lost.” According to the Republican, Trump has said he’ll be the most dominant force in Republican politics if there’s no party leadership.
Tonight, there was a sense that the ground had shifted. Even Stephen Miller told one person close to the White House that it was a terrible day.
Twitter finally suspended Trump’s account—at least for 12 hours. And the immediate question facing Republicans became whether the violent scene today merits them invoking the 25th Amendment and removing Trump from office.
The provision in the Constitution requires the vice president to secure support from the majority of the Cabinet or Congress. According to a D.C. strategist close to the White House, some prominent Republicans are lobbying Mike Pence to greenlight the process. “Pence has to initiate it,” the strategist said.
Republicans I spoke to were doubtful Pence would take the extraordinary step given his longtime fealty to Trump—even in the face of being humiliated. “Maybe if Trump calls for another protest, then it’s possible,” the former West Wing official said.
— Not a subscriber? Join Vanity Fair to receive full access to VF.com and the complete online archive now.

Rep. Lauren Boebert is facing calls for her resignation after tweeting out information about House Speaker Nancy Pelosi during the attack on the US Capitol that left five dead. Ms Boebert - who also said she would carry her firearm to Congress - tweeted details of the lockdown on the day of the insurrection at the US Capitol carried out by supporters of Donald Trump.
While Ms Boebert did not provide specific details on Ms Peolosi's location, critics allege she was attempting to aid the rioters who were searching for her. In video from the attack, some rioters can be heard yelling that they were "coming for" Ms Pelosi.
The Independent has reached out to her office for comment. She has said she is not a QAnon follower, but said she was glad that the US Attorney General was investigating "deep state" activities. She is the second QAnon-adjacent lawmaker elected to Congress.
Rep Marjorie Taylor Green is also a follower of the conspiracy theory. Protesters rallied at Ms Boebert's offices in Colorado on Monday calling for her resignation. Rural Colorado United, an activist group organising the protests, called Ms Boebert "unfit" to serve Coloradans.
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, a senior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, called on the Ethics Committee Monday to consider expelling or punishing Sens Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley for leading the charge in the Senate to challenge the results of the 2020 election, which he alleges directly influenced the angry mob of Trump supporters that attacked the Capitol. In his request, Mr Sheldon cited Mr Cruz and Mr Hawley specifically, but said "perhaps others" should be considered for expulsion or punishment as well.
It is unclear if those "others" would include Ms Boebert. Just before the attack, Ms Boebert gave an impassioned speech in which she claimed some of her constituents were among the mob fighting the police on the Capitol steps at the time. Ms Boebert is no stranger to far-right extremist groups.
ABC News reported that her former campaign manager, Sherronna Bishop, had praised the Proud Boys, an SPLC-designated hate group that travels the country starting fights at protests and espouses a neo-fascist ideology. The Proud Boys were among those who attacked the US Capitol.

As the pro-Trump mob stormed the Capitol last week, House members and some staff sheltered in a cramped, windowless room with no more than an arm’s length of distance between them.
The group seemed safe from the violence raging nearby, but inside they faced another threat. Several Republican members hunkered down, maskless, refusing to use the face coverings that their Democratic colleagues and staffers were begging them to wear as protection from the coronavirus that thrives in such low-ventilation indoor environments. But many stayed behind — and some now think they were exposed.
Nearly a week after the riot, three Democratic lawmakers who had sheltered in that room, including Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), a 75-year-old cancer survivor, have tested positive for the coronavirus. The results added fuel to an already burning fire of rage that has enveloped Capitol Hill since last week’s violence, as Democrats already blaming many of their GOP counterparts for inciting the mob that endangered their lives now are fingering them for selfish behavior that has jeopardized their health. The outbreak — dubbed a “superspreader event on top of a domestic terrorist attack” by Rep. Pramila Jayapal of Washington, one of the Democratic lawmakers who tested positive — led House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) to impose stiff fines on members who don’t wear masks.
Several Republican lawmakers seen in a video refusing masks from a Democratic congresswoman did not respond to requests for comment, including Reps. Andy Biggs (Ariz.), Doug LaMalfa (Calif.) and Scott Perry (Pa.). Freshman Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.), who was also in that group, called it “absurd” to blame them and shifted it to Pelosi.
The committee room lockdown had all the ingredients for a superspreader event, said Harvard University environmental health expert Joseph G. Allen. Overcrowding, hours indoors, people without masks and low ventilation.
“It’s highly likely — and I think probable — that this is a superspreader event, and these lawmakers caught it from spending time in that room,” Allen said. “I don’t really believe in coincidences: All of a sudden you have three lawmakers,” who had been taking appropriate precautions, “thrust into a situation with others who were ignoring that advice” and have since tested positive for the virus.
The lockdown room was, at first, a safe space — or so it seemed. Reps. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) and Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) were among those in the gallery overlooking the House floor when Capitol Police screamed for them to duck.
In the hallway one floor below, a violent mob pounded on doors and shattered windows. Then, they heard a single gunshot, the one that killed pro-Trump rioter Ashli Babbitt.
Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre, said she pressed her cheek against the cold marble floor and felt a sense of resignation that this might be it. As they were finally ushered to a secure location, Speier was shocked at how packed it was — “Like we were sardines,” she said in an interview.
She turned to Monahan and said, “This looks like a superspreader event to me.” She left the crowded space for a smaller anteroom, where for a time she sat across from Schneider.
Schneider said he looked at the crush of people around him and realized that escaping one threat meant exposing himself to another. Schneider had been so careful.
His wife has a health condition that makes her high risk if she contracted the coronavirus. He drives the nearly 12 hours from his home in eastern Illinois to Washington rather than fly.
On Tuesday, he announced he had tested positive. “I am now in strict isolation, worried that I have risked my wife’s health and angry at the selfishness and arrogance of the anti-maskers who put their own contempt and disregard for decency ahead of the health and safety of their colleagues and our staff,” he said in a statement. On Tuesday, Speier wrote a letter signed by 66 of her colleagues imploring House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) to require Republicans to wear masks.
Pelosi took matters into her own hands: Anyone not wearing a mask on the House floor will be fined $500 for their offense and $2,500 for their second. Inside the secure room, Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) stood with some Democratic women who were anxious that Republican lawmakers weren’t wearing face coverings. Blunt Rochester borrowed a stack of disposable masks and began approaching everyone, asking if they would like a clean mask.
“I just felt like I can’t stand here mad, I have to try and help,” she said in an interview. When she approached the group of maskless Republicans and offered them masks — the moment that was captured on video — their rebuffs didn’t affect her.

WASHINGTON (Reuters) -
The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss said he blames Trump for the riot, and has joined calls for him to be removed from office. Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, was one of four civilians who died in the rioting, according to Washington, DC police. A Capitol Police officer also died from injuries in the melee. Police did not disclose the cause of Boyland’s death.
However, Justin Winchell, a friend who accompanied Boyland to a Trump rally near the White House and marched with her to the Capitol, told Atlanta CBS affiliate WGCL that she was trampled to death in a massive crowd surge when protesters clashed with Capitol Police. Boyland’s brother-in-law, Justin Cave, told Atlanta media that his wife, Boyland’s sister, had tried to persuade her not to attend the Trump rally in Washington. Boyland was "passionate about her beliefs" and support of Trump and the family was grieving for others killed and injured in the rioting, he told here a local Fox television reporter.
“I’ve never tried to be a political person, but it’s my own personal belief that the president’s words incited a riot that killed four of his biggest fans last night and I believe that we should invoke the 25th Amendment at this time,” Cave said. A White House spokesman did not respond to a request for comment about Boyland’s death. Under the 25th Amendment, a president can be forcibly removed from power if the vice president and a majority of cabinet members agree that the president is unfit for office.
Democratic leaders in Congress have called for immediate impeachment proceedings if Vice President Mike Pence and Trump’s Cabinet fail to seek to remove Trump from power. Washington, DC, police on Thursday said that three other civilians were killed in the rioting on Wednesday.
Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, was shot by a Capitol Police officer in an incident that DC police are investigating. Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran, had embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories, according to her social media activity. New video here of the moments leading to Babbitt's shooting emerged on Friday, showing a plainclothes officer fire in a chaotic scene as Babbitt attempted to enter the Speaker's Lobby outside the House of Representatives chamber through a smashed glass partition. DC Police also said Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama, and Benjamin Phillips, 50, of Ringtown, Pennsylvania, died after experiencing medical emergencies.
A statement released by Greeson’s family to local media said that the avid motorcycle rider had suffered a heart attack. “Kevin was an advocate of President Trump and attended the event on Jan. 6 to show his support.
He was excited to be there to experience this event,” according to the statement quoted in The News Courier in Athens. Phillips, a computer programmer, died of a stroke, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported. Also killed was Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick, 40, who suffered a stroke after injuries sustained “while physically engaging with protesters” the department said.

A U.S. Capitol Police officer died Thursday after being injured in clashes with pro-Trump rioters in the Capitol the day before. Officer Brian D. Sicknick was injured while physically engaging with protesters Wednesday and returned to his division office, where he collapsed, Capitol Police spokeswoman Eva Malecki said in a statement.
He was taken to a hospital, where he died about 9:30 p.m. Thursday. Sicknick, who joined the Capitol Police in 2008, is the fifth person to die from Wednesday's violent clash in Washington.
His death will be investigated by the Metropolitan Police Department in Washington, the statement said, as well as the Capitol Police and federal agencies. Sicknick most recently served in the Capitol Police department's first responder's unit, the statement said.
Capitol Police fatally shot an Air Force veteran and ardent Trump supporter who was part of the mob that made it into the building. Three other people died in "medical emergencies" after the riot, officials said.
Capitol Police officials, however, have not released many details about the circumstances of these other deaths. News of the officer's death comes shortly after Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund resigned amid criticism of the department's response to rioters who broke through barricades, vandalized the building and clashed with police. Lawmakers offered their condolences to Sicknick's family, including from House Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., who has credited Capitol Police officers with saving his life during the congressional baseball shooting in 2017.
"Devastating news. Please join me in praying for our fallen Capitol Police officer’s family during this heartbreaking time," Scalise tweeted Friday.

At approximately 9:30 p.m. this evening (January 7, 2021), United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick passed away due to injuries sustained while on-duty. Officer Sicknick was responding to the riots on Wednesday, January 6, 2021, at the U.S. Capitol and was injured while physically engaging with protesters.
He returned to his division office and collapsed. He was taken to a local hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. The death of Officer Sicknick will be investigated by the Metropolitan Police Department’s Homicide Branch, the USCP, and our federal partners.
Officer Sicknick joined the USCP in July 2008, and most recently served in the Department’s First Responder’s Unit. The entire USCP Department expresses its deepest sympathies to Officer Sicknick’s family and friends on their loss, and mourns the loss of a friend and colleague. We ask that Officer Sicknick’s family, and other USCP officers’ and their families’ privacy be respected during this time.
There really aren't enough kind words in any language to describe how sweet Brian was. He was truly a lovely, humble soul. We are missing him terribly.
He was sweet natured through and through. Everyone who met him adored him.
He also loved his dachshunds dearly, spoiling them, and ensuring they got the best care possible. He loved his job with the U.S. Capitol Police, and was very passionate about it.
He also had an incredible work ethic. He was very serious about showing up to work on time and refused to call out sick unless absolutely necessary. Our loss of Brian will leave a large hole in our hearts.
The tremendous support we have received from the U.S. Capitol Police, the law enforcement community, and the community as a whole has been overwhelmingly warm and generous. We’re very grateful for everyone’s kindness during this difficult time.
We will have no further statements and will not be granting media interviews. We ask that our family’s privacy be respected during this time.

An officer was hit with a bat.
Another was struck with a flagpole. A third was pinned against a statue. A fourth was clobbered with a wrench.
One became stuck between two doors amid a frenzied mob. Many were hit with bear spray. Fast, informative and written just for locals.
Get The 7 DMV newsletter in your inbox every weekday morning. ArrowRight The number of injuries suffered by police as they attempted to fend off supporters of President Trump who seized the U.S. Capitol last week runs long. They include swollen ankles and wrists, bruised arms and legs, concussions and irritated lungs. How those injuries occurred is varied: pushed down stairs, trampled by rioters, run over in a stampede, punched with fists.
More than 58 D.C. police officers and an unknown number of U.S. Capitol Police officers were injured in the hours-long riot and assault on Wednesday as lawmakers were formalizing the election victory for Joe Biden as president. It was a battle in which police were outnumbered. One Capitol Police officer died in circumstances that remain unclear.
“I’ve talked to officers who have done two tours in Iraq, who said this was scarier to them than their time in combat,” acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III said Monday after speaking to an officer who was discharged from the hospital after being beaten and injured with a stun gun. “He’s obviously very shaken, very appalled, very angry,” Contee said, adding that rioters stole items from the officer and, he thinks, tried to get his firearm. Videos circulating on the Internet show horrific scenes, including one of an officer, identified by the police union as from the D.C. force, being dragged down stairs outside the Capitol and beaten by people with clubs, a crutch and a pole with an American flag attached. The officer was rescued by other officers swinging batons.
Another video, first shown on CNN, shows a D.C. officer pinned between two doors in a Capitol vestibule, screaming in pain as rioters try to push his gas mask over his head as he was being crushed between colleagues and demonstrators in the narrow entryway. Some rioters wrested away the officers’ shields and used them to push back against the police.
It was not a brief moment. A longer version of that video shows hundreds of rioters pushing for more than 30 minutes against D.C. police officers, who had rushed to help their colleagues on the Capitol force.
Rioters shouted en masse, “Heave ho,” as they pushed in coordinated waves, screaming and cheering. D.C. police said Monday that one District officer remained hospitalized.
They described many of the injuries as sprains and bruised arms and legs, but many others appear far more serious and caused by repeated blows from sticks, poles and clubs and laser pointers shined into officers’ eyes. The Capitol Police, which had 1,400 officers at the building, also have members who suffered injuries. A number was not available, but Eva M. Malecki, a spokeswoman for the agency, said injuries ranged from concussions to scrapes and bruises.
She said no Capitol Police officers remain hospitalized. In a statement the day after the riot, then-Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who resigned Friday, said officers were attacked with metal pipes, chemical irritants and other types of weapons.
Several Capitol Police officers were hospitalized with serious injuries. Three people among the demonstrators died during what police have described as “medical emergencies.”
Authorities said a Capitol Police officer, Brian D. Sicknick, died of injuries sustained in the assault. Another Capitol Police officer who had been at the Capitol during the riot took his own life Saturday.
Greggory Pemberton, head of the D.C. police union, called the riot “a nightmare.” He said one officer suffered an apparent heart attack after he was hit six times with a stun gun, and another lost the tip of his right index finger, possibly when it was crushed. He said many rioters came prepared, with enhanced versions of munitions carried by police.
Bear spray, for example, is a highly concentrated version of OC spray, also referred to as tear gas, that is stronger than the version police use to tame violent demonstrations. “It has a really nasty effect,” Pemberton said, noting it can burn lungs. He said that although all but one injured D.C. officer are out of the hospital, many face an extended recovery period.

They took a dump on American democracy — literally.
Some of the unhinged pro-Trump rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday defecated inside the historic building and “tracked” their feces in several hallways, the Daily News has learned. A source close to Sen. Chuck Schumer said staffers to the New York Democrat found out about the fecal fiasco on Thursday. The vile attackers, whose violent invasion of the Capitol left five people dead, apparently went No. 2 in a bathroom and then smeared their extremist excrement around the building, leaving behind brownish “foot-prints,” the source said. “It looked like they tracked it around,” said the person. Supporters of President Trump are confronted by Capitol Police officers outside the Senate Chamber inside the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. The Trump-boosting poop putzes didn’t just leave turds in their wake. Egged on by President Trump, the throngs of far-right rioters smashed windows, fought police officers and vandalized offices of lawmakers. Trump, seemingly oblivious to the stain his presidency is leaving on U.S. history, cheered on the insurrectionists in a since-removed Twitter video. “We love you,” he told them. Schumer and dozens of other Democrats on Capitol Hill are calling for Trump to be impeached or removed via the 25th Amendment in light of his incitement of the riot. The source said poop in Capitol hallways is the least of Schumer’s problems at the moment. “Schumer is dealing with proverbial s–t — not this kind,” the source said.

Feces smeared throughout a federal building. Blood on the marble bust of a former president.
Nooses on Capitol Hill. These are the images captured on January 6 when an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds flooded the gates of the US Capitol, America’s fortress of democracy. And what they show is a brazenness, a fearlessness, an entitlement to conquer and destroy. These Trump fanatics could do whatever they wanted, take whatever they wanted, and no one would dare to stop them.
An immediate concern from observers was how these insurrectionists successfully breached a federal building that has its own police force of more than 2,000. The pro-Trump mob was in control on the outside and inside. Despite public announcements of a plan to “take America back” on January 6 in DC, even from the president himself, Capitol Police had not initially requested assistance from the DC National Guard or DC police, according to the Washington Post — and they were outnumbered.
A mere 69 people were arrested in DC on Wednesday night after the riot that temporarily halted the counting of Electoral College votes to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. Just 69 were arrested on site despite widespread photos and footage of rioters bashing windows and scaling the walls of the Capitol grounds.
In fact, in some video, officers can be seen holding the hands of the extremists, escorting them down steps, holding the doors of the Capitol open for them to leave, and taking selfies with them. In comparison, police in DC arrested 427 people between May 30 and June 2 last year, the peak of the uprising that came in response to the police killings of Black people like George Floyd and Breonna Taylor.
The highest number of arrests, 289, came on June 1 when curfew was set at 7 pm. (This was the same day Trump authorized the use of tear gas on peaceful protesters in Lafayette Square to take a photo with a Bible outside of St. John’s Church.) But when curfew came at 6 pm on January 6, extremists were still roaming around downtown, and police didn’t make widespread arrests.
While some were still wondering how this happened, others, especially Black people and other people of color, grew indignant watching the coup attempt unfold online and on TV, knowing that the whiteness of the insurrectionists acted as a shield — protecting them from being seen as a threat before, and while, they stormed the Capitol. For activists who endured violence at the hands of police when they were merely asking for them to stop executing Black people, this inequity is why they protested in the first place.
There are many details that remain unclear about botched protocol on Wednesday — why the National Guard wasn’t activated sooner, why police reportedly had no intelligence on what the extremists had planned. But the fact that people are searching for answers as to why white people attempted to claim what they believed they own proves that white supremacy is functioning as it always has: unfiltered and out in the open.
Unlike demonstrations associated with the right-wing, which authorities attempt to disperse under 4% of the time, demonstrations associated with the left-wing are met with government intervention over 9% of the time. When authorities engage demonstrations associated with the right-wing, they use force nearly one-third or 34% of the time. Meanwhile, authorities use force in demonstrations associated with the left-wing over half or 51% of the time. This evidence bears out anecdotally for the many activists and Black Lives Matter protesters who joined these demonstrations throughout the year.
According to Abdullah, a December child-led protest she organized in Los Angeles resulted in violence from the police. “The police were sicced on us and they made a beeline for our children,” Abdullah explained.
“They tackled one of our 72-year-old elders and stomped on him, and then the people who came to his aid were beaten and arrested.” According to Abdullah, police arrested a trans sister involved in the demonstration and threatened to book them into men’s central jail. “There was no decency,” Abdullah said.
This scene was common in 2020 and looked similar to what happened in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014 and Selma, Alabama, in 1965. Photo roundups were packed with images of officers clad in riot gear, moving to corner Black Lives Matter protesters and put their backs against the wall. Other haunting images showed officers destroying the water bottles that protesters used to wet their eyes after they were tear-gassed, or colluding with far-right counterprotesters.
In some instances, police kettled protesters to make arrests, a tactic of herding them into a confined space so they can’t escape. These images might have shocked liberal white viewers, but they were in line with what activists had been fighting against all along.
While the number of Black Lives Matter protests has dropped since the summer, protests against wearing masks and false claims of election fraud, primarily attended by white people, have risen this fall — with little police interference. According to ACLED, police violence against Black Lives Matter protesters deters participants and slows mobilization.
But protests remain stronger when they’re not disturbed by violence or the threat of it. According to the Washington Post, 14,000 protesters were arrested between late May and late June last year.
At “Stop the Steal” rallies — rallies largely attended by far-right pro-Trump supporters — the police fit in. They wave flags with thin blue lines to show support and vow to “Back the Blue”; the two groups are allies.
Meanwhile, at Black Lives Matter protests, protesters speak against the actions of law enforcement, automatically positioning officers as a counterprotesting force, a force meant to upheld the status quo. This dynamic influences how police handle each group.
What’s evident is that the organizers of Wednesday’s rallies were not taken seriously, as white extremists are often infantilized and given room to work out their feelings and blow off steam. We are told we need to listen to them, to try to understand their plight and psychology.
Meanwhile, for centuries, Black people have stated that this white entitlement — to take government, property, lives — is the very core of American identity. From the time colonizers brought enslaved people to America’s shores to Trump encouraging his supporters to walk down to the Capitol and be strong, this has been the case. There is another striking image from the Capitol that captures this sentiment.
In it, a white man holds a large Confederate flag in front of two portraits, one of abolitionist Charles Sumner, the other of John C. Calhoun, a pro-slavery advocate and the seventh vice president of the United States. The juxtaposition of the portraits was stark. The battles they were fighting rage on today. And on Wednesday, it was clear who was still winning.

(Reuters) - U.S. taxpayers will be on the hook for damage from a mob attack on the U.S. Capitol in Washington on Wednesday because the building and grounds are not insured, industry sources said. Supporters of Republican President Donald Trump angry at his election loss stormed the Capitol Building, breaking windows, defacing items inside and setting small fires outside.
Taxpayers will pay for damages because federal agencies rarely carry insurance, industry and policy sources said. “Taxpayers will be on the hook for repairs to the Capitol,” said Stephen Ellis, president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a U.S. budget watchdog group. The tab for fixing broken glass, doors and furniture, plus cleaning debris left behind, was still unknown.
Senator Jeff Merkley’s office had a door knocked off its hinges and art torn from the wall, according to video the Oregon Democrat posted on Twitter. Other congressional staffers and journalists posted photos of offices littered with broken glass and debris, as well as a door with “MURDER THE MEDIA” scrawled into it, and a bust of former President Zachary Taylor splashed with red paint. The Architect of the Capitol, which oversees building preservation and maintenance, will likely have to cover some of the cost, sources said.
The agency did not respond to a comment request. The violence on Wednesday came as the Senate was counting electoral votes to certify Democrat Joe Biden’s presidential victory.
The siege by Trump supporters represents one of the gravest security lapses in recent U.S. history, current and former law enforcement officials said. In terms of repair and cleanup expenses, the federal government has long considered insurance not worth the expense. Even allowing the FBI to purchase coverage for an undercover operation involving global risks is rare, the Government Accountability Office noted in a 1982 report.
That position has not changed much, even after terrorists targeted the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001. It cost $500 million to $1 billion to fix the building, according to estimates.

TAMPA (WFLA) – House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) said Thursday that rioters that stormed the Capitol stole a poster that was a tribute to the late civil rights icon, Rep. John Lewis, who died last year. Before the violence began Thursday, many Democrats alluded to Lewis and his civil rights efforts after the victories of Democrats Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock in their Georgia Senate runoff elections.

Unlike many of his congressional colleagues, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., was in his office in a separate federal building when President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday afternoon. So he didn’t actually see the damage live until nearly midnight, after the House had voted down the last challenge to the presidential election result.
When he finally did walk around the rotunda — his favorite and arguably the most storied room of the building — the disarray left him speechless. Water bottles, broken furniture, tattered Trump flags and pieces of body armor and clothing were strewn on the marble floor as if it were an abandoned parking lot.
So for the next hour and a half, he crouched down and filled a half dozen trash bags with debris. When he finished cleaning up the rotunda, he began working on the adjacent rooms, including the National Statuary Hall and the Capitol crypt downstairs.
Then he returned to the House floor to debate Pennsylvania's vote count, a session that lasted until 3 a.m. By Thursday evening, he’d been awake for more than 36 hours. On a day in which video of mayhem and bloodshed inundated social media, a widely shared photograph of Kim, alone on his knees, picking up the final pieces of garbage in a nearly empty rotunda, was a radical break from — and rejection of — the violent impulses that drove the country to the brink of collapse.
Many people labeled him a “true patriot.” While Kim said he didn’t dwell much on the symbolic heft of his actions, the term was on his mind.
The irony of a history-making Korean American lawmaker dusting up after a white supremacist riot is not lost on Kim. But he also pointed to the progress that’s been made.
A former national security aide under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, Kim recently spoke about how simmering ideological tensions can become dangerous during presidential transitions. But while he expected the hate and anger that defined the Trump era to escalate in the aftermath of the election, Wednesday’s events still shocked him.
In the roughly six hours he spent sheltered in his office, he worried about the safety of his colleagues and staffers as the pro-Trump mob ransacked the Capitol. At one point, he recalled receiving a security alert that Capitol police had lost control of the building.
Bridging the deep racial and ideological chasms in this country, Kim said, will require legislative action to rein in the radicalization of white supremacists and the proliferation of disinformation. At the same time, he said, there must also be profound shifts in the way Americans treat one another on a personal level.

They damn near lost the building.
It’s an overwrought metaphor. You’ve heard it before.
The Capitol Dome, piercing the Washington, D.C., skyline, is a symbol of democracy. A beacon of freedom throughout the world.
The U.S. Capitol is that. But it’s also an office building.
A museum. An art gallery.
And, the U.S. Capitol is the temple where American history plays out. It all unfolds under the Capitol Dome. Machinations in the building are synthesized with what the rest of the country is going through at any given moment.
Debates and legislation about slavery. The first "shot" fired in the Civil War came in the Old Senate chamber as Rep. Preston Brooks, D-S.C., nearly beat to death Sen. Charles Sumner, R-Mass., with a cane.
The building has seen imbroglios over ObamaCare. Arguments about firearms.
The Dred Scott and Amistad decisions unfolded in the Old Supreme Court Chamber. Votes to send men and women to war are cast in the U.S. Capitol.
We inaugurate American presidents on the West Front the U.S. Capitol. And they later lay in state in the Capitol Rotunda.
The House and Senate chambers are no different than Walmart when it comes to donnybrooks about wearing masks during a pandemic. The House and Senate argued about civil rights during the 1960s.
Contemporary debates about "Black Lives Matter" and police reform resonated in the chamber after police killings last spring and summer. And then the body of the late Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., lay in state within the Capitol walls.
As such, one of the most malevolent, toxic moments in American history unfolded at the Capitol. It’s forever stamped as a shameful date: Jan. 6, 2021. Marauders roamed the Capitol.
Trashed the Senate parliamentarian’s Office. Wielded Confederate flags in the Ohio Clock Corridor outside the Senate chamber.
Ripped down the nameplate to the entrance of the office suite of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. Vandalized a statue of President Zachary Taylor.
Carved "Murder the Media" in a Capitol doorway. Extremists defecated in the hallways, stomped in their own feces and tracked their excrement across the encaustic, Minton tiles.
Jan. 6, 2021, would have been historic enough on its own. The 12th Amendment to the Constitution dictates that the House and Senate huddle in a joint session of Congress to tally the Electoral College votes. The House and Senate convene in a joint session (different from a joint meeting) only for a president's annual State of the Union address and to certify the electoral votes.
So, while this quadrennial session is often a sleeper and rote in nature, it is an important event proscribed by an entire constitutional amendment. And, the 12th Amendment dictates that the vice president preside over the session.
Puerto Rican nationalists shot up the House chamber in 1954, wounding five Congress members. The "fourth" plane that hijackers commandeered and crashed in Pennsylvania was headed to the Capitol on 9/11. But the U.S. Capitol hadn’t faced an incursion like the one it encountered Wednesday since the British stormed the building 207 years ago.
The British routed American forces at the Battle of Bladensburg on Aug. 24, 1814, as a part of the "Chesapeake Campaign." Having quashed the fledgling U.S. military in Maryland just outside Washington, the Royal Marines marched 10 miles to the east.
They sacked the Capitol and set the structure ablaze. The inferno marked the only time since the Revolutionary War that the Capitol fell to a foreign raider.
A foreign adversary didn’t invade the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. But this date is now entered into the almanac of ignominy. A macabre shorthand which speaks in shorthand: Sept.11, 2001 and Dec. 7, 1941.
A foreign adversary didn’t invade the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. But this date is now entered into the almanac of ignominy.
But this time, the threat didn’t come from external foes. Senate Chaplain Barry Black addressed this menace in his closing prayer when the joint session of Congress finalized the Electoral College outcome just before 4 a.m. ET on Jan. 7. "Protect and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies – domestic – as well as foreign," prayed Black, flipping the cliché for emphasis.
And they damn near lost the building. This isn’t about a "building."
This is about American democracy. And if they "lost the building" Wednesday, the United States of America would have lost much more.
The continuity of American government teetered on a narrow ledge Wednesday. It wouldn’t have taken much for democracy to plunge into a crevasse of catastrophe. The continuity of American government teetered on a narrow ledge Wednesday.
It wouldn’t have taken much for democracy to plunge into a crevasse of catastrophe. As I say, American history plays out under the Capitol Dome.
All of this, as lawmakers convened a joint session of Congress with the speaker of the House and vice president of the United States presiding. We came damn close to losing it all on Jan. 6.
"You can see a lot by watching," proffered baseball legend Yogi Berra. The late Hall of Famer's rhetorical tautology represents one of the important tools in a reporter’s repertoire.
Over the years, I’ve learned to "watch" things on Capitol Hill. Observing, so as to divine meaning and decode various happenings.
I frequently watch the floor directors for the speaker and majority leader in the House chamber. The floor director serves as a parliamentary sentinel for trouble. If the floor director is worked up, it’s a good bet something bad is going down.
An amendment may be about to fail. A member voted differently than was expected.
There’s an unanticipated problem with a bill. They may lack the votes to pass legislation.
In the House, I train my eyes on Keith Stern, Pelosi’s floor director. I was downstairs in the Capitol Visitor’s Center in an auxiliary studio Fox News uses during the pandemic to cover the Electoral College certification. One of my earpieces was jacked into Fox’s New York City and Washington studios.
The other earpiece was wired so I could listen to either the House or Senate floors. We set up two monitors so I could observe happenings in both the House and Senate chambers.
Not long after 2 p.m. ET Wednesday, I reported that there was a security threat inside the Capitol. I saw Stern running on my monitor as the House attempted to debate Arizona’s slate of electoral votes.
Stern’s panic spelled a problem. A couple of moments later, the House abruptly recessed. But I could still hear the House floor audio in my earpiece.
Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., presided over the session. Years ago, congressional security officials told me of a battle plan during a hypothetical terrorist threat during State of the Union. They would likely cut the TV feed so officials could instruct those in the chamber on what to do.
Seconds later, McGovern warned lawmakers and aides to get down under their desks. The Massachusetts Democrat instructed them to grab escape hoods stowed under chairs in the chamber.
I couldn’t hear the pandemonium from the House chamber unfolding three floors above me. But it wasn’t long until I was told by multiple sources there was gunfire in the Capitol.
I used caution. Misinformation is a lava flow during a crisis.
Hot. Fast. And dangerous.
I finally confirmed that there was gunfire in the Capitol. But I wouldn’t see video of what transpired until a few hours later.
Misinformation is a lava flow during a crisis. Hot.
Fast. And dangerous.
A clutch of demonstrators raised hell at the glass doors atop a staircase leading to the Speaker’s Lobby. The Speaker’s Lobby is a long, ornate hallway stretching immediately behind the House chamber.
The thugs kicked at the doors to the Speaker’s Lobby, stabbing at it with the butt end of poles festooned with Trump flags. They shouted "Break it down!" and "F--- the police!"
The hooligans were getting close. If the mob broke into the Speaker’s Lobby, they were all but inside the House chamber.
A secondary door leading to the chamber is immediately inside the Lobby. Security officials shoved stacks of furniture against the doors to the Speaker’s Lobby to prevent the invaders from breaking inside.
Then, a plainclothes U.S Capitol Police officer appeared inside the doorway to the Speaker’s Lobby, service weapon drawn. A woman later identified as Ashli Babbitt of California then allegedly tried to scale the doorway and vault over the transom of the Speaker’s Lobby.
Holding his weapon steady, the officer fired a single shot. It killed Babbitt.
In normal, pre-pandemic times, I spend hours in the Speaker’s Lobby. It’s where most reporters go to talk to lawmakers and aides when votes are called in the House. The Speaker’s Lobby hasn’t been open since March due to the pandemic.
But the video from Wednesday shows the mutineers were close to busting down the doors before the officer discharged his weapon. I will return to the Speaker’s Lobby through those very doors when coronavirus subsides.
But this grotesque episode forever alters that hallowed venue in America’s seat of government. American history plays out under the Capitol Dome. An icon to that history is situated above the main entrance to Statuary Hall, the old House chamber.
Perched immediately above the passageway to the Capitol Rotunda is a statue of Clio, the "Muse of History." Clio stands atop a chariot, a clock doubling as a wheel. Clio gazes down on the old House chamber, recording events which unfold in the Capitol below.
Many of the raiders who rushed the Capitol passed right under Clio as they traipsed between the Rotunda and the House chamber, skirmishing with the Capitol Police. American history plays out under the Capitol Dome. They damn near lost the building.
Clio witnessed it all. The events of Jan. 6, 2021 are now etched into Clio’s tablet. The darkest entry yet.

As questions continue to arise over the potential security ramifications after the Capitol building was stormed on Wednesday, Rep. Jim Clyburn, a Democrat from South Carolina, told reporters on a call today that his iPad was stolen during the breach.
A spokesperson for Clyburn now tells CNN that the iPad has been found and was not stolen. "Whip Clyburn’s iPad is safe and sound. In the chaos on Wednesday, a staffer moved it to a more secure location and other staff was unaware," a spokesperson for Clyburn told CNN.
Some lawmakers have reported that they had items stolen, Sen. Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from Oregon, said rioters who ransacked his office at the US Capitol stole a laptop that was on a table. According to authorities, multiple senators' offices were hit during the breach of the Capitol.
Why this matters: The thefts raise questions about Congress's cybersecurity posture and whether US officials have done enough to secure their computing devices and networks from direct, physical access.

A SOFREP source inside the Pentagon has confirmed that several classified SECRET laptops were stolen from the Capitol Building during Wednesday’s chaotic events.
According to the source, who spoke to SOFREP under the condition of anonymity, some of the computers were left open and logged into the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet. SIPRNet, or the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network, is, simply put, the Department of Defense’s classified version of the civilian internet. It is a network of secure computers and servers that allows users from the Department of Defense, the Department of State, and other government bodies to transmit classified information.
On Thursday, following the breach of the Capitol building, the SIPRNet was shut down for a portion of the day before an update was pushed out, according to several SOFREP sources. On Friday morning, according to sources inside, the operations center of the United States Army Special Operation Command, USASOC, sent out an email to all personnel saying that any SIPRNet computers not accounted for by the end of the day would be dropped from the network. A USASOC spokesperson confirmed the email but said it was “part of an ongoing administrative effort” which was “in no way related” to the events in Washington DC.
The Department of Justice has expressed concern over the theft of computers from the Capitol and has warned that some secret information may now be in play. On Wednesday, following the breach of the Capitol and the subsequent securing of the building, Senator Jeff Merkley posted on Twitter a video of the damage to his office which is located on a lower level of the building. In the video, he reports that his laptop was stolen.
The trail of destruction and looting. What happened today was an assault by the domestic terrorists who stormed the Capitol, but it was also an assault on our constitution.
It is unclear at this time whether Senator Merkley’s computer was designated as SECRET. Department of Justice officials are still working to determine the number of computers that were stolen during the breach.
House and Senate staff members with a need to access classified information are required to obtain security clearances. The Office of Senate Security and Office of House Security, respectively, have oversight over the security clearance process for congressional staffers. The background investigations for both the House and Senate are conducted by the FBI.
Every SECRET computer is secured with a SIPRNet token, or password, and encryption in the form of a BitLocker key. In order to access a computer that had been logged off of the SIPRNet, someone would have to first bypass the password and then the encryption. If the encryption were hacked, access to any files saved on the computer’s hard drive would be accessible.
If the computer were left open and logged in, however, access to the SIPRNet would be fairly easy. It is common for a user to download information onto the computer’s hard drive for later use.
Access to the SIPRNet is controlled through a secure username and password or via a Common Access Card, or CAC. SECRET computers are equipped with CAC readers.
When a CAC is inserted, the user’s credentials are verified. If a user is logged in and the CAC is removed from the reader, the user is immediately logged out and the computer is locked. Accessing local files stored on the hard drive or gaining access to the SIPRNet would be nearly impossible for the average internet user, especially one lacking the credentials or a CAC with SECRET level clearance.
Still, it is feasible. It’s also possible that authorized users — in this case, most likely senators serving on the Armed Services or Homeland Security Committees — could have left their CACs in their computers during the turmoil. However, if someone among the rioters knew what they were doing, the SIPRNet security breach could be severe. Say, for example, if a computer belonging to a National Security Council member or an Armed Serviced Committee member — who have nearly full access — were left unguarded and logged in, information from the SIPRNet could easily be downloaded onto the hard drive and then removed from the building in a cargo pocket or backpack.
Another concern is uploading files onto the server. For example, it would take no time at all to upload a virus. While a SECRET computer would reject the thumb drive immediately, someone smart enough could bypass this.
While a remote possibility, it would have been easy for a trained professional to slip unnoticed into the Capitol building in the midst of the confusion. Once inside, they would have had ample time to locate a SECRET computer, gain access, and carry out any number of actions.
According to the most up-to-date timelines of the events on Wednesday, the Capitol was breached around 3 p.m. and cleared by Capitol Police by 5:40 p.m. A trained professional — a hacker, foreign spy, or traitor — would have had unfettered access to the SIPRNet for nearly three hours. Expert intelligence operatives can get sensitive information from a single site in minutes.
There is a SCIF in the Capitol building on the third floor. It is heavily guarded, with armed guards always present, and nearly impossible to get into.
Now, it is very likely that many members of Congress would have SECRET documents in their offices’ safes. It’s unknown how many of those were breached or taken.
Given that the SECRET internet was down yesterday, an update was rolled out, and the take-home computers are to be dropped from the network suggests that the authorities are casting a wide net. It’s also possible that they aren’t sure what might be at risk and are attempting to shut as many doors down as possible.
If a laptop that was logged out of the SIPRNet and still encrypted were stolen from the building, it would be little more than a paperweight for the common thief. Even if they were able to bypass the security credentials and encryption, they would have no way of connecting the machine to the SIPRNet. That is unless they had already solved that problem.
The level of sophistication needed to access classified information on the SIPRNet outside of a secure connection is extremely high. It’s likely that only a highly trained professional or someone from a foreign espionage group would be able to make a breach.
It’s unlikely — though possible — that Russian or Chinese spies were present at the demonstrations on Wednesday. That said, a stolen SECRET computer with files on its hard drive would be very valuable to the right person. It would stand to reason that an average rioter would not know about the existence of classified material or computers in the Capitol. It’s also likely that if a rioter entered an office and saw a computer, the motive for theft would be a base one, a crime of opportunity.
But, the gathering in DC on Wednesday was no random event. It was planned, and people came from all over to participate.
This new information comes amid questions over the lax security and claims from a Metro DC Police officer that off-duty military and police personnel were among the thugs and “flashing their ID badges” at their on-duty colleagues. Rioters who gained access to the building were pictured at the desks of high-ranking members of Congress, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and had unfettered access to dossiers, computers, and phones. The penalty for stealing a classified computer or classified information is hefty and could include over 10 years in jail. Reporting was contributed by John Black, Sean Spoonts, and J.W. Sotak.

Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich) is the president of Protocol.
Prior to joining Protocol in 2019, Bennett was executive director of global strategic partnerships at POLITICO, where he led strategic growth efforts including POLITICO's European expansion in Brussels and POLITICO's creative agency POLITICO Focus during his six years with the company. Prior to POLITICO, Bennett was co-founder and CMO of Hinge, the mobile dating company recently acquired by Match Group. Bennett began his career in digital and social brand marketing working with major brands across tech, energy, and health care at leading marketing and communications agencies including Edelman and GMMB. Bennett is originally from Portland, Maine, and received his bachelor's degree from Colgate University.

A House vote on Tuesday revealed strong support for President Donald Trump’s removal in the wake of the violent January 6 attack on the Capitol.
House lawmakers on Tuesday voted 223-205 to approve a resolution from Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) that urges Vice President Mike Pence to use the process outlined in the 25th Amendment to force Trump to step down. One Republican — Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) — voted in favor of the resolution alongside Democrats. While the resolution isn’t binding — and Pence has already said he won’t be invoking the 25th Amendment — the vote captured the House backing in favor of Trump’s removal from office.
Multiple Republicans including Reps. Liz Cheney (R-WY), John Katko (R-NY) and Kinzinger (R-IL) had also announced earlier in the day that they plan to support Trump’s impeachment, which will get a vote on Wednesday. Notably, House Republicans are not planning to whip the impeachment vote, CNN and Politico reported.
In other words, while most GOP members of the House are expected to vote against impeaching the president, party leaders won’t try to convince the small group of lawmakers planning to defect from doing otherwise. Calls for Trump’s resignation or removal have increased since January 6, when the president urged his followers to march toward the Capitol and express their concerns about the certification of the election results.
The 25th Amendment — which enables the vice president and a majority of the Cabinet to declare a president “unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office” and force them to step down — has been viewed as the fastest way to remove Trump, though Pence has already said he won’t be taking this route. The House on Wednesday will weigh one article of impeachment, charging Trump with inciting an insurrection.
Given the overwhelming majority of Democrats who are on board, Trump is poised to become the first US president in history to be impeached twice. Tuesday’s
25th Amendment resolution is the first of two votes the House will take in its attempt to remove Trump from office. The House will introduce an article of impeachment Wednesday morning, setting up a vote on it for later in the day.
Democrats had 217 cosponsors for the resolution as of Tuesday afternoon, per Rep. David Cicilline, one of the authors. In their impeachment article, Democrats also mention Trump’s recent phone call with Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger in which he encouraged Raffensperger to “find” more than 11,000 votes to overturn the election.
It also references Trump’s rhetoric about the November election being “fraudulent,” a lie he has repeated since his loss. But the biggest thing Democrats are focused on is how Trump’s continued lies resulted in violence and death in DC, marking the first time Capitol Hill was breached since the British invasion of 1812 — and the first time by American citizens. If the House does pass the article of impeachment, Pelosi will then transmit it over to the Senate.
By then, Democrats could be staring down a lengthy trial with just days left in Trump’s term. Some, including Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) are worried that could hurt Biden’s ability to get his Cabinet nominees approved and critical pieces of his agenda passed.
According to a memo from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, the Senate will not convene for regular business until January 19 unless lawmakers agree to do so earlier by unanimous consent. Given the likely Republican opposition to an earlier start, the Senate probably won’t be in full session for another week.
That timing means the start of an impeachment trial would coincide with that of the Biden administration, which officially begins after Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris are sworn in on January 20. To get a trial started sooner, incoming Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer has urged McConnell to reconvene the upper chamber by using emergency powers established under a 2004 law.
McConnell has yet to comment on whether he’d agree to this arrangement, but it’s unlikely he will. As a result, starting in late January the Senate is set to juggle both an impeachment trial, its own legislative agenda, and confirmations for Biden’s Cabinet nominees. House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn previously suggested the House could hold off on sending the articles of impeachment in order to delay a potential trial, but some Democrats — including Majority Leader Steny Hoyer — argue that sooner is better.
As the rules go, once the House sends articles of impeachment to the Senate, the upper chamber must begin the trial shortly thereafter. What exactly this will look like in practice isn’t yet clear: Biden has suggested the Senate could split its time by tackling legislation and nominations in the morning and conducting the impeachment trial later in the day.
“Can we go half day on dealing with impeachment, and half day getting my people nominated and confirmed in the Senate as well as moving on the package?” Biden seemed to suggest on Monday.
Time in the Senate was also split between impeachment and other legislative business during Trump’s 2020 trial, Politico reported. In an interview with Buffalo News, Schumer signaled the upper chamber was likely to take this approach. “We’re going to have to do several things at once but we got to move the agenda as well.

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Facebook, Microsoft and Google have joined a growing list of big banks and other major companies that are pausing their political spending following last week's violent attack on the U.S. Capitol. One after another, corporate responses have escalated.
Some companies have suspended donations to lawmakers who objected to the certification of the presidential election. Many have halted all of their political donations for a few months.
A few have gone so far as to support the removal of the president. "The outgoing president incited violence in an attempt to retain power, and any elected leader defending him is violating their oath to the Constitution and rejecting democracy in favor of anarchy," said National Association of Manufacturers CEO Jay Timmons, urging Vice President Pence to consider invoking the 25th Amendment, which allows removal of a president deemed unfit to serve.
Money-in-politics groups have welcomed this unusually widespread — and self-initiated — reckoning by corporations over their own role in contributing to the nation's current political state. "You just can't really overemphasize the role that donors play in the current political calculation," said Meredith McGehee, executive director at Issue One, a nonprofit that works to reduce the influence of money in politics. "In this moment of crisis, they sent a really important signal that the actions of the objectors were unacceptable ... because what they were doing was voting to overturn the will of the voters," McGehee said.
Indeed, right now — the start of the year right after an election is concluded — is when many companies conduct this kind of review of political spending anyway. Also, public campaign spending by corporations is much more restricted than spending by super PACs and especially tax-exempt advocacy groups that don't disclose their donors. Plus, a lot of corporate money in American politics flows from individuals, corporate executives and other employees.
Earlier, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup told reporters they would suspend all political donations. Airbnb, Comcast and others said they were suspending PAC donations to Republicans who objected to the Electoral College vote.
The newsletter Popular Information is tracking such corporate responses, also adding Marriott and BlueCross BlueShield to the list. Similarly, Kansas City, Mo.-based Hallmark has asked Sens. Josh Hawley of Missouri and Roger Marshall of Kansas to return $7,000 and $5,000, respectively, in employee donations from the last two years, according to The Kansas City Star. "I think they have to take a look long and hard at what role has their political spending played in sort of the buildup to this crisis," said Bruce Freed, the head of the Center for Political Accountability.
Last week, Facebook suspended President Trump from both its main platform and Instagram indefinitely. Twitter has disabled Trump's account permanently. Online merchant platform Shopify shut down two stores affiliated with the Trump Organization and Trump's campaign. The PGA of America's board of directors has voted to pull next year's PGA Championship from Trump's golf course in New Jersey. Editor's note: Comcast, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase are among NPR's financial supporters. NPR's Shannon Bond contributed to this report.

Their departures came amid reports that a Capitol police officer was hospitalized in grave condition Thursday night. Four people have died in relation to the riots — one woman was shot and killed at the Capitol while three other individuals suffered separate medical emergencies.
Pelosi had called for Sund’s resignation earlier Thursday and said she has been unable to reach him; a spokeswoman for Sund said earlier he has no plans to step down. Earlier on Thursday, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said he planned to fire Stenger as soon as Democrats take the majority on Jan. 20 if he was still in his post at the time.
McConnell said ultimate blame lies with “unhinged criminals” that desecrated the Capitol, but nonetheless suggested that the Congress would have to address the “shocking failures in the Capitol’s security posture and protocols.” Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), a trusted Pelosi ally who chairs the committee in charge of Capitol security logistics, said Sund misled her about the security preparations for the Jan. 6. session. Lofgren told reporters Thursday that the Capitol Police chief assured her that all contingencies were in place and “there was no doubt they were completely able to keep us secure in the Capitol.”
The National Guard was at the ready, Lofgren said Sund told her. While Pelosi, McConnell, Schumer and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy were huddled together in a secure location during the riot, they made a frantic push to get more police on the scene. All of the “big four” congressional leaders hopped on the phone with the secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Army Secretary, and “many other officials,” according to Schumer.
Graham briefly but pointedly dressed down sergeant-at-arms staff about the unprecedented security breach in the Capitol on Wednesday, according to two sources familiar with the conversation. He also said Thursday that Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) was pushing for a more forceful response.
Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), the House Democrat who oversees funding for the Capitol police, told reporters there would be swift fallout from the deadly security breach. Ryan praised the rank-and-file Capitol police for doing “everything they could” to hold back the mob but said higher ranking officials will be taken to task and likely fired.
At least 15 police officers were hospitalized due to the chaos with one in critical condition, according to Ryan. The House floor was buzzing with talk of immediate firings Wednesday night as lawmakers gathered to restart certification of Biden’s victory.
Lawmakers did not coalesce around a specific plan but generally agreed that there needed to be swift leadership changes both within the Capitol Police, including Sund, and the Sergeant-at-Arms offices, according to multiple sources familiar with the conversations. Ryan and House Appropriations Chair Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) on Thursday announced an investigation of the Capitol Police failures that led to Wednesday’s mob-rule.
Rioters stormed the Capitol, crashing through glass windows and busting down doors, invading some of the most secure areas of the Capitol, including the Senate chamber and Pelosi’s office. Ryan said he was disturbed by videos from Wednesday that appeared to show Capitol police opening the barriers to allow the rioters onto Capitol grounds and then later freely leave the Capitol after destroying it.
The sergeant-at-arms has more than 800 employees who oversee security of the Capitol, congressional office buildings and staff, while the Capitol Police has 2,300 employees and officers. During other moments like Trump’s impeachment or the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, the security and law enforcement presence inside the building was pronounced, but at times on Thursday there were barren halls turned over to the rioters.
And not until the trespassers were expelled from the Capitol did the number of officers reach overwhelming levels. Kyle Cheney, Marianne LeVine, Sarah Ferris and Melanie Zanona contributed to this report.

The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department stepped down from his post on Friday, days earlier than he said he would following a deadly breach of the Capitol complex by a mob supporting President Trump.
Fast, informative and written just for locals. Get The 7 DMV newsletter in your inbox every weekday morning.
ArrowRight Chief Steven Sund had said Thursday that his resignation would be effective Jan. 16, hours after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) publicly called on him to step down. But Assistant Chief Yogananda D. Pittman took control of the agency on Friday, according to the agency’s website. A Capitol Police officer since 2001, she was one of the first Black female supervisors to become a captain. She led her unit in providing security for the 2013 presidential inauguration, the website says, and in 2018 was promoted to deputy chief.
The Capitol Police did not request significant help from other law enforcement agencies in advance of the siege, which unfolded as lawmakers attempted to certify the victory of President-elect Joe Biden. In an interview with The Washington Post on Sunday, Sund said he sought such help but was rebuffed by his bosses in Congress. The department did not have enough of its own officers and fortifications — or a backup plan in place — to keep the rioters out of the building.
A Capitol Police officer, Brian D. Sicknick, died on Thursday after physically engaging the mob. Ashli Babbitt, who breached the building, was fatally shot by a Capitol Police officer during the confrontation; three others died of medical emergencies, officials have said.
And the agency took another hit Saturday, with the suicide of off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer. The agency did not list a cause of when it announced Liebengood’s death on Sunday. But a spokesman for the family confirmed Monday that he died by suicide and had been on duty at the Capitol on Wednesday. Liebengood had been with the department since April 2005 and worked in the Senate Division. A former co-worker said Liebengood was often posted at the Delaware entrance of the Russell Senate Office Building — his favorite assignment.
On Sunday, Trump ordered flags lowered to half-staff in honor of both Sicknick and Liebengood. Scores of officers lined up outside the Capitol and saluted as a hearse carrying Sicknick’s remains passed by. “He will be sorely missed,” the statement added.
Liebengood is survived by his wife and siblings. Friends described Liebengood as humble and reserved, and said he shared a love of racecar driving with his late father, as well as a pull toward the halls of the Capitol. He spent several years as a professional racecar driver until 2005, when he left the profession to become a Capitol Police officer.
Charlie Ostlund, 70, taught Liebengood at James Madison High School in Vienna, Va., in the 1980s, and was his wrestling coach. He remembered Liebengood as a team player who often surprised opponents with his strength and physical talent.
Ostlund said the younger Liebengood looked up to his father, Howard S. Liebengood Sr., who served from 1981 to 1983 as Senate sergeant at arms, charged with ensuring security in the Capitol and Senate buildings, as well as protecting members of the Senate. Liebengood told his interviewer he was involved in the National Campaign to Stop Violence, an effort aimed at middle-schoolers.
Liebengood Sr. left his post as sergeant at arms to become a lobbyist, eventually starting his own firm with another former Hill staffer. In 2001, he returned to Capitol Hill as chief of staff to his longtime friend, Sen. Fred D. Thompson (R-Tenn.), and later to then-Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.). He died of a heart attack on Jan. 13, 2005, two weeks shy of his planned retirement.
A classmate and wrestling teammate of the younger Liebengood, Stu Wilkinson, said his friend’s relationship with Washington’s political elite dates back to their childhood — though he didn’t brag about it. He recalled a school trip to the White House in the 1980s, when Secret Service officers took Liebengood aside to have him speak with then-Senate Majority Leader Howard Henry Baker Jr. (R-Tenn.).
Bill Beck, 80, was a close friend of Liebengood Sr. who watched his son grow up. At the Capitol, he said Sunday, both men strove to engage lawmakers and staffers regardless of political party.
On the day of the Capitol attack, Beck said, he emailed the younger Liebengood to see how he was doing. He didn’t hear the news of his death until Sunday. Carol D. Leonnig and Julie Tate contributed to this report.

After Parler was banned on both the Apple and Google app stores for failing to curb violent and threatening content on its platform, the social media site is now completely offline as a result of Amazon terminating Parler’s web hosting services. The official Parler website now returns a 403 error, while its app is showing networking errors and can’t load content.
Parler launched in 2018 presenting itself as a free-speech haven and an alternative to other social media sites. The site saw its user numbers spike in recent months, as Twitter and Facebook tightened their moderation policies, especially around election and coronavirus information.
The “Stop the Steal” campaign challenging President Trump’s loss gained momentum among Parler users, as did other conspiracy theories around the election. Parler’s less-strict moderation policies were part of its appeal for many users, but the lack of content moderation is a big part of why companies suspended their services.
Even with the app removed from the Play Store users could still install Parler on their Android devices by downloading it directly from Parler’s website and sideloading it. However, with its AWS services now disabled, the website and apps no longer work.
An Amazon spokesperson confirmed to The Verge that there was no coordination with any other companies. Perhaps the best-known recent instance of a site being deplatformed for violent content was social network Gab. After a gunman killed eleven people in a Pittsburgh synagogue in 2018, PayPal banned Gab from its platform, when it was revealed that suspect Robert Bowers had posted anti-Semitic threats on Gab ahead of the shooting.
Apple rejected Gab’s application to appear in its App Store in 2016, and Twitter removed Gab’s access to its API. Google booted Gab app from its Play store in 2017 for violating its hate speech policy, and AWS cut ties with Gab in 2019, for violating its policy against hateful content. Parler has not responded to multiple requests for comment from The Verge.

Social media giants Twitter and Facebook have announced stricter measures on their platforms aimed at curbing misinformation and further unrest in response to last week's deadly insurrection led by pro-Trump extremists at the U.S. Capitol. Facebook is targeting content with the phrase "stop the steal," referring to false claims of election fraud. Twitter is targeting accounts that focus on the QAnon conspiracy theory. Both tech companies cited the upcoming inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden as a reason for taking more stringent approaches to stamp out misinformation campaigns. It comes as social media companies are coming under withering criticism that they should have done more to stop the spread of baseless claims that the November election results were illegitimate.
Twitter said it has suspended more than 70,000 accounts sharing content about QAnon, the fringe far-right conspiracy theory that is influential among many of President Trump's most loyal supporters. Among the false claims QAnon proponents put forward is that President Trump is fighting a cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles.
"We've been clear that we will take strong enforcement action on behavior that has the potential to lead to offline harm," Twitter said in a statement Tuesday. Facebook, citing its Coordinating Harm policy, said it was removing content that contains the phrase "stop the steal" from both its Facebook and Instagram platforms. "We removed the original Stop the Steal group in November and have continued to remove Pages, groups and events that violate any of our policies, including calls for violence," Facebook said in a statement Monday. Facebook added that "robust conversations" will still be allowed on its platforms centered on the outcome of the election — but users attempting to assemble under the "stop the steal" phrase will no longer be able to. "[W]ith continued attempts to organize events against the outcome of the US presidential election that can lead to violence, and use of the term by those involved in Wednesday's violence in DC, we're taking this additional step in the lead up to the inauguration," Facebook added. Facebook, Twitter and other tech giants announced the suspension of Trump's verified accounts in the days after a mob attacked the U.S. Capitol.
The mayhem played in Washington last week after the president and his allies addressed supporters, imploring them to go to the Capitol as lawmakers were gathering to certify Biden's electoral victory. The violence left five people dead, including a Capitol Hill Police officer. A U.S. Air Force veteran who was part of the group storming the Capitol was killed by police. The rioting went on for hours before law enforcement was able to regain control.
Since the attack, Facebook said it was blocking Trump's accounts "indefinitely and for at least the next two weeks," while Twitter said Trump's suspension from its platform was permanent. Editor's note: Facebook is among NPR's financial supporters.

Within one day of last week’s attack on the Capitol, at least three states introduced legislation to criminalize protest. The bills, advanced by Republican lawmakers in Florida, Mississippi, and Indiana, do not represent new strategies designed specifically to prevent future right-wing insurrections.
Rather, they draw from a set of policies that numerous state legislators introduced this summer in order to appear tough on protests against police brutality. Florida’s and Mississippi’s bills in particular represent a new brand of anti-protest laws on steroids, creating penalties for a wide array of activities, from damaging monuments to obstructing traffic. The bills include measures that could encourage harsh law enforcement responses to protests as well as provisions meant to prevent local governments from reducing police funding.
The narrower Indiana bill would broaden the definition of rioting — which the Florida bill did as well — and would criminalize camping at the Indiana state Capitol. The Mississippi bill would also allow the state to strip unemployment benefits from anyone who pleads guilty to participating in disruptive protests.
Civil liberties advocates warn that the three bills are only the tip of the iceberg. “It’s important to think about these bills as not just responses to the attack on the Capitol,” said Elly Page, creator of the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law’s U.S. Protest Law Tracker. She started the database to monitor a wave of anti-protest bills that began around the time of President Donald Trump’s election, in the wake of the movement against the Dakota Access oil pipeline at Standing Rock, and widespread police brutality protests. “The concern is that the attack on the Capitol will be used to push the kind of legislation we’ve already seen, especially in response to this summer’s racial justice protests,” Page said.
Amid nationwide actions against police brutality this past summer, a number of states introduced new legislation expanding penalties for rioting, unlawful assembly, or civil unrest. In Ohio, New York, and Michigan such bills were defeated — as was federal legislation that would have allowed the U.S. attorney general to withhold federal funding from local officials if they were deemed to have failed to take sufficient measures to deter or prosecute riot-related activity. But Tennessee’s anti-protest bill passed, and a total of eight states still have legislation pending that would expand penalties for “rioting” or participating in certain types of protests.
Although past anti-protest bills have certainly included a range of new rules under one bill, Page said this approach of “throwing everything but the kitchen sink” at the issue of disruptive protests appears to be new. She pointed to Missouri and South Carolina, which both introduced wide-ranging anti-protest legislation in December, as additional examples. Together, the “critical infrastructure” and other anti-protest laws constitute a renewed push to criminalize certain kinds of dissent.
Last September, standing alongside more than a dozen Florida law enforcement officers at the Polk County Sheriff’s Office, Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis announced the “Combatting Violence, Disorder and Looting and Law Enforcement Protection Act,” a blueprint for the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week. DeSantis said the legislation would be a “focal point” in the next legislative session. And in November, he went further, drafting “anti-mob” legislation that would expand Florida’s “stand your ground” law, making it easier to shoot and kill with impunity people looting property.
He had also tried to push state legislators to pass his proposal ahead of November elections, during a special organizational session not typically used for legislating. According to Florida Democratic State Rep. Anna Eskamani, several state senators had concerns with DeSantis’s earlier proposals affording impunity to people who attack protesters, and some of those pieces didn’t make it into the new bill. It wasn’t until the day of the attack on the Capitol, however, that a version of the bill was finally introduced.
By then, DeSantis’s rhetoric had changed. At a press conference last Thursday, DeSantis framed the measure as being aimed at protecting against incidents like the attacks at the Capitol. “I hope maybe now we’ll get even more support for my legislation because it’s something that needs to be done,” he told reporters.
The bill is raising concerns among rights activists. The American Civil Liberties Union of Florida strongly criticized DeSantis’s proposals and the current bill, condemning the governor for trying to “rebrand” his crackdown on protests against police brutality as concern for what transpired at the Capitol last week. The latest version of Florida’s bill, which Republican State Rep. Danny Burgess introduced on Wednesday, raises certain charges from misdemeanors to felonies; creates new crimes including “mob intimidation”; seeks to protect Confederate monuments; usurps local control of policing by allowing state reviews of local decisions to reduce police funding; and waives sovereign immunity for municipalities, which would allow individuals to bring civil lawsuits against local authorities for not providing enough law enforcement protection.
The bill also blocks civil damages for people harmed as part of protest actions, for example if someone is injured by a car that drives into a demonstration. Under the bill, anyone arrested at a protest would be detained until their first appearance in court — a measure typically reserved for cases where defendants pose an immediate threat to public safety. Burgess did not respond to requests for comment.
Mississippi politicians have said little so far about the sprawling anti-protest bill introduced the day after Trump supporters stormed the Capitol, but its text offers some clues about the provenance: The Mississippi bill bears the exact same name as the September version of the Florida bill pushed by DeSantis and contains much of the same language. As in Florida, the Mississippi bill creates severe penalties for a remarkable array of activities.
If the bill passed, a group of six or more people that threatens property or “disturbs any person in the enjoyment of a legal right” could face up to three years’ imprisonment and a $5,000 fine — essentially criminalizing any protest that happens to annoy a bystander. If the person traveled from another state to participate, the minimum penalty would be three years’ imprisonment.
The bill would also create new jail sentences and fines for blocking traffic, throwing things, pulling down monuments, and causing emotional distress to a protest bystander. Anyone who pleads guilty to any of the new crimes would no longer be eligible for unemployment benefits; any government employee who pleads guilty would lose their job; and anyone aiding a person who commits the new crimes could also face charges.
The bill also serves to incentivize harsh police crackdowns by encouraging victims of crimes perpetrated during a protest to recover damages from local governments whose policing was “negligent” and preventing those who unlawfully participate in protests from suing local agencies such as police. It also includes a provision barring cities and counties from reducing police department budgets except in proportion to reduced revenue.
And it expands the state’s “stand your ground” law to allow business owners to kill someone in defense of their company property if there’s rioting nearby. The Indiana bill, also introduced one day after the insurrection at the Capitol, would broaden the definition of rioting and criminalize camping at the Indiana state Capitol complex.
Protesters held nine consecutive days of sit-ins at the state Capitol in June. Under the new bill, a gathering of three or more people who simply obstruct law enforcement or any other government function could be imprisoned for a minimum of 30 days. The bill would also create a minimum 30-day sentence for anyone convicted of battery against a law enforcement officer, firefighter, or emergency medical service provider.

Good morning and welcome to Fox News First. Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...
President Trump on Thursday condemned what he described as a "heinous attack" on the Capitol the preceding day and called for healing. "Like all Americans, I am outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem," Trump said, adding that he had "immediately" deployed the National Guard to respond to the scene. Trump tweeted out the video shortly after Twitter unlocked his account. The social media company, along with Facebook, suspended the president for his initial response to the riot.
"My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth, orderly and seamless transition," Trump said, acknowledging that "a new administration" would be inaugurated Jan. 20. "This moment now calls for healing and reconciliation." CLICK HERE FOR MORE ON OUR TOP STORY.
A U.S. Capitol Police officer died Thursday night after suffering injuries during Wednesday's rioting in Washington, police confirmed in a statement. The officer was identified as Brian Sicknick, a member of the department's First Responder's Unit who joined the force in July 2008, the statement said.
Sicknick's death will be investigated as a homicide, the Capitol Police said, with the probe handled by Capitol Police, Washington's Metropolitan police and federal agencies. Sicknick was on duty at the Capitol when he was injured "while physically engaging with protesters," the statement said. The officer collapsed after the attack and was taken to a local hospital, where he died at 9:30 p.m. Thursday. CLICK HERE FOR MORE.
Vice President Mike Pence intends to oppose calls from both Democrats and Republicans in Congress to invoke the 25th Amendment and remove President Trump from office after the U.S. Capitol breach. Fox News confirmed the information with sources inside the vice president's office. Meanwhile, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said they had placed a call to Pence, urging him to take steps to remove Trump, even though the president has less than two weeks remaining in the White House before President-elect Joe Biden is inaugurated Jan. 20. Lawmakers from both major parties have called for Trump to be removed from office, either through 25th Amendment powers or a second impeachment – though it is unlikely Congress would be able to get a second impeachment and trial done before Jan. 20.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE. Tucker Carlson, on Thursday’s "Tucker Carlson Tonight," explained to viewers how Wednesday’s Capitol Hill riot was now being used to curtail civil rights in America. "The Trump protest at the Capitol yesterday is already being used as a pretext for an unprecedented crackdown on our civil liberties," Carlson said.
Not signed up yet for Fox News First? Click here to find out what you're missing.
Fox News’ Go Watch page is now available, providing visitors with Pay TV provider options in their area carrying Fox News Channel & Fox Business Network. Fox News First was compiled by Fox News' Jack Durschlag. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning!

POLITICO Dispatch: January 8 As lawmakers call for President Trump's removal from office after Wednesday's violent attempted coup, Trump is surrounding himself with an increasingly small circle of advisers. Trump recorded the speech at the White House on Thursday after several Republican allies urged him to speak out following Wednesday’s deadly clashes at the Capitol after pro-Trump protesters stormed the building, delaying the certification of Biden’s win. Steve Cortes, a senior Trump campaign adviser, described Trump’s statement as “pitch perfect” in tone and substance. “We cannot pretend that Biden won legitimately, but we must also acknowledge the present reality and move forward,” he said. But Trump’s speech might have come too late.
He faces calls for his removal from office and for criminal charges to be filed over his remarks inciting supporters on Wednesday. His aides are abandoning him in droves, and some allies no longer support his potential candidacy in 2024. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer joined others in both parties on Thursday in calling on Trump to be removed from office — either by impeaching him for the second time, or pressuring Vice President Mike Pence and Cabinet officials to invoke the 25th Amendment process. Pence‘s office declined to comment. And on Thursday night, the editorial board at the conservative Wall Street Journal, a Rupert Murdoch-owned newspaper, called on Trump to resign. Trump spent two months trying to overturn the election, alleging fraud with scant evidence, pressuring state leaders, threatening Republicans who disobeyed him, even criticizing his own vice president. He tried to justify his campaign on Thursday as an effort to “ensure the integrity of the vote,” even though local and state officials across the country denied there was any reason for concern, and as he lost dozens of court cases in which he sought to reverse his loss. In his first on-camera remarks since the protest, he also on Thursday condemned the violence and lawlessness that overtook Capitol Hill. Numerous social media platforms removed his posts and disabled his accounts for further inciting violence. Trump’s video statement on Thursday was also his first post since Twitter lifted a 12-hour freeze on his account. Daniel Lippman and Gabby Orr contributed to this report.

White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany tried on Thursday to distance President Donald Trump’s administration from riots at the Capitol, even though the president had encouraged his followers to move on the building the previous day.
McEnany’s comments come after members of both parties strongly denounced Trump for inciting the violent protesters who broke into the Capitol on Wednesday. Members of Congress and Trump’s Cabinet voiced their discontent by calling for the president’s removal from office through impeachment or the 25th Amendment.
A number of administration officials, including Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, have resigned. Trump was also barred from posting on a number of social media platforms after they determined that his messages during and following the break-in encouraged further violence.

WASHINGTON — In an extraordinary letter Tuesday to the U.S. military, the nation's top commanders condemned last week's acts of "sedition and insurrection" at the U.S. Capitol, while acknowledging Joe Biden's election victory. The message did not mention President Donald Trump by name, but the Joint Chiefs of Staff, led by U.S. Army Gen. Mark Milley, made it clear that the military intends to stand by the constitutional transfer of power to the next administration.
"As we have done throughout our history, the U.S. military will obey lawful orders from civilian leadership, support civilian authorities to protect lives and property, ensure public safety in accordance with the law, and remain fully committed to protecting and defending the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic," wrote the nation's highest military officers. "As Service Members, we must embody the values and ideals of the Nation.
We support and defend the Constitution. Any act to disrupt the Constitutional process is not only against our traditions, values and oath; it is against the law," the chiefs wrote. The message to the troops comes nearly one week after thousands of the president's supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol, resulting in at least five deaths, including that of a Capitol Police officer.
Earlier on Tuesday, Trump told reporters that people found his comments at a rally that sparked the violence at the Capitol "totally appropriate" and called the fallout "absolutely ridiculous." The president also briefly discussed the blowback he said would follow potential impeachment proceedings.
"For [House Speaker] Nancy Pelosi and [Senate Democratic leader] Chuck Schumer to continue on this path, I think it's causing tremendous danger to our country, and it's causing tremendous anger," he said.

US Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and his fellow service chiefs, in a message to the entire force condemned the Capitol Hill riots, describing in clear terms that it was contrary to the ideals of their service.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
US Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and his fellow service chiefs condemned the Capitol Hill riots and contrary to the ideals of their service. "The violent riot in Washington, D.C. on January 6, 2021 was a direct assault on the U.S. Congress, the Capitol building and our Constitutional process," Milley and the other admirals and generals said in a statement on Tuesday. The military has been a focus of the riots after several veterans were involved, including a Capitol Hill police officer who died; and a supporter of President Donald Trump. Both were veterans of the US Air Force. Jake Angeli, otherwise known as the "shaman" of a fringe group that peddles conspiracy theories, is reportedly also a US Navy veteran and is accused of participating in the riots.
At least five people died during the storming of the Capitol. Law enforcement agencies, including the FBI, are still investigating the incident combing through pictures and videos taken at the scene. According to the images and footage from the area, numerous people wore patches of individual military units, ostensibly to indicate which units they previously served in.

Washington: US Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has accused President Donald Trump, a fellow Republican, of provoking the January 6 riot at the Capitol.
"The mob was fed lies. They were provoked by the President and other powerful people," McConnell said in a speech on the Senate floor on Tuesday, local time.
The US House of Representatives last Wednesday impeached Trump for a second time. The Senate has yet to schedule a trial to determine Trump's guilt or innocence. McConnell last week said he would listen to the arguments presented during the Senate trial before deciding how to vote on the impeachment charge of inciting an insurrection that resulted in the siege of the Capitol.

The Senate returned following a recess of more than five hours due to protesters who attacked the U.S. Capitol.
Members voted 93-6 against the objection to the Arizona Electoral College votes. Six Republicans voted in favor: Senators Ted Cruz (TX), Josh Hawley (MO), Cindy Hyde-Smith (MS), John Kennedy (LA), Roger Marshall (KS), and Tommy Tuberville (AL).

President Donald Trump ordered that the flag flying above the White House be lowered to half-staff on Sunday to honor US Capitol Police officers Brian Sicknick and Howard Liebengood, who were both on duty when a mob of Trump’s supporters stormed the US Capitol on Wednesday. The step comes days after Capitol Police announced on Thursday that Sicknick had died “due to injuries sustained while on-duty.”
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had ordered flags at the US Capitol to be flown at half-staff the following day. Liebengood, meanwhile, died while off duty, the Capitol Police said Sunday.
The announcement did not state the officer’s cause of death. “As a sign of respect for the service and sacrifice of United States Capitol Police Officers Brian D. Sicknick and Howard Liebengood, and all Capitol Police Officers and law enforcement across this great Nation, by the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, I hereby order that the flag of the United States shall be flown at half-staff at the White House and upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia and throughout the United States and its Territories and possessions until sunset, January 13, 2021,” the proclamation from the President reads in part. Both officers were on duty during Wednesday’s insurrection at the US Capitol.
After hundreds of pro-Trump rioters pushed through barriers set up along the perimeter of the Capitol, demonstrators eventually made their way into the building and the House floor was evacuated by police. Only after pleading from aides and congressional allies inside the besieged Capitol did Trump release a video urging the rioters to “go home,” while still fanning their baseless grievances about a stolen election. Sicknick was injured while physically engaging with the rioters and collapsed after returning to his division office, the statement said. “He was taken to a local hospital where he succumbed to his injuries,” according to a Capitol Police statement.
Prosecutors in the US Attorney’s office plan to open a federal murder investigation into Sicknick’s death, a law enforcement official told CNN. Sicknick joined the USCP in July 2008, and most recently served in the Department’s First Responder’s Unit. “The entire USCP Department expresses its deepest sympathies to Officer Sicknick’s family and friends on their loss, and mourns the loss of a friend and colleague,” Capitol Police said.

WASHINGTON, D.C. (NBC) –
Amid resignations of key staffers, White House advisers say President Donald Trump has no intention of leaving his post. According to them, Trump doesn’t think he did anything wrong.
Instead, CNN has learned he and First Lady Melania Trump are currently scheduled to depart Washington for Mar-a-Lago the day before Joe Biden is sworn in. While Trump’s absence was not unexpected, the move undermines a commitment he made Thursday night in a video that senior staff convinced him to make by warning he’s at risk of being removed from office. With less than two weeks left, the West Wing is in crisis mode amid a growing threat to impeach Trump again, a wave of resignations as former staffers call on Trump to step down.
Education Secretary Betsy DeVos is the latest to announce she’ll leave before Trump’s term ends. And CNN has learned two other top aides, White House Counsel Pat Cipollone and Senior Adviser Hope Hicks, have also discussed resigning.
Trump still hasn’t spoken to Pence after he defied him by following a constitutional process to certify Biden’s win, but Pence was seen arriving at the White House Friday. Amid bipartisan concerns about what Trump will do during his last twelve days in office, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told Democrats that she talked to the nation’s top military leader about ensuring Trump doesn’t launch a nuclear attack.
Meanwhile, a Capitol Hill police officer has died after sustaining injuries at the pro-Trump rally that saw protesters storm the Capitol building Wednesday. The Capitol’s flag is flying at half staff, but the White House’s flag has not been lowered.
© 2023 KOBI-TV NBC5. All rights reserved unless otherwise stated.

In an interview with Reuters, the surviving Sicknick said that becoming a Capitol Police Officer was the fulfillment of a lifelong dream for his son.
Brian Sicknick died last Thursday at age 42, a day after he was injured while defending the U.S. Capitol from the violent mob that stormed the building after President Donald Trump delivered a speech encouraging supporters to disrupt the certification of Joe Biden's election win. Sicknick was reportedly bludgeoned with a fire extinguisher, according to The New York Times and The Associated Press, citing two law enforcement officials. A statement by the Capitol Police said he was injured and collapsed after returning to his office. “If any good comes out of my son’s death, I just hope that it stops all the lunacy that’s been going on in this country,” his father said. Sicknick said he received condolence calls Friday from Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Vice President Mike Pence. Biden called Brian Sicknick’s brother on Sunday, according to two Biden officials. Trump had yet to reach out to the family as of Sunday night.

The U.S. Capitol Police confirmed one of its officers died Thursday night after sustaining injuries during Wednesday’s Capitol riot—and Twitter users have placed the blame on one politician in particular.
While the Metropolitan Police Department, USCP, and federal agencies still have to investigate Sicknick’s death, thousands of Twitter users are already holding one person responsible: Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas). As of this writing, #TedCruzKilledACop is the top Twitter trend in the United States, with more than 40,000 users condemning the senator for sowing discord and tacitly inciting violence during his Wednesday electoral vote speech.
During his nearly six-minute address, Cruz once again suggested that Democrats stole the election from President Donald Trump and called for an electoral commission to conduct an audit to investigate claims of voter fraud. “Simply telling the voters, ‘Go jump in a lake—the fact that you have deep concerns is of no moment to us,’ that jeopardizes, I believe, the legitimacy of this and subsequent elections,” Cruz added.
Less than an hour after Cruz delivered his speech, Trump supporters stormed the Capitol, obliterating its interior and breaking into the offices of several high-ranking congresspeople. Officer Sicknick marked the fifth person to die as a result of the riot.
Twitter users drew a direct line from Cruz’s speech to the insurrection that occurred almost immediately thereafter. But Twitter users weren’t letting Cruz off the hook for his past comments, which stoked the fury of Trump supporters who believed the election was fraudulent. Others, including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), slammed Cruz for sending out fundraising texts amid the insurrection.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Taoiseach Micheál Martin has voiced his "concern and dismay" at events in Washington DC, where pro-Trump protestors stormed the Capitol building. Mr Martin tweeted: "The Irish people have a deep connection with the United States of America, built up over many generations.

International leaders expressed shock and condemned the unprecedented scenes on Capitol Hill as a pro-Trump riot breached the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.
"Disgraceful scenes in U.S. Congress. The United States stands for democracy around the world and it is now vital that there should be a peaceful and orderly transfer of power," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson wrote on Twitter.
European Union officials indicated their support for Biden on Wednesday, as pro-Trump extremists forced Capitol Hill into lockdown, interrupting the certification of Biden's presidential victory. "I believe in the strength of US institutions and democracy.
Peaceful transition of power is at the core. @JoeBiden won the election," Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, wrote on Twitter.
"The outcome of this democratic election must be respected," NATO Chief Jens Stoltenberg wrote on Twitter. Turkey's Foreign Ministry released a statement Wednesday urging its citizens in the United States to avoid crowded places and confrontations. "We invite all parties in the USA to temperance and common sense. We believe that the USA will overcome this domestic political crisis in maturity," it wrote in a statement.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Updated at 10:45 a.m. ET on Jan. 11, 2021.
What started as American lawmakers’ bipartisan denunciation of the Capitol Hill riot, and Donald Trump’s role in stoking it, quickly grew to include condemnation from many U.S. allies: World leaders as far afield as Britain, Canada, and India voiced distress and alarm at the vandalism taking place at the seat of U.S. democracy, as did officials from the European Union and NATO. Where have Trump’s friends gone?
For years, populists and nationalists around the world have looked to the president as something of a global champion—a leader who not only spoke their nativist, iconoclastic language, but proved that the populist political project each of them was attempting in their own country was possible. If it can happen in America, one of the greatest democracies on Earth, they surmised, it can happen here too. That vision might have dimmed following Trump’s defeat in last year’s presidential election, but it didn’t disappear completely: Many of the European figures who have an affinity for the American president remained supportive of him in the fraught, contested aftermath of the vote.
The far-right French politician Marine Le Pen continued to call into question Biden’s victory well after the results were announced (an outcome she publicly acknowledged only this week). Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša went as far as to prematurely congratulate Trump on the election. But by Wednesday, both politicians had changed tack.
Janša tweeted, “All should be very troubled by the violence taking place in Washington D.C.” Le Pen condemned “any violent act that aims to disrupt the democratic process” and urged Trump to do the same.
This wasn’t an ideological break. Many of the same figures who decried the violence in the U.S. had openly stated their desire that Trump win reelection. Even after his defeat, few of them rushed to acknowledge Biden’s victory, let alone condemn the president’s efforts to undermine trust in American democracy with baseless claims of voter fraud or calls to force the election outcome in his favor—the consequences of which were on full display in the Capitol. Virtually all of them stopped short of assigning Trump blame for the violence.
But perhaps the break was a practical one. Even populists who show nothing but disdain for democratic institutions don’t want to be associated with an insurrection, or be seen to be inciting one. The scenes of red-capped Trump supporters waltzing through the halls of Congress, some wielding Confederate flags and sporting sweaters emblazoned with messages such as Camp Auschwitz, are enough to make anyone bristle.
* For Europe’s far-right leaders such as Le Pen, whose efforts to distance her party from its history of xenophobia and Holocaust denial have had limited success, those images would have served as a reminder of exactly the fascist association they are trying to avoid.
Trump’s erstwhile cheerleaders abroad might be keen to distance themselves for another, deeper reason: While populists have no problem attacking institutions and other threats to their power, they still claim to have a democratic mandate. Their legitimacy hinges on the populist notion that they represent an imagined “real people” against corrupt elites. Being seen to openly support undermining the democratic process, as Trump has, would undermine their very claim to power.
“Anyone who violently attacks parliaments aims at the heart of democracy,” Tino Chrupalla, the spokesperson for the far-right Alternative for Germany, said in a tweet. It was perhaps because of the widespread condemnation, from both his own party and his allies overseas, that Trump felt compelled on Thursday to characterize those involved in the insurrection as “intruders” who “do not represent our country”—the same individuals he had expressed sympathy and love for only a day earlier. Not all of Trump’s fellow populists see what happened in Washington as a cautionary tale.
Notably, those who are already in power (and therefore less reliant on maintaining appearances) had no trouble staying out of the fray, or even backing the president. Polish President Andrzej Duda dismissed the attack on the U.S. Capitol as an “internal matter,” and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, a vocal supporter of Trump’s reelection, opted against interfering in “America’s business.”
Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, who has his own history of refusing to concede elections when the outcome doesn’t go his way, also declined to take a position. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, who modeled his election campaign on Trump’s, told journalists that Brazil could face “a worse problem than the United States” in its election next year, an apparent suggestion that he may follow the Trump playbook once more.
For a while, other like-minded leaders seemed to be laying the groundwork to do the same. But by egging on his most violent supporters, Trump may have deterred other populists from hitching their wagons to a fallen star.

Multiple European security officials told Insider that President Donald Trump appeared to have tacit support among US federal agencies responsible for securing the Capitol complex in Wednesday's coup attempt. Insider is reporting this information because it illustrates the serious repercussions of Wednesday's events: Even if they are mistaken, some among America's international military allies are now willing to give credence to the idea that Trump deliberately tried to violently overturn an election and had help from some federal law-enforcement agents. "We train alongside the US federal law enforcement to handle these very matters, and it's obvious that large parts of any successful plan were just ignored," one source told us.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
The supporters of President Donald Trump who stormed the Capitol on Wednesday to stop the ratification of President-elect Joe Biden's election victory were attempting a violent coup that multiple European security officials said appeared to have at least tacit support from aspects of the US federal agencies responsible for securing the Capitol complex. Insider spoke with three officials on Thursday morning: a French police official responsible for public security in a key section of central Paris, and two intelligence officials from NATO countries who directly work in counterterrorism and counterintelligence operations involving the US, terrorism, and Russia. They said the circumstantial evidence available pointed to what would be openly called a coup attempt in any other nation. None were willing to speak on the record because of the dire nature of the subject. While they did not furnish evidence that federal agency officials facilitated the chaos, Insider is reporting this information because it illustrates the scale and seriousness of Wednesday's events: America's international military and security allies are now willing to give serious credence to the idea that Trump deliberately tried to violently overturn an election and that some federal law-enforcement agents — by omission or otherwise — facilitated the attempt. One NATO source set the stage, using terms more commonly used to describe unrest in developing countries.
"The defeated president gives a speech to a group of supporters where he tells them he was robbed of the election, denounces his own administration's members and party as traitors, and tells his supporters to storm the building where the voting is being held," the NATO intelligence official said. "The supporters, many dressed in military attire and waving revolutionary-style flags, then storm the building where the federal law-enforcement agencies controlled by the current president do not establish a security cordon, and the protesters quickly overwhelm the last line of police. "The president then makes a public statement to the supporters attacking the Capitol that he loves them but doesn't really tell them to stop," the official said. "Today I am briefing my government that we believe with a reasonable level of certainty that Donald Trump attempted a coup that failed when the system did not buckle.
The French police official said they believed that an investigation would find that someone interfered with the deployment of additional federal law-enforcement officials on the perimeter of the Capitol complex; the official has direct knowledge of the proper procedures for security of the facility. The security of Congress is entrusted to the US Capitol Police, a federal agency that answers to Congress. It is routine for the Capitol Police to coordinate with the federal Secret Service and the Park Police and local police in Washington, DC, before large demonstrations. The National Guard, commanded by the Department of Defense, is often on standby too. On Wednesday, however, that coordination was late or absent.
"You cannot tell me I don't know what they should have done. I can fly to Washington tomorrow and do that job, just as any police official in Washington can fly to Paris and do mine," the official said. The official directs public security in a central Paris police district filled with government buildings and tourist sites. The National Guard, which was deployed heavily to quell the Black Lives Matter protests in 2020, did not show up to assist the police until two hours after the action started on Wednesday, according to The Associated Press.
One video appeared to show some police officers opening a barrier to allow a group of protesters to get closer to the Capitol dome. Another video showed a police officer allowing a rioter to take a selfie with him inside the Capitol while protesters milled around the building unchecked. Kim Dine, who was the chief of the Capitol Police from 2012 to 2016, told The Washington Post that he was surprised that the Capitol Police allowed demonstrators on the steps of the Capitol. He said he was also mystified that few rioters were arrested on the spot. The Capitol Police did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment.
The third official, who works in counterintelligence for a NATO member, agreed that the situation could only be seen as a coup attempt, no matter how poorly considered and likely to fail, and said its implications might be too huge to immediately fathom. "Thank God it didn't work, because I can't imagine how hard it would be to sanction the US financial system," the official said. By sanctions, he means the imposition of the diplomatic, military, and trade blockages that democratic nations usually reserve for dictatorships. Read more:We analyzed 23 memos from CEOs responding to the US Capitol riot.
The most effective messages get personal. "The broader damage around the world will be extensive in terms of reputation, and that's why Putin doesn't mind at all that Trump lost. He's got to be happy to take his chips and count his winnings, which from the Trump era will be a shockingly quick decline in American prestige and moral high ground.

Right.
Revolutionaries, people are grabbing at moments in the past out of context and using them to frame what they're doing right. This is supremely American.
Our revolutionaries did it. We are just like them. That's what we're doing.
And on the surface, you can happily sort of nod along with that. If you actually look at the reality of what happened during the revolution, what happened now and what these people are doing, no, that's not an easy comparison to make and the problem with that and this is the problem of propaganda. How do you, how do you disprove that?
Right. How do you I can say people who attack the Capitol aren't patriots. That's unpatriotic.
How what do I say? If someone says, no, I feel very patriotic, I'm defending government as I see it, that's a hard these words are powerful for a reason because they're hard to refute. They're fuzzy and they have a gut impact and a profound political meaning.

NEW YORK (AP) — At first, viewed from a distance, it was a rally or protest.
Then it became an assault, a riot, an insurrection, domestic terrorism or even a coup attempt. The language used by the American media to describe last week’s Capitol siege proves one thing whatever your perspective: Words matter. The coverage has sent Americans scurrying to the dictionary and news organizations carefully considering terminology.
The use of “riot” as a descriptor is almost universally accepted, even though the word has become fraught with racial connotations and despite the relatively gradual way the story unfolded. “Some stories evolve and reveal themselves over the course of hours and days and this was one of those stories,” said Al Ortiz, vice president of standards and practices at CBS News.
The first images most people saw on Jan. 6 were from above, with attendees at a rally where President Donald Trump spoke who eventually moved, like sea water in a tsunami, toward and around the U.S. Capitol. So, initially, they were called protesters. But it became clear, as many breached the Capitol and lawmakers fled for safety, that more was happening. The Associated Press told staff members that protest was too mild a word.
Phrases like “mob,” “riot” and “insurrection” were appropriate, noted John Daniszewski, vice president and editor at large for standards. “Don’t call them protesters,” CBS’ Gayle King said during coverage the next morning. Initially, Ortiz warned CBS journalists against going out of their way to use overly dramatic labels like terrorist attack or attempted coup in a story that had enough drama on its own. But that advice changed as more images and reporting became available.
“It was a lot more sinister than it first appeared,” he said. Five people have died and more than 70 arrested for their actions that day, with the FBI expecting more arrests. The House voted to impeach Trump on Wednesday, citing his role inciting the siege.
“For RedState to keep maintaining that there wasn’t a riot or storming of the Capitol on that day would land the website on a very lonely island,” said Howard Polskin, who publishes The Righting newsletter about conservative media. While the conservative website Big League Politics said it was “a historic civil rights march by President Donald Trump’s supporters,” it was in a distinct minority. The New York Times, Washington Post, CBS, NBC, ABC and CNN have all used riot to describe the day. So have outlets with appeal to conservatives, like the Wall Street Journal, Fox News, Newsmax and the Washington Examiner.
The National Review tried to make a partisan point: “Your rioters are worse than our rioters,” was one of its headlines. The near unanimity came despite riot sometimes being a loaded term, and a subject of debate for how it was applied last summer to unrest following George Floyd’s death and Black Lives Matter protests. Some feel it is too quickly applied to situations involving Black Americans.
During the past week, “I think that people in the media have been circumspect about their language and have been choosing their words carefully,” said Ben Zimmer, a linguist and a columnist on language for the Wall Street Journal. News organizations have been careful not to use words like rebellion, revolt or uprising, which could cast those who stormed the Capitol in a heroic light, he said. “It’s hard to overstate what happened,” said Al Tompkins, a faculty member at the journalism think tank Poynter Institute.
Merriam-Webster said the top words looked up in its online dictionary on Wednesday were: insurrection, fascism, impeach and sedition. “If the times call for these words, they should be used, even if not everybody has a perfect handle on their meanings,” Zimmer said.
The phrase “attempted coup” has been more controversial. It often has military overtones that were absent last week.
The AP advises against it, absent evidence that the specific aim was to take over the government. Ortiz has allowed it, reasoning there was clearly an attempt by the executive branch to thwart the legislative branch.
Fiona Hill, a former national security adviser who testified in Trump’s first impeachment trial, argued in Politico that it was a “self-coup” done in plain sight on Trump’s behalf. Heading into next week, it will be worth watching if the Capitol riot affects a phrase so commonly used during a presidential inaugural to be almost a cliche: peaceful transfer of power.

Even before the first Trump supporter breached the U.S. Capitol last week, American journalists were already sifting through words that have not historically been applied to American democracy — words like coup and kleptocracy. NPR is no exception.
As events were unfolding on Jan. 6, hosts, reporters and editors were sorting out the right words to use at the right time. That conversation continues, in real time.
First, it's helpful to know that it's common practice for NPR newsroom leaders to send out frequent emails that offer guidance on how to accurately characterize events in developing news stories. And on that Jan. 6, they did.
At 3:44 p.m., Managing Editor for Enterprise and Planning Gerry Holmes issued a newsroom-wide directive to call them "pro-Trump extremists" not "domestic terrorists." This was the first decision that steered the language away from "protest."
A half-hour later, he expanded that language to authorize the use of "mob" and "insurrection." Two hours later, "rioters" was added to the list.
By Morning Edition the next day, the language included the words "rioters" and "looters," and more importantly, host Steve Inskeep flat-out called Trump's claim of election fraud a "lie" — multiple times. It's been a week since the invasion, and we are still coming to a clear understanding of exactly what happened and what some in the mob were planning. Monday's ATC opened with hosts Mary Louise Kelly and Ailsa Chang offering a litany of reporting from other news organizations that isolated specific moments: A crowd shouts "Hang Mike Pence"; a violent mob seizes an officer in riot gear and beats him; a heroic policeman, who was not in riot gear, leads the mob away from the Senate chambers, which is still evacuating.
Many of the very words that journalists are applying to Trump and his supporters are the same words Trump and his supporters have hurled at their critics. Trump falsely accused the FBI of staging a coup, and suggested that Black Lives Matter protesters were guilty of insurrection. So it's critical that as reporters describe the events of the past week, they occasionally slow down to show their work — i.e., make the case for the words they've chosen.
It's a harder task than you might think, for a number of reasons. Our understanding of the political coercion and violence that we've witnessed just since the dawn of this new year is evolving. With each escalation (and with more information), new words are necessary.
Weekend Edition Sunday host Lulu Garcia-Navarro walked me through how she thinks about language. She tweeted about NPR guidance on words as a way of including listeners in the conversation.
By definition, "insurrection," and its derivative, "insurgency," are accurate. "Riot" and "mob" are equally correct.
While these words are not interchangeable, they are all suitable when describing Jan. 6. What about "terrorism"? Many audience members asked that question in our inbox and in response to Garcia-Navarro's tweet.
While there's no doubt that the people working in the Capitol felt terrorized, it will take more time and investigation to determine if that word is appropriate. Reporting is clearly emerging that leans toward terrorism as a goal for some in the mob on Jan. 6.
Using the word prematurely can undercut the effectiveness of the news report. In the meantime, it's important to describe the terror.
Throughout Trump's presidency, a vocal faction of critics have dinged public radio for choosing words that they argue minimize the president's actions. The previous public editor described the conditions under which the word "lie" could apply (reporting had to demonstrate the president knew the truth).
And yet, even today, one could still argue (in bad faith) that Trump truly believes that fraudsters stole the election from him and so he's not lying. But whether it's a delusion or a deliberate manipulation doesn't seem to matter as much when his false statements are the justification for a coup attempt. His actions this year, beginning with his phone call demanding that Georgia officials commit election fraud and culminating with his incitement of the insurrection, were a turning point for news coverage, one that some listeners have been begging for since Trump announced his candidacy.
This tension between what some news consumers want and what the reporting can justify is eternally present, magnified in public media because of the close ties to the audience. In journalism, dramatic events call for simple description; no need to hype something up that is already astonishing. A word used inappropriately or hyperbolically becomes a loaded term, a classic rhetorical tactic favored by this president.
Trump was flat-out wrong to say Black Lives Matter demonstrators were subject to the Insurrection Act of 1807. Yet when journalists across the country describe the actions of the mob that invaded the Capitol on Jan. 6 as an insurrection, the facts support the definition of the word.
Rather than sink to the level of those who corrupt political discourse, journalists are called to do the opposite — to judiciously choose language that accurately and precisely describes the events. That language should change as the facts are established, but not before then. Researchers Kayla Randall and Amaris Castillo contributed to this report.

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

The Capitol rioters have joined a small but notorious cadre in the annals of history: a duo that since the end of World War II has plotted to stage coups against the United States of America, a university tracking project finds. The other case involved 11 members of the American communist party.
The Coup D’etat Project, an initiative of the University of Illinois’ Cline Center for Advanced Social Research, has determined the insurrection that unfolded at the Capitol on January 6 fits its definition of an attempted dissident coup. The Coup D’etat Project initially balked at the latest addition, saying in a January 8 statement that while the Capitol attack met some prerequisites for an attempted coup, too many questions remained unanswered to apply the label at that time. The project’s organizers left open the possibility that the attack could be re-categorized – for instance, if it’s later learned that government officials played any role.
Someone must initiate the coup. The target “must have meaningful control over national policy.” “There must be a credible threat to the leaders’ hold on power.”
Those involved must use illegal or irregular means to seize or remove the target, or render it powerless. It must be organized.
The US Justice Department has charged more than 165 people so far in the January 6 Capitol insurrection. A CNN analysis showed 14% of the first 150 arrestees are current or former members of the American military. The Coup D’etat Project’s global database includes almost 1,000 attempted, conspired or realized coups, and while several nations – including Argentina, Bolivia, Haiti, Syria, Sudan and Venezuela – have seen many efforts to overthrow their governments, the project says the United States had only one database entry before last month.
It involved 11 members of Communist Party USA accused of advocating to topple the US government. A court ruled the men had violated the Smith Act of 1940, which forbade advocating or being a member of a group advocating the violent overthrow of the government.
The US Supreme Court in 1951 upheld the convictions in a “bitter and contentious trial, which lasted about nine months and was followed around the world, featur(ing) demonstrations, threats, and countless courtroom challenges by both sides,” according to the First Amendment Encyclopedia curated by Middle Tennessee State University. The high court’s verdict was far from unanimous, producing five separate opinions, two of them dissenting.
Subsequent US Supreme Court decisions in the 1950s and ’60s dismantled the Smith Act. Another 1999 plot against the United States was mistakenly left in the Coup D’etat Project’s supplemental inventory of coup events, but Althaus said it ultimately did not fit the project’s criteria when the official list was released in 2013 or when it was revised in November. That could change, however, as “this particular case has already been identified by our project team for review as we approach our next release of our dataset, as we periodically review old decisions to assess if any new information might merit reclassification,” he said.
In that case, White supremacists Chevie Kehoe and Daniel Lewis Lee were convicted of killing an Arkansas gun dealer, his wife and their 8-year-old daughter. The men stole $50,000 in cash, guns and ammunition from the family’s home. In prosecuting the Aryan Peoples Republic members under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO Act, prosecutors alleged Kehoe, Lee and others engaged in criminal activity in support of the White supremacist group. “Federal prosecutors said the men pursued their dream of an all-white republic by stockpiling military-style weapons, robbing several people and suffocating gun dealer William Mueller, his wife, Nancy, and her 8-year-old daughter, Sarah Powell, before throwing their bodies into a river,” the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported at the time.
Lee was executed last year in Terre Haute, Indiana – the first federal execution in 17 years. Kehoe is serving a life sentence at US Penitentiary McCreary in Pine Knot, Kentucky, according to the US Bureau of Prisons. Correction: A previous version of this story reported the Cline Center had cited two plots against the United States prior to the Capitol riots.
In fact, it has cited one. The center says researchers are reviewing a second plot for possible inclusion.

Technically, what Trump attempted is what’s known as a “self-coup” and Trump isn’t the first leader to try it.
Charles Louis Napoleon Bonaparte (nephew of the first Napoleon) pulled one off in France in December 1851 to stay in power beyond his term. Then he declared himself Emperor, Napoleon III.
More recently, Nicolas Maduro perpetrated a self-coup in Venezuela after losing the 2017 elections. The storming of the Capitol building on January 6 was the culmination of a series of actions and events taken or instigated by Trump so he could retain the presidency that together amount to an attempt at a self-coup. This was not a one-off or brief episode.
Trump declared “election fraud” immediately on November 4 even while the votes were still being counted. He sought to recount and rerun the election so that he, not Joe Biden, was the winner.
In Turkey, in 2015, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan successfully did the same thing; he had called elections to strengthen his presidency, but his party lost its majority in the Parliament. He challenged the results in the courts, marginalized the opposition and forced what he blatantly called a “re-run election.” He tried again in the Istanbul mayoral election in 2019 but was thwarted.
There’s a standard coup “checklist” analysts use to evaluate coups, and we can use it to assess Trump’s moves to prevent the peaceful transfer of executive power. To successfully usurp or hold power, you need to control the military and paramilitary units, communications, the judiciary, government institutions, and the legislature; and mobilize popular support. Let’s see how well this applies to what Trump has done.
The Military: During the 2020 Black Lives Matter protests, Trump drew Joint Chiefs Chair General Mark Milley and Defense Secretary Mark Esper out of a White House meeting to follow him for a provocative photo-op in front of a historic church. Paramilitary forces under the president’s command cleared a passage for his group across Lafayette Square.
Trump was testing the military and the Pentagon to see if he could turn the U.S. armed forces into his own “Pretorian Guard.” The blowback from this episode emphasized the nonpolitical position of the U.S. military, but there was sufficient lingering concern that just days before January 6, 10 former Defense secretaries—including Esper, who had been forced out of his office for insufficient loyalty—felt compelled to issue an unprecedented public letter reminding Defense Department officials of their oath to uphold the Constitution.
Communications: In the old days, coup plotters would seize the Central Telegraph or Post Office, and later, radio and TV towers. Trump put a loyalist in charge of the Post Office.
He did not take TV and radio by storm, but he discredited the “mainstream media” that was critical of his actions as the “enemy of the people” and recruited or pressured Fox News, Newsmax, OAN and social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook into participants in his efforts to sway public opinion in his favor. Twitter, in essence, was Trump’s equivalent of the TV and radio tower.
He directly messaged the 88 million people who “followed” his account. He used social media and cable news to propagate false self-serving narratives, reinforce messages to provide justification for his actions, and mobilize his supporters.
Government institutions: As in Turkey, Trump purged Cabinet members and career officials who resisted him. He bypassed Congress and installed acting officials in crucial national security positions like the secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security, and, briefly, the director of National Intelligence.
He made it crystal clear that personal loyalty was the primary factor for candidate selection. He removed Esper after he lost the election. Attorney General William Barr resigned in the same period amid rumors he would be sacked for failing to declare massive election fraud.
Trump wanted officials in place in January 2021 who were entirely beholden to him and likely to support his efforts to stay in power. The legislature: Finally, Trump usurped the Republican Party. He claimed the more than 74 million who voted for him last November as his personal base—his popular support.
He threatened to destroy the careers of Republican members of Congress who did not favor overturning the election result. At the January 6 rally preceding the storming of the Capitol, Donald Trump Jr. even referred to the GOP as the “Trump Republican Party.” In the end, even after the Capitol was seized by Trump’s violent mob, 147 Republican members of Congress, led by Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, did endorse some of Trump’s efforts to challenge the election results and overturn the constitutional order.
So did Senators Josh Hawley, Ted Cruz and six other politically ambitious senators who wanted to tap into Trump’s popular support. In this way, Trump’s control of the legislature and a significant popular mandate was almost within his reach.
After the election was declared in favor of Biden, Trump refused to concede. He never stopped lying about the outcome to his base and the rest of America.
He deployed Rudy Giuliani and his legal team to contest every single postelection juncture. He harangued state election officials in phone calls and in person to intimidate them into repudiating or even changing the vote tallies. He told Vice President Mike Pence to block the formal election certification process in Congress, which was beyond his constitutional authority.
When Pence refused, Trump rallied thousands of his supporters to “stop the steal” on Capitol Hill. So, what thwarted Trump’s slow motion, in-plain-sight attempt at a self-coup? Fortunately, there was pushback from all the key institutions you need for a coup. First, the military and other parts of the government resisted Trump’s efforts to personalize their power.
Second, major media outlets reported the facts truthfully. Social media outlets flagged the president’s lies about the election—albeit belatedly—and Twitter and Facebook ultimately cut off his accounts.
Third, the judiciary and courts held firm. “Trump judges,” all the way up to the Supreme Court, respected their oath of office and rejected the president’s appeals to overturn legitimate election results. Fourth, state and local government officials refused to be swayed.
They repeatedly called out the lie that Trump had won the election. Finally, in the legislature, the vice president performed his constitutional role, as did the Republican Senate majority leader and most of the Senate.
The only two elements that rallied behind the president’s coup attempt were the handful of senators and the majority of House Republicans and his popular support, in the form of an insurgency—the mob that stormed the Capitol. The good news for the United States is that Trump’s self-coup failed.
The bad news is that his supporters still believe the false narrative, the Big Lie that he won the election. Trump has not repudiated it, nor have the House and Senate Republicans who voted against the Electoral College results.
Millions of people still think the election was stolen. They still support Trump the person, not the Republican Party, and many are prepared to take further action on his behalf.
As in the case of other coup attempts, the president’s actions have put us on the brink of civil war. Trump did not overturn the election results, but, just as he intended, he disrupted the peaceful democratic transition of executive power. Unless the Big Lie is thoroughly refuted, we can expect more attempts to subvert the constitutional order from Trump’s supporters—and we still have to get through the January 20 inauguration. The president’s actions and his falsehoods have shattered America’s democratic norms, exacerbated its political divisions and put people’s lives at risk.
Five people died during events surrounding the storming of the Capitol, including a member of the U.S. Capitol Police force. Many of the members of Congress who backed Trump’s efforts were themselves at risk of injury or death. If we are to restore democratic norms and make sure this does not happen again, these congressional Republicans will have to take personal responsibility for their actions in support of Trump’s coup attempt.
They must tell the truth to their constituents about the election and what the president tried to do in January 2021. They owe it to the people they represent as well as the country they serve.

WASHINGTON — Several years ago, the FBI began separate terrorism investigations of two white, middle-aged government workers in the D.C. area who appeared to be violent extremists. Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story was an Aryan Nation member who wrote that he wanted to see President Barack Obama shot in the head, court records say.
Ultimately, Story was sentenced to 12 months in jail after pleading guilty in 2012 to obtaining an illegal machine gun. Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young was also a white supremacist, but he became enamored of the Islamic State terror group, praising their brutal tactics, according to court records. After a six-year investigation involving extensive surveillance and multiple informants, Young was convicted in 2019 of buying $245 in phone cards intended to help ISIS. He got 15 years.
The outcomes of those criminal cases — and the disparity in resources devoted to them — are a stark illustration of how the law and its enforcers have dealt differently with domestic terrorism suspects compared to Americans who pledge allegiance to jihadi-inspired international groups, according to experts and former FBI officials who worked the cases. In the wake of the Jan. 6 Capitol riots, amid a recognition that political violence is spiking in the U.S., the Biden administration is now looking at how to overhaul the federal government's approach to domestic terrorism, now considered a top threat to the homeland. The attack on the Capitol fits the legal definition of domestic terrorism, the Congressional Research Service and others have concluded.
Stepping up efforts against domestic extremists may seem like a straightforward policy fix, but in fact, the Biden team may confront significant institutional, legal and political hurdles, particularly at the FBI, the nation's lead domestic counterterrorism agency. It's not just the FBI.
A little-noticed report last year by the National Counterterrorism Center, which is part of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, found that government agencies don't agree about how to characterize the problem. The Biden administration is moving to change that dynamic, ordering a nationwide threat assessment covering domestic terrorism, and tasking a group of top officials at the National Security Council to improve intelligence sharing.
As Psaki hinted, one looming challenge is how to overcome constitutional questions around gathering intelligence about, and holding accountable, violent domestic movements that have their roots in extremist political ideologies. Another hurdle: While federal law defines domestic terrorism, it doesn't make it a specific criminal offense, so prosecutors pursuing domestic terror cases have had to charge defendants using other statutes, from murder to hate crimes to gun and gang laws. While the FBI can open an investigation into an American who tries to affiliate with al Qaeda or ISIS, it can't do so just because someone is a white supremacist or Nazi sympathizer, or joins a far-right extremist group.
Legislation to add teeth to domestic terrorism laws has been introduced year after year and is pending in Congress now. But critics on both the left and the right, including civil libertarians, have raised concerns that it would lead to overzealous government surveillance.
Already, voices on the right have asserted that Biden is using the issue as a cover to censor his political opponents. The FBI has been acutely sensitive to any criticisms of political spying since it was buffeted by scandals in the 1970s that exposed illegal surveillance of anti-Vietnam War activists, the Black Power movement, Martin Luther King Jr. and others. As former counterterrorism prosecutor Richard Zabel has pointed out, however, the Supreme Court held in a 1969 decision, Brandenburg v. Ohio, that if a speaker urges others to use force with words "directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action," and likely to do so, that speech is not protected.
Michael German, a former FBI agent and longtime critic of the bureau who is now a fellow at New York's Brennan Center think tank, argues it's mostly culture and practice, not legal impediments, that have kept the FBI from aggressively investigating domestic terrorism. Former senior FBI agents who worked domestic terrorism in recent years say that despite some improvement, that stubbornness is still required. They say domestic terrorism cases have been hamstrung by FBI lawyers who cite First Amendment concerns in blocking investigative steps such as infiltrating chat rooms or introducing informants.
In 2004, O'Connor said, he circulated a handbook of popular white supremacist symbols and tattoos designed to help local law enforcement identify them — similar to pocket guides police use to identify gang symbols. But his bosses at FBI headquarters ordered him to withdraw it, he said. "I was told this was First Amendment protected," he said.
In 2018, the FBI's Washington Field Office failed a bureau inspection of its domestic terror efforts after auditors found a lack of vigorous investigating and intelligence sharing. A few years before that, the bureau's domestic terrorism agents had been tasked with investigating all the FBI's bomb cases, even though many of them had nothing to do with political violence, two former agents said. The Washington field office has since earned higher grades on subsequent reviews, and bomb cases were moved to a different division, officials say.
The FBI declined to comment on the shift in bomb cases. In recent years, the FBI discovered that Russia and other adversaries have been seeking to recruit and support domestic violent extremists, current and former officials said.
The details are classified. "We'd be idiots to think that our adversaries overseas were not involved in supporting, through the internet and through finance, activities on the left and the right," said O'Connor, who is a past head of the FBI Agents Association.
In its statement to NBC News, the FBI argued that it has shifted resources to domestic terrorism. However, even as experts say anti-government, militia, white supremacist, and anti-abortion extremists have killed more Americans since 9/11 than terrorists inspired by al Qaeda or ISIS, FBI officials have acknowledged to Congress that the vast majority of the FBI's counterterrorism resources remain devoted to Islamic terrorism. Michael C. McGarrity, assistant director for the FBI's Counterterrorism Division, told Congress in 2019 that 80 percent of the bureau's terrorism cases are international, including jihadi-inspired Americans, versus 20 percent domestic. The opening of more than 400 cases connected to the Capitol riots likely has changed that ratio (2020 figures are not yet available), but transforming the institutional imperative may take more time.
Nicholas Young, the D.C. transit policeman convicted of attempting to support ISIS, was a Nazi sympathizer long before he became interested in jihad, court records show. He has an SS tattoo on his shoulder and attended a white supremacist gathering as a student in 2001, according to testimony at his trial.
But one of his lawyers told NBC News that it wasn't his far-right leanings that led the FBI to spend six years investigating Young. After years of probing, an FBI informant hatched a deal with Young to buy some Google gift card codes for a phone application that would help ISIS communicate with new recruits, court records show.
He was charged with obstructing justice and attempting to provide material support to a designated terrorist association, though his lawyers pointed out he never actually communicated with ISIS. Before sentencing, the government portrayed Young as a dangerous "hard case," noting that he appeared to revel in the barbaric actions of ISIS in Syria.
But German, who studied the case, noted that the FBI allowed Young to remain in his law enforcement job, carrying a gun — a decision that suggested agents did not believe he posed an imminent danger of violence. A judge sentenced Young to 15 years, and after a federal appeals court threw out his obstruction convictions, she resentenced him to the same term.
Douglas Story got much different treatment. According to court records, Story made national news in 2010 after Virginia officials recalled his custom license plate, which a rights group said had a coded white supremacist message.
Soon afterward, the FBI saw posts from Story musing about the potential assassination of Obama and then-Attorney General Eric Holder, according to court records. Story ultimately paid an FBI informant to modify his AK-47 so that it would be fully automatic.
He had been kicked out of the Aryan Nation group after he posted on a message board about obtaining an illegal weapon, court records say. Story's case stood out as a rare instance in which the FBI used an informant against a white supremacist who had not yet engaged in violence, former agents said.
He pleaded guilty, and was sentenced to 12 months and a day. One reason Young's sentence was so much longer than Story's is that prosecutors charged Young with a powerful law that imposes tough penalties on those convicted of "material support" for terrorism.
One part of that law cannot be used against domestic terrorists, because the United States does not designate domestic terror organizations. Zabel and other counterterrorism experts say it may be time to change that.
On Wednesday, Canada designated the Proud Boys as a terrorist organization, citing the group's role in the Jan. 6 Capitol attack. Until now, the U.S. has shied away from designating domestic groups out of concern for equating speech with terrorism. "I think it should happen but there would have to be a lot of protections and you'd have to be clear that you're not picking sides," said Daveed Gartenstein-Ross, a counterterrorism scholar and the CEO of the security analysis firm Valens Global.

The US Capitol has been the scene of bombings, a presidential assassination attempt and countless demonstrations in its more than 200-year-old history.
For the first time on Wednesday, it was the site of an armed insurrection incited by the sitting president. The building is relatively accessible to the public.
It houses the country’s two legislative bodies, the House of Representatives and the Senate, but anyone can enter after a security screening in the visitor center. Congressional offices are frequented by protesters and sit-ins.
With a little bit of planning, people can interrupt a hearing, though they are often quickly ushered out by Capitol police. These peaceful scenes are a stark contrast to what happened on Wednesday, when a mob of Donald Trump’s supporters stormed past barricades and clashed with police to enter legislative chambers and congressional offices.
A woman was reportedly shot and killed, people working inside were evacuated in gas masks, and rioters clambered up the buildings walls inside and out. Not since 1814 has the building been breached.
Then, it was by British troops who set fire to the building during a broader attack on Washington in the war of 1812. City residents were aware that the British were approaching and most fled before troops torched the city’s federal buildings and a few warships.
The Capitol was under construction at the time, and while a considerable portion was destroyed, it had been built with many fireproof materials that allowed for the preservation of the exterior and many interior rooms, according to the Architect of the Capitol. Still, the fire was persistent enough to burn documents, melt glass lights and destroy statues.
In the 200 years since, other violent attacks and bombings have occurred on the US Capitol grounds. At a funeral in January 1835, an unemployed painter, Richard Lawerence, attempted to shoot president Andrew Jackson, but the bullet failed to discharge.
During the first world war, a professor named Eric Muenter planted a bomb in the Senate reception room, which went off near midnight and resulted in no injuries. He had killed his wife years before the bombing and was later arrested for trying to kill the banker JP Morgan.
In 1954, four armed Puerto Rican separatists entered the House floor and shot indiscriminately at House representatives, wounding five. In March 1971, the far-left Weather Underground bombed the Capitol in protest of military action in Laos, causing hundreds of thousands of dollars of damage, but resulting in no deaths.
In November 1983, a bomb was planted in protest of US military efforts in Grenada and Lebanon. It also went off without causing injuries or deaths.

I resisted for a long time applying the fascist label to Donald J. Trump. He did indeed display some telltale signs.
In 2016, a newsreel clip of Trump's plane taxiing up to a hangar where cheering supporters awaited reminded me eerily of Adolf Hitler's electoral campaign in Germany in July 1932, the first airborne campaign in history, where the arrival of the Führer's plane electrified the crowd. Once the rally began, with Hitler and Mussolini, Trump mastered the art of back-and-forth exchanges with his enraptured listeners. There was the threat of physical violence ("lock her up!"), sometimes leading to the forceful ejection of hecklers.
The Proud Boys stood in convincingly for Hitler's Storm Troopers and Mussolini's squadristi. The MAGA hats even provided a bit of uniform. The "America First" message and the leader's arrogant swagger fit the fascist model.
But these are matters of surface decor. How did Trump relate to more profound social, political, economic, and cultural forces in American life? Like Hitler, among the first political leaders to master radio, Trump mastered electronic media like Twitter and won the support of America's largest television chain, Fox News.
Like the fascist leaders Trump understood the deep disaffection of parts of society for traditional leaders and institutions, and he knew how to exploit a widespread fear of national division and decline. Like Hitler and Mussolini he knew how to pose as the only effective bulwark against an advancing Left, all the more fearful because it took on cultural forms unfamiliar to provincial rural America—feminism, Black Power, gay rights. But Trump and Trumpism also differ in some important ways from the historical fascisms. The circumstances are profoundly different.
Although the United States has its problems, these are minor compared to those of the defeated Germany of 1932, with over 30 percent of workers unemployed, or the divided Italy at the brink of civil war in 1921. Most Americans are employed, or were until the pandemic, while those lucky enough to own stocks are in clover.
American political institutions are not deadlocked, as were those of Germany in 1932, when President Hindenburg believed that only Hitler could stop the rapidly growing Communist Party. American circumstances are unlike those of Italy in 1921, where the King believed that the only way to stop the runaway take-overs of Italian cities by Mussolini's new nationalist and anti-socialist mass movement he called Fascism was to invite its leader into office. The crisis created by Trump's refusal to accept a legitimate electoral outcome seems almost trivial by comparison.
A further fundamental difference is Trump's relation to the world of business. Whereas Hitler and Mussolini, at least at the beginning, won their mass audiences with promises to shake up capitalist power, and whereas, once in power with the support of the same businessmen against Labor, the fascist leaders had subjected businessmen, often against their preferences, to the demands of forced rearmament, Trump gave American business what they wanted: the relaxation of regulations and access to world markets.
It seemed to me better to avoid one more facile and polemical use of the fascist label in favor of a more unemotional term, such as oligarchy or plutocracy. Trump's incitement of the invasion of the Capitol on January 6, 2020 removes my objection to the fascist label. His open encouragement of civic violence to overturn an election crosses a red line.
The label now seems not just acceptable but necessary. It is made even more plausible by comparison with a milestone on Europe's road to fascism—an openly fascist demonstration in Paris during the night of February 6, 1934.
On that evening thousands of French veterans of World War I, bitter at rumors of corruption in a parliament already discredited by its inefficacy against the Great Depression, attempted to invade the French parliament chamber, just as the deputies were voting yet another shaky government into power. The veterans had been summoned by right-wing organizations. They made no secret of their wish to replace what they saw as a weak parliamentary government with a fascist dictatorship on the model of Hitler or Mussolini. Unlike the demonstrators in Washington on January 6, the French demonstrators of February 6, 1934 did not succeed in penetrating the parliament building. But the outcome was much graver.
The French government, fearing that the demonstrators, crossing the bridge leading from the Place de la Concorde, were going to break in to the Chamber, authorized the police to shoot. Fifteen demonstrators and one policeman were killed.
The French Third Republic had blood on its hands. The ensuing bitter division helps explain why the French prepared only haltingly before 1940 for Hitler's attack, and why the French defeat of June led to the replacement of the Third Republic with the authoritarian Vichy regime. Curiously, it seems the Washington demonstrators' success at breaching the Capitol gives them less support in American society today than the unsuccessful French demonstrators of February 1934 acquired in their country.
In France, elections in June 1936 had a highly contested outcome: the installation of a Jew and a Socialist, Leon Blum, as the French Prime Minister. French fascists remained active opponents of Blum until opportunity came for them again in June 1940 with Hitler's defeat of the French Army, and the replacement of the French parliamentary republic with the authoritarian Vichy regime.
In the United States, after the ignominious failure of a shocking fascist attempt to undo Biden's election, the new American President can begin his work of healing on January 20. Despite encouraging early signs and the relative robustness of American institutions, it's too soon for a responsible historian to say whether he'll be more successful in sustaining our Republic than European leaders were in defending theirs. Robert O. Paxton is a professor emeritus of social sciences at Columbia University and the author of many books, including the widely translated The Anatomy of Fascism (2004) and highly influential Vichy France (1972, 2001). The views expressed in this article are the author's own.

On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C.
The devices were placed between 7:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. EST. This video contains footage from four points along the suspect's route.
On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C. This video contains footage from along the suspect’s route. On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C.
This video contains footage from along the suspect’s route. On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C.
This video contains footage from along the suspect’s route. On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C.
This video contains footage from along the suspect’s route. This virtual map depicts the approximate route an unknown suspect walked on January 5, 2021, while placing two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C.
The map also features video of the suspect at various points along the route. FBI Washington Field Office Assistant Director in Charge Steven D’Antuono issued a statement regarding the investigation into the pipe bombs placed in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C., on January 5, 2021. On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C.
This video contains footage from along the suspect’s route. The FBI and ATF are offering a combined reward of up to $490,000 for information leading to the location, arrest, and conviction of the person(s) responsible for the placement of pipe bombs in Washington, D.C., on January 5, 2021. The Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) of Washington, DC, is also offering a reward of up to $10,000. The reward offered by MPD is solely governed by their terms and conditions.
The total reward amount is now up to $500,000. Between 7:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST) on January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C.
One pipe bomb was placed ​in an alley behind the headquarters of the Republican National Committee (RNC), located at 310 First Street Southeast, and the other was placed next to a park bench near the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee (DNC), located at 430 South Capitol Street Southeast #3. The unknown individual wore a face mask, glasses, gloves, a grey hooded sweatshirt, and black and light grey Nike Air Max Speed Turf shoes with a yellow logo. The individual carried a ​backpack.

The FBI is seeking the public’s assistance in identifying individuals who made unlawful entry into the U.S. Capitol building and committed various other alleged criminal violations, such as destruction of property, assaulting law enforcement personnel, targeting members of the media for assault, and other unlawful conduct, on January 6, 2021, in Washington, D.C. We have deployed our full investigative resources and are working closely with our federal, state, and local partners to aggressively pursue those involved in these criminal activities. If you have witnessed unlawful violent action—or have any information about the cases below—we urge you to contact us. You can call ‪1-800-CALL-FBI (1-‪800-225-5324) to verbally report tips and/or information related to this investigation, or submit at tip online at tips.fbi.gov. Note: As of February 2, 2021, all images from previously released Seeking Information posters have been consolidated below.

This story contains videos that viewers may find disturbing.
Videos are ordered by the time they were taken. Scroll down to start watching or click on the timeline to jump to any point in the day.

Before 2 P.M. Rioters make it past two barriers on the east side of the Capitol and can now approach the doors of the building. Capitol Police requests National Guard assistance as rioters outside tear through scaffolding. The Senate and House debates begin in their respective chambers.
By the Capitol steps, rioters continue to clash with the police. By now, reinforcements from local police have arrived to help. Both sides spray chemical agents.
Several House Republicans, backed by Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, object to certifying Arizona’s vote, sending the House and Senate to debate in separate chambers. Speaker Nancy Pelosi begins the joint session of Congress, where both chambers meet to certify the presidential vote.
Capitol Police in riot gear are seen arriving to reinforce the line of officers on the Capitol steps. Rioters violently overwhelm the police and breach the Capitol’s outermost barricade. They break through three more barriers, forcing officers back to the Capitol steps, where they now face off.
A video shows a large crowd walking from the rally down Constitution Avenue to the Capitol. Mr. Trump tells rallygoers to walk down to the Capitol. President Trump begins speaking at a rally near the White House, about a mile away from the Capitol.
Members of the Proud Boys, a far-right group, join protesters, who had been assembled on the Capitol lawn since 10 a.m. From 2 P.M. to 3 P.M. Another mob breaches the final barricade on the building’s west side and approaches an entrance near the Senate chamber. The first rioters make it inside the Capitol building.
As Senators continue to debate, Vice President Mike Pence is ushered off the Senate floor. Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, is interrupted on the floor of the Senate, which is called into recess.
A minute later, a mob arrives steps from a door to the Senate chamber. In the House Chamber on the south side of the building, Ms. Pelosi is ushered off the floor.
The debate in the House continues. The House goes into recess, and representatives remain in the chamber.
Mr. Trump criticizes Mr. Pence on Twitter. Rioters breach a second entry into the building on the east side.
Mr. Trump calls Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, though he means to call Senator Tommy Tuberville, Republican of Alabama. Mr. Lee hands the phone to Mr. Tuberville, who tells the president that Mr. Pence had been escorted out of the chamber.
Some time in the next 30 minutes, Representative Kevin McCarthy, the minority leader, calls Mr. Trump asking him to call off the riot, says another House representative Mr. McCarthy tells about the call. The House goes back into session, even with the mob in the building. Senators are evacuated from the Senate chamber as House members remain in theirs.
The first rioters reach a rear door of the House chamber, where members remain inside. Plainclothes officers train their guns on the door.
Representatives begin evacuating the House chamber. Rioters reach the doors of the Speaker’s Lobby.
Ashli Babbitt is shot and killed by an officer as she attempts to break into the Speaker’s Lobby. The last representatives are still being evacuated.

A number of prominent commentators, including the ­historians Timothy Snyder and Sarah Churchwell, the former US secretary of state Madeleine Albright and the Berkeley public policy professor Robert Reich have been arguing for some time that Donald Trump is a fascist. The writer Rebecca Solnit has even called Trump’s ­supporters “Nazis”.
Look at his contempt for democracy, they say; his attacks on the press and the judiciary, his rabble-rousing, his intolerance of all who oppose him, his authoritarianism, his self-identification with foreign dictators and strongmen, his nationalism and “America first” foreign policy. Look at the way he spurns international organisations, treaties and agreements, his racism and encouragement of white supremacist groups, his incitement to violence on the streets of the US. Certainly, these carry strong echoes of fascism.
Hitler and Mussolini attacked the free press, poured scorn on the judiciary, urged their followers to attack and kill their opponents, and put a murderous racism at the heart of their ideology. They tore up treaties, abandoned international organisations, undermined and ultimately destroyed parliamentary democracy, and promoted a cult of their own personality that seduced millions of citizens into accepting them as great redeemers.
The temptation to draw parallels between Trump and the fascist leaders of the 20th century is understandable. How better to express the fear, loathing and contempt that Trump arouses in liberals than by comparing him to the ultimate political evil?
But few who have described Trump as a fascist can be called real experts in the field, not even Snyder. The majority of genuine specialists, including the historians Roger Griffin, Matthew Feldman, Stanley Payne and Ruth Ben-Ghiat, agree that whatever else he is, Trump is not a fascist. Fascism and Nazism were the creation of the First World War, which militarised society and – in the minds of their leaders and supporters – discredited liberal democracy by associating it with armed defeat.
In Germany, the defeat was catastrophic, entailing large territorial losses, the emasculation of the country as a great power, and the payment of huge financial reparations to the Allies. Italy was on the winning side in 1918, but the expected gains from banding together with Britain, France and the US failed to materialise, and the country left the war with what historians have called “the mentality of a defeated nation”.
What drove fascism and Nazism was the desire to refight the First World War, but this time to win it. Preparing for war, arming for war, educating for war and fighting a war defined fascist theory and praxis.
Hitler’s aim of conquering territory was put into effect immediately in 1933, as he rearmed Germany and set it on a path to invade neighbouring countries. By mid-1940, Nazi Germany had conquered Poland, Austria, Czechoslovakia and most of western Europe. The Third Reich lived for war, breathed war and promoted war without limits. Similarly, Mussolini’s central aim was to create a new “Roman empire”, beginning with the conquest of Ethiopia in 1935-36 and continuing with less successful attempts to subjugate countries around the Mediterranean, disastrously in the cases of Yugoslavia, Greece and North Africa.
For all of Trump’s hostility towards countries he perceives as enemies of the US, notably Iran, there is no indication that he sought a war with any foreign power, still less that he has been consumed by a desire for foreign conquest and the creation of an American empire. He is an isolationist, busy withdrawing US troops from foreign adventures, from Syria to Afghanistan. “America first” is not about launching foreign wars but disengaging from them.
Trump’s encouragement of violence against his opponents at home has been unsystematic. He has told his supporters to rough up reporters and suggested during the 2016 election campaign that his followers might like to make use of the Second Amendment of the US constitution (the right to bear arms) against Hillary Clinton. He has also described white supremacists as “good people”. But this bears no comparison to the hundreds of thousands of armed and uniformed stormtroopers and Squadristi that the Nazi and fascist leaders deployed on to the streets daily in the 1920s and early 1930s to intimidate, beat up, arrest, imprison and often kill political opponents.
Hitler and Mussolini sought to transform their countries into perma-war states: a combination of education and propaganda on the one hand, and street-level violence and intimidation on the other, aimed to forge a new kind of citizen, one that was aggressive, regimented, arrogant, decisive, organised and obedient to the dictates of the state. GM Trevelyan poured scorn on Mussolini’s efforts to turn Italians into second-rate Germans, as the historian put it; but even in Germany this endeavour failed, except with a minority of Hitler’s most ardent followers. The society Hitler wanted was portrayed in the final minutes of Leni Riefenstahl’s Triumph of the Will (1935), with endless serried ranks of uniformed SS troops marching across the screen like well-oiled automata.
The reality was different, as the majority of Germans retreated from this dehumanising prospect into their own private lives. Trump by contrast has encouraged a warped vision of personal freedom: a society in which people aren’t subject to government regulation or supervision, where anarchy and confusion reign, self-restraint is abandoned, violence is unchecked, and self-aggrandising corruption permeates politics.
Trump only has regard for those he ­considers to be “winners”, and cannot bear the idea of defeat. Refusing a visit to a war cemetery in Paris in September 2020, he remarked that soldiers who died for their country on the field of battle were “losers” and “suckers”.
This mentality contrasts strongly with the central role of self-sacrifice in fascist ideology. Hitler regarded himself as a gambler: “I always go for broke,” he told Hermann Goering in 1939.
There could be nothing but either total victory or total defeat. Suicide in the event of failure was always an option in his mind.
Hitler and his propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels constructed a cult around Nazi “martyrs” such as Horst Wessel, the 22-year-old stormtrooper killed by communists three years before the Nazi seizure of power. They also honoured the men shot dead by police in the beer-hall putsch of 1923, parading the “blood flag” brandished by the would-by putschists at ceremonial commemorations every year. Self-sacrifice for the nation was so central to Nazi ideology that when it became clear at the end of the Second World War that Nazism had been defeated, a wave of suicides swept the entire Nazi establishment, beginning with Hitler, Goebbels, Heinrich Himmler and Goering, and ­cascading down the ranks.
Beyond differences in ideology and temperament are the contrasts in state organisation. In Germany and Italy during the 1930s and 1940s, businesses became helpmeets of the “corporate state”. Unions and labour organisations were crushed, while firms and captains of industry generated vast profits, only so long as what they produced served the party and the army. Both Hitler and Mussolini ensured a near-total “coordination” of social institutions and voluntary associations, as everything from football clubs to male voice choirs was absorbed into the structures of the fascist state. This social policy was maintained by huge bureaucratic regimes, providing jobs for thousands of their followers hungry for income and status after years of hardship and privation.
During Trump’s disastrous four years in the White House government posts have been left unfilled, senior officials have been routinely fired and the commander-in-chief has spent much of his time playing golf. The kind of hyperactive dynamism that characterised fascist regimes was entirely absent.
Congress has prevailed over Trump’s attempts to sideline or undermine it, and judges, including his own Supreme Court appointees, have adhered to and interpreted the law in ways that have sometimes thwarted Trump’s ambitions, notably rejecting his legal challenges to the presidential election.
Election officials, among them long-term Republicans, have resisted his attempts to intimidate them, while the mainstream media has refused to broadcast his falsehoods, lies and misleading claims unchecked. The damage Trump has done to American democracy is considerable, but the past four years of mayhem have demonstrated the resilience of American institutions, the law and the constitution.
American democracy is damaged, but it survives. Democratic culture in the European countries where fascism prevailed after 1918 had shallow roots. The German judiciary was overwhelmingly hostile to the Weimar Republic, and the idea of an unbiased, non-partisan press was too new to establish itself as an accepted feature of political life.
The ­legitimacy of the German political ­system in the 1920s and early 1930s was weak, and the corrupt Italian polity was widely discredited. A substantial portion of the American population – and, indeed, a majority of members of the Republican Party – refuses to accept the election of president-elect Joe Biden.
But that does not mean they want the constitution to be overthrown, merely that they don’t think it’s been employed fairly. The shocking scenes at the Capitol on 6 January, and the spectacle of Trump lauding those who attacked police and trashed Democratic Party congressional offices as patriots, underlined the real threat he and his followers pose to democratic norms and the rule of law.
Armed insurrections are threatened by ultra-right groups across the country for Biden’s inauguration. But 6 January was not an attempted coup.
Nor is one likely to occur on 20 January. For all of Trump’s inflammatory rhetoric, the attack on Congress was not a pre-planned attempt to seize the reins of government.
Trump is too chaotic and undisciplined to prepare and execute any kind of organised assault on democracy. The storming of the Capitol has been compared to Hitler’s infamous beer-hall putsch on 9 November 1923. On that occasion, Hitler gathered his armed and uniformed supporters in a beer-hall in Munich, from where they marched towards the city centre.
Germany was in crisis: inflation was out of control and the French had occupied the Ruhr earlier that year. Hitler thought the conditions were favourable for a coup d’état and he proclaimed the formation of a “national dictatorship” headed by himself. But the coup went wrong, the putschists were met by a hail of police bullets, and Hitler was arrested and imprisoned for five years of “fortress confinement” (he only served nine months).
The original intention was to seize the government in Munich and, as Mussolini had done in Rome in 1922, march on the capital. But the putsch was confused and chaotic and doomed to failure before it had begun. Hitler drew two lessons from the debacle.
First, seizing power by force in an open and direct confrontation with the government was not going to work; the ballot box not the bullet was the way to power. The second lesson was just as important: the beer-hall putsch was unsuccessful not least because Hitler had failed to secure the support of the political elite, the army, business, the civil service and the police.
He would not make the same mistake again. Between 1932 and 1933, he used his electoral success, which had elevated the Nazis to become the largest party in Germany, as a basis for negotiating with these groups to secure their backing for a coalition government that he would head. A vital factor was the redundancy of the legislature: disrupted by warring factions of uniformed Nazis and Communists, the Reichstag only met on a handful of occasions in 1932, and government legislated by decree. Exploiting this situation and unleashing his violent Brownshirts on to the streets, Hitler transformed the chancellorship into a dictatorship within a matter of months.
Is the storming of the Capitol on 6 January, like the beer-hall putsch, a beginning rather than an end? It seems clear that Trumpism as a political force in American life isn’t going away soon. Many of Trump’s supporters will continue to dispute the legitimacy of Biden’s election and to regard Donald Trump as the real president of the US. But there are signs that the events of 6 January have shocked many Republicans into abandoning Trump and his most fanatical supporters.
The GOP may split; Trump may become the leader of a hard-right third party run from Mar-a-Lago. Time will tell.
But time is against Trump. Hitler and his followers were young men in 1923.
They could afford to wait. Trump is in his seventies and can’t.
A successor may emerge, but it seems unlikely that he would match Trump’s crowd appeal. Questions are being asked about the failure of the police to prevent the storming of the Capitol, but there is little evidence that the forces of order – the administrative and legal arms of the state, as well as the military – will prevent a peaceful transfer of power on 20 January.
The situation in the US today is more like Munich in 1923 than Berlin ten years later. To state these obvious facts is not to ­encourage complacency. It means that rather than fighting the demons of the past – ­fascism, Nazism, the militarised politics of Europe’s interwar years – it is necessary to fight the new demons of the present: disinformation, conspiracy theories and the blurring of fact and falsehood.
Banning dangerous and irresponsible figureheads like Trump from social media is a start – they incite violence and purvey misinformation to a degree that makes Goebbels look like George Washington (the first American president, who was said never to tell a lie). Trump’s incessant and false claims that the election was rigged have convinced many Americans that their votes no longer count for anything. This lack of democratic faith, not a violent seizure of power, is the real threat to the American republic. Whether the US and its citizens succeed in preserving democracy and its institutions depends to a large extent on whether they succeed in identifying what the real threats are and developing appropriate means to defeat them. Imagining that they are ­experiencing a rerun of the fascist ­seizure of power isn’t going to help them very much in this task.

The US Capitol is once again secured but four people are dead – including one woman who was shot – after supporters of President Donald Trump breached one of the most iconic American buildings, engulfing the nation’s capital in chaos after Trump urged his supporters to fight against the ceremonial counting of the electoral votes that will confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s win.
Shortly after 1 p.m. ET Wednesday hundreds of pro-Trump protesters pushed through barriers set up along the perimeter of the Capitol, where they tussled with officers in full riot gear, some calling the officers “traitors” for doing their jobs. About 90 minutes later, police said demonstrators got into the building and the doors to the House and Senate were being locked.
Shortly after, the House floor was evacuated by police. Vice President Mike Pence was also evacuated from the chamber, where he was to perform his role in the counting of electoral votes. An armed standoff took place at the House front door at about 3 p.m. ET, and police officers had their guns drawn at someone who was trying to breach it. A Trump supporter was also pictured standing at the Senate dais earlier in the afternoon.
A woman, who is yet to be identified, died after being shot in the chest on the Capitol grounds, DC police confirmed to CNN. More information on the shooting was not immediately available and a police spokesperson said additional details will come later.
DC Police Chief Robert Contee said three other people died from medical emergencies during the riot. “One adult female and two adult males appear to have suffered from separate medical emergencies, which resulted in their deaths. Any loss of life in the District is tragic and our thoughts are with anyone impacted by their loss,” Contee said at a news conference Wednesday night. Multiple officers have been injured with at least one transported to the hospital, multiple sources tell CNN.
Smoke grenades were used on the Senate side of the Capitol, as police worked to clear the building of rioters. Windows on the west side of the Senate were broken, and hundreds of officers amassed on the first floor of the building. The Senate floor was cleared of rioters as of 3:30 p.m. ET, and an officer told CNN that they successfully squeezed them away from the Senate wing of the building and toward the Rotunda. The protesters were removed through the east and west doors of the Capitol. At least 52 people were arrested as of 9:30 p.m. ET Wednesday in Washington.
The US Capitol Police worked to secure the second floor of the Capitol first, and were seen just before 5 p.m. ET pushing demonstrators off the steps on the east side of the building. With about 30 minutes to go before Washington’s 6 p.m. ET curfew, Washington police amassed in a long line to push the mob back from the Capitol grounds. It took until roughly 5:40 p.m. ET for the building to once again be secured, according to the sergeant-at-arms.
The stunning display of insurrection was the first time the US Capitol had been overrun since the British attacked and burned the building in August of 1814, during the War of 1812, according to Samuel Holliday, director of scholarship and operations with the US Capitol Historical Society. The shocking scene was met with less police force than many of the Black Lives Matter protests that rolled across the country in the wake of George Floyd’s killing at the hands of Minneapolis police officers last year. While federal police attacked peaceful protesters in Lafayette Square outside the White House over the summer, clearing the way for Trump to take a photo in front of a nearby church at the time, protesters on Wednesday were able to overrun Capitol police and infiltrate the country’s legislative chambers.
The protesters first breached exterior security barriers, and video footage showed protesters gathering and some clashing with police near the Capitol building. CNN’s team on the ground saw a number of protesters trying to move up the side of the Capitol building.
Several loud flash bangs were heard as well. Protesters could be seen pushing against metal fences and police used the fences to push protesters back, while other officers reached over the top to club people trying to cross their lines. Flash bangs could be heard near the steps of the Capitol as smoke filled the air.
In some instances officers could be seen deploying pepper spray. Tear gas was deployed, but it’s not clear whether by protesters or police, and people wiped tears from their eyes while coughing.
After the building was breached, the Capitol police officer in the House chamber told lawmakers that they may need to duck under their chairs and informed lawmakers that protesters were in the building’s Rotunda. Lots of House members were seen wearing gas masks as they moved between Capitol buildings.
Members were calling family to say they were OK. Congressional leaders were being evacuated from the Capitol complex just before 5 p.m. ET and were set to be taken to Fort McNair, a nearby Army base in Washington, according to a federal law enforcement official.
Trump has directed the National Guard to Washington along with “other federal protective services,” according to White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany. The entire DC National Guard has been activated by the Department of Defense, according to the Pentagon. The official said DC National Guard was not anticipating to be used to protect federal facilities, and the Trump administration had decided earlier this week that would be the task of civilian law enforcement, the official said.
Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser announced a citywide curfew from 6 p.m. ET on Wednesday until 6 a.m. ET Thursday. Lawmakers began returning to the Capitol after the building was secured and made it clear that they intended to resume their intended business – namely, confirming Biden’s win over Trump by counting the votes in the Electoral College. Proceedings resumed at about 8 p.m. ET with Pence – who never left the Capitol, according to his press secretary – bringing the Senate session back into order. “Let’s get back to work,” he said. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement earlier Wednesday evening that congressional leadership wanted to continue with the joint session Wednesday night.
“Today, a shameful assault was made on our democracy. It was anointed at the highest level of government. It cannot, however, deter us from our responsibility to validate the election of Joe Biden,” Pelosi wrote. It took until deep in the early hours of Thursday morning, but Congress eventually counted and certified Biden’s election win.
Trump finally called on his supporters to “go home” hours after the riot started, but spent a large amount of time in the one-minute video lamenting and lying about his election loss. However, later on in the evening Trump justified the mob’s actions and praised them. “These are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long.
Go home with love & in peace. Remember this day forever!”
he said, in a tweet that was later deleted by Twitter. Others inside the President’s orbit tweeted their calls for calm as the mob repeatedly attempted to take over the building. “Be peaceful and use your 1st Amendment rights, but don’t start acting like the other side. We have a country to save and this doesn’t help anyone,” he tweeted.
Federal and local law enforcement responded to reports of possible pipe bombs in multiple locations in Washington, DC, according to a federal law enforcement official. A pipe bomb was found at the Republican National Committee’s headquarters, a RNC official told CNN. The device was found on the ground outside, along the wall of the headquarters.
It was safely detonated by the police, the RNC official said. At least two suspected pipe bombs were rendered safe by law enforcement – the one at the building that houses RNC offices and one in the US Capitol complex, a federal law enforcement official told CNN.
The official said these were real explosive devices and they were detonated safely. The Democratic National Committee was also evacuated after a suspicious package was being investigated nearby, a Democratic source familiar with the matter told CNN. The party had preemptively closed the building ahead of the protests, the source said, but a few security and essential personnel were evacuated.
Near the scene where one of the pipe bombs was found Wednesday, police detained a suspect and found a vehicle with a rifle and as many as 10 Molotov cocktails, according to a federal law enforcement official. Investigators are working to determine whether there’s a connection to the bombs found earlier. This story has been updated with additional developments on Wednesday.

WASHINGTON (AP) — The police were badly outnumbered.
Only a few dozen guarded the West front of the U.S. Capitol when they were rushed by thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the building. Armed with metal pipes, pepper spray and other weapons, the mob pushed past the thin police line, and one protester hurled a fire extinguisher at a officer, according to video widely circulated on YouTube.
“They’re getting into the Capitol tonight! They’re getting in,” the man filming shouts in delight.
They breached the line moments later, and rioters soon broke into the building, taking over the House and Senate chambers and running wild in Statuary Hall and other hallowed symbols of democracy. The mob ransacked the place, smashing windows and waving Trump, American and Confederate flags. The lawmakers who were voting to affirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory were forced into hiding for hours.
Throughout the melee, police officers were injured, mocked, ridiculed and threatened. One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick, died Thursday night from injuries suffered during the riot. The melee was instigated by a mob of supporters of President Donald Trump who have professed their love of law enforcement and derided the mass police reform protests that shook the nation last year following the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis.
Sicknick was the fifth person to die because of the Capitol protest violence. One protester, a woman from California, was shot to death by Capitol Police, and three other people died after “medical emergencies” related to the breach, including at least who died of an apparent heart attack. Sicknick, 42, was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher during a struggle, two law enforcement officials said, although it was not clear if he was the officer shown in the video. The officials could not discuss the ongoing investigation publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.
Other images show police completely overwhelmed by protesters who shoved, kicked and punched their way into the building. In one stunning video, a lone police officer tries to hold off a mob of demonstrators from cracking into the lobby.
He fails. Protesters attacked police with pipes, sprayed irritants and even planted live bombs found in the area.
Sicknick’s family said Friday that he had wanted to be a police officer his entire life. He served in the New Jersey Air National Guard before joining the Capitol Police in 2008.
Many details regarding the incident remain unknown, and Sicknick’s family urged the public and news media not to make his death a political issue. Still, the riot — and Sicknick’s death — focused renewed attention on Capitol Police, a force of more than 2,300 officers and civilian employees that protects the Capitol, lawmakers, staff and visitors.
The agency has an annual budget of about $515 million. Three days before the riot, the Pentagon offered National Guard manpower.
And as the mob descended on the building Wednesday, Justice Department leaders reached out to offer up FBI agents. Capitol Police turned them down both times, according to senior defense officials and two people familiar with the matter. Despite plenty of warnings of a possible insurrection and ample resources and time to prepare, police planned only for a free speech demonstration.
Like many other agencies, the Capitol Police have been hit hard by COVID-19, with frequent schedule changes for officers and many forced to work overtime to fill out rosters. The pandemic has put the police under strain going into the new session of Congress and the Jan. 20 inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who resigned Thursday under pressure from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other congressional leaders, defended his department’s response, saying officers “acted valiantly when faced with thousands of individuals involved in violent riotous actions.”
Two other top security officials, Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger and House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving, also resigned. By Friday, prosecutors had filed 14 cases in federal district court and 40 others in the District of Columbia Superior Court for a variety of offenses ranging from assaulting police officers to entering restricted areas of the U.S. Capitol, stealing federal property and threatening lawmakers. Prosecutors said additional cases remained under seal, dozens of other people were being sought by federal agents and the U.S. attorney in Washington vowed that “all options were on the table” for charges, including possibly sedition.
“Those who are proven to have committed criminal acts during the storming of the Capitol will face justice,’' Rosen said. Also charged was a West Virginia state lawmaker who posted videos online showing himself pushing his way inside the Capitol, fist bumping with a police officer and then milling around the Rotunda as he shouted “Our house!” The lawmaker, Derrick Evans, was arrested by the FBI at his home on Friday and charged with entering restricted federal property.
Sund and other leaders are charged with protecting lawmakers, “but also making sure that the rank-and-file members are put in situations where they’re as safe as possible and they have the support that they need. And that clearly isn’t the case,” Ryan said.
Pelosi ordered flags at the Capitol lowered to half-staff in Sicknick’s honor. Associated Press writers Lisa Mascaro in Washington, Nomaan Merchant in Houston and Derek Karikari in New York contributed to this report.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Seething with anger, mostly unmasked, Donald Trump’s supporters stormed and breached the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, stoked by his defiant speech claiming the election had been stolen from him.
Tens of thousands of supporters braved bone-chilling temperatures to hear him speak at the Ellipse below the White House, then many marched to Capitol Hill and up the steps, pushing their way past Capitol Police, as some of the lawmakers’ office buildings were evacuated. Washington, DC’s mayor issued a city-wide curfew, from nightfall through the next morning.
“If you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore,” Trump had told the crowd, urging them to head to the Capitol. By nightfall, 4 people were dead, and offices throughout the Capitol were trashed by the angry rampage, with lawmakers forced to barricade themselves in the House debating chamber or sheltering in their offices. Democratic Rep. Jim Himes of Connecticut tweeted that lawmakers had been asked to get out gas masks “as there has been tear gas used in the rotunda,” the circular building in the center of the Capitol.
During the melee, Trump tweeted pleas to the crowd to “stay peaceful,” adding “No violence! Remember, WE are the Party of Law & Order.”
As the confrontations continued, the President tweeted again, posting a video of himself. “You have to go home now,” he said, adding, “We don’t want anybody hurt.” But he also doubled down on his claims the election was “fraudulent,” and told his supporters he loved them.
By nightfall, one woman rioter shot by Capitol police had died, later as identified as Ashli Babbit, and three more had died from medical emergencies. The crowds largely stayed put, despite the threat of arrest after the 6pm curfew, matched by a similar curfew declared by the Virginia’s governor in Alexandria, just across the Potomac River from the capital. And Twitter, Facebook and You-tube had all deleted Trump’s video calling for calm but repeating his election claims, and Twitter froze the President’s account for 12 hours and threatened to permanently delete his account if he continued to violate its policies.
Trump’s supporters have come from California, Florida, the Midwest and deep South, united by a fury with many targets: the mainstream media that reports the November U.S. presidential polls were free and fair; poll workers who they believe changed or hid or destroyed votes for Trump; and the Republicans who have acknowledged President-elect Joe Biden’s legitimate win. They came to answer the call of a lame duck president who is still refusing to recognize he was beaten by Biden. Trump asked his followers to come to Washington to fight the result on the day Congress formally recognizes the results and declares Biden the winner – normally a pro-forma exercise, made historic this time, with a dozen or so Republican Senators vowing to vote against the Biden win. The pro-Trump demonstrations that started on Tuesday already resulted in a slew of arrests and clashes with counter-protestors — raw evidence of the growing schism in the U.S. body politic, of extremes refusing to compromise, or to believe their side could have lost.
“I come all the way from Idaho to …let my voice be heard that this election was not right,” says a maskless Christie Nicholson, wrapped in a pink Women for America First flag. “President Trump won it fair and square,” she says, adding that the coronavirus pandemic was “BS” and her vote had been robbed.
Washington police and national guard troops were arrayed throughout the blocked off and mostly empty streets around the White House and National Mall, with shops and offices boarded up, braced for worse to some. By Thursday morning, there had been more than 50 arrests, with charges including carrying a pistol and a rifle without a license, assault on a police officer and unregistered ammunition and firearms, and two pipe bombs had been found around Capitol grounds. Fox News anchor Chris Wallace called the violence at the Capitol that followed Trump’s speech “the rule of the mob versus the rule of law and the Constitution,” stoked by the President “filling a crowd with misstatements, with facts that have been absolutely shredded” more than 50 times by Trump judges and his own attorney general, but added there are still many people who will believe him.
Waiting for Trump to speak earlier in the day, Kira Innis, a 34-year-old who calls herself “a Black millennial, female, Los Angelino” and conservative political activist, says she is convinced the vote was stolen. “A blind man can tell this was as all rigged as all get out,” she says, pulling her mask down to speak. “Between the dead voting, illegals voting, citizens voting more than like 10 times, let alone more than twice…gerrymandering, ballot harvesting, Dominion,” she adds, in a reference to widely disproven reports that voting machines provided by Dominion Voting Systems were somehow hacked or used to falsify votes.
Activists like Innis were joined by Trump backers who embraced more extreme perspectives, like QAnon believer Zach, who would only give his first name. Zach, who came from Tulsa, Oklahoma, to attend the rally, believes the online conspiracy group is a “military-intelligence operation” that’s been “micro-dosing the American public” with hard truths, including the claim that a cabal of Democrats including Biden are working together with pedophiles to traffic children globally. Zach, his face unmasked and wearing a General Flynn baseball cap in honor of Trump’s former national security advisor Mike Flynn, believes evidence of such criminality lies in Biden son Hunter’s laptop.
“The Hunter Biden emails, once they come out, people are gonna start realizing this is not crazy conspiracies. These people traffic children,” he says. Write to Vera Bergengruen at vera.bergengruen@time.com.

In the days following a pro-Trump mob's attack on the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, first-hand accounts of the day's chaos were relayed to the public by lawmakers, reporters, congressional aides and photographers.
I heard at least 3 different rioters at the Capitol say that they hoped to find Vice President Mike Pence and execute him by hanging him from a Capitol Hill tree as a traitor. It was a common line being repeated. Many more were just talking about how the VP should be executed. In addition to the chants of "hang Mike Pence," a gallows was also erected outside of the U.S. Capitol.

Shocking new footage from the storming of the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 shows Trump supporters cramming into the Senate chamber, where they rifled through documents and demanded to know where the lawmakers had fled. The video, first obtained by The New Yorker, was shot by veteran war correspondent Luke Mogelson, a writer for the magazine, who followed the mob as they forced their way into the Capitol.
"Where the f--- are they?" one rioter can be heard shouting.
Others are seen milling around the Senate chamber while others rummage through documents. "There’s gotta be something in here we can f---ing use against these scumbags," one man says as he flips through a notebook while taking pictures with his phone. Another clip shows a group of the rioters walking down a hall, banging on lawmakers’ office doors and shouting words like "treason" and "1776." Other rioters demand to know the whereabouts of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.

Just four days later, Barnett was photographed sitting with his feet up on a desk in Pelosi’s office at the U.S. Capitol — an image that quickly became emblematic of the chaotic storming of the complex by a pro-Trump mob.
Barnett, who is 60 and goes by the nickname “Bigo,” identified himself as the intruder in Pelosi’s office to New York Times reporter Matthew Rosenberg later on Wednesday, according to a post on Twitter by Rosenberg. Barnett also confirmed his involvement to the Arkansas television station 5News.
Barnett, photographed outside the Capitol holding an envelope he said he removed from the California Democrat’s office, said he had taken the envelope because he had bled on it. “I put a quarter on the desk because I’m not a thief,” he told 5News.
Calls on Wednesday evening to a cellphone number registered to Barnett were routed to a voice-mail account that was not accepting messages. Barnett is a Trump supporter and gun rights advocate who has repeatedly shared false claims via social media that the election was stolen, according to a review of two Facebook accounts tied to Barnett. In one post, Barnett falsely asserted that there were “mountains of evidence” of voter fraud.
One of the Facebook accounts in Barnett’s name was locked or removed from the social media site Wednesday evening. Another account, named “George Reincarnated Patton” after the World War II general, was locked or removed Thursday morning.
The Washington Post was able to link the latter account to Barnett because the profile picture depicted Barnett, and the page contained a selfie of Barnett as well as a post he had signed using his real name. In addition, a post on the “Patton” account on Saturday urged his friends to shift to the account in Barnett’s real name. “Tired of double posting,” it said.
In the post, Barnett expressed disappointment that past political events he attended had attracted only a “small handful” of people. Ten days earlier, he had posted photographs of himself and a few others protesting the election result outside the state Capitol in Little Rock.
Barnett posed for one picture holding a rifle. In a separate post the same day, Barnett wrote that he “came into this world kicking and screaming, covered in someone else’s blood,” adding, “I’m not afraid to go out the same way.” The post was accompanied by a selfie of Barnett with a rifle strapped to his chest.
He was wearing a polo shirt bearing on one sleeve a pro-police “Blue Lives Matter” flag logo. Barnett has organized fundraising events for the police department in Sulphur Springs, Ark., near Gravette, according to his Facebook accounts and an October article in the Westside Eagle-Observer newspaper. The article said Barnett presented the department with a check to fund the purchase of body cameras for officers after raising money at a “Back The Blue” rally and auction. Sulphur Springs Police Chief Jarod Morgan, who was photographed by the newspaper accepting the check from Barnett, did not respond to messages on Wednesday evening.
trafficking campaign, according to another article in the Eagle-Observer. Facebook limited the use of the national campaign’s hashtag because it found that content tied to the campaign was associated with the QAnon conspiracy theory, which entails false allegations about child abuse among the global elite. Online in recent weeks, Barnett has shared numerous conspiracy theories about the coronavirus pandemic and the vaccines being used to combat it.
He has railed against mask requirements, complaining in one post that he was denied service by a food truck. Amid the gripes about the pandemic and the election, Barnett posted to his Facebook page a video of people arriving for Wednesday’s rally.

Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., said a laptop was stolen from his office during the raid of the Capitol that ensued on Tuesday when pro-Trump supporters stormed the building, upending a joint session of Congress to certify the results of the presidential election. The Justice Department (DOJ) said Thursday during a briefing that "national security equities" may have been among the records stolen during the looting and destruction that stalled the congressional proceedings for more than six hours.
The office was pillaged, with art torn from the wall, chairs and furniture out of place, and a Trump flag left "to mark their presence," Merkley said. Debris, including cigarette butts, were strewn all over the carpet, and it appeared someone had used a picture frame unhung from the wall as an ashtray.
"What happened today was an assault by the domestic terrorists who stormed the Capitol, but it was also an assault on our Constitution," Merkley said. Rioters also tore through the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, with one man, who has been identified as Richard Barnett, posing for pictures with his foot up on a staffer's desk. Barnett, 60, from Arkansas, told news outlets he cut his thumb and bled on an envelope in the office, which he then proceeded to take with him on his way out of the Capitol building. The siege of the nation's Capitol left five people dead, including one police officer, and dozens were seriously injured.

They were never a natural fit, the straight-laced evangelical and the brash reality TV star. But for more than four years, President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence made their marriage of political convenience work. Now, in the last days of their administration, each is feeling betrayed by the other.
It’s part of the fallout from an extraordinary 24-hour stretch in which Pence openly defied Trump, Trump unleashed his fury on the vice president, and a mob of violent supporters incensed by Trump’s rhetoric stormed the Capitol building and tried to halt the peaceful transfer of power. The Trump-Pence relationship is “pretty raw right now,” said one top GOP congressional aide, who described multiple phone calls in which Trump berated Pence and tried to pressure the vice president to use powers he does not possess to try to overturn the results of the 2020 election. Pence, for his part, was left feeling “hurt” and “upset” by the episode, according to people close to him. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.
Pence’s decision to publicly defy Trump was a first for the notoriously deferential vice president, who has been unflinchingly loyal to Trump since joining the GOP ticket in 2016. Pence has spent his tenure defending the president’s actions, trying to soothe anxious world leaders put off by Trump’s caustic rhetoric, and carefully avoiding the president’s ire. He has taken on some of the administration’s most high-pressure projects, including leading its response to the coronavirus. And he has stood by Trump even as the president leveled baseless allegations of voter fraud and refused to concede the election after his loss to Democrat Joe Biden.
Under normal circumstances, the vote-tallying procedure that began on Wednesday would have been a mere formality. But after losing court case after court case, and with no further options at hand, Trump and his allies zeroed in on the congressional tally as their last chance to try to challenge the race’s outcome. In a bizarre interpretation of the law, they argued that the vice president had the unilateral power to reject Electoral College votes supporting Biden. The Constitution makes clear that only Congress has that power.
The effort effectively turned Pence into a scapegoat who could be blamed for Trump’s loss if the vice president refused to go along with the plan. Trump and his lawyers spent days engaged in an aggressive pressure campaign to force Pence to bend to their will in a series of phone calls and in-person meetings, including one that stretched for hours on Tuesday. When Pence, who consulted with his own legal team, constitutional scholars and the Senate parliamentarian, informed Trump on Wednesday morning that he would not be going along with the effort, the president “blew a gasket,” in the words of one person briefed on the conversation. Not long after, Trump took the stage in front of thousands of his supporters at a “Stop the Steal” rally, where he urged them to march to the Capitol and continued to fan false hopes that Pence could change the outcome.
“If Mike Pence does the right thing we win the election,” Trump wrongly insisted. He repeatedly returned to Pence throughout his speech as he tried to pressure the vice president to fall in line. But Trump already knew what Pence intended. And as Trump spoke, Pence released a letter to Congress laying out his conclusion that a vice president cannot claim “unilateral authority” to reject states’ electoral votes.
He soon gaveled into order the joint session of Congress where his and Trump’s defeat would be cemented. Not long after that, members of Trump’s rally crowd arrived at the Capitol, where they overwhelmed police, smashed windows, occupied the building and halted the electoral proceedings.
Pence was whisked from the Senate chamber to a secure location, where he was held for hours with staff as well as his wife and daughter, who had been there to support him. For allies of Pence, it was a deeply upsetting episode that put the vice president in danger after four years of unstinting loyalty to the president and left Pence himself feeling hurt. “I just think he’s had enough,” said John Thompson, who served as Pence’s campaign spokesman and and also worked for the Republican Governors’ Association. “He said, ‘After all the things I’ve done for (Trump),'” Inhofe added.
It remains unclear how the dynamic between Trump and Pence will play out over the next two weeks and how long the president will hold his grudge. The White House declined to discuss Trump’s thinking, but allies said Pence intends to spend the next two weeks focused on the transition.
He is also expected to attend Biden’s inauguration. And while Pence had been banking on his close relationship with the president to propel him to top-tier status if he decides to run for president in 2024, allies said they didn’t think the vice president’s actions this week would have long-term consequences, even if some voters blame him for Trump’s defeat. ___ Associated Press writers Alan Fram and Zeke Miller contributed to this report.

The Trump supporters rioting at the US Capitol last week chanted, “Hang Mike Pence,” according to video clips from the scene.
The footage was among newly released images showing just how violent the riots were: a bloodied officer crushed in a doorway screaming; another tumbling over a railing into the crowd below after being body-slammed from behind; members of the media being cursed, shoved and punched. Five people died in Wednesday’s mayhem.
The call for the US vice president’s execution followed an extraordinary 24-hour stretch in which Pence openly defied Trump, Trump unleashed his fury on the vice president, and a mob of violent supporters incensed by Trump’s rhetoric stormed the Capitol building and tried to halt the peaceful transfer of power. Trump supporters overwhelmed police, smashed windows, occupied the building and halted the electoral proceedings.
Pence was whisked from the Senate chamber to a secure location, where he was held for hours with staff as well as his wife and daughter, who had been there to support him. The Trump-Pence relationship is “pretty raw right now,” said one top GOP congressional aide, who described multiple phone calls in which Trump berated Pence and tried to pressure the vice president to use powers he does not possess to try to overturn the results of the 2020 election. Pence, for his part, was left feeling “hurt” and “upset” by the episode, according to people close to him. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.
Pence’s decision to publicly defy Trump was a first for the notoriously deferential vice president, who has been unflinchingly loyal to Trump since joining the GOP ticket in 2016. Pence has spent his tenure defending the president’s actions, trying to soothe anxious world leaders put off by Trump’s caustic rhetoric, and carefully avoiding the president’s ire. He has taken on some of the administration’s most high-pressure projects, including leading its response to the coronavirus. And he has stood by Trump even as the president leveled baseless allegations of voter fraud and refused to concede the election after his loss to Democrat Joe Biden.
Under normal circumstances, the vote-tallying procedure that began on Wednesday would have been a mere formality. But after losing court case after court case, and with no further options at hand, Trump and his allies zeroed in on the congressional tally as their last chance to try to challenge the race’s outcome. In a bizarre interpretation of the law, they argued that the vice president had the unilateral power to reject Electoral College votes supporting Biden. The Constitution makes clear that only Congress has that power.
The effort effectively turned Pence into a scapegoat who could be blamed for Trump’s loss if the vice president refused to go along with the plan. Trump and his lawyers spent days engaged in an aggressive pressure campaign to force Pence to bend to their will in a series of phone calls and in-person meetings, including one that stretched for hours on Tuesday. When Pence, who consulted with his own legal team, constitutional scholars and the Senate parliamentarian, informed Trump on Wednesday morning that he would not be going along with the effort, the president “blew a gasket,” in the words of one person briefed on the conversation. Not long after, Trump took the stage in front of thousands of his supporters at a “Stop the Steal” rally, where he urged them to march to the Capitol and continued to fan false hopes that Pence could change the outcome.
“If Mike Pence does the right thing we win the election,” Trump wrongly insisted. He repeatedly returned to Pence throughout his speech as he tried to pressure the vice president to fall in line. But Trump already knew what Pence intended.
And as Trump spoke, Pence released a letter to Congress laying out his conclusion that a vice president cannot claim “unilateral authority” to reject states’ electoral votes. He soon gaveled into order the joint session of Congress where his and Trump’s defeat would be cemented.
For allies of Pence, it was a deeply upsetting episode that put the vice president in danger after four years of unstinting loyalty to the president and left Pence himself feeling hurt. “I just think he’s had enough,” said John Thompson, who served as Pence’s campaign spokesman and and also worked for the Republican Governors’ Association. “He said, ‘After all the things I’ve done for (Trump),’”
Inhofe added. It remains unclear how the dynamic between Trump and Pence will play out over the next two weeks and how long the president will hold his grudge. The White House declined to discuss Trump’s thinking, but allies said Pence intends to spend the next two weeks focused on the transition.
He is also expected to attend Biden’s inauguration. And while Pence had been banking on his close relationship with the president to propel him to top-tier status if he decides to run for president in 2024, allies said they didn’t think the vice president’s actions this week would have long-term consequences, even if some voters blame him for Trump’s defeat.

This article is more than 2 years old. Washington, D.C., is reeling from hours of chaos after a mob of President Trump’s supporters, who gathered to protest Congress’ certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, overwhelmed police and stormed the Capitol building.

Supporters of President Donald Trump set off a fire extinguisher after breaching security defenses, as police move in on the demonstrate on the second floor of the U.S. Capitol near the entrance to the Senate, in Washington, January 6, 2021. Rioters flooded the streets of Washington and invaded the Capitol to protest the defeat of President Donald Trump by President-elect Joe Biden in November's election.
The FBI said it had dispatched with two suspicious devices that were uncovered in Washington after reports of improvised explosives on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol during Wednesday's rioting. The New York Times, citing three unnamed people who were briefed, reported earlier that an explosive device was found at the Republican National Committee headquarters and that the nearby Democratic National Committee headquarters was evacuated. A spokesperson for the GOP said that RNC staff members were safely evacuated and that the device was detonated by a bomb squad. Law enforcement was in the process of destroying improvised explosives on Wednesday afternoon, NBC News reported, but authorities were unsure if the devices were functional. One device resembled a pipe bomb.
Vice President Mike Pence and other senior elected leaders were rushed to safety and the Capitol complex was locked down after protesters broke past police and stormed the building. Several law enforcement officials told NBC News on Wednesday evening that a woman who was shot in the building had died. At least five people were transported to a hospital, according to District of Columbia Fire and EMS.
"It must end now. I call this mob to pull back and allow this work of democracy to go forward," Biden said. Lawmakers were meeting to formally announce Biden's victory over Trump in the Electoral College, which has already certified Biden's win.
Trump has stoked false rumors of widespread voter fraud and encouraged his supporters to protest the result. After rioting broke out, the president urged his supporters to be peaceful even as he continued to baselessly claim that the election was stolen.

Vice President Mike Pence, not President Donald Trump, helped facilitate the decision to mobilize members of the DC National Guard Wednesday when violence at the US Capitol building started to escalate, according to a source familiar with the move and public comments from top officials.
Trump, who has proven over the past year to be eager to deploy the National Guard when violence breaks out, initially resisted doing so on Capitol Hill Wednesday as a mob of his supporters breached the building, per a source familiar. Pence played a key role in coordinating with the Pentagon about deploying them, and urged them to move faster than they were. The news raises questions about who was acting as commander in chief on one of America’s darkest days, which saw the country’s legislature overrun for the first time since the British attacked and burned the building in August 1814.
The Trump administration, earlier this week, said that civilian law enforcement would be tasked with protection of federal facilities but the Department of Defense received requests for additional support from the National Guard Wednesday as the situation became increasingly dangerous, a senior defense official told CNN. As the chaos unfolded, doubts were raised about whether Trump would order the DC National Guard to respond due to the slowness of the response.
Public statements by acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and other top officials suggested it was Pence who ultimately approved the decision. Miller’s statement Wednesday seems to indicate he did not even speak with Trump, discussing the matter with his deputy instead as sources told CNN the President was reluctant to even denounce the violence being carried out in his name.
Kash Patel, Miller’s chief of staff, said in a statement Thursday that Trump and the acting secretary of defense spoke “multiple times this week about the request for National Guard personnel in DC,” but did not specify if they were in contact on Wednesday as the situation at the Capitol spiraled out of control. “During these conversations the President conveyed to the Acting Secretary that he should take any necessary steps to support civilian law enforcement requests in securing the Capitol and federal buildings,” Patel added.
Republican House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy sidestepped questions Wednesday night about whether Pence, not Trump, directed the DC National Guard to be activated but suggested the vice president ultimately approved the decision. The comments appeared to conflict with what White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said in a tweet hours earlier, when she asserted that Trump “directed” the National Guard to respond to the situation.
Miller also confirmed that he and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Mark Milley, spoke with Pence, not Trump, on Wednesday afternoon. He also said he was in contact with top congressional lawmakers. “Chairman Milley and I just spoke separately with the Vice President and with Speaker Pelosi, Leader McConnell, Senator Schumer and Representative Hoyer about the situation at the U.S. Capitol.
We have fully activated the D.C. National Guard to assist federal and local law enforcement as they work to peacefully address the situation,” he said in a statement. “We are prepared to provide additional support as necessary and appropriate as requested by local authorities. Our people are sworn to defend the constitution and our democratic form of government and they will act accordingly,” he said.
The National guard was not fully activated until hours after the violent mob descended on the capitol. As CNN reported previously, the initial agreement for the deployment agreed on Monday – which was under Pentagon control for this mission – to support local law enforcement limited their involvement to helping local law enforcement at traffic control points and in the subway. Under that agreement, National Guard forces did not have orders to provide protection to federal facilities. Top military commanders, including the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were determined to keep active duty military out of that effort and limit the role of the national guard, several defense officials say.
The Pentagon’s long-standing focus has been to show that civil law enforcement and state activated national guard are sufficient to control civil unrest. “That request was approved. Today, the mayor requested the full activation of the D.C. Guard to support local and federal law enforcement as they respond to the situation at the Capitol.
That request was approved. There have been no other requests from the D.C. government,” he said.
Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy acknowledged there was a “little bit of confusion” with regard to the additional request. “But as we worked through it, we ultimately made the determination about a half hour later to mobilize the entire DC National Guard.
So, this has been incredibly fluid. But I have to go through the Secretary of Defense ultimately to get the final approval to mobilize personnel as well as to conduct operations in cooperation, in coordination with local authorities,” he said. A source familiar with the situation said White House staffers are “horrified” by the violence at the Capitol and are worried there will be more trouble on the streets Wednesday evening.
“He doesn’t want to” do more than what he is doing right now, the adviser said. “If we could throw him to the angry mob, we’d throw him to the angry mob now,” the adviser said.

As Americans watched Wednesday, an angry mob of mostly white people stormed the U.S. Capitol, seeming to overwhelm Capitol Police, who struggled to contain the violence.
Officers yielded to the mob in some cases and allowed crowds of supporters of President Donald Trump into the halls of Congress as its members were affirming that President-elect Joe Biden had won the November election. Many people saw in the images and videos that poured out of the Capitol more than a disturbing breach of security by people who believe Trump's baseless claims of election fraud.
They said they saw white privilege and double standards and questioned whether the police response would have been the same had the rioters been Black or brown people or their allies. There were many such observations Wednesday as law enforcement officers appeared to treat pro-Trump rioters with restraint — even as they broke through barricades, windows and doors, strolled through the halls of the Capitol and posed in Senate chambers — that was not afforded to peaceful demonstrators during the protests in Washington, D.C., and elsewhere over the summer following the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis police custody. By contrast, police used pepper spray, tear gas and what appeared to be rubber bullets against people protesting unprovoked police violence against African Americans near the White House in May. In one encounter, police with support from the National Guard stormed into a peaceful protest outside the White House so Trump could walk across the street, where the protesters had been assembled, to pose for photos holding a Bible in front of a church. The deferential treatment to the white rioters came even after Trump warned Black Lives Matter protesters in June that they would face a minimum of 10 years in prison for vandalizing or damaging federal buildings.
Attica Scott, a Democratic state representative in Kentucky, remembered what it was like to be on the wrong side of mistreatment. She and her 20-year-old daughter, Ashanti, were arrested on felony charges in Louisville in September during a protest against the police killing of Breonna Taylor in a botched raid. The charges have since been dropped.
Wednesday's riot at the Capitol was an unfriendly reminder of the country's racial double standards. "It just was a painful reminder to me that many of us live in a very different country than many of the white people that we know," Scott said. She and her daughter had been walking to a church when they were arrested, Scott said.
Four people died during the Capitol riots, including a woman who authorities said was fatally shot by Capitol Police. Three other people died after unspecified "medical emergencies," Washington Police Chief Robert Contee said. Pipe bombs were found at the headquarters of both the Republican and the Democratic national committees, Contee said.
Ronnie Dunn, an associate professor of urban studies at Cleveland State University, said the show of force was different Wednesday. Dunn said he was taken aback by law enforcement's seeming unpreparedness considering that Trump "has been calling for this" for some time. He said the public deserves to know how the rioters managed to walk onto the Senate floor. Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., also demanded answers. Joseph Giacalone, a retired New York police sergeant who teaches at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York, said there was an obvious lack of planning by Capitol Police, especially considering that protests had been planned in advance and that law enforcement agencies knew that the far-right group Proud Boys, whom Trump told to "stand back and stand by" during the first presidential debate, were likely to attend. More than 50 Capitol and D.C. police were injured, including several who were hospitalized with serious injuries, Sund said. Sund announced later Thursday that he intends to resign, effective Jan. 16, amid criticism of his department's response.

The day after pro-Trump rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol as lawmakers were in the process of certifying election results on Jan. 6, some have drawn critical comparisons between police’s handling of the pro-Trump mob and the treatment faced by Black Lives Matter protesters over the summer. Former first lady Michelle Obama drew attention to the double standards she said played a role in the police’s treatment of the mob at the Capitol on Wednesday.
“Like all of you, I watched as a gang — organized, violent and mad they’d lost an election — laid siege to the United States Capitol. They set up gallows. They proudly waved the traitorous flag of the Confederacy through the halls. They desecrated the center of American government,” Obama wrote in a statement shared to Twitter.
Capitol Police have been criticized because officers were unable to keep rioters out of the building. The mob overcame barricades, scaled the building, smashed windows, stole government property, and sprayed police with chemical agents. At least 50 officers were injured, and one suffered unspecified injuries during his interactions with the Capitol demonstrators before being hospitalized and dying Thursday night. Some of the rioters made it to the Senate floor and entered lawmakers’ offices. Four others are also dead in connection with the riot, including a woman shot by a Capitol policeman inside the building.
“Yesterday made it painfully clear that certain Americans are, in fact, allowed to denigrate the flag and symbols of our nation. They’ve just got to look the right way,” Obama wrote.
“The View” co-host Sunny Hostin, addressing the chaotic day during an episode of the show that aired Thursday, pointed out the differences between the way police treated the pro-Trump mob and the treatment other groups. Hostin also referenced the treatment of Navy veteran Christopher David, who was beaten by federal police in July while protesting police brutality at a Black Lives Matter demonstration in Portland, Oregon.
Hostin — who mistakenly used “murder” to describe the fate of Blake, who was left paralyzed but alive after being shot by a Kenosha, Wisconsin, policeman last summer — pointed out that only about 50 arrests were made Wednesday, while a single Black Lives Matter protest could result in the arrests of more than 400 people. As of Thursday evening, about 83 people had been arrested in connection with the riot.
On Thursday morning, MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough railed against the Capitol police and for allowing the rioters to “lay siege” to the Capitol building. “The National Guard wasn’t ready, nobody was ready,” Scarborough said. “White Americans are never afraid of the cops, even when they’re committing insurrection and engaged in attempting to occupy our Capitol to steal the votes of people who look like me, because in their minds they own this country, they own that Capitol,” she said. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund announced his resignation on Thursday amid criticism of the force’s handling of the pro-Trump mob. The resignation goes into effect on Jan. 16. Capitol Police announced it is conducting a “thorough review” of the events of Jan. 6.

(Reuters) -
Weeks before mobs besieged the Capitol building in Washington, a bright red bus crisscrossed the United States, emblazoned with a huge image of President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder. At more than 25 stops - in parking lots and airplane hangers in states including Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana, Kentucky and Tennessee - flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer and other speakers exhorted crowds to join her and others in Washington to fight for Trump and overturn the election. Last Wednesday, the tour reached its final destination, Washington D.C., and Kremer took to the stage at the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks.
In the weeks leading up to Wednesday’s deadly riots on Capitol Hill, Kremer and a loose coalition of groups and sponsors rallied the faithful, recruiting hardcore Trump supporters across the United States in a last-ditch effort to overturn the Nov. 3 election, inspired by conspiracy theories and whipped into action by Trump’s desperate calls to “save” democracy by reversing his loss to Democrat Joe Biden. The story of how the pied-pipers of Trumpism enlisted supporters illustrates the dramatic evolution of Trump’s voters into an effective and well-financed network of activist groups. The crowds that rally organizers recruited were joined in Washington by more radical right-wing groups that have increasingly become a fixture at pro-Trump demonstrations - including white supremacists and devotees of the QAnon conspiracy theory, which casts Trump as a savior figure and elite Democrats as a cabal of Satan-worshipping pedophiles and cannibals. Others among the diverse array of promoters for post-election Trump protests included a pillow magnate, a right-wing college students’ organization, the newly formed activist network Stop the Steal and an upstart broadcasting group begun by a stay-at-home dad who devoted himself to chronicling Trump rallies, according to a Reuters examination of disclosure records and interviews with protest organizers.
About two hours after Kremer’s speech, Trump took the same rally stage and exhorted this volatile mix of supporters repeatedly to “fight” - using the word more than 20 times - and “not take it any longer.” He ridiculed “weak” and “pathetic” Republicans and told the crowd they must “be strong” before dispatching the “patriots” on a march to the Capitol.
Many in the crowd of thousands took that fight to the Capitol Police with far more than fiery rhetoric, battling officers with a makeshift arsenal that included metal pipes, wooden poles with embedded nails, aluminum baseball bats, a hockey stick, a wooden door ripped off its hinges, and a coffee table, according to Reuters photographers at the scene and other videos posted online. One American flag waver bludgeoned an officer repeatedly with the flagpole as fellow rioters dragged the cop from the building and down a set of outside steps. Five people died in connection with the Capitol violence, including a police officer, as well as a protester shot by police.
That crescendo of violence followed two months of rising anger among Trump loyalists, harnessed by protest organizers including Kremer and many others. The stolen election narrative - amplified by right-wing media - quickly became gospel for millions of Trump loyalists despite the failure of dozens of lawsuits his attorneys filed claiming election fraud. A White House official said the rally was organized by outside groups, and the White House became involved when the president decided to speak there.
The official declined further comment. Another important player and financier of the post-election protest movement was Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media. Lindell - a self-described former cocaine addict and alcoholic who says he found sobriety through Christianity - helped sponsor a two-week March for Trump bus tour that ended in Washington on Dec. 14 and spoke at five stops.
My Pillow is a major advertiser and sponsor of the Right Side Broadcasting Network, a conservative media group that went along on the tour to provide daily coverage. Lindell said his financial backing of the bus tour ended in mid-December. He emphasized to Reuters that he did not help finance subsequent trips to promote the Jan. 6 rally that would devolve into riots. He said he did, however, attend the rally before the march to the Capitol that day, and he spoke the day before during rallies at Freedom Plaza, near the White House.
Then Lindell cited the latest baseless conspiracy theory circulating among right-wing groups - that leftist activists, masquerading as Trump supporters, were responsible for the violence at the Capitol. “It was all a setup,” he said.
For weeks after the election, Kremer’s organization fielded the big red Trump bus - emblazoned with the logo of My Pillow and other sponsors - to whip up supporters to assemble in Washington and contest the outcome. At stops for rallies, speakers mixed religious and nationalist fervor with incendiary claims about the election. Lindell spoke at five of them.
A Jan. 3 rally in Franklin, Tennessee - a stop on the bus tour - featured Pastor Greg Locke of Global Vision Bible Church, a firebrand who has railed against pandemic-related restrictions on church services. He praised the Boogaloo movement - a loose network of anti-government extremists that aim to foment a new civil war - for doing the Lord’s work by fighting Trump’s election loss. “They stood up for what is right, and God promoted them,” he said. Locke did not respond to requests for comment.
The rallies were covered start to finish by the Right Side Broadcasting Network - a right-wing media venture with close ties to Trump. The outfit was started in 2015 by Joe Seales, a stay-at-home dad who thought Trump’s rallies weren’t getting enough coverage.
He recruited a freelancer to cover a Trump appearance and posted the raw video to YouTube. To his amazement, viewers grew by the thousands, then to a million, Seales has told media organizations.
The network became a magnet for right-wing voices and jumped into the mainstream when the new Trump administration granted Seale’s team access to the White House press room. Now with two dozen staffers and an office in Auburn, Alabama, the network has devoted post-election coverage largely to unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud. Its correspondents touted its alliance with Kremer’s tour, and praised Lindell for his support of the network. “My Pillow is one of the main sponsors for the Women for America First bus tour, and he is our partner for today,” one correspondent said during a report on a Jan. 2 bus stop in Little Rock, Arkansas.
Right Side founder Seales could not be reached for comment. The Jan. 6 rally that preceded the Capitol riot was promoted vigorously by Trump and his loyalists. “Be there, will be wild!,” the president tweeted on Dec. 19, one of several tweets touting the event.
Another sponsor of the Jan. 6 rally was Turning Point Action, the political action committee arm of Turning Point USA, a campus right-wing group headed by activist Charlie Kirk. Turning Point spokesman Andrew Kolvet said the organization added its name to the event after Christmas, at the request of Women for America First. “We didn’t organize the event. We sponsored it in as much as we helped students attend the rally and not the march,” Kolvet said.
Another group that joined with Women for America First to sponsor the protests was Stop the Steal, a network of activists who assembled in the immediate wake of President Trump’s election defeat, to organize rallies around the nation against Biden’s victory. Women for America First brought on Stop the Steal as a sponsor, said Alex Bruesewitz, a conservative activist associated with Stop the Steal events. Stop the Steal set up a website that billed the event as a “Wild Protest,” a reference to the Trump tweet, Bruesewitz said.
When crowds headed for the Capitol before Trump finished speaking on Wednesday, Bruesewitz said he decided the scene was chaotic and skipped the march. Alexander did not respond to requests for comment. After the riot, several websites promoting the march – including “Wild Protest” and “March to Save America” – went dark. But leaders of groups promoting the Jan. 6 rally showed no sign of conceding that Trump really did lose the election. “Joe Biden will NEVER be my president,” Amy Kremer, of Women for America First, tweeted on Saturday.

“The earliest call we got on our radar for today specifically was a militia movement chatroom talking about being ‘ready for blood’ if things didn't start changing for Trump,” Holt said.
Law enforcement, however, appeared unprepared for the scale of the violence on Wednesday. Capitol police were quickly overwhelmed, dramatically outnumbered by Trump supporters. While thousands of National Guard troops were posted throughout Washington, DC, during Black Lives Matter protests, the DC National Guard was not deployed Wednesday until well after the Capitol’s perimeters had been breached.
Hundreds of extremists' posts discussed bringing firearms in violation of Washington, DC, law. Nevertheless, people displayed weapons that they had brought with them.
According to Advance Democracy, a nonprofit research organization, all corners of the social web were signaling imminent violence in the days leading up to the riot. “On TheDonald, more than 50% of the top posts on January 4, 2021, about the January 6th Electoral College certification featured unmoderated calls for violence in the top five responses,” the organization found. “ARMED WITH RIFLE, HANDGUN, 2 KNIVES AND AS MUCH AMMO AS YOU CAN CARRY,” one post on the website said.

Online forums popular with conservatives and far-right activists have been filled in recent days with threats and expectations of violence ahead of a planned protest in Washington on Wednesday to coincide with congressional certification of the election. In anticipation of possible violence, Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser has asked residents to stay away from the downtown area where protesters will be marching. Every city police officer will be on duty, and the National Guard has been mobilized.
A new report from Advance Democracy chronicled a wide variety of posts about the protests, including many that anticipated violence from other groups and called for people to arm themselves. On TikTok, several videos with hundreds of thousands of views promoted violence at the rally.
A user with a militia-related avatar told viewers to carry guns even though firearms are prohibited in the areas of the city where the demonstrations are taking place. "Take your motherf---ing guns. That's the whole point of going," the person said.
Threats have also been posted to Parler, a Twitter alternative favored by conservatives and users who have been banned from larger platforms for hate speech, misinformation or other policy violations. Thousands of posts included hashtags associated with a second civil war.
On TheDonald, a far-right message board that formed after its community was banned from Reddit, moderators were promoting some calls for violence. Calls for violence were among the top five comments on more than half of the posts discussing congressional certification of votes, while 12 percent "explicitly endorsed violence in the main post itself," according to the Advance Democracy report. Half of the top posts about the Electoral College certification on TheDonald's landing page included unmoderated calls for violence, according to the report. The online threats target both Democrats and Republicans, identified as "traitors" for acknowledging the election results, Jones said.
While spreading near-constant misinformation about the election and false claims that he actually won, Trump has also been promoting the protest for weeks, tweeting about it at least six times and suggesting that he would make an appearance. The threats of violence have online extremism experts concerned. “The threats are coming from what seems like every direction, so it’s hard to triangulate and evaluate everything,” said Megan Squire, a computer science professor at Elon University who tracks white nationalists online. Calls to violence have also been pulled from anonymous QAnon fans on the depths of extremist websites like 8kun to viral posts on Twitter.
L. Lin Wood, a lawyer and QAnon influencer, tweeted a link Monday to an 8kun-hosted document that openly advocated for civil war. It was retweeted over 25,000 times.
The post was also shared by MyPillow CEO Mike Lindell, a Trump donor, and Ron Watkins, who runs the QAnon hub 8kun, and it has been retweeted by Trump several times this week. QAnon supporters have been looking forward to Wednesday for weeks, many of them believing in a legally impossible scenario in which Vice President Mike Pence extrajudicially overrides the results of the election in an elaborate ceremony that immediately causes civil unrest. QAnon believers, who call it the "Pence Card," believe Trump has promoted gatherings in Washington to effectively kick off a civil war after the fictitious event.
Realizing that their dreams of overriding the Electoral College will almost certainly be dashed Wednesday, Watkins and Wood have soured on Pence and begun circulating fake email correspondence claiming that Pence and then-House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., plotted to kick Trump off the Republican ticket in 2016. The documents, however, were created in 2016 by an internet prankster named Marco Chacon, who created intentionally over-the-top fake documents hoping to dupe conspiracy theorists.
"It's an absurd story told in an absurd manner with absurd trappings," Chacon said. Chacon said it's unclear how Watkins and Wood found the forged emails, but conspiracy theorists have provided a substantial traffic boost to the years-old fake documents in the last several days.
Chacon said he's not surprised that QAnon supporters have used his faked documents to create another scapegoat for Trump's inability to overturn the election results. But with the "Pence Card" falling apart, he is worried what will happen as QAnon supporters run out of magical thinking. "It seems like they've decided there's nothing but civil war," Chacon said.

The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon sounded menacing but at bay as senators began to debate challenges to the electoral college vote.
A top adviser to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell stepped out of the ornate chamber for a short break. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight Alone in the Capitol’s marble halls, just outside the chamber’s bronze doors, it was suddenly apparent that the citadel of U.S. democracy was falling to the mob incited by President Trump. The aide to McConnell (R-Ky.) darted down a side hallway lined with offices. He jiggled one locked doorknob, then another.
A co-worker poked his head out of the office of McConnell’s speechwriter. The adviser lunged, pushing him and a colleague back inside. Peering out a window into a courtyard below, the adviser could see scores of people still streaming in — and no police in sight.
Before Congress met on Jan. 6 to formalize President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund had assured House and Senate members that his force of 2,000 officers could handle the large expected crowds, according to multiple people who spoke with Sund in the days leading up to the siege. But across the Capitol that day, as lawmakers and aides were holed up in offices, closets and conference rooms, a terrifying reality was taking hold — the Capitol police had lost control and no one was coming to save Congress, at least not right away.
The deaths of five people, including a Capitol police officer, were linked to the riot. During their rampage, marauders came perilously close to penetrating the inner sanctums of the Capitol while lawmakers were still there, according to a reconstruction of the events based on eyewitness videos and interviews with nearly 40 lawmakers, staff members and law enforcement officials.
The belated emergency response carried out with the help of the D.C. police, FBI and National Guard came after pleas by people sheltering throughout the complex. Armed only with their phones and some of the best Rolodexes in the world, lawmakers and their aides began calling and texting anyone they thought could help — the secretary of the Army, the acting attorney general, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, governors of nearby states, the D.C. mayor.
The McConnell adviser, who described his role on the condition of anonymity because of security concerns after the attack, reached out to former top officials at the Justice Department. Speaking in a whisper, he told one the situation was dire: If backup did not arrive soon, people could die.
For almost two months leading up to that day, Trump had alleged massive fraud in his November election loss. He had applauded supporters, calling them “patriots,” when they converged twice before in Washington to parrot Trump’s message that his second term had been stolen through wild conspiracy theories of voting-machine fraud. On Dec. 19, five days after the electoral college convened to finalize states’ counts, the president for the first time advertised and endorsed a third such protest.
This one would be held on the day that Congress would take the final step of counting the electoral college votes in a joint session, cementing Biden’s victory. The previous two protests had ended with bands of Trump supporters and counter protesters in late-night, violent brawls on the streets of downtown Washington. After Trump’s imprimatur, D.C. police quickly began bracing for a final protest that could dwarf the previous two, with a stadium-sized crowd. The president’s personal encouragement also prompted immediate concern on Capitol Hill.
Aides to McConnell, along with their Democratic counterparts, asked for briefings with Michael Stenger, a former assistant director of the U.S. Secret Service whom the GOP leader had tapped as Senate sergeant at arms. They also met with Sund, the Capitol police chief, who had previously been a D.C. police commander and led responses to mass shootings and planned crowd management for the estimated 1 million people who attended President Barack Obama’s first inauguration.
House Democrats were also concerned. At a House Caucus meeting before Christmas, Rep. Maxine Waters of California asked where Capitol police would allow people to gather, and if they would be allowed on the Capitol plaza, the brick and paved area immediately around the building that leads to walking paths to the offices of lawmakers. In the back of Waters’s mind was a 2010 incident when protesters had gathered against a vote on Obama’s health-care plan.
Some surrounded and followed then Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) back toward his office, hurling racial epithets. One even spit on him.
In an hour-long conversation on New Year’s Eve, Waters said Sund told her he had a plan for keeping protesters far from the building. They would be corralled beyond the plaza, in a grassy area east of the Capitol, she recalled.
If counterprotesters showed up, his officers would form a line between the two groups, and as a precaution for lawmakers, Capitol security would direct all members of Congress and their staffers to travel by the network of underground tunnels that connect the Capitol with House and Senate office buildings. On the eve of the joint session, lawmakers peppered top Capitol security officials with more questions. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, said she held a teleconference with Sund and House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving, another ex-Secret Service assistant director selected by Pelosi for his post.
The National Park Service, which issued the permit to organizers, had allowed the pro-Trump supporters to adjust their expected crowd size sixfold, up from 5,000 to 30,000. Lofgren asked whether Capitol police had enough officers to handle the capacity, and if they had the National Guard on standby and available to quickly help if needed. Sund insisted, yes, they had both bases covered, Lofgren said. Later, in a call with Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), he repeated those assertions, Ryan said.
In fact, three days earlier, Capitol police had told the Pentagon that it was not requesting National Guard support for the event, according to defense officials. And when masses of Trump supporters began pushing against the limited barricades around the Capitol, the agency’s officers were rapidly overrun. Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms, and Irving, his counterpart on the House side, both also resigned under pressure from lawmakers.
On the morning of the rally, lawmakers and their aides on their way to work passed a smattering of protesters around the Capitol. Many held or wore blue and red Trump 2020 flags and yellow-and-green “Don’t Tread on Me” banners.
Homemade signs with QAnon symbols dotted the Mall. Most protesters were walking west toward the White House, near where Trump planned to address the crowd.
Inside their offices, lawmakers prepared for Republicans to force a marathon day — perhaps 12 hours or more of floor debate — before formalizing Biden’s victory. By around 1 p.m., as the joint session began, the mood in the crowd outside began to shift.
Trump had just given a one-hour speech to thousands of supporters amassed on the Ellipse near the White House, excoriating his enemies and reiterating his baseless claims of fraud. GOP lawmakers, he emphasized, needed to take a stand.
Trump returned to the White House; he did not go to Capitol Hill. But his supporters began streaming east along Pennsylvania Avenue. They first reached the west side of the building — several blocks away from the area that Sund had told lawmakers was the designated protest area.
The crowd grew 10 deep, then 20 deep as the soon-to-be rioters spilled in along all sides of the Capitol. In many places, a line of waist-high, movable metal barriers was all that separated protesters from clumps of police and the building. The crowd never stopped advancing.
Some picked up the barriers and carried them, creating gaping holes for rioters to close in toward the stage being erected for Biden’s inauguration. Before 1:30 p.m., Lofgren heard from staff that a wall of people had been able to push into the iconic Capitol steps on the west side. Through the windows of the House chamber, Lofgren’s aides could see outside that a ragtag group of rioters had been able to climb atop the risers and the platforms.
Neither Lofgren nor her staff could reach the Capitol police chief on the phone, she later recounted. Irving, who was in the House chamber, assured Lofgren that things would be fine.
Protesters would be kept outside. The doors were all locked, he told her.
“Nobody can get in,” Irving said. A seeming fortress from a distance, the Capitol contains more than 400 separate doors, entryways and ground-level windows.
And police lines on all sides of the building were collapsing. Waters placed an urgent call to Sund, who was at Capitol police headquarters two blocks away, two law enforcement officials said.
Protesters were already crossing the plaza. “What are you going to do about it?” Waters asked.
“We’re doing the best we can,” came Sund’s reply, she said, and then the line went dead. On the other end of the building and a floor below, alarm was growing among senior congressional staffers crowding into the office of Stenger, the head of security for the Senate. His House colleague, Irving, was placing a call to a law enforcement association that can organize mutual aid from county and state police forces in suburban Maryland and Virginia, according to people in the room.
The request was brand new, and it would take an hour or two for any officers to arrive, Irving was told. A Democratic aide and a Republican one in the room looked at each other in surprise. At that point, Irving began talking about bringing in the National Guard.
While a few hundred D.C. National Guard members had been activated and were elsewhere in the city, the two aides realized there was no arrangement to pre-stage military assets to help at the Capitol. In fact, a small quick-reaction force at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland had been assembled by the Defense Department to assist if needed — but it did not immediately respond because of a lack of a prior planning with Capitol police over how it might be deployed, Pentagon officials said. Outside on the west side of the building, a handful of Capitol police officers had been backed into a corner, under the scaffolding holding up the inaugural stage.
One was pulled down a set of stairs and then beaten and kicked while he tried to cover his head, according to footage of the incident. Atop the stairs, another had his helmet ripped off as he tried to hold up the last remaining metal barrier before the crowd could flood into the building.
A person in the mob sprayed something at an officer. Another lifted a hammer above his head as if preparing to throw it, and then instead began striking at the barrier, where officers were holding it with their hands.
Shortly before 2 p.m., rioters were on all sides of the building. They waved Trump flags from landings and porticos, while the most violent and those armed with pipes, rocks and other objects trained on the many doors and windows.
One used a police shield to break a window. A rioter jumped through, followed by others who either used the window or nearby doors.
On the second floor, Lofgren could see the mob encircling a landing. She didn’t yet know protesters were inside. She again turned to Irving — what was going on?
He said the National Guard was on its way. In fact, Sund had just requested National Guard support from the Defense Department.
It would be hours before they would arrive. A moment later, the thunderous sounds of banging at exterior doors around the House side gave way to a crash of window glass and then shouts from rioters who had breached a second side of the building.
At 2:14 p.m., Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-Ariz.) had begun his speech objecting to Arizona’s electoral college results. As he spoke, Pelosi’s protective detail agents hustled her away.
Moments later, there was yelling in the gallery, as staff and security details started to move around with a heightened sense of alarm. Inside the chamber, news photographers that Pelosi (D-Calif.) had allowed in to capture the historic electoral vote at the dais instead turned around and trained their cameras toward the doors in the back of the chamber. As lawmakers were ushered out another side of the chamber, plainclothes Capitol Police officers dragged a desk to use as a barricade in front of the door that presidents enter to deliver the annual State of the Union address.
On the other side, rioters began breaking small windows. The officers inside drew their guns.
Lawmakers inside were still being evacuated when, around a side entrance, the mob came much closer to breaking their way onto the House floor — less than 10 feet away from an open door into the chamber. Dozens of rioters pressed against police trying to block their entry into the Speaker’s Lobby, as captured on a video The Post obtained.
Several officers left their post seconds before much heavily armed reinforcements showed up. But in those few seconds, the rioters smashed in the windows of the doors to the Speaker’s Lobby and were on the verge of entering the House chamber.
“There’s a gun! There’s a gun!’
one rioter screamed, then an officer fired into the crowd. Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, was killed.
The intruders ran around the back hallways of the second floor, weaving in and out of the Senate majority leader and House speaker’s adjoining suites, and entering the sanctum of the two most powerful figures in Congress like the halls were their playground. Eight Pelosi staffers trapped inside their suite barricaded themselves inside a staff conference room, and huddled together under the table in the middle, hoping that the protesters who had already broken down one door — and were rummaging through materials and shooting selfies with their feet up on an executive assistant’s desk — wouldn’t make it any farther inside.
At 2:11 p.m. on the Senate side, Vice President Pence sat in the chair of the presiding officer when aides started motioning to Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) that he had to replace him. The vice president hurried out a door.
At that moment, one floor below, rioters had crashed through windows and climbed into the Capitol and clashed with police, including a lone Black Capitol police officer who tried to prevent them from ascending toward the Senate chamber. A video captured by Igor Bobic, a congressional reporter for HuffPost on the scene, shows the officer trying to hold back a few dozen rioters who push him back and up the steps leading almost directly to the chamber. For almost a minute, the officer held them back — at the exact moment that, inside the Senate, police were frantically racing around the chamber trying to lock down more than a dozen doors leading to the chamber floor and the galleries above.
“Second floor!” the officer yelled into his radio, alerting other officers and command that the mob had reached the precipice of the Senate. Had the rioters turned right, they would have been a few feet away from the main entrance into the chamber.
On the other side of that door, had they made their way into the Senate, were at least a half-dozen armed officers, including one with a semiautomatic weapon in the middle of the floor scanning each entrance for intruders. Instead, the group — all White men — followed the Black officer in the other direction and met a group of police in a back corridor outside the Senate. At 2:16 p.m., Bobic tweeted a photo of a half-dozen police confronting the protesters.
Back in the barricaded room with McConnell aides, one staffer began snapping photos through a window. They could see Trump supporters streaming toward the building — and just four police officers.
Calls for help were going out as fast as people could text and dial. The senior McConnell adviser reached a former law firm colleague who had just left the Justice Department: Will Levi, who had served as Attorney General William P. Barr’s chief of staff. They needed help — now, he told Levi.
From his home, Levi immediately called FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich, who was in the command center in the FBI’s Washington Field Office. Capitol police had lost control of the building, Levi told Bowdich. The FBI official had been hearing radio traffic of aggressive protesters pushing through the perimeter, but Levi said it had gone even further:
The mob had already crashed the gates and lives were at risk. Capitol police had said previously they didn’t need help, but Bowdich decided he couldn’t wait for a formal invitation. He dispatched the first of three tactical teams, including one from the Washington field office to secure the safety of U.S. senators and provide whatever aid they could.
He instructed two more SWAT teams to follow, including one that raced from Baltimore. These teams typically gather at a staging area off-site to coordinate and plan, and then rush together to the area where they are needed. Bowdich told their commander there was no time.
From their secure locations, meanwhile, Pelosi, House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.) and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) made calls for help to acting attorney general Jeffrey Rosen, D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser, Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan (R) and Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam (D). Amid the mayhem, a large group of senators were secretly led to a room in a Senate office building.
Stenger was with them, and the furious lawmakers peppered him with questions. Stenger could not muster much of an answer, practically inaudible as he dispiritedly debriefed the senators. “He was talking in circles,” Graham thought to himself.
Sen. Joe Manchin III, D-W.Va., called Stenger’s attempt to field that question “absolutely pathetic” and further reduced confidence in the room. As Graham pressed for a better explanation, Stenger’s voice got weaker and smaller.
By 6 p.m., a perimeter around the Capitol was secured. A few hours later, shaken lawmakers filed back in, surrounded by the wreckage of the day’s attack: smashed windows, splintered furniture, a bust of President Zachary Taylor smeared with what appeared to be blood. They went back to work.
At 3:42 a.m. Thursday, Pence affirmed Biden’s victory as the next president. Correction: An earlier version of this story erroneously described a call that Senate Sergeant at arms Michael Stenger made to a law enforcement association seeking support for the Capitol Police on Wednesday afternoon. In fact, it was his House colleague Paul Irving who made the call.

Those meetings, initially scheduled for Friday, were postponed after legal officials in the Pentagon raised concern that they could not keep up with the work, said a senior U.S. official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the issue.
The Pentagon did not dispute that Miller’s decision about meetings on Friday were a surprise to the Biden team. Miller said that the meetings can be held after a “mutually-agreed upon holiday pause,” and that he is “committed to a full and transparent transition” with the Biden team.
His “key focus” over the next two weeks, he said, is supporting requests for information about the U.S. military’s involvement in the effort to distribute coronavirus vaccines, and other pandemic information, he said. “This is what our nation expects and the DoD will deliver AS IT ALWAYS HAS,” Miller said in his statement.
But the Biden team said they are concerned about delays. “It’s not in our interest to provide inaccurate information,” she said.
Trump administration officials did not offer an explanation for why additional transition meetings in the Pentagon cannot be held before January. The disagreement comes at a time when the Defense Department, in addition to having a leading role in overseeing vaccine distribution, is assessing what may have been compromised in a hack of government networks that analysts and U.S. officials speaking privately have attributed to Russia, and carrying out a partial withdrawal of several thousand U.S. troops from Afghanistan by Inauguration Day at President Trump’s behest. The Trump administration also has purged numerous officials from nonpartisan Pentagon advisory boards in recent days, installing Trump loyalists in their place.
The tension also comes after the transition began later than normal, as Trump disputed the election results in numerous states and spread unfounded conspiracy theories of widespread voter fraud. President-elect Joe Biden was declared the winner on Nov. 7, but the Trump administration declined to certify ascertainment until Nov. 23.
The step acknowledges who the apparent winner of an election is, and allows government agencies to begin meeting with transition officials. Defense officials have held 139 interviews with 265 officials since the transition began, defense officials said Friday. Matt Viser and Colby Itkowitz contributed to this report.

Ashton Carter, Dick Cheney, William Cohen, Mark Esper, Robert Gates, Chuck Hagel, James Mattis, Leon Panetta, William Perry and Donald Rumsfeld are the 10 living former U.S. secretaries of defense.
As former secretaries of defense, we hold a common view of the solemn obligations of the U.S. armed forces and the Defense Department. Each of us swore an oath to support and defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic. We did not swear it to an individual or a party.
American elections and the peaceful transfers of power that result are hallmarks of our democracy. With one singular and tragic exception that cost the lives of more Americans than all of our other wars combined, the United States has had an unbroken record of such transitions since 1789, including in times of partisan strife, war, epidemics and economic depression. This year should be no exception. Our elections have occurred.
Recounts and audits have been conducted. Appropriate challenges have been addressed by the courts.
Governors have certified the results. And the electoral college has voted. The time for questioning the results has passed; the time for the formal counting of the electoral college votes, as prescribed in the Constitution and statute, has arrived.
As senior Defense Department leaders have noted, “there’s no role for the U.S. military in determining the outcome of a U.S. election.” Efforts to involve the U.S. armed forces in resolving election disputes would take us into dangerous, unlawful and unconstitutional territory. Civilian and military officials who direct or carry out such measures would be accountable, including potentially facing criminal penalties, for the grave consequences of their actions on our republic.
Transitions, which all of us have experienced, are a crucial part of the successful transfer of power. They often occur at times of international uncertainty about U.S. national security policy and posture. They can be a moment when the nation is vulnerable to actions by adversaries seeking to take advantage of the situation. Given these factors, particularly at a time when U.S. forces are engaged in active operations around the world, it is all the more imperative that the transition at the Defense Department be carried out fully, cooperatively and transparently.
Acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller and his subordinates — political appointees, officers and civil servants — are each bound by oath, law and precedent to facilitate the entry into office of the incoming administration, and to do so wholeheartedly. They must also refrain from any political actions that undermine the results of the election or hinder the success of the new team. We call upon them, in the strongest terms, to do as so many generations of Americans have done before them. This final action is in keeping with the highest traditions and professionalism of the U.S. armed forces, and the history of democratic transition in our great country.

The commander of the D.C. National Guard said the Pentagon restricted his authority ahead of the riot at the U.S. Capitol, requiring higher-level sign-off to respond that cost time as the events that day spiraled out of control. Sign up for Fact Checker, our weekly review of what's true, false or in-between in politics.
ArrowRight Local commanders typically have the power to take military action on their own to save lives or prevent significant property damage in an urgent situation when there isn’t enough time to obtain approval from headquarters. But Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, said the Pentagon essentially took that power and other authorities away from him ahead of the short-lived insurrection on Jan. 6. That meant he couldn’t immediately roll out troops when he received a panicked phone call from the Capitol Police chief warning that rioters were about to enter the U.S. Capitol. Walker and former Army secretary Ryan D. McCarthy, along with other top officials, briefed the House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday behind closed doors about the events, the beginning of what is likely to become a robust congressional inquiry into the preparations for a rally that devolved into a riot at the Capitol, resulting in five people dead and representing a significant security failure.
The military, which isn’t structured to be a first responder like law enforcement, took hours to arrive at the scene primarily because the Capitol Police and the District government hadn’t asked the D.C. Guard to prepare a contingency force for a riot. The Capitol Police chief also didn’t call Walker to tell him a request for Guard backup was imminent until about 25 minutes before rioters breached the Capitol.
But the restrictions the Pentagon placed on Walker also contributed to the delay. He needed to wait for approval from McCarthy and acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller before dispatching troops, even though some 40 soldiers were on standby as a quick reaction force. That standby force had been assembled in case the few hundred Guard members deployed that day on the District’s streets to assist police with traffic control and crowd management needed help, Walker said.
The Pentagon required the highest-level approval for any moves beyond that narrow mission, in part because its leaders had been lambasted for actions the D.C. Guard took during last June’s racial justice protests, including helicopters that flew low over demonstrators in D.C. Top officials concluded those maneuvers resulted from “fragmentary orders” that hadn’t received high-level approval and were looking to prevent a repeat of that situation.
Still, even if Walker had been able to send the troops on standby to the Capitol immediately, and round up others in the District, it’s unclear how much that would have affected the situation, given the large size of the mob and the last-minute nature of the call for help. Walker recalled how Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who has since resigned, asked him on a call in the run-up to Jan. 6 to have National Guard troops at the ready. The request came, but only at 1:49 p.m. the day of the attempted insurrection.
Sund called Walker to say rioters were about to breach the building and the Capitol Police would soon request urgent backup. Permission from the Pentagon to activate the full D.C. Guard wouldn’t come for another hour and fifteen minutes, according to a Defense Department timeline of events, as members of Congress barricaded themselves in their offices and hid from a marauding horde trying to undo the results of the Nov. 3 election. It would take nearly three hours before Miller authorized the D.C. Guard to “re-mission” and help the Capitol Police establish a perimeter around the Capitol. In the meantime, Sund dialed into a phone call with the Pentagon.
Piatt, in a statement, initially said he didn’t make those remarks or any comments similar to them. Later, he backtracked, saying he didn’t recall citing such concerns but note-takers in the room told him he may have said that.
Piatt, who wasn’t in the chain of command, was leading the call while waiting for the Army secretary to receive approval for the full activation of the D.C. Guard from Miller. Walker said a lot of people were on the chaotic call. Asked if the D.C. Guard leadership kept a record of the call, Walker said it wasn’t recorded but Guard officials memorialized the conversation in notes known as a memorandum for record.
In the days before the protest, all the living former defense secretaries warned the Pentagon not to get involved in the peaceful transition of power, after reports that former national security adviser Michael Flynn had raised the possibility with President Donald Trump of declaring martial law to “rerun” the election. Pentagon officials were also concerned that sending Guard troops who answered to the president into the Capitol during the riot could give the impression that the military was aiding Trump’s supporters in a coup.
Senior defense officials said federal law enforcement should always be in the lead clearing buildings, rather than soldiers, who shouldn’t be the tip of the spear on U.S. soil. Members of the D.C. Guard ultimately arrived at the Capitol around 5:30 p.m. and helped establish a perimeter around the grounds. D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) first called McCarthy, the Army secretary, to request an unspecified number of troops at the scene four hours earlier.
Because the District is not a state, the president technically controls the D.C. Guard but defers his power to the defense secretary and Army secretary. Memos obtained by The Post show how tightly the Pentagon restricted Walker ahead of the events.
In a Jan. 5 memo, the Army secretary, who is Walker’s direct superior in the chain of command, prohibited him from deploying the quick reaction force composed of 40 soldiers on his own and said any rollout of that standby group would first require a “concept of operation,” an exceptional requirement given that the force is supposed to respond to emergencies. Top Pentagon officials said they didn’t deploy the quick reaction force during the riot because they hadn’t approved a “concept of operations” ahead of time with the Capitol Police.
Walker said one takeaway from the Jan. 6 riot should be that when in doubt, city and federal authorities should always err on the side of requesting a contingency of National Guard troops to be at the ready in advance, even if they don’t end up being used. Ahead of the event, Bowser made a narrow request for a D.C. Guard presence, resulting in about 340 personnel to help with traffic and crowd management and another 40 in the quick reaction force.
In a letter, she cited the administration’s problematic deployment of federal agents without insignia on the streets last year and said the District wasn’t requesting any additional support. Days after the violence, Walker was tasked with overseeing the Guard members who filtered into the capital from across the nation to secure the inauguration. Walker said the Capitol Police have requested a contingent of about 7,000 of the 25,600 troops to stay until at least March 12. Walker expressed gratitude to the soldiers who showed up, and thanked their families and employers for contributing to a successful and secure event.

QAnon supporters have moved beyond spreading conspiracy theories online and are now actively urging followers to commit violence during pro-Trump protests taking place in Washington D.C. on Wednesday. As tensions rise ahead of Wednesday’s expected protests in the capital, militia groups like the Proud Boys and the 3 Percenters have been calling for protests to turn violent, but they have been joined in recent days by followers of the QAnon conspiracy, highlighting a growing trend that is seeing the goals of these extremist groups merging.
Since the start of the year, more than half of the QAnon-related accounts that have posted content on Twitter since Jan. 1 have referenced Wednesday’s protests, according to a new report from Advance Democracy Inc, a global research organization that studies disinformation and extremism. Between Jan. 1 and Jan. 4, ADI’s researchers found at least 1,250 posts from QAnon-related accounts that referenced January 6th and contained calls for violence.
The posts typically share disinformation and conspiracy theories, including baseless allegations that Democrats, Black Lives Matter activists, and Antifa protesters are planning to kill Trump supporters. The QAnon accounts are urging protesters to “adopt” guns before “Jan 6, Independence Day” and claiming that “politicians…raping and killing children…won’t be able to walk down the street” — a reference to QAnon’s long-standing conspiracy theory about the Democrats operating a global, Satanic, cannibalistic child sex-trafficking ring. Some of the posts also referenced L. Lin Wood, the pro-Trump lawyer and QAnon supporter who this week has been sharing wild and unfounded conspiracy theories about high-profile figures being forced at gunpoint to rape children on video.
Last July, Twitter said it was banning accounts linked to QAnon. While the platform has removed some of the most influential accounts, ADI has seen a steady increase in the number of new accounts that openly reference the conspiracy theory on the platform in recent months. One of the most prominent is Ron Watkins, the administrator of 8kun, the fringe message board that is home to QAnon’s creator, the anonymous “Q.” Watkins’ tweets have been repeatedly boosted by President Donald Trump in recent weeks and in the early hours of Wednesday morning — as hundreds of Trump supporters began lining up to see the president speak during Wednesday’s protests — Watkins posted his latest evidence-free conspiracies on Twitter.
Wednesday’s protests have been organized to coincide with efforts on Capitol Hill to disrupt the counting of the Electoral College votes, normally a rubber-stamp ceremony. But this year, a group of Republicans has signaled their intention to object to the process at the behest of Trump.
The national guard has been called into the city to support local police, and Mayor Muriel Bowser has urged people to avoid the downtown area on Wednesday. Many businesses have boarded up their stores and offices over concerns about rioting and looting.
But that hasn’t stopped right-wing groups online from urging followers to carry guns to the protests. On TikTok, members with affiliations to the militia group the 3 Percenters have posted videos openly calling for violence, some of which have hundreds of thousands of views.
"Take your motherfucking guns. That's the whole point of going," one person said.
On Parler, a right-wing alternative to Twitter, supporters of the Proud Boys and QAnon, have been advocating violence, especially since the “chairman” of the Proud Boys, Enrique Tarrio, was arrested shortly after he landed in Washington on Monday. The posts have called for violence against the D.C. police, including a threat to burn down the Metropolitan Police headquarters, and one user calling for D.C. police to be “isolated and executed one-by-one.”
On Tuesday night, hours before the protests were due to begin, police arrested at least six people, charging one man from North Carolina with carrying a pistol without a license, carrying a rifle or a shotgun outside a home or business, possession of a large-capacity ammunition feeding device, unregistered ammunition, an unregistered firearm, and possession of fireworks. And on the rabidly pro-Trump forum, TheDonald, ADI researchers found that over half of the top posts about the protests contain call for violence.
“Travel in packs and do not let [anyone] disarm someone without stacking bodies,” one TikTok user said in a widely-viewed video. The threats being made on these online platforms almost all stem from disinformation about November’s election results.
Trump supporters have been convinced that the election results are a fraud, and this belief has been boosted not only by groups like QAnon, but also by the president, who has increasingly shared unfounded conspiracy theories about election fraud. And it could all come to a head on Wednesday when the online rhetoric meets real-world protests.

A US Capitol Police officer bounded up the stairs of the Capitol building, a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him. Using himself as “bait,” he lured the rioters away from the entrance to the Senate chambers, where lawmakers were still debating an objection to Arizona’s Electoral College vote count.
That man is Officer Eugene Goodman. Footage from Wednesday’s attack on the Capitol shows him leading the mob of Trump supporters in the opposite direction of the Senate chambers after he noticed it was unguarded.
CNN producer Kristin Wilson identified Goodman through US Capitol Police sources. The agency has not publicly identified Goodman to CNN or other outlets.
Footage from Wednesday captured by Huffington Post reporter Igor Bobic shows Goodman, the sole officer among the mob, trying to beat the rioters back several times as he radios other officers, but they continue to trail Goodman up the stairs. At one point, Goodman arrives at a landing and looks to a hallway to his left.
A door in that hallway led to the Senate chambers, Wilson wrote in a tweet. Goodman then leads the rioters to the right, away from the Senate chambers – and their “targets,” Wilson said. Goodman leads them into a larger hall, and backup officers arrive – still outnumbered by rioters.
Bobic stopped recording and was evacuated shortly afterward, he said. Bobic said Goodman herded the rioters away from the Senate Chambers at 2:14 p.m.
Senators were alerted that protesters had breached the Capitol building just one minute earlier, according to CNN’s timeline of events from Wednesday’s riot. Vice President Mike Pence wouldn’t be evacuated from the Senate until 2:30 p.m. The man in a hoodie seen chasing Goodman up the stairs, Doug Jensen, was arrested over the weekend for breaking into the Capitol and faces five federal charges – of unlawfully entering the Capitol, disrupting government business, violent entry, parading in a Capitol building and blocking law enforcement during the riot.
Political figures have called on Goodman to be awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor or the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor for protecting members of Congress. CNN has reached out to US Capitol Police for comment on Goodman’s actions and is waiting to hear back.

During the violent riot at the U.S. Capitol last Wednesday, a mob of Trump supporters breached security and entered the building as members of Congress were gathered inside.
One officer was seen risking his life to divert an angry mob away from the Senate chamber, leading the group in the opposite direction at a crucial moment when the lawmakers were not yet safely locked down. Video taken by HuffPost politics reporter Igor Bobic shows a Black Capitol Police officer standing the hallway a few steps ahead of the mob, trying to hold them back, and then heading up a staircase as the men chase after him. "Here's the scary moment when protesters initially got into the building from the first floor and made their way outside Senate chamber," Bobic tweeted when he shared the video in the midst of the chaos Wednesday afternoon.
The mob continues to follow the officer, who is alone, and shout at him as he makes his way to another area of the Capitol, where more law enforcement awaits. The harrowing video went viral, with nearly 10 million views on Bobic's post as of Monday.
The Capitol Police officer has been identified as Eugene Goodman, who is being hailed as a hero for diverting the intimidating mob away from the Senate chamber. Goodman is an Army veteran who spent time in Iraq, CBS Washington, D.C. affiliate WUSA reports.
While the Capitol Police leadership has been criticized for the security failures, and its chief has resigned, many are praising Goodman for his brave and quick-thinking reaction at a crucial moment in the crisis. The leader of the mob who chased him, the man seen in the video wearing a QAnon t-shirt, has been identified as Doug Jensen of Iowa.
Des Moines police assisted the FBI in arresting Jensen Friday night and he was booked into the Polk County Jail. The sheriff's office said the charges against Jensen provided by the FBI include: knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; disrupting the orderly conduct of government business; violent entry and disorderly conduct in a Capitol building; parading, demonstrating, or picketing in a Capitol building; and obstructing a law enforcement officer during a civil disorder. Jensen, 41, was also let go from his job as a laborer at a masonry company, the firm's CEO CBS Des Moines affiliate KCCI.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Heralded as a hero for his quick-thinking actions during last week's riot, a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland, could receive a Congressional Gold Medal.
The officer, Eugene Goodman, diverted a group of rioters from the Senate chamber, where lawmakers were taking cover, NBC News reported. His efforts were captured in a viral video, which shows him confronting the group's leader and walking in the opposite direction of the chamber, prompting the rioters to chase him, NBC News reported.
We're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with our new newsletter — The 4Front. Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox.
Crist, along with Nancy Mace, R-S.C., and Emanuel Cleaver, D-Mo., have introduced a bipartisan resolution to award Goodman a Congressional Gold Medal. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award Congress can bestow, NBC News notes. Rosa Parks and Nelson Mandela are among previous recipients.
Officer Eugene Goodman was the only thing standing between the mob and the United States Senate. Rep. Charlie Crist, D-Fla.
Goodman, an Army veteran, served in Iraq before joining the police force, NBC News reported. He is a resident of Prince George's County and a constituent of Rep. Anthony Brown, D-Md., a spokesman for Brown confirmed. In an interview with News4, Brown called Goodman "very heroic and courageous" and said he wants to formally recognize the officer for his actions.

Eugene Goodman is an American hero.
At a pivotal moment on January 6, the veteran United States Capitol Police officer single-handedly prevented untold bloodshed. Staring down an angry, advancing mob, he retreated up a marble staircase, calmly wielding his baton to delay his pursuers while calling out their position to his fellow officers.
At the top of the steps, still alone and standing just a few yards from the chamber where senators and Vice President Mike Pence had been certifying the Electoral College’s vote, Goodman strategically lured dozens of the mayhem-minded away from an unguarded door to the Senate floor. The violence that Americans witnessed—and that might recur in the coming days—is not a protest gone awry or the work of “a few bad apples.” It is the blossoming of a rotten seed that took root in the Republican Party some time ago and has been nourished by treachery, poor political judgment, and cowardice.
When Trump leaves office, my party faces a choice: We can dedicate ourselves to defending the Constitution and perpetuating our best American institutions and traditions, or we can be a party of conspiracy theories, cable-news fantasies, and the ruin that comes with them. We can be the party of Eisenhower, or the party of the conspiracist Alex Jones.
We can applaud Officer Goodman or side with the mob he outwitted. We cannot do both.
If and when the House sends its article of impeachment against Trump to the Senate, I will be a juror in his trial, and thus what I can say in advance is limited. But no matter what happens in that trial, the Republican Party faces a separate reckoning.
Until last week, many party leaders and consultants thought they could preach the Constitution while winking at QAnon. They can’t.
The GOP must reject conspiracy theories or be consumed by them. Now is the time to decide what this party is about.
The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene is cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs. She once ranted that “there’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to take this global cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles out, and I think we have the president to do it.”
During her campaign, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy had a choice: disavow her campaign and potentially lose a Republican seat, or welcome her into his caucus and try to keep a lid on her ludicrous ideas. McCarthy failed the leadership test and sat on the sidelines. Now in Congress, Greene isn’t going to just back McCarthy as leader and stay quiet.
She’s already announced plans to try to impeach Joe Biden on his first full day as president. She’ll keep making fools out of herself, her constituents, and the Republican Party.
If the GOP is to have a future outside the fever dreams of internet trolls, we have to call out falsehoods and conspiracy theories unequivocally. We have to repudiate people who peddle those lies.
We also have to show a healthier path forward. The frustrations that caused so many people to turn in desperate directions for a political voice are not going away when Trump leaves the White House for Mar-a-Lago, because deception and demagoguery are the inevitable consequences of a politics that is profoundly, systemically dysfunctional.
We must begin by asking how we got to such a discontented place, where we are mired in lies, rage, and now violence. In this essay, I am focusing on the maladies of the right, but Americans across the political spectrum are falling prey to the siren song of conspiracism.
Here are three reasons. The way Americans are consuming and producing news—or what passes for it these days—is driving us mad. This has been said many times, but the problem has worsened in the past five years.
On the supply side, media outlets have discovered that dialing up the rhetoric increases clicks, eyeballs, and revenue. On the demand side, readers and viewers like to see their opinions affirmed, rather than challenged.
When everybody’s outraged, everybody wins—at least in the short term. This is not a problem only on the right or only on obscure blogs.
The underlying economics that drive Fox News and upstarts such as One America News to cultivate and serve ideologically distinct audiences also drive MSNBC, CNN, and The New York Times. More and more fiercely, media outlets rally their audience behind the latest cause du jour, whether it’s battling supposed election fraud or abolishing local police departments. The conservative swaths of this media landscape were primed for Trump’s “Stop the steal” lie, which lit the fuse for the January 6 riot.
For nine weeks, the president consistently lied that he had “won in a landslide.” Despite the fact that his lawyers and allies were laughed out of court more than 60 times, he spread one conspiracy theory after another across television, radio, and the web.
For anyone who wanted to hear that Trump won, a machine of grifters was turning clicks into cash by telling their audiences what they wanted to hear. The liars got rich, their marks got angry, and things got out of control.
Traditional media outlets are only some of the long-standing institutions collapsing as the digital revolution erodes geographic communities in favor of placeless ones. Many people who yell at strangers on Twitter don’t know their own local officials or even their neighbors across the street.
The loss of rootedness and institutional authority has created an opening for populists on the right and the left. It’s not a coincidence that in 2016, millions of Republicans threw in their lot behind a man who for almost all of his life had been a Democratic voter and donor, and millions of Democrats wanted as their nominee a senator who staunchly refused to join their party. On both sides, conventional politicians were being told they had lost the thread.
The anger being directed today at major internet platforms—Twitter, Facebook, and Google, especially—is, in part, a consequence of the fading of traditional political authority. Sometimes intentionally, sometimes inadvertently, Americans have outsourced key parts of political life to Silicon Valley behemoths that were not designed to, and are not competent to, execute functions traditionally in the province of the government. The failure of our traditional political institutions and our traditional media to function as spaces for genuine political conversation has created a vacuum now filled by the social-media giants—who are even worse at the job.
Civic authority has ebbed in other ways. Political incompetence and malpractice around the COVID-19 pandemic have only deepened suspicions that some politicians will never let a crisis go to waste.
The decisions in California to keep churches closed but to keep open strip clubs and marijuana dispensaries baffle Main Street. Similarly, the jolting juxtaposition of a media-addict mayor breaking up Hasidic funerals while marching in Black Lives Matter protests not only deepens the cynicism of many Americans, but it indisputably undermined institutions of public health that should have been cautiously protecting their standing. Our political sickness has a third cause.
At least since World War II, sociologists and political scientists have been tracing the erosion of the institutions and habits that joined neighbors together in bonds of friendship and mutual responsibility. Little Leagues were not just pastimes; soup kitchens were not just service organizations; they were also venues in which people found shared purpose. Today, in many places, those bonds have been severed.
In 1922, G. K. Chesterton called America “a nation with the soul of a church.” But according to a recent study of dozens of countries, none has ditched religious belief faster since 2007 than the U.S. Without going into the causes, we can at least acknowledge one cost: For generations, most Americans understood themselves as children of a loving God, and all had a role to play in loving their neighbors.
But today, many Americans have no role in any common story. Conspiracy theories are a substitute.
Support Donald Trump and you are not merely participating in a mundane political process—that’s boring. Rather, you are waging war on a global sex-trafficking conspiracy!
No one should be surprised that QAnon has found a partner in the empty, hypocritical, made-for-TV deviant strain of evangelicalism that runs on dopey apocalypse-mongering. (I still consider myself an evangelical, even though so many of my nominal co-religionists have emptied the term of all historic and theological meaning.)
A conspiracy theory offers its devotees a way of inserting themselves into a cosmic battle pitting good against evil. This sense of vocation that makes it dangerous is also precisely what makes it attractive in our era of isolated, alienated consumerism.
Whatever the Republican Party does, it faces an ugly fight. The fracture that so many politicians on the right have been trying desperately to avoid may soon happen.
But if the party has any hope of playing a constructive, rather than destructive, part in America’s future, it must do two things. Second, the party has to rebuild itself.
It must offer a genuine answer to the frustrations of the past decade. Other than by indulging Trump’s fantasies about building iPhones in America, Republicans have not figured out how to address Americans’ anger about community erosion, massive dislocations in the labor force, or Big Tech’s historically unprecedented role in governing de facto public squares. Sensing a chance at tribal expansion, some on the left are thrilled by the chaos on the right, and they’re eager to seize the moment to banish from polite society not just those who participated and encouraged violence, but anyone with an R next to his or her name.
Already on Twitter, a conservative position as long-standing as opposition to abortion has been recast as “domestic terrorism.” An MSNBC host talked about the “de-Baathification” of the GOP, comparing rank-and-file Republicans to supporters of Saddam Hussein. In an exchange on CNN, a host accused Republican voters of making common cause with Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan.
Yet the exploitative overreaction by the left should not allow an underreaction by the right. The past four years have wounded our country in grievous, long-lasting ways.
The mob that rushed the Capitol had been fed a steady diet of lies and conspiracy theories. It is very possible that the QAnon devotee Douglas Jensen believed the junk he’d been sold—that he was a valued foot soldier in Trump’s war against shadowy forces of darkness.
So, according to the FBI, he put on his Q T-shirt and acted like a foot soldier. Right up until he ran into Officer Goodman. In a standoff between the Constitution and madness, both men picked a side. It’s the GOP’s turn to do the same.

Once upon a time, there was a Black security guard who saved American Democracy.
His quick thinking and eye for detail allowed him to stop an organized group of Right Wingers who had broken into important government offices looking for information to help them overturn the will of the people. This man was hailed as a hero, but you’ve probably never heard of him.
You may think I’m referring to Eugene Goodman, the Black Capitol Hill police officer who faced off against a horde of MAGA terrorists and saved the U.S. Senate. However, I’m actually talking about another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history. Yet for such a momentous accomplishment, Wills died relatively unknown and penniless, while others, almost entirely white men, came to fame and fortune from the Watergate scandal.
Black people are often praised as heroes for saving a country that treats us like third-class citizens, yet when it comes to the fame, fortune, even historical reverence associated with those great deeds, we’re left by the wayside. In the wake of last week’s terror attacks on Congress, now is a good time to remember that if we don’t keep the names of men like Eugene Goodman on our lips, in no time he’ll fade into a whisper of history because it’s happened before. Capitol police officer Eugene Goodman is rightfully being hailed as a hero after singlehandedly holding back rioters from entering the Senate chambers last week.
An Iraq combat vet and member of this Corps, Eugene was a hero long before last Wednesday. It is not hyperbole, exaggeration or an opening pitch of a TV movie (do they even make those on network TV anymore?) to say that Eugene Goodman saved American Democracy on Jan. 6, 2021. As experts, tacticians and military veterans have pointed out, when you see the video of his confrontation with MAGA terrorists in the Capitol it was his quick thinking that saved the day.
First, Officer Goodman distracted the terrorists from noticing an open door to the Senate chamber, where members were still inside and defenseless. He then began leading the terrorists away from the Senate, and when it looked like the group was heading back to the Senate chamber he pushed the terror leader, Doug Jensen, pissing him off and engaging the mob just long enough to lead them into trap where other officers were waiting to arrest the whole group.
You know how in every Jurassic Park movie, there’s some brave guy running through the rain with a red flare distracting a T-Rex from killing all the nerdy scientists? Eugene Goodman is that guy, plus Jason Bourne.
This is especially the case with Black cops and security guards who are often victimized by white supremacy both within their professions and by the institutions they protect. It’s akin to the superhero X-Men team, who were created as an allegory for the Civil Rights struggle of Black Americans in the 1960s.
The X-Men are heroes who are “Sworn to protect a world that hates and fears them.” In other words, use their skills and unique gifts even in defense of those who might actually do them harm.
It’s not too far of a rhetorical or ideological leap from comic book heroes to a real-life Black officer who’s job is to “protect and serve” Senators who are open white supremacists and white nationalists. However, it’s in the aftermath of Black heroism that the true character of America is revealed, over and over again.
After a brief moment of praise for saving America in 1972, Frank Wills was more or less left by the wayside of history. Like any American hero he wanted to capitalize on his success, but none of that was forthcoming for a Black American hero. According to interviews, Wills never even got a raise for Stopping the Steal at the Watergate, and bounced around from job to job for years.
He was acutely aware of how his heroic act worked out for everybody except for the actual guy who did the deed. During the 25th anniversary of Watergate when he was again briefly lifted out of obscurity, Wills expressed his displeasure in an interview with the Boston Globe.
“I put my life on the line. I went out of my way … If it wasn’t for me, Woodward and Bernstein would not have known anything about Watergate,” he said at the time.
Not just Woodward and Bernstein wrote best-selling books and made hit movies off of the Watergate scandal, but G. Gordon Liddy, who was part of the break-ins, went on to an incredibly successful media career. As for the actual hero? Frank Wills eventually returned to Augusta, South Carolina to care for his sick mother.
When she finally passed in 1993, they were so poor he had to give her body up to science in order to afford a funeral. He died 7 years later at the age of 52 with no fanfare.
No one was offering him a television show, or a security consulting contract. Wills isn’t the only Black cop who saved Democracy who’s been relatively lost to history.
Remember Crystal Griner and David Bailey? They were assigned to protect Steve Scalise (R-LA), the then-House Majority Whip, when a mass shooter attacked the annual congressional baseball game in 2017. Griner was shot in the leg, and Bailey took shrapnel, but they still managed to return fire and neutralize the shooter, preventing him from massacring Congress and sending our Democracy into a tailspin.
This is not to say that Black heroism must be rewarded financially, but we live in a country where talk show hosts give people free cars for getting caught walking a senior citizen across the street. Saving America may not have a price tag but Black folks shouldn’t have to do it for free either.
Before this insurrection is over, there will be more Black heroes, more Eugene Goodmans and Crystal Griners and David Baileys. Black men and women who risk their lives to keep this country safe while white lawyers, teachers and businessmen fly into Washington, D.C. for the weekend to LARP as revolutionaries.
These Black heroes, men and women may want nothing more than to return to a normal life, and shun the spotlight. Or they may have more to give to the world as experts, advisors and living witnesses to history. Regardless, we should keep their names in the public conscience, a reminder of their bravery, of what heroism in the face of bigotry looks like, and what it means to protect and serve those who hate and fear you. America will need more Eugene Goodmans, and we have to do everything we can to make sure they aren’t thrown in the dustbin of history like Frank Wills.
Dr. Jason Johnson is a professor of Politics and Journalism at Morgan State University, a Political Contributor at MSNBC and SIRIUS XM Satellite Radio. Notorious comic book and sports guy with dual Wakandan and Zamundan citizenship.

Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman took on a crowd of pro-Trump rioters as they stormed the Capitol on Wednesday. Video from the incident, taken by the HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic, shows Goodman leading the mob upstairs and away from an unsealed entrance to the Senate chamber.
He was armed with only a baton at the time. Goodman has since been hailed as a hero for his actions, and the rioter who was leading the chase after him has been criminally charged.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
A US Capitol Police officer is being hailed as a hero after facing down an angry mob of supporters of President Donald Trump during last week's riot at the Capitol and drawing them away from the Senate chamber that had yet to be secured. Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman, identified by the CNN reporter Kristin Wilson, was seen in video footage taken by the HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic putting himself between the Senate chamber and an angry mob headed by a rioter wearing a QAnon T-shirt. Goodman, who is Black, can be seen first interacting with the mob of white men as they push their way down a hallway.
Armed with only a baton and with no other officers nearby, Goodman leads the men on a chase up a flight of stairs while calling "second floor" into his radio. Once outside a hallway leading to the Senate chamber, Goodman shoves one of the men to get his attention before moving in the opposite direction. The rioter he shoved — the man in the QAnon shirt — lingers for a moment and looks down the Senate chamber hallway before ultimately following Goodman.
Eventually, Goodman is met by backup in another room of the building, the video shows. Goodman's efforts gave the Senate time to lock down against the threat of rioters, according to The Washington Post and Bobic. Bobic said he filmed the video at 2:14 p.m.
The Washington Post reported the Senate Chamber was secured at 2:15 p.m. A video of the Senate floor posted by the Capitol Hill reporter Jamie Dupree showed the senate was still full at 2:21 p.m. Goodman, who is an Army veteran and a father, did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment.
Neither did Capitol Police. But footage of his actions quickly started trending on Twitter, and many praised Goodman for what he had done. "As trump's fascist mob ransacked the US Capitol, this brave USCP officer kept murderous rioters away from the Senate chamber and saved the lives of those inside.
God bless him for his courage," US Rep. Bill Pascrell wrote in a Twitter message on Sunday. Jaime Harrison, a former candidate for the US Senate from South Carolina, said Goodman should be honored by politicians.
The man in the QAnon shirt who headed the mob chasing Goodman, meanwhile, has been identified as Doug Jensen of Iowa by The Des Moines Register. He has been fired from his job and was arrested by the FBI on Friday. He faces five federal charges. He's one of about 90 rioters who have been charged in connection with the riot at the Capitol building, in which five people died, including a Capitol Police officer.

Since the horrific Capitol riots, many have criticized the lack of security in the building and Capitol Police leadership for its lack of preparation, resulting in the resignation of the Capitol Police’s chief. But amid all the criticisms for Capitol Police comes praise for Goodman and his quick thinking. The award several lawmakers hope to give Goodman is considered one of the highest civilian awards in the country.
"The United States Capitol was under attack by armed, violent extremists, and Officer Eugene Goodman was the only thing standing between the mob and the United States Senate," Crist said in a statement, according to Business Insider. The footage of Goodman’s selfless bravery went viral after being shared by HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic on Twitter. Daily Kos shared the footage and reported that the incident happened at 2:14 PM.
The Senate was closed mere seconds later at 2:15 PM “Just now realizing how much of a close call it was in the Senate,” Bobic tweeted. "I ran downstairs to the first floor of the Senate building, where I encountered this lone police officer courageously making a stand against the mob of 20 or so Trump supporters who breached the capitol itself and were trying to get upstairs,” Bobic said. In the footage Bobic shared, Goodman wasn’t wearing tactical gear nor did he have his gun out.
Yet he shoved the mob leader, identified as Doug Jenson of Iowa, before running to grab a baton. At least 20 or more people can then be seen chasing the lone officer, who diverted them away from the Senate chamber. “They were yelling ‘Traitors. We want justice.
This is our America. If we don’t stop this now, we won’t get justice.
Trump won,’” Bobic told Good Morning America.
Officials from the 101st Airborne Division also took to Twitter to praise Goodman, noting that he was a hero to the country years before last week. According to the Military Times, Goodman served in the Army from 2002 and 2006 and deployed to Iraq for one year with the 101st Airborne Division. His awards include a combat infantryman badge.
x Capitol police officer Eugene Goodman is rightfully being hailed as a hero after singlehandedly holding back rioters from entering the Senate chambers last week. An Iraq combat vet and member of this Corps, Eugene was a hero long before last Wednesday.
Other friends of Goodman told the Post that his decision to lead the rioters away instead of engaging with them reflects his military experience. Goodman’s ability to not only lead the rioters away from the Senate Chambers but call for backup and show restraint to prevent injury or loss of life pays tribute to his dedication to service and his heroic qualities. Despite his newfound fame, Goodman has remained humble and maintained the same positive attitude, his colleagues told the Post. Goodman’s attitude toward his job has remained the same despite his newfound fame.

Investigators have recommended that prosecutors decline to bring charges against a US Capitol Police officer in the shooting of a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection, according to people familiar with the matter. The shooting of the Capitol rioter, Ashli Babbitt, remains under investigation by the DC Metropolitan Police, the US Attorney’s Office in Washington, DC, and civil rights prosecutors, a routine process for shootings involving the Capitol Police.
A final decision hasn’t been made, the people familiar with the probe told CNN. Justice Department officials could make a final decision in the coming days.
A spokesperson for DC’s Metropolitan Police Department said in an email to CNN that “it is irresponsible to make an investigatory assumption or to jump to any conclusion without completing the thorough investigation.” CNN has reached out to the US Attorney’s Office in DC for comment. The Wall Street Journal was first to report on the recommendation.
“In every analysis, this was an absolutely justified use of force,” said the officer’s attorney, Mark Schamel, of Lowenstein Sandler. Babbitt’s fatal shooting on January 6 occurred as a crowd pushed toward a doorway – barricaded by chairs and guarded by Capitol Police – that was the entrance to the Speaker’s Lobby in the US Capitol building. Babbitt was given medical assistance immediately and taken to a hospital, where she was pronounced dead.
Officers at the scene have told investigators that shortly after the officer shot Babbitt, they heard radio traffic indicating that shots had been fired inside the Capitol, according to people familiar with the probe. That report later proved to be erroneous and officers now believe it may have been the sound of glass breaking.
In a new federal criminal case announced against a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot, prosecutors pieced together how the crowd had threatened police minutes before the shooting. The new charges against Zachary Jodan Alam offer the clearest portrait yet in court of the circumstances around Babbitt’s shooting, though graphic video of the violence and her falling has been publicly available since shortly after the siege. Alam allegedly punched and kicked the glass panels of the closed doors, tried to smash it with a helmet, pushed himself against an officer and shouted in the faces of officers “f**k the blue.”
After Alam smashed a window, Babbitt was shot, according to a new affidavit from the FBI used to support Alam’s charges. Alam backed away after Babbitt was shot, prosecutors say.
He was arrested during the weekend in eastern Pennsylvania, the Justice Department said on Monday. Alam did not have an attorney listed to represent him as of Monday night and could not be reached for comment by CNN, as he was in jail after his arrest.
A frequent attendee of pro-Trump rallies, she flew to Washington, DC, from San Diego, California, with the intent to participate in the protest, her mother said. A CNN review of Babbitt’s social media accounts determined Babbitt frequently voiced support for Trump and other Republican figures on Facebook. She also shared content promoting political conspiracy theories often pushed by far-right figures.
Babbitt served as a senior airman in the US Air Force from 2004 to 2008 under the name Ashli Elizabeth McEntee, according to military records. She was a member of the Air Force Reserve from 2008 to 2010 and was in the Air National Guard from 2010 until November 2016, records show. This story has been updated with additional information Monday.

remove-circle Internet Archive's in-browser video "theater" requires JavaScript to be enabled.
It appears your browser does not have it turned on. Please see your browser settings for this feature.

Three days after Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick died defending the Capitol against insurrectionists the White House lowered the U.S. flag to half-staff. The decision to lower the flags came hours after Capitol Police also announced the off-duty death of Officer Howard Liebengood.
The circumstances of his death have not been made public. The U.S. attorney's office in Washington opened a federal murder investigation into the death of Sicknick, who died Thursday night after suffering injuries in the violent siege on Capitol Hill, three law enforcement sources confirmed to ABC News. The investigation is being conducted jointly between the FBI and the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department, with cooperation from U.S. Capitol Police.

According to one recent review of the burgeoning interdisciplinary scholarly literature on populism, populism’s “relationship with gender issues remains largely understudied” ( Abi-Hassan, 2017 , 426–427).
Of those scholarly treatments that do exist, the lion’s share focus on the role of men and masculinity in populist movements. In this essay, I argue scholarly reflection on the relationship of gender and populism should not be limited to this narrow frame.
Through a close examination of the complex gender politics of QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic, I demonstrate that populist deployments of femininity are as rich, complex, and potent as their deployments of masculinity. QAnon, I argue, is a case study in how femininity, particularly feminine identities centered on motherhood and maternal duty, can be mobilized to engage women in populist political projects.
Until scholars of populism start asking Cynthia Enloe’s famous question, “Where are the women?,” in a sustained and rigorous way, phenomena that are integral to populism’s functioning will elude us and our understanding of the relationship between gender and populism will remain partial and incomplete ( Enloe, 2014 ). According to one recent review of the burgeoning interdisciplinary scholarly literature on populism, populism’s “relationship with gender issues remains largely understudied” (Abi-Hassan, 2017, 426–427). Of those scholarly treatments that do exist, the lion’s share focus on the role of men and masculinity in populist movements1. This emphasis is understandable, in part, for historical reasons.
The first political movement to which the term “populist” was applied,2 the U.S. People’s Party of the late nineteenth century, figured “the people” in expressly masculine terms as a virile and virtuous yeomanry pitted against a corrupt and effeminate urban elite (Hofstadter, 1955). Contemporary factors doubtlessly also contribute to this privileging of men and masculinity in populism research. One of the most conspicuous populist movements in the world today, Trumpism, is emphatically masculinist, counting among its most zealous adherents exclusively male neo-fascist groups like the Proud Boys. The Hindu nationalist populism of India’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi also features a heady dose of masculinism, and parallels between Modi and Trump, both would-be authoritarians who intimidate and exclude marginalized communities, attack the free press, and deploy misinformation and propaganda to stoke racial, ethnic, religious, and caste resentments, have often been noted by pundits (Boot, 2019; Tasseer, 2019).
While men and masculinity have figured prominently in populist movements past and present, scholarly reflection on the relationship of gender and populism should not be limited to this narrow frame. Populist deployments of femininity are as rich, complex, and potent as their deployments of masculinity and women are often key players in populist movements.
Consider, for example, QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that originated in the depths of the anonymous internet imageboard 4chan in 2017 and burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic in the spring of 2020. QAnon is a case study in how femininity, particularly feminine identities centered on motherhood and maternal duty, can be deployed to engage women in populist politics.
For the first two and a half years of its existence, QAnon attracted a devoted but relatively small coterie of followers. However, in the spring of 2020, as the global Coronavirus pandemic forced millions of people all over the world to hunker down at home and made the internet their almost exclusive connection to the outside world, QAnon’s popularity exploded.
According to a study reported in The Wall Street Journal, membership in 10 of the largest public QAnon Facebook groups grew by nearly 600% from March to July (Seetharaman, 2020). This same study also found that during this same time period the average follower count of some of the largest public Instagram accounts promoting QAnon beliefs more than quadrupled.
Other journalists have reported that a significant number of these more recent QAnon converts are women introduced to QAnon ideology through images, videos, and stories shared by some of the most popular beauty, lifestyle, and parenting influencers on Instagram (Breland, 2020; Butler, 2020; Flora, 2020; Kelly, 2020; Tiffany, 2020). While the juxtaposition of Instagram’s exaggeratedly feminine, pastel-laden aesthetic with messages like “The deep state is evil and Satanic” may seem jarring, it is not surprising that QAnon’s central message—act boldly to save the children from an invisible yet omnipresent evil—would resonate now in virtual spaces to which millions of women turn every day for advice on how to optimize the health and wellbeing of themselves and their families. We are, after all, in the throes of a global Coronavirus pandemic that the U.S. government has failed to adequately suppress or contain3.
This means that parents of all genders, but especially mothers upon whom a disproportionate share of the burdens of pandemic-era child-rearing have fallen, are unable to satisfactorily perform even the most basic of parental duties: keeping their children safe and healthy. The QAnon movement ministers to the anxiety this inability to live up to their assigned maternal role triggers in women by providing them entrée into an alternative reality in which the Coronavirus is a hoax and the “real” threat to their children’s health and safety, the deep-state cabal, is something they can actually do something about. Whether it is by collaborating with strangers in a QAnon affiliated social media group to decipher the latest “Q-drop” or calling the National Human Trafficking Hotline to report that online retail giant Wayfair is actually a front for the cabal’s global child sex trafficking ring, women engaged in the QAnon movement are able to assert their feminine identities as protectors of the innocent and regain a sense of maternal efficacy in a moment when both of these things have been severely destabilized by the global pandemic (Seitz and Swenson, 2020). As one QAnon adherent at a “Freedom for the Children” rally in London put it, “Saving our children is far more important than a fake pandemic” (Kelly, 2020).
QAnon’s astonishing success in mobilizing women points toward a characteristic shared by virtually all populist movements that makes populism as a political form particularly hospitable to deployments of femininity. As scholars of populism have long observed, one of the hallmarks of populist movements is their pitting of a uniquely virtuous and unfairly disadvantaged “people” against a corrupt and entrenched “elite” (Kaltwasser et al. 2017, 4).
In figuring the people as pure, innocent, and vulnerable, populists, whether wittingly or unwittingly, imbue the people with unmistakably feminine characteristics. With the people always already implicitly feminized by the very nature and structure of populist discourse itself, populists are able to target women with the kind of explicitly gendered appeals we see at work in the QAnon movement with relative ease.
Of course, populist invocations of “the pure people” vs. “the corrupt elite” can also be tailored in ways that downplay these gendered connotations in an effort to unify the people by making gender “an almost unnecessary or even irrelevant category” (Abi-Hassan, 2017, 428). This gender-neutral approach can also work to facilitate women’s participation in populist movements by affording them an opportunity to take their place alongside men as members of the undifferentiated mass of the people.
The QAnon movement, at times, operates in this register. For example, its most famous slogan—Where We Go One We Go All—embodies just this sort of appeal to an unmarked and genderless “we.”
Nevertheless, it is when populist movements appeal to us as specifically gendered beings with deep-set investments in our masculinity and femininity that they are at their most potent. Such gendered appeals are, without a doubt, one of QAnon’s most significant sources of power. Depending on the nature of their gendered investments, supporters can participate in the QAnon movement as either masculine protectors of the republic who swear an oath to defend the Constitution and become “digital soldiers” in Q’s army or as feminine guardians of hearth and home who organize rallies and social media campaigns to protect children from sexual and moral contamination (Sommer, 2020). The multivocality of its gendered appeals is crucial to QAnon’s success.
Nearly a decade before QAnon became a going concern, gender and politics scholars noted the central role women were playing in another U.S.-based right-wing populist movement, the Tea Party (Sparks, 2014; Deckman, 2016; Schreiber, 2016). One of the most remarkable facets of the Tea Party, a reactionary movement that emerged in the early months of Barack Obama’s first presidential term to champion a blend of economic libertarianism, cultural traditionalism, and nationalism, was its overwhelmingly female leadership. 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee Sarah Palin and former Minnesota Congresswoman Michelle Bachmann were two of the movement’s most prominent national leaders and studies of grassroots Tea Party organizations have suggested that women were similarly dominant at the local level (Lo, 2012; Deckman, 2016). What facilitated women’s unprecedented levels of engagement with Tea Party populism?
According to Deckman, Schreiber, and Sparks, gendered (and, as Sparks perceptively notes, also raced) scripts of maternal guardianship were key to galvanizing Tea Party women. By positioning themselves as “mama grizzlies” rearing up to protect their “cubs” from the predations of tax and spend liberals, the “motherhood frame,” as Deckman calls it, allowed Tea Party women to connect longstanding conservative policy priorities like cutting entitlement programs and expanding gun rights to their maternal duty to defend children and families (2016, 3). Sparks further describes how this “motherhood frame” worked to legitimate Tea Party women’s performances of political anger. “Occupying political positions as ‘mama bears worried about their families,’” Sparks explains, “… offers Tea Party women a way to publicly perform anger that simultaneously defeats the usual charges that angry women are irrational and shrill” (Sparks, 2014, 19).
The same maternalist tropes that drew women to the Tea Party also draw them to QAnon, a movement that is far less beholden to libertarian ideology but that affords women similar opportunities to embody their “natural” role of maternal guardian. Delving further back into the history of right-wing populism in the U.S. can yield additional insight into the complex gender dynamics of the QAnon movement.
In 1983, radical feminist theorist Andrea Dworkin published Right Wing Women (1983), a pioneering study of the considerable appeal of Reagan-era conservatism, particularly its reactionary sexual and gender politics, to women in the United States. Rather than dismissing conservative women as dupes or diagnosing them with false consciousness, Dworkin argues that what attracts women like Phyllis Schlafly and Anita Bryant to overtly masculinist and patriarchal political projects is that these projects speak in concrete and compelling ways to the vulnerability to sexual exploitation and violence that all women experience under conditions of male dominance.
As Dworkin puts it, “The Right in the United States today is a social and political movement controlled almost totally by men but built largely on the fear and ignorance of women. The quality of this fear and the pervasiveness of this ignorance are consequences of male sexual domination over women.
Every accommodation that women make to this domination, however apparently stupid, self-defeating, or dangerous, is rooted in the urgent need to survive somehow on male terms” (Dworkin, 1983, 34). As this brief essay has attempted to demonstrate, the gender politics of populism involve more than men and masculinity; populist deployments of femininity are also significant and should not be overlooked.
Until scholars of populism start asking Cynthia Enloe’s famous question, “Where are the women?,” in a sustained and rigorous way, phenomena that are integral to populism’s functioning will elude us and our understanding of the relationship of gender and populism will remain partial and incomplete (Enloe, 2014). The author confirms being the sole contributor of this work and has approved it for publication. The author declares that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.
1Important exceptions include Kampwirth (2010), Spierings et al. (2015), and Rousseau (2011). 2The editors of The Oxford Handbook on Populism note that the first recorded usage of the term “populist” was in U.S. newspapers in 1891 and 1892 with reference to the U.S. People’s Party (Kaltwasser et al., 2017, 3). 3As I write this, the U.S. leads the world in Coronavirus deaths and approaches the grim milestone of 300,000 dead from Covid-19.

As protesters stormed America's home of democracy, the focus quickly turned to who they are - and why they were there. Among the sea of "Make America Great Again" red caps there were those dressed in elaborate costumes and others wearing what appeared to be full-on assault gear, while some brandished highly offensive flags and clothing.
The 35-year-old Air Force veteran was shot dead by a plain-clothed police officer after storming the Capitol with other protesters and attempting to enter the House chamber, Washington Police Chief Robert Contee said. Her husband, Aaron, told KUSI TV she served four tours of duty during her 14 years in the Air Force and was from San Diego. He said she was a strong supporter of Donald Trump and her Twitter account showed she had recently retweeted several pro-Trump messages, including a video by the president urging supporters to join the Washington march. A fellow Trump supporter, who witnessed the shooting, said she did not listen to police and secret service telling them to "get back, get down, get out of the way".
"As we kind of raced up to grab people and pull them back they shot her in the neck and she fell back on me," he told WUSA 9. Her death is being investigated by Washington Police. One of the most distinctive protesters was a bare-chested man with the US flag painted on his face, wearing a furry hat with horns and holding an American flag on a spear.
His name is Jake Angeli and he has been a regular at right-wing political rallies in Arizona, where he is from, since 2019. He was seen during the Capitol protests confronting a Capitol Hill Police officer and posing on the speaker's chair in the US Senate for a photo. The horned protester is a known promoter of QAnon, a right-wing conspiracy theory based on the cryptic posts of an individual or group named "Q" who is supposed to be a high-level government agent with Q-level security clearance.
They claim to possess inside knowledge of the Trump administration's secret fight against an evil global cabal, including alleged secret investigations in Washington such as politicians running a child sex trafficking ring. Angeli has spent much of his time since 2019 outside the Arizona Capitol shouting about various conspiracy theories, mainly related to QAnon.
He told The Arizona Republic he wears the fur hat, paints his face and wears no shirt with ragged trousers to attract attention. Another QAnon promoter, whose name is unknown, led the charge into the Senate Chamber.
The man has not been identified, but the image has certainly shocked many Americans as it is the first time the Confederate flag has ever been flown inside the Capitol. He walked through the Rotunda by himself with the large flag - something that never happened during the American Civil War in the 1860s. Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska", is a white nationalist activist who was part of the group that entered offices in the Capitol.
A well-known online personality from Alaska, he livestreamed himself from inside an office and talked to others about what they were doing in the Capitol. During the livestream, watched by 16,000 people on blockchain service DLive, he said he might sleep inside the office and use the landline to call Donald Trump.
He is known for holding neo-Nazi and white supremacist views, supporting Mr Trump and promoting antisemitic conspiracy theories online. His YouTube channel was banned in October 2020 after he filmed himself committing crimes and harassing people.
Baked Alaska filmed himself being taken out of the Capitol by police, who he swore at. A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans, filmed himself and fellow Trump supporters banging the Capitol's door.
He then panned the camera around the Capitol Rotunda, the ornate hallway between the Senate and the House which has paintings of America's founders. "No vandalising," he shouted at protesters.
Mr Evans removed the video from his Facebook page and was told by the West Virginia State House of Delegates speaker he would need to "answer to his constituents and colleagues". He later said he was heading back to West Virginia and "was simply there as an independent member of the media to film history". A man standing by the Capitol steps wearing a hoodie branded with "Camp Auschwitz:
Work brings freedom" on the front, and "staff" on the back was trending on Twitter the following day as people condemned him. He was then seen inside the Capitol building.
Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Centre on Extremism, said he saw members of several white supremacist and neo-Nazi groups among the pro-Trump crowds in Washington. The New Jersey European Heritage Association and Nationalist Social Club members were among them, he said.
Pictured walking through the Capitol with a stolen lectern as he waved at photographers, Adam Johnson is a psychology graduate from Florida. Photos on his social media showed him posing next to a sign that said "closed to all tours" inside the Capitol. He deleted his social media profiles soon after the protest.
People on social media mistakenly thought his name was "Via Getty" because a photo being shared was taken by the Getty picture agency. There were reports of protesters wearing 6MWE shirts, meaning six million wasn't enough, in reference to the six million Jewish people murdered during the Holocaust.
The Proud Boys, a far-right, neo-fascist, and male-only organisation that promotes and engages in political violence, are known for using the 6MWE slogan. A 60-year-old man who describes himself as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett was pictured with his feet on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's desk.
Outside the Capitol, he showed a New York Times reporter a letter he had taken from her desk, but claimed he had not stolen it because he left a quarter on her desk. A Facebook post from the mayor of Gravette, the city he is from in Arkansas, said citizens have been receiving threats after seeing Bigo's picture. "The vast majority of the citizens who live in Gravette AR are salt of the earth people, who would help their neighbours at a moment's notice," he said.

During your trial you will have complete digital access to FT.com with everything in both of our Standard Digital and Premium Digital packages.
Standard Digital includes access to a wealth of global news, analysis and expert opinion. Premium Digital includes access to our premier business column, Lex, as well as 15 curated newsletters covering key business themes with original, in-depth reporting. For a full comparison of Standard and Premium Digital, click here.
Change the plan you will roll onto at any time during your trial by visiting the “Settings & Account” section. If you do nothing, you will be auto-enrolled in our premium digital monthly subscription plan and retain complete access for $69 per month. For cost savings, you can change your plan at any time online in the “Settings & Account” section. If you’d like to retain your premium access and save 20%, you can opt to pay annually at the end of the trial.
You may also opt to downgrade to Standard Digital, a robust journalistic offering that fulfils many user’s needs. Compare Standard and Premium Digital here. Any changes made can be done at any time and will become effective at the end of the trial period, allowing you to retain full access for 4 weeks, even if you downgrade or cancel.

A woman shot and killed during violent protests that aimed to stop the certification of Joe Biden as the next President of the United States has been identified as 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt.
Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Police Chief Robert J. Contee III and the U.S. Capitol Police both confirmed Babbitt’s name Thursday. Her relatives, including her husband, previously identified her Wednesday evening to media outlets such as KUSI-TV, an independent television station in San Diego, Calif., the New York Post, and various Washington, D.C. television stations. A Twitter account linked to Babbitt, which was reviewed extensively by Law&Crime Wednesday night, indicates that Babbitt was a staunch QAnon adherent who retweeted dozens of conspiracy-theory-laden missives originally posted by Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood. Wood was at the helm of independent litigation in support President Donald Trump but lost every court case he has filed in support of keeping Trump in office.
Indeed, Babbitt’s final tweet was a retweet of an original message by Wood. The tweet contained what Wood — and, ergo, Babbitt — deemed to be a “MUST BE DONE LIST before Congress meets today” to certify Biden’s election.
The list demanded the resignation of and charges brought against Vice President Mike Pence and former Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. It also demanded the resignation of U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts.
Babbitt issued the retweet of Wood’s list without adding her own comment. Other tweets showed Babbitt’s obvious and staunch support for Trump. Images showed her standing next to mountains of Trump flags and displaying a pile of Trump bumper stickers.
That was the date she lost her life. Other tweets suggested Babbitt was heavily invested in whatever was to occur Jan. 6th. In one retweet, she echoed President Trump’s call to the capital starting at 11:00 a.m., two hours before Congress was scheduled by federal law to meet to certify Biden’s win, for a so-called “Stop the Steal!”
rally. Another retweet appeared to suggest a “COUP” was being staged against Trump. The Lin Wood retweets could go on and on. Notably, Babbitt also retweeted the recently pardoned Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn and his pro-Trump attorney Sidney Powell.
Rep. Markwayne Mullin, an Oklahoma Republican, told NBC News late Wednesday afternoon that the woman shot and killed — who has since been identified as Babbitt — “died because she stormed through the door and an officer had to make the split decision and had to shoot her.” Mullin said the officer’s life is now changed forever and that he grieved for the family of the victim.
But he also claimed he would “have a hard time believing these [protesters] are actual, true Trump supporters” because he did not think genuine Trump fans were capable of such behavior. Babbitt served four tours with the U.S. Air Force as part of a total enlistment of 14 years, KUSI-TV reported.
She “was a high level security official,” the station said; however, the Air Force on Thursday said Babbitt served for 12 years — slightly less time — as a “Security Forces Controller.” Officials said Babbitt held the “enlisted rank of senior Airman,” WJLA-TV reported, and that Babbitt served across multiple branches: she was in the Air Force itself from 2004 to 2008, in the Air Force Reserves from 2008 to 2010, and in the Air National Guard from 2010 to 2016. People with her rank and title “are responsible for providing security at Air Force bases,” the Air Force told WJLA.
NPR reported that Babbitt was unarmed when she was shot. As protesters were forcing their way toward the House Chamber where Members of Congress were sheltering in place, a sworn USCP employee discharged their service weapon, striking an adult female.
Medical assistance was rendered immediately, and the female was transported to the hospital where she later succumbed to her injuries. She has been identified as Ashli Babbitt.
Multiple videos circulating online showed a woman who appeared to be Babbitt amid a group of people in the capitol who crowded a doorway area which separated a stair well from a hallway. Several law enforcement officers appeared to be guarding the hallway beyond the doors; others dressed as officers appeared to be among the protesters in the stair well.
The doorway windows appeared smashed, and the doors themselves appeared barricaded. A woman wearing a red, white, and blue backpack and who was draped with a Trump flag attempted to climb through one of the busted windows.
A single shot rang out, and the woman fell backwards. Panic ensued. A voice audible on one video of the scene said the sound was “just a flash bang.”
A man in a suit and tie began arguing with people dressed as officers who were among the protesters. In other recordings, voices accused the police of “murdering” the woman. Other voices questioned why she was shot.
A still image which circulated online showed a man wearing a Capitol Police patch applying pressure to the woman’s wound as she bled over his hand through her nose and mouth. Additional recordings showed emergency resuscitation efforts by who appeared to be Capitol Police officers. The officers argued with protesters that they could not attend to the woman unless the protesters moved out of the way.
Lin Wood’s Twitter account was suspended early Thursday morning. Editor’s note: this report has been updated after its initial publication to contain a verbal description of the videos and photos circulating online and to note that Wood’s account was suspended. It was updated again to add official confirmation of Babbitt’s identity and to clarify official confirmation of her military service.

Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, was an ardent supporter of President Donald Trump and a follower and promoter of many well-known radical conservative activists as well as leaders of the QAnon conspiracy theory movement, according to her social media profiles.
Babbitt, 35, had come to Washington to protest Trump’s election defeat, her brother-in-law Justin Jackson told NBC San Diego. Babbitt was an Air Force veteran who was a decorated security forces controller and served multiple Middle East tours from 2004 to 2016, according to Air Force records. She also owned a pool service and supply business with her husband, according to her now-deleted Facebook page.
Washington Police Chief Robert Contee confirmed on Wednesday night that Capitol police had shot and killed a person who entered the building, but he did not name the person. Though some of her family members expressed confusion about why Babbitt would break into the Capitol, her social media postings offered some insight into possible motivations.
Using the handle CommonAshSense, Babbitt’s Twitter account was almost singularly focused on radical conservative topics and conspiracy theories. Among other fringe beliefs, she tweeted about pizzagate, a viral disinformation campaign that falsely alleged a child abuse ring was being operated by Democrats from a Washington pizza restaurant. Babbitt was a loyal Fox News watcher, according to thousands of tweets to Fox News hosts, but she also engaged on social media with the conspiracy news internet news site InfoWars.
In 2020, Babbitt began to tweet with QAnon accounts and use QAnon hashtags. QAnon conspiracy theorists subscribe to a false belief that high-profile Democrats and Hollywood celebrities are ritually sacrificing children and that Trump is fighting to stop it. QAnon followers have allegedly committed real-world violent crimes, including murder, and the F.B.I. labeled it a potential domestic terror threat in 2019.
Prominent figures in the QAnon conspiracy theory movement, including L. Lin Wood, the pro-Trump lawyer behind several failed lawsuits to overturn the election results, have also been behind many of the wildest claims, parroted by the president, that the election was somehow stolen. Babbitt’s final tweets included a retweet of Wood, in a call that “Mike Pence@vp @Mike_Pence must resign & thereafter be charged with TREASON,” and, “Chief Justice John Roberts must RESIGN.” Wood was suspended from Twitter on Wednesday.
The Storm is a reference to a QAnon fantasy in which Trump will supposedly punish Democrats and Hollywood elite for their supposed misdeeds. On forums and platforms like Parler, where followers fled after being banned on Twitter and Facebook, QAnon followers claimed Babbitt’s death was faked and had been engineered as a “false flag” by the so-called Deep State.

SAN DIEGO (Reuters) -
The woman shot dead by police during Wednesday’s siege of the U.S. Capitol was identified by police as Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories. Babbitt, 35, was an ardent supporter of U.S. President Donald Trump, and her posts on Twitter endorsed Trump’s false assertions that he was defeated because Democrats elaborately rigged the Nov. 3 election. The Twitter account @Ashli_Babbitt, which includes photographs of her, shared many posts in recent weeks flagging her excitement over attending the Trump rally in Washington on Jan. 6.
There was also a picture of California Governor Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, with a slash through it. Ashli Babbitt had traveled to Washington with friends to join Wednesday’s rally, her husband, Aaron, told Fox 5 News in San Diego. He said he sent her a text message checking her status about 30 minutes before the shooting but never heard back.
At the rally near the White House, Trump gave an incendiary speech filled with falsehoods for more than an hour that ended with exhortations to his supporters to march on the Capitol. Shortly after, some of them began smashing their way in while Congress met to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. Videos of the shooting recorded by people at the scene show a woman draped in a Trump flag clambering up a doorway with smashed glass windows in a chaotic confrontation between the Trump-supporting intruders and police in an ornate hallway in the Capitol.
A Capitol Police officer on the other side of the doorway then fires his handgun, and the woman - whose appearance matches that of Babbitt’s photos - falls backwards onto the ground, bleeding profusely and visibly in shock. People around her scream and try to tend to her injuries. The U.S. Capitol Police confirmed in a statement on Thursday that a woman identified as Ashli Babbitt had been shot by an officer as protesters were forcing their way into the House Chamber.
They said she later died of her injuries in a hospital. Three other people — two men and a woman — who were on the Capitol grounds died as a result of unspecified “medical emergencies,” Washington’s Metropolitan Police Department said.
Babbitt served in the U.S. Air Force as a senior airman while on active duty from 2004 to 2008, the Air Force said in a statement. She also served in the Air Force Reserve between 2008 and 2010, and in the Air National Guard from 2010 until 2016, the statement said.
She served in the military with her ex-husband, Timothy McEntee, and did at least one tour in Iraq, Sean McEntee, her former brother-in-law, said in a telephone interview, adding he felt “shock and sadness” at the news of her death. Babbitt posted a picture of herself on Twitter at a Trump boat rally in September, smiling with another person, both of them wearing tops bearing the slogans and imagery of QAnon, a sprawling cult-like conspiracy theory that has been embraced by some Trump supporters.
QAnon adherents believe claims by one or more unidentified people posting on Internet messageboards under the name ‘Q’ who say that Trump is secretly fighting a cabal of child-sex predators that includes powerful U.S. elites. The officer who killed Babbitt, whose identity has not been released, is on administrative leave while the shooting is investigated, the Capitol Police said in a statement.

Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran, was shot and killed by Capitol Police while attempting to enter the Speaker’s Lobby on the second floor of the US Capitol in Washington D.C. on January 6, 2021. Babbitt was part of a thousands-strong mob that stormed the building after the conclusion of the #StopTheSteal rally at the Washington Monument earlier in the day.
At that event, President Donald Trump had encouraged rally goers to head to the Capitol to protest the certification of the 2020 presidential election. His comments came after weeks of false and inflammatory statements to the effect that he had won the election, and that his enemies had rigged it against him.
Babbitt’s shooting was captured on several videos that were recorded and shared by people in the crowd. Her own social media history also reveals her movements on the morning and afternoon of January 6. But looking back further shows an ideological journey that saw her travel from stating she had backed President Barack Obama to engaging in damaging right-wing conspiracy theories. We have looked at Babbitt’s social media footprint, as well as other open source information, to trace both journeys.
On January 5, Bellingcat published an article detailing how the January 6 rally in Washington D.C. was preceded by weeks of online discussion among the MAGA right, QAnon and adjacent groups about the “Wild Protest” that would take place in the capital that day. As the article outlined, these conversations openly considered whether the Capitol should be stormed and burned.
While Babbitt was described to San Diego news stations as a patriot by her husband and “loyal and extremely passionate” by her brother-in-law, her social media history details engagement with some of the darker sentiments circulating in online right-wing and pro-Trump circles in recent years. In terms of her views, Ashli Babbitt probably didn’t stand out from the crowd massed at the U.S. Capitol. And that is precisely why the story of her political awakening—well told through her activity on Twitter—is so instructive in understanding what brought that crowd together.
By 2019, her Twitter feed struck a more explicit anti-establishment tone. That September, Babbitt wrote about a “political global ring/Hollywood/elite”, the seeds of this rhetoric can be traced back to a Fox News video Babbitt shared back in late 2016. Two months later, these posts became more conspiratorial, lambasting the media and “elites’” involvement in human trafficking.
She had yet to mention QAnon, but did refer to the Pizzagate conspiracy theory. (For more on Babbitt’s history of posts around QAnon, see this Twitter thread by Garrison Davis [@hungrybowtie).
Babbitt was clearly committed to her cause, as her social media history shows. On January 5th she flew across the country from her home in San Diego to Washington D.C. to take part in the #StopTheSteal rally. She listened to President Trump make his speech, and was evidently enthusiastic to be part of the movement, beaming as she described “a sea of nothing but red, white and blue, patriots and Trump.
And it was amazing, you could see the president talk,” in this video obtained by TMZ. Babbitt, like so many others, walked from the site of Trump’s speech down the inaugural path to the Capitol building, describing the group as a “mob”. There, she joined the people who had already broken through the first lines of woefully underprepared Capitol police, and who would eventually break into the Capitol itself through a door on the vast building’s North-West side.
Footage showing the crowd climbing the Capitol steps and breaking through a security fence. Once inside the Capitol, Babbitt walked through the halls, and can be seen in video footage recording the event on her cellphone.
She appeared briefly in a video report by ITV News at the initial breach of the Capitol building, walking in front of the camera holding up her cellphone, wearing a beanie hat, a distinctive red and blue backpack and with a flag tied around her neck. Her route took her south through the ground floor, and eventually up to the second floor towards the Hall of the House of Representatives, commonly referred to as the House Chamber, where many of the United State’s lawmakers had taken shelter.
At 2:30 PM EST she could be seen on a PBS livestream of the National Statuary Hall, still filming on her mobile phone and wearing her distinctive backpack as she walked neatly between the guide-ropes (visible at 03:30:48 in the PBS video) towards the House Chamber. The crowd that Babbitt joined was angry. They yelled “Whose house?
Our house!” and attempted to batter down doors as they moved through the Capitol.
The latter part of this journey was captured in a video by the extremist conspiracy website Infowars. As the mob reached their target, the House Chamber, it was obstructed by a securely-locked door.
Behind it stood members of the Capitol police, with guns drawn behind a crudely made barricade. Defeated by this barricade, the mob turned left and sought another way in.
As they moved around the halls, their path took them to a door in front of which stood two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control. This door led to the Speaker’s Lobby, a hallway that contains entrances to the House Chamber. At around 2:40 PM — the same time the mob reached this door — PBS reported that Vice President Mike Pence had been escorted to safety from the House Chamber (visible at 3:39:58 in the PBS video).
However, it appears that other lawmakers were still present in the Chamber at that time. It was here, outside the Speaker’s Lobby, where Babbitt would be shot a short time later.
At approximately 2:45 PM, Babbitt stood outside the door to the Speaker’s Lobby along with a large mob. In the background of the InfoWars video, men in suits and law enforcement officers could be seen moving about in the corridor.
The crowd at the door to the Speaker’s Lobby vastly outnumbered the Capitol police and staff at the scene. Infowars footage showed the standoff that ensued, as some in the crowd chanted “break it down”, in reference to the door and makeshift barricade that had been erected behind it.
This same footage shows Babbitt yelling at the officers guarding the door as members of the mob start to smash through them. At this point, four heavily-armed police officers climb up the stairs toward the crowd in an apparent attempt to control the situation and evacuate the police officers and staff in front of the door. A video shared on Twitter (below) shows the moment that a man in a suit standing behind the barricaded door shot Babbitt.
He was later confirmed by Washington law enforcement to be a member of the Capitol police. A clock located on top of the door into the Speaker’s Lobby captured in the Infowars footage showed 2:44 PM about a minute and a half before Babbitt’s shooting, placing the event at approximately 2:45 PM.
At 3:16 PM, a man who claims to have been at the scene of the shooting shared two videos on Twitter showing Babbitt receiving medical care on the floor moments after the shooting. In the tweets, the man claims that the shooting had “just” taken place, and that he had been standing near Babbitt at the time that it occurred. As Babbitt lay dying on the floor, her fellow members of the crowd pulled out their phones and began to film, illuminating her body with the lights of their devices.
Babbitt passed away soon after. Despite the ample warning that Babbitt and thousands of like-minded people would attend the #StopTheSteal rally on January 6, District of Columbia’s Metropolitan Police Department Acting Chief Robert J. Contee III said that there was “no intelligence suggesting that there would be a breach of the U.S. Capitol”.
Yet the shooting of Ashli Babbitt was preceded by weeks of violent online discussions from the MAGA sphere, white supremacist groups and QAnon conspiracy theorists threatening to storm the Capitol building on January 6. These threats were made more credible by years of violent acts and rhetoric by right wing groups spurred on by the Trump administration.
US politicians have since castigated law enforcement for a failure to keep the mob at bay. On January 7, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer announced that the Senate Sergeant-at-Arms, Mike Senger, would be fired.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi also requested the resignation of Steven Sund, the Capitol Police Chief. Sund submitted his resignation letter that same day.
As pro-Trump supporters mourn her passing , it is hard to say what role Babbitt’s death will play against the backdrop of what is now extreme political instability.
It is clear, however, that her death was a tragedy, as was the process of radicalisation which brought her, like so many others, to the steps of the Capitol. Our partner Newsy has published a video outlining the journey that thousands of others took yesterday from the #StopTheSteal rally to the halls of Capitol Hill, much of which was captured on footage by members of the mob.
Bellingcat is currently engaged in a crowdsourcing effort to collect and archive as much digital evidence as possible of the storming of the Capitol and the shooting of Ashli Babbitt. If you have digital evidence that you would like to contribute to this effort, please refer to this document. We want to thank all of the volunteers and individuals whose contributions so far have made the identification, collection and analysis of this event possible. Contributors note: Garrison Davis (@hungrybowtie) contributed to this report.

Editor’s note: Stephen Doig is a data journalist and journalism professor at Arizona State University.
In this interview, he explains good techniques for estimating crowd sizes, and why the absence of aerial imagery makes it difficult to estimate the size of the crowd that stormed Capitol Hill on Wednesday. I can’t readily give you a good estimate of the size of that crowd beyond the the certainty that no matter what anybody is claiming, it will be much larger than the actual crowd. The reason is that people are bad at making appropriate estimates of the size of crowds. It’s actually a difficult thing to do.
Once you get more than a few hundred people, it just looks very big. All you can do is pull big numbers out of the air.
Then there are all sorts of political reasons the sizes of crowds get either inflated or deflated. The size of a crowd has become a token of popularity of whatever the cause that gathered the crowd is, whether it’s a political event like this, or sports or a celebration. Inevitably, the estimate of the size of the crowd is sort of vastly larger than reality. From some of the pictures I saw of the crowd in Washington, it was certainly a more dense crowd – people were really compressed in.
That would be something in the neighborhood of maybe 5 square feet per person. Unrealistic estimates of the density are a big reason that reality-based crowd estimating goes wrong. Sometimes you will see density estimates of 1 square foot per person.
That’s a deadly stampede – it’s beyond mosh pit density. The other factor you need to take into account is a decent measure of the area that the crowd is contained in. The best way to get that is with good aerial imagery, something over the top where you can see the edge of the crowd.
The trouble with Washington, D.C., is that there are several barriers to getting good overhead imagery. The Washington Monument is the only tall building that can get you a good view, but it’s on the far end of the National Mall.
The other barrier in D.C. is that it’s basically a no-fly zone. You can’t have helicopters up overhead shooting aerial imagery, as in most other cities. No drones are allowed for security reasons. In the absence of aerial imagery, it’s almost impossible to quickly make a reality-based estimate of the crowd size.
I’m perfectly prepared to believe there were several thousand people there, even 10,000 maybe. But when you start pushing that up to 100,000 and so on, that’s not going to be true.

The Army falsely denied for days that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was involved in a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol. Sign up for Fact Checker, our weekly review of what's true, false or in-between in politics.
ArrowRight Charles Flynn confirmed in a statement issued to The Washington Post on Wednesday that he was in the room for a tense Jan. 6 phone call during which the Capitol Police and D.C. officials pleaded with the Pentagon to dispatch the National Guard urgently, but top Army officials expressed concern about having the Guard at the Capitol. Flynn left the room before the meeting was over, anticipating that then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, would soon take action to deploy more guard members, he said. “I entered the room after the call began and departed prior to the call ending as I believed a decision was imminent from the Secretary and I needed to be in my office to assist in executing the decision,” Flynn said.
The general’s presence during the call — which has not previously been reported — came weeks after his brother publicly suggested that President Donald Trump declare martial law and have the U.S. military oversee a redo of the election. There is no indication that Charles Flynn shares his brother’s extreme views or discharged his duties at the Pentagon on Jan. 6 in any manner that was influenced by his brother.
It makes sense that Flynn, as the Army’s deputy chief of staff for operations, plans and training, would have been involved in the Pentagon response. The D.C. Guard answers to the president, but the president delegates control over the force to the defense secretary and the Army secretary, essentially leaving it to top Army officials to make critical decisions regarding the District’s military force.
Flynn, however, is not in the chain of command. The Army’s initial denial of Flynn’s participation in the critical Jan. 6 meeting, despite multiple inquiries on the matter, comes as lawmakers demand transparency from the Defense Department in the aftermath of one of Washington’s gravest national security failures, which left one police officer and four rioters dead, the Capitol desecrated and the lives of Vice President Mike Pence and members of Congress endangered.
The episode highlights the challenge for the Army in having an influential senior officer whose brother has become a central figure in QAnon, the extreme ideology that alleges Trump was waging a battle with Satan-worshiping Democrats who traffic children. Michael Flynn, who previously ran the Defense Intelligence Agency and left the Army as a three-star general, has espoused QAnon messages, and QAnon adherents are among those who have been charged in connection with the attempted insurrection.
In November, Trump announced he had pardoned Flynn, who had pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI. McCarthy, who left office as the Trump administration concluded Wednesday, said in a Jan. 12 interview with The Post that he was not on the call, implying he could not address whether Flynn was. But he defended Flynn’s character, saying he has known him for years.
Army officials, before and after that interview, denied that Flynn appeared during the call. “HE WAS NOT IN ANY OF THE MEETINGS!”
one Army official said on Jan. 12 in an email to The Post. Like several others interviewed, the official spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. After being approached with the accounts of multiple officials on the call, the Army sent a statement confirming Flynn participated.
The teleconference, organized by D.C. officials after authorities already had declared a riot at the Capitol, focused on what actions the military could take in response to the violence, with the Capitol Police chief pleading for help and the acting D.C. police chief growing incredulous at the Army’s reluctance to engage. The call included senior Army officials at the urging of Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the D.C. National Guard, according to one person with direct knowledge of the situation.
Five officials who were on the call shared similar stories in which Army officials on the line said they were concerned about the visuals of sending National Guard members to the Capitol. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who has since resigned in the wake of the security failure, and acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III were flabbergasted by the Army’s reaction, according to four people on the call.
Sund had stressed that the Capitol had been breached by protesters and told those on the call that he had reports of shots being fired on the scene. Sund, in an interview with The Post, previously said that another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — raised concerns about guard members appearing at the Capitol. “I don’t like the visual of the National Guard standing a police line with the Capitol in the background,” Piatt said, according to Sund and others on the call.
Piatt denied those remarks in a statement last week. “I did not make the statement or any comments similar to what was attributed to me by Chief Sund in The Washington Post article — but would note that even in his telling he makes it clear that neither I, nor anyone else from [the Department of Defense], denied the deployment of requested personnel,” Piatt said. It was at times difficult for the participants of the call to discern which top Army official was speaking.
Officials on the call recalled hearing two Army leaders discussing the “optics” and “visual” of having National Guard members respond at the Capitol. One of the Army leaders described the protesters as “peaceful,” and Contee responded that “they’re not peaceful anymore,” two of the officials said. U.S. defense officials have emphasized that federal law enforcement was better placed to clear the Capitol of rioters than members of the D.C. Guard, the entirety of which was ultimately activated by the Pentagon.
Guard members arrived within hours of the call to help establish a perimeter around the Capitol grounds. “If you ever cleared buildings with people that don’t do it for a living, you could have some very challenging types of things happen,” a senior U.S. defense official said in an interview.
Army officials declined to answer several questions about Flynn’s statement, including how long he was in the room during the call, whether he said anything, and if he was the one who described the crowd at the Capitol as mostly peaceful. The Army also declined to answer why it falsely said for days that Flynn, who already has been confirmed by the Senate for a promotion to four-star general, was not involved. “Thank you for the opportunity to comment, however we have nothing further to add,” the Army said in response to questions posed by The Post through email. One official directly familiar with the situation said there was concern in both the Army and National Guard about possible political fallout if it was discovered that Flynn was involved in the Army’s deliberations.
That is despite it being commonplace that the person in Flynn’s role would have been involved. Defense officials have repeatedly defended their response to the assault on the Capitol, noting that D.C. officials sought a limited mission for the National Guard that day after thousands of guard members were deployed in the District in June during protests for racial justice. The D.C. National Guard activated 340 guard members in consultation with D.C. officials, with a limited, unarmed mission to staff traffic barriers and Metro stations so additional police officers would be available to deal with crowds.
Sund also did not seek National Guard assistance ahead of time — a reflection, he later said, of senior House and Senate security officials turning down his request to do so. McCarthy said in his interview with The Post that without a plan to assist Capitol Police, it was “very challenging to understand” what was happening at the Capitol. Military officials said they didn’t want to send the Guard into a combustible situation without any planning that could have made matters worse.

The Army falsely denied for days that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was involved in a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol. Sign up for Fact Checker, our weekly review of what's true, false or in-between in politics.
ArrowRight Charles Flynn confirmed in a statement issued to The Washington Post on Wednesday that he was in the room for a tense Jan. 6 phone call during which the Capitol Police and D.C. officials pleaded with the Pentagon to dispatch the National Guard urgently, but top Army officials expressed concern about having the Guard at the Capitol. Flynn left the room before the meeting was over, anticipating that then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, would soon take action to deploy more guard members, he said. “I entered the room after the call began and departed prior to the call ending as I believed a decision was imminent from the Secretary and I needed to be in my office to assist in executing the decision,” Flynn said.
The general’s presence during the call — which has not previously been reported — came weeks after his brother publicly suggested that President Donald Trump declare martial law and have the U.S. military oversee a redo of the election. There is no indication that Charles Flynn shares his brother’s extreme views or discharged his duties at the Pentagon on Jan. 6 in any manner that was influenced by his brother.
It makes sense that Flynn, as the Army’s deputy chief of staff for operations, plans and training, would have been involved in the Pentagon response. The D.C. Guard answers to the president, but the president delegates control over the force to the defense secretary and the Army secretary, essentially leaving it to top Army officials to make critical decisions regarding the District’s military force.
Flynn, however, is not in the chain of command. The Army’s initial denial of Flynn’s participation in the critical Jan. 6 meeting, despite multiple inquiries on the matter, comes as lawmakers demand transparency from the Defense Department in the aftermath of one of Washington’s gravest national security failures, which left one police officer and four rioters dead, the Capitol desecrated and the lives of Vice President Mike Pence and members of Congress endangered.
The episode highlights the challenge for the Army in having an influential senior officer whose brother has become a central figure in QAnon, the extreme ideology that alleges Trump was waging a battle with Satan-worshiping Democrats who traffic children. Michael Flynn, who previously ran the Defense Intelligence Agency and left the Army as a three-star general, has espoused QAnon messages, and QAnon adherents are among those who have been charged in connection with the attempted insurrection.
In November, Trump announced he had pardoned Flynn, who had pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI. McCarthy, who left office as the Trump administration concluded Wednesday, said in a Jan. 12 interview with The Post that he was not on the call, implying he could not address whether Flynn was. But he defended Flynn’s character, saying he has known him for years.
Army officials, before and after that interview, denied that Flynn appeared during the call. “HE WAS NOT IN ANY OF THE MEETINGS!”
one Army official said on Jan. 12 in an email to The Post. Like several others interviewed, the official spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. After being approached with the accounts of multiple officials on the call, the Army sent a statement confirming Flynn participated.
The teleconference, organized by D.C. officials after authorities already had declared a riot at the Capitol, focused on what actions the military could take in response to the violence, with the Capitol Police chief pleading for help and the acting D.C. police chief growing incredulous at the Army’s reluctance to engage. The call included senior Army officials at the urging of Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the D.C. National Guard, according to one person with direct knowledge of the situation.
Five officials who were on the call shared similar stories in which Army officials on the line said they were concerned about the visuals of sending National Guard members to the Capitol. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who has since resigned in the wake of the security failure, and acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III were flabbergasted by the Army’s reaction, according to four people on the call.
Sund had stressed that the Capitol had been breached by protesters and told those on the call that he had reports of shots being fired on the scene. Sund, in an interview with The Post, previously said that another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — raised concerns about guard members appearing at the Capitol. “I don’t like the visual of the National Guard standing a police line with the Capitol in the background,” Piatt said, according to Sund and others on the call.
Piatt denied those remarks in a statement last week. “I did not make the statement or any comments similar to what was attributed to me by Chief Sund in The Washington Post article — but would note that even in his telling he makes it clear that neither I, nor anyone else from [the Department of Defense], denied the deployment of requested personnel,” Piatt said. It was at times difficult for the participants of the call to discern which top Army official was speaking.
Officials on the call recalled hearing two Army leaders discussing the “optics” and “visual” of having National Guard members respond at the Capitol. One of the Army leaders described the protesters as “peaceful,” and Contee responded that “they’re not peaceful anymore,” two of the officials said. U.S. defense officials have emphasized that federal law enforcement was better placed to clear the Capitol of rioters than members of the D.C. Guard, the entirety of which was ultimately activated by the Pentagon.
Guard members arrived within hours of the call to help establish a perimeter around the Capitol grounds. “If you ever cleared buildings with people that don’t do it for a living, you could have some very challenging types of things happen,” a senior U.S. defense official said in an interview.
Army officials declined to answer several questions about Flynn’s statement, including how long he was in the room during the call, whether he said anything, and if he was the one who described the crowd at the Capitol as mostly peaceful. The Army also declined to answer why it falsely said for days that Flynn, who already has been confirmed by the Senate for a promotion to four-star general, was not involved. “Thank you for the opportunity to comment, however we have nothing further to add,” the Army said in response to questions posed by The Post through email. One official directly familiar with the situation said there was concern in both the Army and National Guard about possible political fallout if it was discovered that Flynn was involved in the Army’s deliberations.
That is despite it being commonplace that the person in Flynn’s role would have been involved. Defense officials have repeatedly defended their response to the assault on the Capitol, noting that D.C. officials sought a limited mission for the National Guard that day after thousands of guard members were deployed in the District in June during protests for racial justice. The D.C. National Guard activated 340 guard members in consultation with D.C. officials, with a limited, unarmed mission to staff traffic barriers and Metro stations so additional police officers would be available to deal with crowds.
Sund also did not seek National Guard assistance ahead of time — a reflection, he later said, of senior House and Senate security officials turning down his request to do so. McCarthy said in his interview with The Post that without a plan to assist Capitol Police, it was “very challenging to understand” what was happening at the Capitol. Military officials said they didn’t want to send the Guard into a combustible situation without any planning that could have made matters worse.

The Department of Homeland Security looked the other way.
So did the Pentagon. The FBI collected reports of violence and criminal activity but took no action.
The U.S. Capitol Police wrote a threat assessment that President Trump's supporters were disappointed and desperate, that they might become violent. They were all monitoring social media. But only the District of Columbia government and police went on alert; no one else otherwise prepared.
That's because government and military officials were afraid. To understand the January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol, Newsweek meticulously reconstructed what happened that day and interviewed dozens of government and military officials, most of whom requested anonymity in order to be candid.
They almost unanimously agreed that behind the stunning inaction is a hidden story of an insurrection caused by the very fear that Donald Trump, crazed and unpredictable in his final days in office, might provoke an insurrection. Fear of what President Trump might do—order the armed forces into action to hold on to power, federalize the National Guard under his control, or even declare martial law—was so palpable and threatening to many that they became paralyzed.
And what is more, in two years of domestic-threat reports distributed by Homeland Security to State and local partners, some 5,600 reports exclusively obtained by Newsweek, never once is the term "Trump supporters" used. "Domestic violent extremists" of every possible variety are scrutinized and monitored, including "white supremacists."
But the idea that the threat to America might be the president's own militia? Officials say that to issue such a report, to have one show up in the news media—or worse, on Donald Trump's desk—would risk a storm of retribution.
Multiple homeland security and intelligence officials tell Newsweek that such a threat was never codified. The effect, these officials admit, is that while the FBI might have been focused on "Proud Boys" or specific individuals threatening violence, the big picture was unseen.
By fearfully silencing any reference to partisan politics, the U.S. national security apparatus ensured its own failure. The Joint Chiefs of Staff were so intent on keeping the military out of the election and the transition that it didn't even follow its own contingency plans for defense of the capital.
And then it stood in the way of the D.C. Guard being directly involved, foiling the last hope that someone would prepare. Response to a threat everyone knew existed was further weakened by the status of three of the central national security officials: the Attorney General, the Defense Secretary, and the Secretary of Homeland Security.
All were only "acting" in their jobs—unconfirmed by the Senate—and two were so new to their departments that they hadn't even met many of their own subordinates. And what about the U.S. Capitol Police, a sovereign force of Congress and not even under Donald Trump's control?
When Chief Steven Sund asked permission to request that the DC Guard be put on standby, he was told to informally seek help, to not go through the White House. His bosses were partisan too, beholden to the Republican majority in the Senate and answerable to an angry collective in the House.
And so when well over 100,000 Americans protested in Washington that day and as many as 1,000 forced their way into building, there were 9/11-like errors and blind spots that fed a preventable disaster. The 2,100-strong Capitol police didn't go on alert and didn't erect sufficient defenses, such was the denial that the usually over-cautious national security guardians displayed.
Already, blame and suspicion is swirling from top to bottom—from President Trump to Capitol police officers on the beat—that insiders colluded with the insurrectionists, that dots weren't connected, that partisan actors intentionally looked the other way because they too wanted to overturn the people's will. And because they could not conceive that thousands of white people, many dressed in military garb, could seek to overthrow their government, they couldn't move.
"There's a general rule of security, that once they're inside the perimeter, it's all over," one senior military officer told Newsweek, referring to mob control. Congress shouldn't have been taken by surprise by the size of the crowd and the willingness of the mob to attack America's seat of democracy, the officer says.
But he, and many others, are sympathetic with the Capitol Police. Once the rioters were inside, he says, their focus on protecting Vice President Mike Pence and some 500-plus members of Congress, as well as thousands in the Congressional workforce and even dozens from the news media, rather than protect a "building," was the right course of action.
"Yes there was a massive failure," he says, "by why fuel the fire with more oxygen." He says we are lucky that only five people died, and that even more physical damage wasn't done.
But it is who we are—the violence and the noise, the division and the extremes, the belief in conspiracies, the injustices of race and power and their effects, the questionable competence of our own government, the perilous idealization of the military. It would be easy to lay all of the blame at Donald Trump's doorstep, blaming too the 147 members of Congress who voted against accepting the Electors ballots. And of course one can blame the protestors, denying that they represent America or excusing them as peaceful citizens hijacked by a few instigators and criminals.
Though the top three officials responsible for Congressional security (including Chief Sund) have resigned, the official reaction is strikingly similar to 9/11. No doubt the mistakes will be shown to be a combination of inscrutable official strategy and the same-old-same-old smorgasbord of leadership and communications, and even structural failures.
And like 9/11, we are now at war—turning Capitol Hill and the District of Columbia into an armed camp, over-relying on the military and cracking down throughout the country, restricting protests of all sorts. Instead, we should be asking tough questions.
Why is the District of Columbia not a state? The District government was the only bright spot, declaring an emergency before January 6th, going on full alert, agitating for its Guard—uniquely under the control of the president because DC isn't a state—to be activated. But it was also constrained, because ultimately a dysfunctional White House and a reluctant Pentagon treated the mayor like a cranky subordinate.
Why do we even have a Department of Homeland Security? Created with fanfare in the aftermath of 9/11 as the agency that would fill all of the domestic gaps, DHS was virtually absent.
Only the semi-autonomous Secret Service was ready, but the rest, government officials agree, stayed immobile (in contrast to their intervention around the country against racial justice protestors and leftist anarchists). Several Newsweek sources say the Department had become partisan and compromised during the Trump presidency and that other agencies distrusted them.
What is the proper role of the armed forces at home? The military enjoyed all of the privileges of being America's most respected institution while also being driven by its own priorities.
"There's no role for the U.S. military in determining the outcome of a U.S. election," Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Army Gen. Mark Milley said this past summer and has repeated ever since. It was a statement that signaled to those in uniform that the military should get out of politics and even get out of the way.
And so, despite its own homeland defense apparatus created out of 9/11, it pursued its anti-political mission single-mindedly, not preparing. Not doing the one thing it does so well.
It carried out an exercise of how it should respond to a national emergency, at 11:00 AM on the morning of January 6th. We now know that in the run-up to January 6th and the Constitutionally mandated Joint Session of Congress, that the domestic intelligence apparatus—FBI, Secret Service, Joint Terrorism Task Forces, the Current and Emerging Threats Center of homeland security, DC-area military commands, the Metropolitan Washington area fusion centers, even the Capitol Police's own threat-warning cell—had ample reports and were actively monitoring social media, both publicly available pages and private and encrypted channels.
But this same prodigious machine has struggled for years with the lexicon of domestic terrorism, acquiring and then throwing away labels, and hardening and softening official language to match both the threat and politics of the day. Domestic violent extremists, Black supremacist extremists, Black identity extremists, anarchist extremists, militia extremists, Sovereign Citizen extremists, racially motivated violent extremists, white supremacist extremists. The terminology is fraught (neo-Nazis or anti-fascists) or so anodyne (words like protestors and even patriots) that it conveys almost nothing.
Into all of this, a Save America Rally was organized. It was widely promoted on social media and tens of thousands were expected. Starting in the morning, Donald Trump and his warm-up acts repeatedly urged the crowd to march on the Capitol—to be strong—and by the time the U.S. Capitol Police's defenses were breached at about 2:00 PM in the afternoon, the crowd was fully pumped up.
But by then as well, it was clear that in addition to mere protestors, selfie-takers, hangers-on, conspirators and mischief-makers, not only were there criminals but also a large cadre of military-clad commandos intent on insurrection and political terror. Their willingness to break the law and use force surprised officials. And the fact that this crowd had no love for law enforcement now forces many to reassess who exactly they were dealing with.
And who we have to deal with in the future. Years from now, America will still be debating what happened on January 6th when an insurrectionist mob stormed the U.S. Capitol and threatened the nation's political being.
In the coming months, the four hours of mayhem will be dissected, minute-by-minute, in the courts, in commissions of inquiry and Congressional hearings, and in news media investigations, all striving to answer the questions all of us now wrestle with: How and why the protestors did it, how the government was so blind and unprepared, and what we should do next.
As this 25,000-word reconstruction of the events shows though, the skeleton of that day is already formed. In compiling this timeline, social media—the tweeting of a handful of reporters that were there on that day—emerges as the dominant source.
So finally it is social media, the adrenaline-fed artery that created and sustained Donald Trump and reaches almost everyone in our society, dominating our lives, that is one of the central protagonists of the day. It segments and feeds countless barely touching circles in our society, our conceptions of what happened on that day limited to our own personal "feeds," each of us on our own voyage of discovery, too absorbed in our own news sources to see the bigger picture.
But here it is. Hernandez is the host of "Lives Matter" on YouTube.
We have sworn an oath under God to defend the Constitution. We uphold that oath at all times, not only when it is politically convenient.
Might as well have served Georgia up on a silver platter and spoon fed sliced peaches to the Socialists Democrats!@GaSecofState enabled the steal.#GA legislatures never convened, but some tried.@BrianKempGA did nothing. Rep. Greene has repeatedly endorsed QAnon conspiracy theories, a melange of claims that a deep state cabal has destroyed the presidency of Donald Trump.
She will tweet 19 more times during the day and evening. On Sunday January 17, Twitter locked Rep. Greene account, citing violations of a company policy that it recently used to remove thousands of QAnon-related accounts.
8:27 AM: CSPAN begins live coverage of the "March to Save America" rally, the so-called Save America Rally (hosted by Women for America First). From Jan 5th to Jan 7th, 2021, First Amendment demonstrations are scheduled to occur in DC.
There will be parking restrictions & potential street closures that motorists should take into consideration. 8:30 AM: Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Army Gen. Mark Milley meet to review the Pentagon plan for defense support to civil authorities (DSCA) in the case of an emergency in the District of Columbia.
They request that commanders and decision-makers conduct a table-top exercise covering potential contingency response options. The exercise is held at 11:30 AM, but no military forces would be placed on the streets of Washington on January 6.
The prohibitions – on backpacks, body armor, mace/pepper spray, etc. – is ignored and never enforced. This is the first and last public dispatch by the Secret Service on January 6.
Vice President Pence's protective detail accompanied to the Capitol and may have been present to evacuate the two others Constitutional successors to the presidency – Speaker Pelosi and President pro tempore of the Senate Grassley, but other than that, a heavily armed and black clad Secret Service special operations team would not arrive at the Capitol until mid-afternoon. Sen. Harris does not show up on Capitol Hill on January 6.
It’s difficult to illustrate just how dense this crowd of Trump Supporters is in downtown D.C. hours before President Trump is expected to speak. Guns are top of mind for many here on the Mall. The camouflage clad team was clearly in place to protect the Department but there is no evidence that BOP officers assisted at the Capitol on January 6.
9:51 AM: Igor Bobic of Huffington Post tweets "Gonna be a long day", posting a picture showing protest signs prepositioned outside the front of the Capitol Building, waiting for protestors. 10:00 AM: At the Save America Rally, the president's sons Eric and Donald Trump Jr., and then his lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, appear to warm up an already active crowd of many thousands.
10:02 AM: Manu Raju of CNN tweets: "Pelosi and her team are conveying to their caucus that they should keep today low drama ... let GOP embarrass themselves, per sources on call. I have lived in DC for 12 years.
10:24 AM: Igor Bobic of Huffington Post tweets: "Romney on Georgia results: "It turns out telling voters the election is rigged is not a good way to turn out your voters".
10:29 AM: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) walks into Senate side of the Capitol and gives a wave but does not answer questions. 10:46 AM: DC Mayor Muriel Bowser tweets that she has issued Mayor's Order 2021-003, Extension of Public Emergency, extending a public emergency for a total of 15 days.
Republican senators are being swarmed by Trump protesters on the Hill. Here’s an exasperated @SenToddYoung saying he won’t vote against certifying the election.
11:30 AM: The Pentagon tabletop exercise begins to evaluate contingency response options. 11:42 AM: Minority Leader Schumer holds a press conference.
Referring to Democrat victories in Georgia and the prospects of leadership in the Senate turning over to his party, he says: "It feels like a brand new day. For the first time in 6 years, Democrats will operate a majority in the United States Senate."
He says he has not spoken to outgoing Senate Majority leader McConnell today. "... I would love to have if those tens of thousands of people would be allowed the military, the Secret Service and we want to thank you and the police and law enforcement
great you're doing a great job, but I would love it if they could be allowed to come up with us. ... We will never give up.
We will never concede. It doesn't happen.
You don't concede when there's theft involved. ... You'll never take back our country with weakness.
You have to show strength, and you have to be strong. ... So we are going to–we are going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, I love Pennsylvania Avenue, and we are going to the Capitol, and we are going to try and give—the Democrats are hopeless, they are never voting for anything, not even one vote but we are going to try—give our Republicans, the weak ones because the strong ones don't need any of our help, we're try–going to try and give them the kind of pride and boldness that they need to take back our country.
So let's walk down Pennsylvania Avenue. "O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble.
Mountains crumble, waters rage, nations roar, and yet we need not be afraid, for even now You abide with us in these times of great discord, uncertainty, and unrest. We, who have pledged to defend our Constitution against all enemies, we pray Your hedge of protection around this Nation.
Defend us from those adversaries, both foreign and domestic, outside these walls and perhaps within these Chambers, who sow seeds of acrimony to divide colleagues and conspire to undermine trust in Your divine authority over all things. The journey of this experiment in democracy is perilous and demanding, fraught with anger and discontent.
But wise rulers still seek You. So help us, God, to find You in the midst of us.
So help us, God, to see Your gracious plan even in the events of these days. It will be four hours before the DCNG actually makes any appearance at the Capitol.
12:17 PM: CNN reports that President-elect Joe Biden has decided to nominate Merrick Garland as attorney general. 12:27 PM: Maggie Haberman of The New York Times tweets of President Trump's speech: "'That's what happens in a communist country,' the president says of not being able to have his falsehoods repeated by the media without a fact check. 12:30 PM: Senate President pro tempore Sen. Charles Grassley (R-IA) calls the Senate to order.
The President pro tempore is the second-highest-ranking official of the United States Senate, after the Vice President, and is generally the senior senator serving in the Congress. He is the fourth in line to succession of the Presidency, under the Constitution. 12:30 PM: Shortly after 12:30 PM, Sen. Josh Hawley (R-MO), a believer in voter fraud, arrives at the front of the Capitol building.
He gives a thumbs up, a fist pump and waves as the crowd cheered. 12:40 PM: Some confrontations begin between protestors and police at the base of the west side of the Capitol building, on the street level nearest to the National Mall.
12:45 PM: At least a dozen SUVs park in front of the Capitol building. It is unclear who is arriving, whether it is FBI or Secret Service.
Three of the four top Constitutional successors to the Presidency – Vice President Pence, Speaker of the House Pelosi and President pro tempore of the Senate Grassley – are present in the Capitol. 12:49 PM: U.S. Capitol Police (USCP) respond to a report of a possible explosive device at the Republican National Committee headquarters. Shortly afterwards, a second pipe bomb is reported at the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee.
A parked vehicle in the area is also found to hold an M4 assault rifle, a handgun, and components for 11 Molotov cocktails with what is described as homemade napalm. 12:51 PM: After conducting routine business, the Senate, preceded by the Secretary of the Senate, Julie E. Adams, and the Deputy Sergeant at Arms, Jennifer Hemingway, direct the procession of the Senators to the Hall of the House of Representatives for the purpose of counting electoral ballots.
12:55 PM: The House is called to order by Speaker Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA). She says that, due to Covid restrictions, each side, House and Senate, Democrats and Republicans, are allowed to have 11 Members present on the floor (44 total).
Others have to be in the gallery, and practice social distancing. 12:59 PM: A Joint Session of the House and the Senate "held pursuant to the provisions of Senate Concurrent Resolution 1" is called to order, and House Sergeant at Arms Paul D. Irving announces the Vice President and the Senate joining the House chamber as Mike Pence and the Senators arrive.
1:00 PM: An initial wave of protesters arrives at the outer barricades below the west side of the Capitol as thousands more march towards the building. 1:00 PM: USCP Chief Steven Sund calls Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee, requesting officers for the protection of the Capitol complex itself.
Contee later says he arrived at the Capitol around 1 p.m. and saw pepper spray and munitions being used. He says he then called Mayor Bowser ...
He later went to the Police Command Center to orchestrate DC police response. Contee said the first goal, after the police were formally invited by USCP to the Capitol, was to help clear the building. There are already many DC Police on duty and battling protestors on the National Mall to the west and below the Capitol Complex, which is Congressional property.
The United States Capitol Building is located at the eastern end of the National Mall on a plateau 88 feet above the level of the Potomac River, commanding a westward view across Reflecting Pool to the Washington Monument 1.4 miles away. 1:03 PM: Vice President Mike Pence calls the Joint Session of Congress to order in the House of Representatives chamber.
He receives the certificate of the electoral vote of the States of Alabama and Alaska, without objection. 1:09 PM: USCP Chief Sund says he asks House Sergeant at Arms Paul D. Irving and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael C. Stenger to declare an emergency and call for deployment of the DC National Guard.
Irving and Stenger state that they will forward the request up their chains of command. According to The Washington Post, soon afterwards, aides to Congressional leaders arrive in Stenger's office and are outraged to learn that he has not yet called for any reinforcement. The Sergeant at Arms is the chief law enforcement and protocol officer for each house of Congress, each responsible for maintaining order on their sides.
The Sergeant at Arms is also responsible for coordinating with the U.S. Capitol Police and various federal intelligence agencies to assess threats against Members of Congress and the Capitol complex. 1:10 PM: As the crowds continue to arrive at the Capitol by the thousands, protesters continue to fight with police at the foot of the Capitol steps.
At the conclusion of his speech, tens of thousands of more protestors begin their walk to the Capitol. The U.S. Park Police initially estimates that 8,000 walk from the rally to the Capitol. This proves to be a vast undercount of those present in Washington and on the Mall that day.
1:12 PM: Speaker Pelosi again reminds members of the House of her "decorum requirements ... in accordance with the guidance of the Attending Physician" that they should only remain in the chamber if they are participating in debate ... 1:12 PM: As the electoral vote certification continues, Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) object to certifying Arizona's electoral college votes.
Gosar says he is speaking for himself and 60 colleagues. When asked by Vice President Pence if their objection is in writing and signed by a Senator, he answers yes, by Sen. Cruz. Vice President Pence announces that each house will deliberate separately on the pending objection.
The chambers split up into House and Senate groups. 1:18 PM: Acting DHS Secretary Wolf tweets from the U.S. Navy base in Bahrain, where he is finishing up a European and Middle East trip, but nothing about what is happening in Washington.
The Acting Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, though a vociferous Trump booster, is strangely absent from Washington on January 6, testament to either how poorly prepared his department was, or intentionally. Either way, the Department of Homeland Security, which is responsible for the lead in the National Security Special Event (NSSE) slated to begin on January 15 for the Inauguration of Joe Biden, barely shows up on January 6. The Secret Service, a semi-autonomous agency eaten up by DHS after its creation following 9/11, seems the only sentient agency, odd given how many law enforcement officers of DHS components – Customs and Border Protection, ICE, TSA, Homeland Security Investigation, Federal Protective Service, Federal Air Marshalls – were active throughout the summer and fall of 2020, intervening wherever they felt necessary regardless of governors and local laws.
Lots of Cap police on first floor of the building. I walked by two in riot gear washing out their eyes in a fountain and asked them if they’re all right.
1:22 PM: USCP officially orders the evacuation of outer buildings of the Capitol Complex, including the Library of Congress, the Madison Building annex of the Library, and the Cannon House Office Building on Independence Avenue. Cannon House office building -- which is massive -- is also being evacuated, per multiple sources. 1:30 PM: As the crowd on the west side of the Capitol get closer and closer to the building as USCP retreat up the steps, tens of thousands more protesters are marching up Constitution Avenue.
They have not breached the building. There are no protestors in the Capitol. 1:30 PM: The New York Times reports that USCP Chief Sund requests assistance from the Department of Homeland Security.
The comment by the Pentagon, that the DC Mayor asked for an "unspecified number," is clearly intended to shift responsibility when it is not Mayor Bowser's responsibility to know how many soldiers are needed. Just evacuated my office in Cannon due to a nearby threat. Now we’re seeing protesters assaulting Capitol Police.
1:49 PM: Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker speaks to USCP Chief Sund, who requests immediate National Guard assistance. Despite being commander of the DC Guard, Gen. Walker does not have the authority, nor does Mayor Bowser, to activate their troops. That authority legally rests with the President, who uniquely commands the DC National Guard.
Thank you to Capitol Police for protecting the People's House. Not so immediately.
There would be another two hours of deliberations before DC National Guard actually arrived, and many internal discussions about the mission of the Guard: first, that it would only support the DC Police, until Miller and others relented in providing direct support to the U.S. Capitol Police and then authorizing Guardsmen to be armed and use force if necessary. A security alert just blared through the press gallery telling people to stay away from windows and doors.
2:10 PM: The Washington Post reports that House Sergeant at Arms Irving calls USCP Chief Sund and provides formal approval to him to seek assistance from the DC National Guard. 2:11 PM: Vice President Pence is removed from the Senate chamber by his Secret Service detail, under personal protection protocols and Continuity of Government rules.
PBS reports: "At first the commotion outside the Senate chamber sounded like a routine disturbance to the members inside, the kind of small-scale protest that often takes place at the Capitol. Then a Senate aide burst through a door into the chamber. USCP Chief Sund accompanies Pence to a "secure location" within the Capitol complex.
Though Vice President Pence would be held and protected in a secure location, he never left Capitol Hill on January 6. 2:14 PM: Speaker Pelosi, third in line to the Presidency, is removed from the House chamber, under Continuity of Government rules, and rushed to a secure location.
2:15 PM: Matt Laslo of @TheNews_Station tweets a video: "They breached the Capitol". ...
It was 2:15 p.m. After typing out an update for my editors, I looked over the railing into the chamber and noticed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ... second in line to the presidency, was gone... 2:16 PM: Igor Bobic of Huffington Post tweets scenes of protestors inside the Capitol building.
A number of USCP officers are seen, as are members of the news media. 2:16 PM: Jazmine Ulloa of The Boston Globe tweets a video: "Protestors have entered the Capitol."
The video shows protestors walking up the stairs, with Capitol Police getting out of their way. He tweets again at 2:21 PM, video of people of people now banging on the doors. 2:18 PM: As Rep. Gosar (R-AZ) is speaking, the House is declared in recess.
"CQ Roll Call reporter Chris Cioffi, seated in the press gallery ... overlooking the Senate floor, noticed someone rush into the chamber and head for Iowa Sen. Charles E. Grassley, a Republican who also holds the constitutional office of president pro tempore. Cioffi couldn't see it, but the constitutional Senate president, also known as Vice President Mike Pence, was being rushed out of the chamber. "Lankford, he stopped talking, and then Grassley gaveled out and said there'd be a 10-minute recess," Cioffi said.
Members of the Senate are instructed to evacuate the chambers. 2:22 PM: Secretary of the Army McCarthy has a phone call with Mayor Bowser and other DC leaders.
They request additional DC National Guard support. 2:26 PM: DC Mayor Bowser, Acting Police Chief Contee, and city government officials, together with USCP Chief Sund have a conference call with the commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. Walker.
According to The Washington Post: Maj. Gen. Walker patches in the Office of the Secretary of the Army. Director of the Army staff Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt says that DOD needs U.S. Capitol Police authorization to operate within the area controlled by Congress.
The conference call discussion becomes "unintelligible" amidst the cacophony of voice. Lt. Gen. Piatt states, "I don't like the visual of the National Guard standing a police line with the Capitol in the background."
He says that he prefers that the Guard relieve police around other parts of the District to allow more DC Police at the Capitol. Contee pleads with Lt. Gen. Piatt to send the Guard, but Lt. Gen. Piatt says he will take it up with Army Secretary McCarthy, but that he would not recommend that approval for direct assistance.
DC officials are described as "flabbergasted". McCarthy would later state that he was not in this conference call because he was busy in a meeting with Acting Secretary Miller.
2:26 PM: After hearing that the Pentagon was refusing the DC National Guard from providing assistance, Virginia Public Safety Secretary Brian Moran decides to dispatch Virginia State Police to the Capitol, under mutual aid agreements with the District. 2:30 PM: Acting Defense Secretary Miller, JCS chairman Gen. Milley, and Army Secretary McCarthy again meet to discuss Mayor Bowser's request for DC National Guard forces.
Inside the House chamber, starting to get slightly frantic. Capitol police warning people they may need to go behind theirs seats.
Capitol police are sealing the House chamber. 2:33 PM: Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) office sends out a fundraising email. He asks people to "stand with" him in his fight to "reject electors."
An aide to Cruz later told Politico that the email was an automated message and that he was "dismayed" by what was happening. "He would not send this out," the aide said.
Ulloa later wrote: "... a guard was telling us the rioters had breached the third floor near where we stood and told us to find a place to hide. But there was no room to hide in, so we wandered from hallway to hallway until we found our way back to the Senate gallery and another reporter let us in.
We grabbed our things, as security officers swept us alongside senators to a secure undisclosed location. At 2:39 PM, Brendan Gutenschwager tweets a video of protesters breaking first floor Capitol windows and climbing up into the building. Suddenly, senators began filing out to be evacuated.
Reporters were initially stuck in the gallery on the third floor overlooking the chamber. New Jersey Senator Cory Booker called up to the reporters on the balcony, asking how we were doing. I laughed, probably with a tinge of hysteria.
'We're doing great,' I called back down. 2:40 PM: Additional Justice Department ATF agents enter the Capitol Complex. ATF Washington Field Office director Ashan Benedict, who was at one of the pipe bomb scenes, activated the special response team that was standing by and called in every other available ATF agent to assist.
2:44 PM: Sarah D. Wire of The Los Angeles Times later writes about the situation at the House chamber at around this time: "... A few lawmakers assisted plainclothes officers grappling with a massive bookcase and shoved it in front of the chamber's main double doors, the same one the president enters for the State of the Union address.
Pounding on the door began. The officers drew their guns. One looked up and saw the reporters and about two dozen representatives and staff scrambling over railings in the upper gallery to get toward the doors.
I slid behind a row of chairs and looked up as a female representative started to pray. Another member was talking loudly into his cellphone, providing a play-by-play. Several lawmakers were crying.
I heard the glass of the main door in the chamber crack. I peeked into the chamber as Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.) attempted to reason with those attempting to push their way inside.
A loud crack split the air. It sounded like a gunshot.
And then it got quiet. Officers yelled to the lawmakers in the gallery to leave, but no one present had a key to the door. Lawmakers and police officers argued about opening the door and making a run for it.
Police wanted lawmakers to make a dash for it. At 2:50, officials confirm that a shot was fired inside the building, later reporting that a woman was shot and critically injured.
2:49 PM: Virginia Governor Ralph Northam decides to activate all available assets of the Virginia State Police plus military police of the Virginia National Guard (the Manassas-based 229th Military Police Company) for immediate dispatch to the Capitol. Meanwhile, The Washington Post reports that DOD authorization for deployment of the Guard in the District was not granted.
Rep. Mikie Sherrill (D-NJ) spoke to PBS, "We were being told by the Capitol Police to get down in the event that there was an active shooter and to pull out our gas masks in case there was tear gas that they had to use to disperse" the crowd. "I was with some [House] members that were calling their families, and so then I called my husband to assure him I was Ok," Sherrill says. 2:58 PM: The Tulsa World publishes an interview with Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK).
"I've known Mike Pence forever," Inhofe said. "I've never seen Pence as angry as he was today.
"Police told us to follow them. We walked for several minutes, hustling down a warren to hallways and a winding staircase. I have worked in the Capitol for eight years, and I can't tell you the path we took.
As lawmakers, reporters and staffers streamed ahead, I slowed so I could speak with a visibly shaken Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-Los Angeles). He was livid. I pulled out my phone and hit record.
He took a second to find his words. "This shouldn't happen in the United States," he said, his eyes rimmed with tears.
We reached a secure room. That's all I can say about it at this moment.
It was large and filled with leather chairs and walnut tables, and you've seen it on TV. It was already filled with lawmakers, staffers and other journalists.
As members typed on their phones and were updated by security officials on the status of the riots, staff handed out Goldfish crackers, fruit snacks and little bottles of water. At 2:59 PM, Steven Nelson of The New York Post tweets a photo of a protester with a combat helmet, body armor, and a set of zip ties (that would be used to take hostages) as he emerges from Senate floor. "We didn't destroy a damn thing," the man says.
At 2:59 PM, Rep. David Trone (D-MD) tweets a picture of himself in the House Chamber wearing the inflatable 'gas masks,' the protective masks issued to Members of Congress. "I am safe.
We have been evacuated...", he says. 3:00 PM: The Pentagon says that Acting Secretary Miller approves all available DC National Guard (DCNG) forces to reinforce Capitol and DC Police positions to reestablish control. Secretary McCarthy directs the DCNG to move from the DC armory in Southeast Washington to the Capitol complex.
The DCNG prepares to move the initial 150 personnel, pending final approval by Miller. "The process took about an hour," Military Times reported, from the time McCarthy received it around 2 p.m. on Wednesday. "We wanted to make sure, based off what we saw developing, that that was an acceptable use, all the way up to the SECDEF, which didn't take long," a defense source told the newspaper, "including about half an hour spent relaying the request to" Acting Secretary Miller.
It is later reported that McCarthy spoke to President Trump on the phone and urged him to make a statement denouncing the rioters. When Trump refuses, there is reportedly a "screaming match" between the two.
3:04 PM: Acting Secretary Miller provides verbal approval for full activation of the DC National Guard (DCNG) (1,100 total personnel), according to the DOD, "in support of the MPD". Secretary McCarthy transmits the order to the DCNG to move prepared forces and undertake a full mobilization.
According to the Pentagon's timeline, the DCNG starts redeploying soldiers from Metro stations and mobilizes all available non-support and non-command and control personnel to support the DC Police. Note that the Pentagon, in its own words, said that the DCNG would support the DC police (MPD) and not the U.S. Capitol Police.
It wasn't a typo. The Army didn't like the "optics" of the military—even the Guard—appearing to police civilians and initially restricted what they could be used for.
Later the Pentagon would expand its support to allow guardsmen to actually be involved in protecting the Capitol. 3:07 PM: William Turton of Bloomberg News tweets a photo of protestors inside and outside the west side of the Capitol and a broken window. 3:08 PM: House Minority Leader McCarthy, appearing on Fox News, confirms reports of "shots fired" and says he called the president, urging him to call for calm.
3:15 PM: Shortly before 3:15 PM, according to The Washington Post, protestor Ashli Babbitt, 35, an Air Force veteran from San Diego, California is shot by Capitol Police while attempting to force entry into the Speaker's Lobby adjacent to the House chambers through a broken window. (A graphic video is posted at 3:19 PM by Tayler Hansen, "independent journalist."). 3:15 PM: Speaker Pelosi calls Virginia governor Ralph Northam, who tells her that Virginia State Police and National Guard are being sent to the Capitol.
At about this time, the first Virginia State Police enter the District. National Guard from Virginia will not come to the Capitol until January 7, under Pentagon orders.

WASHINGTON (Reuters) -The White House said it had withdrawn the nomination of Chad Wolf, who on Thursday urged President Donald Trump to condemn violence at the U.S. Capitol, to be chief of the Homeland Security Department.
U.S. Senate records show the withdrawal was transmitted to the Senate on Wednesday but it was not posted on the White House website until Thursday. President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Jan. 20 and the Senate was not likely to act on his nomination before then. Wolf said earlier on Thursday he had no plans to resign.

President Donald Trump withdrew his nomination for Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security, to become permanent head of the agency, the White House announced Thursday. The announcement came an hour after Wolf called on Trump to denounce the violence that occured at the US Capitol on Wednesday. "I implore the President and all elected officials to strongly condemn the violence that took place yesterday," Wolf said in a statement. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.
NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading. Thanks for signing up!
Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time. President Donald Trump has withdrawn his nomination for Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security, to become the permanent head of the agency, the White House announced Thursday.
The announcement came around an hour after Wolf called on the president to denounce the violence that broke out at the US Capitol on Wednesday, when pro-Trump rioters stormed the building and forced Congress to evacuate while lawmakers were certifying President-elect Joe Biden's 2020 win. "These violent actions are unconscionable, and I implore the President and all elected officials to strongly condemn the violence that took place yesterday," he added. Shortly after its announcement, the White House claimed Wolf's nomination was withdrawn on Wednesday and unrelated to his comments on Thursday, multiple news outlets reported. Wolf noted that he intends to remain in his current post until the end of Trump's tenure in 13 days. Wolf's position came under scrutiny over the summer after a government watchdog report indicated that he was appointed invalidly and ineligible to serve in his role under a 1998 law. The DHS and White House dismissed the report. This article has been updated with additional reporting on the White House's comments.

Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf speaks during a press conference on the actions taken by Customs and Border Protection and Homeland Security agents in Portland during continued protests at the US Customs and Border Patrol headquarters on July 21, 2020 in Washington, DC.
WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump has withdrawn his nomination of Chad Wolf to head the Department of Homeland Security, the White House announced Thursday. "This is unacceptable.
These violent actions are unconscionable, and I implore the President and all elected officials to strongly condemn the violence that took place yesterday," acting secretary Wolf wrote. "Any appearance of inciting violence by an elected official goes against who we are as Americans. Every American is guaranteed the right to peacefully protest, but once those protests become violent, we should enforce our laws and bring those responsible to justice — regardless of political motivations," he added.
In a tweet Wednesday, Wolf wrote that those who engaged in the rioting should be held accountable. The White House denied that the withdrawal was linked to Wolf's response to the unrest. Trump, who incited the riot, has not condemned his supporters' actions.
Four people died amid the chaos. The White House on Thursday expressed sympathy over the deaths and injuries.
Trump's term ends at noon Jan. 20. The Department of Homeland Security did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
In his statement Thursday, Wolf said he would stay at the department through the end of the term. "I will remain in my position until the end of the Administration to ensure the Department's focus remains on the serious threats facing our country and an orderly transition to President-elect Biden's DHS team," he said. A Department of Justice official told CNBC's Eamon Javers that "a number of criminal charges" were expected to be announced on Thursday.

