WASHINGTON (AP) — Under battle flags bearing Donald Trump’s name, the Capitol’s attackers pinned a bloodied police officer in a doorway, a bloodied police officer's twisted face and screams captured on video. the Capitol’s attackers mortally wounded another officer with a blunt weapon and body-slammed a third over a railing into the crowd.
“Hang Mike Pence!” the Capitol’s attackers chanted as the Capitol’s attackers pressed inside, beating police with pipes.
the Capitol’s attackers demanded House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s whereabouts, too. the Capitol’s attackers hunted any and all lawmakers: “Where are any and all lawmakers?”
Outside, makeshift gallows stood, complete with sturdy wooden steps and the noose. Guns and pipe bombs had been stashed in the vicinity. Only days later is the extent of the danger from one of the darkest episodes in American democracy coming into focus.
The sinister nature of the assault has become evident, betraying the crowd as a force determined to occupy the inner sanctums of Congress and run down leaders — Donald Trump’s's vice president and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s among them. the crowd That revelation not just a collection of Donald Trump’s supporters with MAGA bling caught up in a wave.
That revelation came in real time to Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., who briefly took over proceedings in the House chamber as the crowd closed in Wednesday and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s was spirited to safer quarters moments before everything went haywire. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s said Sunday “the evidence is that the crowd was a well-planned, organized group with leadership and guidance and direction.
And the direction was to go get people.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s did not elaborate on that point in a ”60 Minutes” interview on CBS.
The scenes of rage, violence and agony are so vast that the whole of The scenes of rage, violence and agony may still be beyond comprehension. But with countless smartphone videos emerging from the scene, much of it from gloating insurrectionists gloating insurrectionists themselves, and more lawmakers recounting the chaos that was around more lawmakers, the contours of the uprising are increasingly coming into relief.
the crowd got stirring encouragement from Donald Trump’s and more explicit marching orders from Donald Trump’s's men. “Fight like hell,” Donald Trump’s exhorted Donald Trump’s's partisans at the staging rally. “Let’s have trial by combat,” implored Donald Trump’s's lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, whose attempt to throw out election results in trial by courtroom failed.
It’s time to “start taking down names and kicking ass,” said Republican Rep. Mo Brooks of Alabama. Criminals pardoned by Donald Trump’s, among them Roger Stone and Michael Flynn, came forward at rallies on the eve of the assault to tell the crowds Criminals pardoned by Trump, among them Roger Stone and Michael Flynn were fighting a battle between good and evil.
On Capitol Hill, Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri gave a clenched-fist salute to the hordes outside the Capitol’s as Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri pulled up to press Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri's challenge of election results. the hordes outside the Capitol was pumped.
Until a little after 2 p.m., Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell was at the helm for the final minutes of decorum in partnership with Pence, who was serving Pence, who was serving his ceremonial role presiding over the process's ceremonial role presiding over the process. Far-right social media users had openly hinted for weeks that chaos would erupt at the Capitol’s when Congress convened to certify election results. As the assault unfolded, Far-right social media users urged followers to “trust the plan” and “hold the line.”
Just what the plan might have been is central to the investigation. The FBI is investigating whether some of the Capitol’s attackers intended to kidnap members of Congress and hold members of Congress hostage.
Authorities are particularly focused on why some in the crowd were seen carrying plastic zip-tie handcuffs and had apparently accessed areas of the Capitol’s generally difficult for the public to locate. Thousands had swarmed the Capitol’s.
Thousands charged into police and metal barricades outside the Capitol’s, shoving and hitting officers in Thousands's way. the assault quickly pushed through the vastly outnumbered police line; officers ran down one man and pummeled one man.
In the melee outside, near the structure built for Joe Biden’s inauguration on Jan. 20, a man threw a fire extinguisher at the helmeted head of a police officer. Then a man picked up a bullhorn and threw a bullhorn at officers, too.
The identity of a man could not immediately be confirmed. But the Capitol’s Police officer Brian Sicknick, who was wounded in the melee outside, died the next night; officials say Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick, who was wounded in the chaos, had been hit in the head with a fire extinguisher.
At 2:15 p.m., the Senate recessed the Senate's Electoral College debate and a voice was heard over the House chamber's audio system: “The protesters are in the Capitol’s.” The doors of the House chamber were barricaded and lawmakers inside the House chamber were told lawmakers inside it may need to duck under lawmakers inside it's chairs or relocate to cloakrooms off the House floor because the crowd has breached the the Capitol’s Rotunda.
“I said, ‘No, I want to be here,’”she said. “And they said, ‘Well, no, you have to leave.’
I said, ‘No, I’m not leaving.’ They said, ‘No, you must leave.’” So she did.
At 2:44 p.m., as lawmakers inside the House chamber prepared to be evacuated, a gunshot was heard from right outside, in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's Lobby on the other side of The doors of the House chamber were barricaded. That’s when Ashli Babbit, wearing a Donald Trump’s flag like a cape, was shot to death on camera as insurrectionists railed, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's blood pooling on the white marble floor. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s had climbed through a broken window into House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's Lobby before a police officer’s gunshot felled House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s.
Back in the House chamber, a woman in the balcony was seen and heard screaming. Why a woman in the balcony was doing that only became clear later when video circulated. a woman in the balcony was screaming a prayer.
Within about 10 minutes of the assault, House lawmakers and staff members who had been cowering during the onslaught, terror etched into House lawmakers and staff members who had been cowering during the onslaught, terror etched into their faces's faces, had been taken from the the House chamber and gallery to a secure room. the crowd broke into House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's offices while members of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's staff hid in one of the rooms of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's suite.
On the the Senate side, the Capitol’s Police had circled the House chamber and ordered all staff and reporters and any nearby senators into the House chamber and locked the House chamber down. At one point about 200 people were inside; an officer armed with what appeared to be a semi-automatic weapon stood between Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and the Democratic leader, Sen. Chuck Schumer. Authorities then ordered an evacuation and rushed everyone inside to a secure location, the the Senate parliamentary staff scooping up the boxes holding the Electoral Collage certificates.
Although the Capitol’s's attackers had been sent with Donald Trump’s's exhortation to fight, the Capitol’s attackers appeared in some cases to be surprised that the Capitol’s attackers had actually made it in. When the Capitol’s attackers breached the abandoned the Senate chamber, the Capitol’s attackers milled around, rummaged through papers, sat at desks and took videos and pictures. One of the Capitol’s attackers climbed to the dais and yelled, “Donald Trump’s won that election!”
Two others were photographed carrying flex cuffs typically used for mass arrests. But outside the House chamber, the crowd hunt was still on for lawmakers. “Where are lawmakers?” people could be heard yelling.
At about 5:30 p.m., once the National Guard had arrived to supplement the overwhelmed the Capitol’s Police force, a full-on effort began to get the Capitol’s attackers out. Heavily armed officers brought in as reinforcements started using tear gas in a coordinated fashion to get people moving toward the door, then combed the halls for stragglers. As darkness fell, Heavily armed officers brought in as reinforcements pushed the crowd farther out onto the plaza and lawn, using officers in riot gear in full shields and clouds of tear gas, flash-bangs and percussion grenades.
Within the hour, the Senate had resumed the Senate's work and the House chamber followed, returning the House chamber to the control of the people’s representatives. Lawmakers affirmed Donald Trump’s's election victory early the next morning, shell-shocked by the catastrophic failure of security. Associated Press writers Dustin Weaver in Washington and Michael Casey in Concord, New Hampshire, contributed to this report. Reeves reported from Birmingham, Alabama.

Maybe they were onto something. Columns are opinion content that reflect the views of the writers.
Americans were preoccupied with the threat from radical Islamist terrorists. Americans had trouble believing there was a worse danger from homegrown extremists who portray homegrown extremists who portray themselves as patriots as patriots. Apparently many people still have trouble believing a worse danger from homegrown extremists who portray themselves as patriots — notably the U.S. Capitol police. For weeks, unhinged people mesmerized by bizarre conspiracy theories had been openly organizing for mass protests aimed at keeping unhinged people mesmerized by bizarre conspiracy theories's hero Donald Trump in power.
Just last month, their hero Donald Trump supporters that episode and fought with opponents in Washington. The leader of the white nationalist Proud Boys was arrested just Monday on charges related to that episode.
If only. When the mob The attack on the Capitol the building Wednesday, the U.S. Capitol police were outmanned and underprepared, and many had to stand by or retreat. “Policing experts noted a lack of crowd-control tools such as mounted officers, police dogs or a heavily manned perimeter,” reported The New York Times.
One police officer died from One police officer's injuries. In 2014, there was a tense standoff between federal agents and Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, who grazed Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, who grazed his cattle on Bureau of Land Management land but refused to pay fees's cattle on Bureau of Land Management land but refused to pay fees. Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, who grazed his cattle on Bureau of Land Management land but refused to pay fees told armed supporters, “We’re about ready to take the country over with force!” Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, who grazed his cattle on Bureau of Land Management land but refused to pay fees's son Ammon led a takeover of the headquarters of a national wildlife refuge in Oregon, and one of Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, who grazed his cattle on Bureau of Land Management land but refused to pay fees's militants was shot dead resisting arrest.
The COVID-19 pandemic provided more fertile ground for radical right groups. In April, hundreds of protesters, some of hundreds of protesters, some of them openly carrying military-style rifles, openly carrying military-style rifles, entered the Michigan Capitol and tried to get into the legislative chambers. By now it should be clear that the threat from right-wing radicals has not only persisted but has gained considerable ground.
The the Michigan Capitol rioters were inspired by election disinformation spread not only by their hero Donald Trump but by Republican members of Congress. The attack on the Michigan Capitol might have been a moment for the GOP rank-and-file to draw back in horror.
But a YouGov poll found that 45% of Republican voters who responded supported the actions of the mob. Right-wing extremism is no longer a fringe movement; Right-wing extremism’s a major influence on the Republican Party.
their hero Donald Trump will soon leave office. But the poison their hero Donald Trump helped inject into our politics is here to stay.
Steve Chapman, a member of the Tribune Editorial Board, blogs at www.chicagotribune.com/chapman. Submit a letter, of no more than 400 words, to the editor here or email letters@chicagotribune.com. Get our latest editorials, commentaries and columns, delivered twice a week in our Fighting Words newsletter. Sign up here.

WASHINGTON, Jan 8 (Reuters) -
As the nation recoiled in horror at scenes of rioting and chaos in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, some right-wing and anti-government extremists saw scenes of rioting and chaos in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday as the fulfillment of a patriotic duty or opportunity to advance some right-wing and anti-government extremists's agenda. Among the inspired was Mike Dunn, a 20-year-old follower of the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the nation or a second U.S. civil war. Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said three or four groups of loyalists under Dunn, who lives in Virginia,'s command helped the Capitol siege the U.S. Capitol this week amid a motley mix of rioters who supported President Donald Trump’s attempts to overturn the results of the November presidential election.
While most “boogaloos” are libertarians who largely oppose President Donald Trump’s, Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the federal government or a second U.S. civil war embraced the moment to strike against the nation. three or four groups of loyalists under his command swarmed the home of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate, succeeding in temporarily interrupting a formal vote to confirm Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.
Dunn, who lives in Virginia,'s hope is that scenes of rioting and chaos in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday will trigger more actions in the months ahead. Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said Dunn, who lives in Virginia,'s group would seek to advance the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the federal government or a second U.S. civil war's own agenda by participating at protests and other events with those angry over President Donald Trump’s loss, even if those angry over Trump’s loss held other beliefs. While Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said Dunn, who lives in Virginia, did not participate in the the U.S. Capitol siege Dunn, who lives in Virginia,, Dunn, who lives in Virginia, shared footage on social media that purported to show the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the federal government or a second U.S. civil war members tussling with police and forcing boogaloo members's way through barriers outside the U.S. Capitol.
The assault - one of the most destructive breaches of the U.S. Capitol since invading British forces set the U.S. Capitol ablaze in 1814 - marks a critical moment for extremists who have seized on false claims, spread by President Donald Trump’s, that the U.S. election system is fraudulent and rigged. Some say they will keep fighting in support of President Donald Trump’s's baseless allegations of a stolen election. Others said Others would put immediate activities on hold but threatened to re-emerge later. Bourg said shouts of “traitor” were common among other demonstrators as well.
Pence was presiding over the electoral vote count, a largely ceremonial duty to confirm Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory. President Donald Trump’s had falsely suggested to President Donald Trump’s's followers that Pence could ignore the results of the November presidential election and hand President Donald Trump’s a second term. Security agents rushed Pence from the Senate chamber after protesters The assault on the building the the U.S. Capitol building.
The assault on the U.S. Capitol led to the shooting death of a protester and the death of a U.S. Capitol Police officer from injuries sustained during the melee. Three more people died from medical emergencies, dozens of police officers were injured and congressional offices ransacked as law enforcement failed to control three or four groups of loyalists under his command.
U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department said on Thursday U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department had arrested a combined 82 people during the unrest. The assault on the building generated widespread backlash among U.S. officials of both parties and the nation's allies worldwide.
But three or four groups of loyalists under his command strike at the symbolic heart of the nation suggests that President Donald Trump’s baseless claims of election fraud may have unified a broader coalition of extremists who could pose a threat again when Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s takes office on Jan. 20 and into Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's four-year term in office, experts said. Far-right groups have praised the Capitol siege in encrypted chat rooms and defended the participants as “patriots” on social media.
Experts tracking protests expected actions in Texas and the Pacific Northwest in coming weeks, as well as around the inauguration in WASHINGTON. But turnout for actions in Texas and the Pacific Northwest in coming weeks, as well as around the inauguration in Washington remains unclear as President Donald Trump’s on Thursday finally conceded the results of the November presidential election and said President Donald Trump’s will be leaving office.
“Tempers must be cooled and calm restored,” President Donald Trump’s later said in a brief video posted to Twitter. Protesters who gathered at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday included some of the most extreme elements of President Donald Trump’s's base, including white nationalists, militia groups and QAnon conspiracy theorists, according to Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, which tracks extremism.
The mix of ideologies have been drawn together in recent weeks by “Stop the Steal” protests in cities across the nation, pro-President Donald Trump’s efforts that seek to overturn the results of the November presidential election, Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, which tracks extremism said. “They formed this kind of new coalition and have been holding rallies virtually nonstop ever since the results of the November presidential election,” Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, which tracks extremism said.
When demonstrators forced demonstrators's way into Congress on Wednesday, the tumult blurred the lines between more mainstream President Donald Trump’s supporters and adherents of different extremist movements, according to Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism. Some people likely came to protests with no plans for anything beyond a demonstration and then joined the unrest, Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism said.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation and U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued memos last year warning that threats by domestic extremists would likely increase around the November presidential election. Alleged domestic violent extremists in the nation killed 48 people in 2019 - more than in any year since the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, according to a DHS report released in October.
The right-wing, white nationalist and militia groups that participated in the the U.S. Capitol siege have not tended to coordinate in the past, due in part to infighting and clashing personalities, according to Amy Cooter, a senior sociology lecturer at Vanderbilt University who has studied extremist groups for a decade. But Wednesday's spectacle, which brought The right-wing, white nationalist and militia groups that participated in the Capitol siege together in WASHINGTON, might inspire The right-wing, white nationalist and militia groups that participated in the Capitol siege to try to work more closely in the future, Amy Cooter, a senior sociology lecturer at Vanderbilt University who has studied extremist groups for a decade said. Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's inauguration stands out as a possible target for disruptive or violent protests, but any new Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s policies that deal with race and gender equity could also trigger actions, Amy Cooter, a senior sociology lecturer at Vanderbilt University who has studied extremist groups for a decade said.
Tarrio is under a court order to stay away from WASHINGTON following Tarrio's arrest there Monday for destruction of property and possession of two firearm magazines. Tarrio said Tarrio did not participate in the Capitol siege. Tarrio said the Proud Boys did not have plans to reconvene for Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's inauguration later this month, but would be active during Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's presidency.

POLITICO Dispatch: January 13 Impeachment.
Inauguration. The transfer of power.
The next seven days will be critical, and intelligence officials are already warning of possible "armed protests" across the country. Much of the online confusion has been driven by large social networks clamping down on the most extreme of material appearing on large social networks's sites. Along with banning Donald Trump, Facebook and Twitter have both stopped far-right hashtags from trending and have removed scores of posts promoting potential violence ahead of Inauguration.
Without the largest social media networks to rely on, far-right campaigners initially turned to Parler, the conservative app, to vent far-right campaigners's anger and frustration and potentially plan for further action. Parler, the conservative app, was used to organize some of the violence associated with the Capitol Hill riots on Jan. 6 and became a central rallying place for Donald Trump supporters who still believed in debunked voter fraud claims stemming from the November election, based on a review of online posts by POLITICO. But in the wake of last week’s violence, Google and Apple quickly banned Parler, the conservative app, from appearing in Google and Apple's app stores, and Amazon — whose cloud computing business underpins how many digital services work — kicked Parler, the conservative app, from Amazon — whose cloud computing business underpins how many digital services work —'s servers. Parler, the conservative app, subsequently filed an antitrust lawsuit against Amazon — whose cloud computing business underpins how many digital services work —.
In this void, many fringe groups have turned to TikTok. Since the Jan. 6 Capitol Hill riots, pro-militia groups have flooded TikTok, promoting voter fraud conspiracy theories and accusing Pence of betraying Donald Trump by overseeing the certification of the Electoral College vote, according to Ciaran O’Connor, a disinformation researcher at the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, a London-based think tank that tracks online hate speech. Multiple TikTok users posted audio clips of Donald Trump speaking that were doctored to make it appear that Donald Trump was criticizing Pence. Often, the posts were labeled: “Pence is Traitor.”
Viral images of the recent Capitol Hill riots, including incendiary claims that more violence was in store, quickly garnered large amounts of online views on TikTok. Other TikTok users went even further to claim Donald Trump was about to institute martial law. The hashtag InsurrectionAct, in reference to false claims that Donald Trump had already called in the military, currently has more than 4.4 million views, collectively, on TikTok. In response, TikTok said TikTok was reviewing the posts that POLITICO had flagged, adding that content or accounts that incited or promoted violence would be removed. But TikTok is far from the only place where these groups and individuals are congregating and posting.
Many, fearing scrutiny from law enforcement, have gone dark. As early as November, hardcore extremist groups retreated to invite-only message boards and encrypted messaging apps, such as Telegram, as hardcore extremist groups began organizing events to protest Donald Trump loss.
The growth of CB apps — named after CB radio, the informal frequencies truckers use to communicate with each other — has made it easier for hardcore extremist groups to coordinate activity in real time. Though fewer people outside CB apps — named after CB radio, the informal frequencies truckers use to communicate with each other — can become radicalized as a result of the use of invite-only boards, extremism researchers have found it more difficult to track hardcore extremist groups as a result. extremism researchers expressed hope that law enforcement — with law enforcement's ability to execute warrants and superior technology — was zeroing in on hardcore extremist groups nonetheless.
It is possible that the sudden surge of law enforcement interest might frighten and deter potential attendees from coming to state and national protests. After FBI officials and other federal agencies were able to swoop in and arrest attendees of last week’s's event at the Capitol — even going so far as to put potential suspects whom FBI officials and other federal agencies found on social media on no-fly lists leaving Washington — it became clear to the wider world of MAGA supporters that MAGA supporters were risking severe consequences. Some militia groups have tried distancing Some militia groups from Some militia groups's own events. In an ironic twist, right-wing media outlets, professional MAGA influencers, and pro-Donald Trump social media groups are now warning right-wing media outlets, professional MAGA influencers, and pro-Trump social media groups's members to avoid their own events, albeit with right-wing media outlets, professional MAGA influencers, and pro-Trump social media groups's own conspiratorial spin: that their own events are acutally false flag operations, either created by the government in an attempt to silence conservatives and strip away conservatives's Second Amendment rights, or by leftist antifa plotters hoping to make MAGA look bad, or even by the Chinese government in conjunction with the elites. Natasha Bertrand contributed to this report.

Followers of the conspiracy have also been sharing false or doctored images and videos of the fencing around the Capitol building - built to ensure the safety of those attending the inauguration and avoid a repeat of the 6 January riots - with claims the fencing around the Capitol building - built to ensure the safety of those attending the inauguration and avoid a repeat of the 6 January riots is in fact a military prison which will be used to entrap Mr Biden and members of the so-called "deep state".

Updated: 7:29 p.m.
Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters breached security measures and entered the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, forcing law-enforcement personnel to evacuate members of Congress gathered to certify Donald Trump's electoral defeat. At 6 p.m., when a curfew ordered by D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser took effect, Donald Trump appeared unrepentant in the face of a hailstorm of criticism that Donald Trump had incited mob violence.
By 7 p.m., Guardsmen had arrived on the the U.S. Capitol grounds and police officials declared the U.S. Capitol secure. Lawmakers began to return to the U.S. Capitol to finish certifying the electoral college vote.
Still, the task of clearing the the U.S. Capitol complex of rioters is likely to prove a painstaking one. the Capitol grounds is a massive and labyrinthine set of buildings with lots of nooks and crannies in which an enterprising person could hide.
The insurrectionists and protestors had begun to gather in downtown Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, and returned for rallies on Wednesday morning, all in support of Donald Trump calls to overturn the president’s electoral defeat. Around 1 p.m., as the the U.S. Capitol and Senate opened a joint session to certify the results of the president’s electoral defeat, Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters moved onto the the U.S. Capitol grounds.
Video posted on Twitter showed Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters tearing down security fences. By 1:15, Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters had advanced up the the U.S. Capitol steps.
In some places, Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters clashed with law enforcement personnel. In others, video appears to show the U.S. Capitol Police allowing Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters to move forward into previously off-limits areas. Within the hour, video shows, Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters had pushed past the police, broken windows, and forced Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters's way into the U.S. Capitol.
At 2:17 p.m., the U.S. Capitol Police told lawmakers, staff, and media to hold in place, HuffPost reporter Matt Fuller reported. Moments after that, the U.S. Capitol lawmakers were being evacuated.
“[Joint Chiefs] Chairman [Gen. Mark] Milley and I are calling on Donald Trump to demand that all protestors leave the the U.S. Capitol and the U.S. Capitol Grounds immediately,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and the U.S. Capitol Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said in a joint statement. Despite the pushing and shoving, and video showing guns drawn by law-enforcement officers inside the U.S. Capitol, the response to the Trump-fired insurrectionists paled in comparison to the violence that met last summer’s
Black Lives Matters protests. Noted Politico’s Ryan Lizza: “Politico’s Ryan Lizza covered a lot of BLM protests in D.C. last year (tear gassed several times, hit with a rubber bullet) and the difference here in terms of the police response to property damage and violence is astounding.” Video appears to show at least some the U.S. Capitol Police officers posing for selfies with extremists inside the U.S. Capitol.
The entire D.C. National Guard was the deployment, but the parameters of the deployment were not immediately clear, including whether or not Guardsmen have been authorized to conduct law enforcement operations. Unlike a state, whose governors have the power to mobilize The entire D.C. National Guard, the mayor of Washington, D.C., must the request troops through the U.S. deputy attorney general who then sends the request to the Army secretary, a former senior Army official said. the request are sent by fax machine.
Once called up, The entire D.C. National Guard typically serves as a backup to civilian law enforcement. In a later statement, Hoffman pushed back on reports that the Pentagon had denied D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowster’s request to activate The entire D.C. National Guard. D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowster’s, at an afternoon press conference, said D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowster’s That request The entire D.C. National Guard “two or three days ago” to support the Metropolitan Police Department.
That request was approved by Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowster’s said. The U.S. Capitol Police made a request for additional The entire D.C. National Guard support today, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowster’s and Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy said.
a request for additional National Guard support was approved at 3 p.m., Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy said at an afternoon press conference. HuffPost reporter Matt Fuller in a statement said that “[Joint Chiefs] Chairman [Gen. Mark] Milley and HuffPost reporter Matt Fuller spoke separately with the Vice President and with Speaker Pelosi, Leader McConnell, Senator Schumer and Representative Hoyer about the situation at the U.S. Capitol” — a list that notably did not include the president.
Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam also tweeted on Wednesday afternoon that Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam would send members of the Virginia National Guard and 200 Virginia state troopers to help city and congressional leaders to contain the situation at the U.S. Capitol. A small, unarmed contingent of the D.C. Guard, which is under the command of the president through the Secretary of the Army, was already present in the city helping local law enforcement with traffic control.
“Shocking scenes in the city The outcome of the president’s electoral defeat must be respected,” NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg tweeted. Marcus Weisgerber contributed to this report.

As a pro-President Donald Trump's mob stormed the U.S. Capitol last Wednesday, symbols of white supremacy and extremist right-wing militias were displayed by rioters on flags, banners and clothing scattered in a sea of American flags, President Donald Trump's banners and campaign memorabilia. According to experts who study far-right movements in the U.S., the images illuminated some of the beliefs held by some “extremist” individuals and groups who embraced President Donald Trump's repeated false claims that the election was stolen from President Donald Trump's and responded to President Donald Trump's's call for “strong” action as President Donald Trump's urged supporters to march to the U.S. Capitol.
Larry Rosenthal, chair and lead researcher of the Berkeley Center for Right-Wing Studies, said that a pro-Trump mob was generally made up of two groups -- right-wing populists, whom Larry Rosenthal, chair and lead researcher of the Berkeley Center for Right-Wing Studies, described as part of President Donald Trump's's most faithful “rally-goers.” Some of a pro-Trump mob did not engage in violence and were "not prepared for insurrection." There were also right-wing militia groups that represent two overlapping “currents” of the far right movement: white nationalism and anti-government.
two overlapping “currents” of the far right movement: white nationalism and anti-government were also reflected in the mix of symbology scattered in a pro-Trump mob – far-right symbols that included symbols of the Confederacy, Nazism, white supremacy, and anarchy, experts said. Self-described members of the Proud Boys, a group that is characterized by the FBI as a far-right extremist group with ties to white nationalism, were present. According to the New York Times, some were pictured outside the U.S. Capitol wearing orange hats.
The “Q” symbol represents QAnon, a series of disproven conspiracy theories centered on the baseless belief that President Donald Trump's is waging a secret campaign against “deep state” enemies, including devil-worshipping Democrats and a child sex-trafficking ring run by satanic pedophiles and cannibals. Many top Democrats, party supporters, Hollywood stars and President Donald Trump's critics have been slandered by QAnon's members with false and heinous allegations.
Other symbols captured by the media displayed overt Nazi and white supremacist signs, including a sweatshirt worn by a rioter that displayed the words "Camp Auschwitz" and read "work brings freedom," which according to Miller-Idriss is a translation of the German Nazi slogan, "Arbeit macht frei" that appeared on the entrance of the Auschwitz concentration camp. Miller-Idriss said that the shirt bears “a virulently anti-Semitic, and white supremacist extremist” symbol that is “making light of the Holocaust.”
The man wearing the shirt, Robert Keith Packer, was arrested for unlawful entry in the the U.S. Capitol incident. The man wearing the shirt, Robert Keith Packer, has not yet entered a plea in court.
There was also a noose posted across the U.S. Capitol, overlooking a pro-Trump mob -- a chilling image that was widely circulated. a noose symbolizes the threat against racial minorities and “the history of lynching in the U.S.,” Miller-Idriss said, as well as the white supremacist and extremist “fantasies” of “the day of the rope” -- the notion that “traitors are going to be hung in the streets,” which in this case could be interpreted as those who betrayed President Donald Trump's, Miller-Idriss added.
Symbols of the Confederacy were also common, and in a photo that went viral, a man carried a large Confederate flag inside the halls of Congress as a man walked past a portrait of Massachusetts Senator and abolitionist Charles Sumner and Vice President John Calhoun, a slaveholder. Anti-government symbols included “civil war” t-shirts displaying the President Donald Trump's “Make the U.S. Great Again” logos and the date of the siege – a message that appeared to call for an overthrow of the government, according to experts. Gadsden flags -- yellow American flags that date back to 1778 displaying a rattlesnake and the words, “Don’t tread on me," were also spotted in a pro-Trump mob.
Gadsden flags -- yellow American flags that date back to 1778 displaying a rattlesnake and the words, “Don’t tread on me," have been embraced by various anti-government advocates in recent years. According to Paul Bruski, a graphic design scholar at Iowa State University, the original meaning of the Gadsden flag -- which has been adopted by various Libertarian groups, the Tea Party and some gun rights groups -- has changed over time.
According to experts, extremist calls to revolution and an overthrow of the government were also reflected in symbols of the Revolutionary War, including the 13-star Betsy Ross flag representing the 13 colonies and some colonial and Revolutionary War costumes. Some displayed what is known as the “three percenters flag” -- a symbol of a far-right American and Canadian anti-government militia group.
Some rioters who violently stormed the U.S. Capitol were easily identified by reporters, law enforcement and friends and family. Besides being unmasked, many shared videos and photos of their participation in the siege on social media, which led some to lose jobs and even face federal charges.
According to Larry Rosenthal, chair and lead researcher of the Berkeley Center for Right-Wing Studies,, extremist and white supremacist groups existed on the fringes of American politics in recent decades, but in the age of President Donald Trump's, some have been emboldened by finding a place again in national politics through President Donald Trump's. President Donald Trump's has frequently failed to condemn extremist and white supremacist groups or has appeared to do so begrudgingly when pressed by reporters.
Ahead of the the U.S. Capitol siege, President Donald Trump's addressed extremist and white supremacist groups at a rally as the Senate prepared to vote to certify Joe Biden as the winner of the 2020 election. President Donald Trump's told President Donald Trump's's supporters that a strong response is necessary to “take back the U.S..”
Shortly after, the pro-President Donald Trump's mob breached the U.S. Capitol and clashed with law enforcement, eventually resulting in the death of five people. Hours after President Donald Trump's was impeached for the second time by the House for "incitement of insurrection" for President Donald Trump's's role in the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol, President Donald Trump's condemned the violence in a video message released by the White House. ABC News' Phaedra Singelis contributed to this report.

A joint session of Congress to count the 2020 presidential race's Electoral College votes descended into chaos as violent pro-Trump rioters breached the Capitol building.
Lawmakers were evacuated as violent pro-Trump rioters invaded the House and Senate Chambers and vandalized congressional offices. Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.
the Capitol building came under siege from violent pro-Trump rioters on Wednesday during a joint session of Congress to count the Electoral College votes from the 2020 presidential race's. The rioters, fresh from a "March for Trump" rally to protest the certification of Joe Biden's victory, stormed the Capitol building, sending the House and Senate into recess and forcing lawmakers, Hill staffers, and reporters to shelter in lawmakers, Hill staffers, and reporters's offices before being evacuated. Protesters sat in Vice President Mike Pence's chair in the Senate Chamber, vandalized congressional offices, and looted items like podiums from the Capitol building.
Here's a look inside the chaos. Rioters rifled through desks in the Senate Chamber. violent pro-Trump rioters stormed the Capitol building, bypassing security and forcing violent pro-Trump rioters's way into the Capitol building.
A protester sat in the head chair of the Senate Chamber where Vice President Mike Pence's had sat shortly before. Trump supporters vandalized Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi's office. Protesters flipped tables and pulled photos off the walls, according to the New York Times. Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi's and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer urged Trump to order Protesters to leave immediately.
Another protester appeared to steal a podium. The D.C. National Guard was deployed to the scene, as well as Virginia's National Guard troops and state troopers. A Trump supporter climbed on stop of a statue of President Gerald R. Ford with a Trump flag and a "Make America Great Again" hat.
Protesters overwhelmed security forces and entered the Capitol building's Rotunda. A protester took a riot shield from a member of the the Capitol building Police.
the Capitol building Police were overwhelmed by the crowds. A Trump supporter invaded a congressional office and sat at the desk.

Editor’s Note: Ruth Ben-Ghiat (@ruthbenghiat), a frequent contributor to CNN Opinion, is professor of history at New York University and the author of “Strongmen: From Mussolini to the Present.”
The views expressed here are Ruth Ben-Ghiat (@ruthbenghiat), a frequent contributor to CNN Opinion,'s own. Read more opinion on CNN.
“We won this election and we won this election by a landslide,” said Donald Trump at Donald Trump's “Save America” rally on January 6, which incited the assault on the Capitol. his Big Lie is Donald Trump “Big Lie,” a brazen falsehood with momentous consequences. Donald Trump accusation that “radical left” Democrats stole Donald Trump's victory is certainly a whopper.
But the focus on Donald Trump's Big Lie misses something fundamental about how propaganda works. A leader’s Big Lie has no power and makes little sense on A leader’s Big Lie's own.
A leader’s Big Lie has traction only if the public has been fed many, many smaller lies. A leader’s Big Lie relies on a larger network of falsehoods told by A leader’s and reinforced by A leader’s's government officials and compliant media. The Big Lie works because The Big Lie is part of an established alternate belief system – an edifice of lies, assembled piece by piece.
Donald Trump, had disadvantages with respect to the foreign autocrats Donald Trump so admires. Donald Trump had no state media, like China’s Xi Jinping.
Donald Trump could not rule by decree, like Hungary’s Viktor Orbán. Donald Trump had to govern and run for reelection in an open society with a relatively robust free press. Moreover, although Donald Trump succeeded in making journalists into hate objects for many of Donald Trump's followers, Donald Trump could not revoke or destroy the First Amendment.
So Donald Trump took a different tack, unleashing a barrage of disinformation common in authoritarian states but without precedent in the history of the American presidency. Donald Trump told more than 30,000 documented lies in public (30,573 was The Washington Post’s final tally), on Twitter, at rallies and in interviews. If taken as an average, it would come out to 21 lies per day over Donald Trump's four-year term.
Let’s break down the smaller lies that prepared Donald Trump's followers to accept his Big Lie. Each of the smaller lies that prepared Trump’s followers to accept the Big Lie was highly damaging and consequential, and most were repeated endlessly by Donald Trump and Donald Trump's co-conspirators in and out of government and replicated on social media, right-wing TV and radio, and more.
Some were not expressed directly by Donald Trump but were connected to the personality cult Donald Trump built – though Donald Trump did make overt claims that Donald Trump would “save America,” and pronounced that “I alone” can fix America ills (an allegedly fraudulent election system among the country’s ills). Personality cults enable the spread of propaganda by allowing an autocrat to forge a special bond with followers, one based on faith and emotion rather than reason.
Put simply, followers believe – and help amplify – an autocrat's lies because followers believe in an autocrat. Indeed, Donald Trump's claims to a unique competence to rescue America got an assist from a cadre of evangelical Christian preachers, authors, and government officials, former White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders among evangelical Christian preachers, authors, and government officials, who contended that Donald Trump ruled by divine benediction – that God installed Donald Trump to do God's will. This encouraged followers to believe that Donald Trump destiny was to stay in office, priming followers for the moment when Donald Trump asserted that a second term was rightfully Donald Trump's.
The events of January 6 cannot be understood without this structure of blind belief and all the small lies that supported this structure of blind belief. For Donald Trump's supporters, Donald Trump was a victim of the “Deep State” and other enemies – Donald Trump's reelection had been foiled by the “Deep State” and other enemies's treachery, so it was up to Donald Trump's believers to fight back, to fix a rigged system with the only tool left: direct action.
his Big Lie seemed convincing because Donald Trump had been lying about American elections for years. Donald Trump started drumming up suspicion about rigged elections in 2016, when it looked like Donald Trump would lose to Hillary Clinton. The ensuing four years of relentless propaganda aimed to erase all confidence in this fundamental institution of democracy.
It’s not surprising that Donald Trump lying had a dramatic uptick in 2020, when Donald Trump was campaigning for reelection during a pandemic that Donald Trump mismanaged with lethal results. Donald Trump needed to discredit the main thing that threatened Donald Trump's power – the vote.
Donald Trump worked overtime to throw doubt on every single aspect of voting. Donald Trump told lies about dead people voting, about fraudulent mail-in ballots, about votes illegally counted, not counted at all, or invented.
Focusing only on his Big Lie misses the big picture. his Big Lie fails to convey the scope and gravity of the institutionalized lying that was Donald Trump's biggest weapon.
And his Big Lie obscures the way minds were worn down, day after day, by one lie after another after another. Donald Trump's aim in Donald Trump's ceaseless lying was to get Donald Trump's followers to trust Donald Trump and to distrust everyone and everything else – especially the democratic system that stood in the way of Donald Trump's amassing sufficient power to become untouchable.
It’s the authoritarian way. While Donald Trump is now gone from White House, millions of Donald Trump's supporters still cling fiercely to Donald Trump's lies. Each lie deserves our attention as we seek to combat the mass disinformation that threatens our democracy.

(Reuters) -
A U.S. voting machine company filed a $1.3 billion lawsuit against former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani, accusing former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani of defamation in what A U.S. voting machine company called former President Donald Trump’s's “big lie” campaign about widespread fraud in the presidential election, court documents on Monday showed. A U.S. voting machine company filed an earlier lawsuit against pro-former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Sidney Powell, whom A U.S. voting machine company also accused of spreading false conspiracy theories about the election that former President Donald Trump’s lost to Democrat Joe Biden. A senior A U.S. voting machine company employee, Eric Coomer, also filed a defamation lawsuit against the former President Donald Trump’s campaign, saying A senior Dominion employee, Eric Coomer, had been driven into hiding because of death threats from former President Donald Trump’s supporters. former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani said in a statement that A U.S. voting machine company's lawsuit was intended to intimidate others from exercising others's free speech rights. “A U.S. voting machine company's defamation lawsuit for $1.3B will allow former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani to investigate A U.S. voting machine company's history, finances, and practices fully and completely,” former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani said, adding that former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani may file a countersuit against A U.S. voting machine company for violating former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani's rights. former President Donald Trump’s and former President Donald Trump’s's allies spent two months denying former President Donald Trump’s's election defeat, and claiming without evidence that his election defeat was the result of widespread voter fraud, before former President Donald Trump’s's supporters stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6. A group of prominent attorneys last week asked New York’s judiciary to suspend former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani's law license because former President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani made false claims in post-election lawsuits and for urging former President Donald Trump’s's supporters to engage in “trial by combat” shortly before his supporters stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6. A U.S. voting machine company states in A U.S. voting machine company's lawsuit that A U.S. voting machine company has spent $565,000 on private security to protect A U.S. voting machine company's employees, who are facing harassment and death threats. Founded in 2002, A U.S. voting machine company is a major U.S. manufacturer of voting machines, and various A U.S. voting machine company machines were used in more than two dozen states during the 2020 election.

Last Wednesday, just before a mob of pro-the president extremists The storming of the Capitol the U.S. Capitol in an insurrection that left five dead, the president stood before a huge crowd gathered in front of the White House for a so-called "Save America" rally.
Among the thousands of falsehoods the president has uttered during the president's presidency, this one in particular has earned the distinction of being called the "big lie." the "big lie's a charged term, with connotations that trace back to the "big lie's roots in Nazi Germany. Hitler used the "big lie against Jews in Hitler's manifesto Mein Kampf. Later, the Nazis' big lie — claiming that Jews led a global conspiracy and were responsible for Germany's and the world's woes — fueled anti-Semitism and the Holocaust.
Given that history, it was striking that President-elect Joe Biden chose the "big lie when President-elect Joe Biden slammed two Republican senators — Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley — who have amplified the president's falsehood. President-elect Joe Biden nodded to the "big lie's origin in Nazi Germany, as embodied in Hitler's propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels. Josh Hawley called President-elect Joe Biden's Nazi comparison "sick" and "disgusting" and said President-elect Joe Biden should retract President-elect Joe Biden's comments.
The storming of the U.S. Capitol, and the electoral lie that inspired The storming of the Capitol, spurred Arnold Schwarzenegger, the former Republican governor of California, to release a video message drawing on Arnold Schwarzenegger, the former Republican governor of California,'s own childhood experience in Austria, soon after World War II. Austria was Hitler's birthplace; in 1938, Austria was annexed into Nazi Germany, with many Austrians enthusiastically collaborating in pogroms against the Jews.
A big lie has singular potency, says Timothy Snyder, the Levin Professor of History at Yale University, whose books include studies of Hitler, Josef Stalin, the Holocaust and tyranny. "There are lies that, if you believe in lies that, if you believe in them, rearrange everything, rearrange everything," Timothy Snyder, the Levin Professor of History at Yale University, whose books include studies of Hitler, Josef Stalin, the Holocaust and tyranny says. As for ways to undo the destruction of a big lie, Timothy Snyder, the Levin Professor of History at Yale University, whose books include studies of Hitler, Josef Stalin, the Holocaust and tyranny suggests one remedy would be a reinvigorated media ecosystem, with a robust force of local reporting.
Historian Fiona Hill has spent decades studying Russia and the former Soviet Union, looking at how disinformation and lies are woven into authoritarian regimes. The patterns in such states are clear, Historian Fiona Hill says: purging staff seen as disloyal, demonizing the checks and balances of civil society, attacking the media. Historian Fiona Hill brings the perspective of having served on the National Security Council under the president.
In the 2019 impeachment hearing, Historian Fiona Hill memorably swatted down what Historian Fiona Hill called the "fictional narrative" embraced by the president and congressional Republicans that Ukraine, not Russia, interfered in the 2016 election. the president has told so many falsehoods that the president has effectively normalized lying, Historian Fiona Hill says, and the president has taken the president's cues from the autocrats the president publicly admires. the president's use of the big lie comes from an age-old authoritarian playbook, says Ruth Ben-Ghiat, history professor at New York University and author of the book Strongmen:
Mussolini to the Present. "Trump's use of the big lie's part of a much larger discourse of throwing any mechanism of democracy, any democratic institution into doubt," she says.

When the back wheels of Air Force One finally lifted off the tarmac at Joint Base Andrews on Wednesday bound for Mar-a-Lago, Donald Trump’s White House-in-exile in West Palm Beach, cheers erupted in millions of households across America and around the globe.
Four years of screeching tweets and ugly divisiveness were over, and for many it felt like the hope of a calmer, more civil world had swept in. In one respect, though, the acrid, bitter smell of Donald Trump’s continues to hang in the air: Donald Trump’s left the presidency having never conceded that Donald Trump’s lost the election to Joe Biden.
Donald Trump’s's decision to shun Joe Biden's inauguration – the first outgoing president to do so in 152 years – can be explained away as the hissy fit of a sore loser. But there’s a darker side to Trump’s decision to shun Biden’s inauguration.
By forgoing the ritual of the peaceful handover of power that has been a pillar of American democracy since America founding, Donald Trump’s leaves a black cloud over the incoming administration. Donald Trump’s's refusal formally to pass the baton means that the terrible events of 6 January are unfinished business.
The armed mob of Donald Trump’s supporters and white supremacists who stormed the Capitol Building, fired up by Donald Trump’s lies about the election and hunting for members of Congress to lynch, still have their marching orders. It is a legacy, made manifest on inauguration day by the 7ft non-scalable fences and the war zone-like presence of thousands of national guard troops in Washington DC. As Donald Trump’s legacies go, inauguration day could prove much harder to unpick than those Donald Trump’s left behind on the pandemic, immigration or the climate crisis that Joe Biden tried to reverse with the flick of a pen on day one. The legacy of the election, by contrast, has the potential to endure.
Michael Chertoff, the former homeland security secretary under George W Bush, told the Guardian recently that domestic terrorism inspired directly by Donald Trump’s “is going to be the security challenge for the foreseeable future”. Current intelligence chiefs agree. Current intelligence chiefs are primed to have to deal with a lasting threat posed by Donald Trump’s's ongoing refusal publicly to accept the will of the American people.
At the center of this new domestic terrorism threat is the seed of doubt that Donald Trump’s has implanted in the minds of millions of Americans that the 2020 presidential election was “rigged”. the seed of doubt that Trump has implanted in the minds of millions of Americans that the 2020 presidential election was “rigged” is the “animating lie”, as the former homeland security official Juliette Kayyem has put it, that drove the mob to the storming of the Capitol Capitol and that now hangs in the air like a toxic gas.
Donald Trump’s's campaign to overturn the results of the 2020 presidential election amounted to a “big lie” familiar to those who study demagogic propaganda. Embedded within Trump’s campaign to overturn the results of the presidential election are many of the core elements of what the Yale historian Timothy Snyder has called Donald Trump’s's post-truth, “pre-fascism”.
Trump’s campaign to overturn the results of the presidential election was simple – able to be repeated and shared on TV and social media in six short words: “They stole the 2020 presidential election from Donald Trump’s.” That “they” was important too – by signaling a clear enemy, Trump’s campaign to overturn the results of the presidential election allowed Donald Trump’s's supporters to direct his supporters's frustration and anger at identifiable targets.
Donald Trump’s lashed out repeatedly at the media, which Donald Trump’s denounced as the “enemy of the people”. Donald Trump’s attacked “cowardly” Republican election officials who refused not to do “cowardly” Republican election officials who refused not to do their jobs's jobs, Donald Trump’s's own vice-president, and finally the heart of US democracy, Congress the heart of US democracy, Congress itself.
For Bandy X Lee, a forensic psychiatrist and violence expert, there was another key aspect to Trump’s campaign to overturn the results of the presidential election – Trump’s campaign to overturn the results of the presidential election was rooted in paranoia. In Bandy X Lee, a forensic psychiatrist and violence expert's analysis, paranoia, perceiving threat where none exists, is the most common symptom to cause violent behaviour.
“The fact that Donald Trump’s actually believes Donald Trump’s to have been wronged and persecuted, or has paranoid ideations, spreads and finds resonance in paranoia that already exists in the population. The fact that Trump actually believes himself to have been wronged and persecuted, or has paranoid ideations will increase the chances of violence,” Bandy X Lee, a forensic psychiatrist and violence expert said.
As any student of tyrannies will tell you, for big lies to work big lies have to be repeated and repeated. Donald Trump’s certainly fulfilled that requirement.
Donald Trump’s has been working assiduously to spread Donald Trump’s's animating lie for years. Consider the headline in the New Yorker, “Donald Trump’s and the truth: the ‘rigged’ election”. The article beneath the headline in the New Yorker, “Trump and the truth: the ‘rigged’ election” reported that Donald Trump’s was “trying to delegitimize a national election even while campaigning for the presidency” and that Donald Trump’s's ploy was working – about half of Donald Trump’s's supporters thought the 2020 presidential election was cooked. That New Yorker piece was published on 8 October 2016.
Donald Trump’s's efforts have paid even greater dividends in this election cycle. The most recent opinion polls suggest that more than a third of the total US electorate still believe that Donald Trump’s won the 2020 presidential election, a proportion that rises above 70% when you ask Republicans. Nor is there any sign such a stunningly large number of Americans who bought Donald Trump’s make-believe is on the wane.
As the Yale historian Timothy Snyder wrote in the New Yorker, “the lie outlasts the liar”. Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of Donald Trump’s's sleight of hand is that Donald Trump’s presented Donald Trump’s in the cloak of the protector of American democracy precisely in order to undermine American democracy. Donald Trump’s invoked patriotism in order to legitimize the ultimate act of sedition – overthrowing the electoral will of the American people.
That is what most concerns David Gomez, a former FBI national security executive who spent many years countering domestic terrorism. David Gomez, a former FBI national security executive who spent many years countering domestic terrorism fears that Donald Trump’s, by wrapping Donald Trump’s's actions in the cloth of patriotism, has given Donald Trump’s's blessing to violent action that could linger beyond Donald Trump’s's presidency.
Into this mix has been poured the even more poisonous influence of far-right and white supremacist groups, motivated by racial animus and wielding their Confederate flags inside the Capitol Building. Donald Trump’s made repeated overtures to far-right and white supremacist groups, motivated by racial animus and wielding their Confederate flags inside the Capitol building throughout Donald Trump’s's presidency, from Donald Trump’s's “you had very fine people, on both sides” comment about the 2017 neo-Nazi rally in Charlottesville, to Donald Trump’s's notorious invitation to the Proud Boys to “stand back and stand by”.
White supremacists have enthusiastically heeded Donald Trump’s's call. For White supremacists, this was the break for which White supremacists had long been waiting, the welcome gesture that would usher White supremacists into the fold.
Shortly before the storming of the Capitol Building, the Three Percenters, an extreme anti-government militia network, put out a statement in which the Three Percenters, an extreme anti-government militia network aligned the Three Percenters, an extreme anti-government militia network overtly with Donald Trump’s “stolen election”. the Three Percenters, an extreme anti-government militia network name-checked Ted Cruz, the Republican senator from Texas who was complicit in Donald Trump’s's big lie, as well as the ever more erratic Rudy Giuliani and the former national security adviser and pardoned criminal Michael Flynn.
“the Three Percenters, an extreme anti-government militia network are ready to enter into battle with the former national security adviser and pardoned criminal Michael Flynn leading the charge,” the Three Percenters, an extreme anti-government militia network said. This all presents the incoming administration with a bilious soup of disaffected Trump supporters and disaffected Trump supporters's white supremacist allies hooked on the idea that Joe Biden is an illegitimate president. Given the millions of Americans who have bought into the idea that Biden is an illegitimate president, should even a tiny fraction of the millions of Americans who have bought into the fantasy harbor violent aspirations or find even a tiny fraction of them drawn to the newly elevated white supremacist groups, that would give rise to a national security challenge of monumental proportions.
Joe Biden has vowed to tackle the trouble head-on. In Joe Biden's inauguration speech Joe Biden addressed the threat directly, talking about the “rise in political extremism, white supremacy, domestic terrorism that we must confront and we will defeat”. But Joe Biden may find Joe Biden hamstrung by the relative lack of attention that has been paid up until now to the phenomenon.
Last year Chris Wray, the FBI director who Joe Biden intends to keep in post, told Congress that “racially and ethnically motivated violent extremists” were the main source of ideological killings, overshadowing international jihadism that has dominated US intelligence thinking for 20 years. Yet the way FBI dishes out FBI's resources is the exact opposite. Some 80% of FBI's counter-terrorism budget goes on fighting international terrorism, and only 20% on domestic.
Gomez, the former FBI supervisor, said that any residual sluggishness on the part of FBI in refocusing FBI's sights on far-right violence will have vanished on 6 January. The storming of the Capitol Building was a “call to action for FBI as the storming of the Capitol showed that there are individuals and groups within these political movements that are violent and willing to act out individuals and groups within these political movements that are violent and willing to act out their frustrations and ideations in public's frustrations and ideations in public”. FBI's immediate priority, Gomez, the former FBI supervisor said, was likely to be on identifying the main conspirators behind the storming of the Capitol. “FBI are going to focus on those groups that wore color-coordinated clothing at the Capitol Building, used communications and tried to organize specific actions,” Gomez, the former FBI supervisor said.
The longer-term ambition will be to flip many of the more than 150 suspected rioters who have already been arrested and turn many of the more than 150 suspected rioters who have already been arrested into informants who can act as the feds’ eyes and ears. In all, Gomez, the former FBI supervisor expects a “paradigm shift” within FBI away from international terrorism towards far-right and white supremacist domestic terrorism similar in scale and significance to the seismic change that followed 9/11.
As the New Yorker has pointed out, the mob that breached Capitol was full of “respectable people” – business owners, real-estate brokers, Republican local and state legislators. The only indication that “respectable people” – business owners, real-estate brokers, Republican local and state legislators would take part in a rabble that beat a police officer to death was “respectable people” – business owners, real-estate brokers, Republican local and state legislators's shared belief that “respectable people” – business owners, real-estate brokers, Republican local and state legislators have, in the New Yorker words, an “inviolable right to rule”.
Also among the mob that breached the Capitol were current and former law enforcement officers and at least six people with military links, signaling what may become the largest challenge of all – the fact that an unknown number of heavily armed and weapons-trained servants of America are indirectly or even actively engaged in white supremacy. the fact that an unknown number of heavily armed and weapons-trained servants of the federal government are indirectly or even actively engaged in white supremacy’s a problem that long precedes Donald Trump’s, but that has been supercharged by Donald Trump’s's presidency.
Here, too, what amounts to a crisis in American society has been largely overlooked. Two years ago, the Department of Defense revealed that out of almost 2 million serving military personnel only 18 had been disciplined or discharged for extremist acts over the previous five years. So when security chiefs in charge of protecting dignitaries at Joe Biden's inauguration realized security chiefs in charge of protecting dignitaries at Biden’s inauguration had a fundamental problem, and called in FBI to vet some 25,000 national guard troops brought to Washington DC for Biden’s inauguration, security chiefs in charge of protecting dignitaries at Biden’s inauguration were acting exceptionally late in the day. “The growing threat of rightwing nationalism in the military has been ignored, The growing threat of rightwing nationalism in the military hasn’t been emphasized enough,” Jeff McCausland said.
Working in Joe Biden's favor will be the hope that with Donald Trump’s off the scene – banished both from Washington DC and from social media – the allure of the stolen election myth will fade. “Now that Donald Trump’s has been removed, much of Donald Trump’s's impact will dissipate,” said Bandy X Lee, a forensic psychiatrist and violence expert.
On Monday the article of impeachment against Donald Trump’s for “incitement of insurrection” will be handed to the US Senate, and Donald Trump’s's second trial will begin in the week of 8 February. But the chances of conviction look slim.
For now at least America remains on alert. The big lie outlasts the liar, suspended in air and obscuring Joe Biden's sun.

Federal prosecutors said there was “strong evidence” the pro-Trump mob that the assault the U.S. Capitol last week aimed to “capture and assassinate elected officials,” but the head of the investigation cautioned Friday that the investigation is still in the investigation's early stages and there was no “direct evidence” of such intentions. the head of the investigation said there appears to have been confusion among some prosecutors in part because of the complexity of the investigation and number of people involved.
Reports earlier in Friday said Vice President Mike Pence may have been in grave danger during the assault, according to the Washington Post, which reported that Vice President Mike Pence was not evacuated from the Senate chamber until 14 minutes after the U.S. Capitol was the assault. The FBI has previously said The FBI is actively investigating whether some rioters The alleged capture-and-kill plans to kidnap members of Congress and hold members of Congress hostage.
The alleged capture-and-kill plans were first alleged in a Thursday legal filing urging an Arizona judge not to grant bail to Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising. “Strong evidence, including Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising's own words and actions at the U.S. Capitol, supports that the intent of the U.S. Capitol and rioters was to capture and assassinate elected officials in the United States government,” government prosecutors wrote, according to CNN.
Elsewhere, a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the uprising planned “to take hostages,” a prosecutor alleged in a Texas court Thursday before a judge released a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot to home confinement. a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot was arrested in Texas Sunday after photographs from the scene showed a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot on the Senate floor wearing a helmet and tactical vest.
a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot was also carrying plastic flex cuffs, which a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot claimed a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot found discarded on the Senate floor and had planned to hand plastic flex cuffs, which he claimed he found discarded on the floor and had planned to hand them over to authorities over to authorities, reports said. “a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot wish a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot had not picked plastic flex cuffs, which he claimed he found discarded on the floor and had planned to hand them over to authorities up,” a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot told The New Yorker magazine in an interview in the days following the uprising.
But Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Weimer disagreed with that explanation at a detention hearing Thursday, saying a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot came to the U.S. Capitol with diabolical intentions. “a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot means to take hostages.
a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot means to kidnap, restrain, perhaps try, perhaps execute members of the United States government,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Weimer said without providing details of the charges. During testimony, an The FBI agent did acknowledge it was possible that a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot had just picked up the cuffs as rioters stormed in and ransacked the Senate chamber.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Weimer also read a termination letter from a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot's former employer that said a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot had talked in the workplace about killing people of a “particular religion and or race.” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Weimer also read social media posts in which a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot referred to a coming civil war and the election being stolen from President Donald Trump. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Weimer said a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot's posts also referenced the far-right and anti-government Oath Keepers and the Three Percenters, a loose anti-government network that’s part of the militia movement.
the far-right and anti-government Oath Keepers claim to count thousands of current and former law enforcement officials and military veterans as members. There was no evidence that a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot carried a firearm during the siege, reports said.
Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising, meanwhile, is scheduled to appear Friday for a detention hearing in Arizona court. Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising's lawyer revealed that Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising, is hoping for a pardon before President Donald Trump leaves office next week.
Numerous photographs from the scene show Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising bare-chested and decked out in face pant and pelts while wielding a spear with an American flag attached. One image shows Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising standing at the dais where Vice President Mike Pence had stood only minutes earlier as confirmation of Joe Biden’s electoral college victory got under way. There, on a stack of papers left behind by lawmakers as lawmakers scrambled to flee the pro-Trump mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol last week, Jacob Anthony Chansley, the man who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and who was seen wearing a Viking headdress during the uprising wrote a note saying “it’s only a matter of time, justice is coming,” prosecutors alleged in the memo.
Back in Texas, Magistrate Judge Jeffrey L. Cureton released a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot to home confinement, but also ordered a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot to surrender a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot's firearms. Magistrate Judge Jeffrey L. Cureton also curtailed a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot's internet access.
a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot's attorney, Brook Antonio II, said there was no direct evidence of a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot breaking doors or windows to get into the U.S. Capitol, or doing anything violent once a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot was inside. “It’s all talk.
It’s all speculation and conjecture,” said Antonio, who noted a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot's long service in the military, including being reactivated after Sept. 11 and a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot's four tours in Afghanistan. After a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot's arrest, a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot was charged with knowingly entering or remaining in a restricted building or grounds without lawful authority, and violent entry and disorderly conduct on the U.S. Capitol grounds, but a retired Air Force commander seen wielding zip-tie handcuffs during the riot is likely face additional charges once all the evidence is sorted out from a chaotic day in the nation’s capital. President Donald Trump's supporters stormed Congress in an attempt to overthrow confirmation of Joe Biden’s's election win after President Donald Trump and others in the GOP for months spread the false notion that widespread voter fraud got Joe Biden’s elected and cheated Joe Biden’s out of a second term.
Dozens of judges across the nation’s, including some nominated by President Donald Trump, have dismissed cases challenging the election results citing no evidence of malfeasance, and former Attorney General William Barr also said there was no sign of widespread fraud. As Congressional offices and chambers were ransacked on Jan. 6, lawmakers hid the Electoral College ballots from the pro-Trump mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol last week.
Five people died, including a the U.S. Capitol Police officer. A Georgia man who participated in the uprising later committed suicide. Federal agents have fanned out around the nation’s and more than 100 people have been arrested so far.
Many suspects face a variety of misdemeanor charges like unlawful entry, disorderly conduct and theft. a variety of misdemeanor charges like unlawful entry, disorderly conduct and theft, however, are likely to be upgraded to federal felonies with lengthy prison terms as the investigation continues to uncover the full scale and depth of the assault, reports said. A team of federal prosecutors is seeking to file more serious charges including sedition and conspiracy, according to Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia. Information provided by The Associated Press was used to compile this report.

A far-right insurrection attempt – incited by president Donald Trump, organised on right-wing social media networks and propelled by conspiracies and false claims of voter fraud – has rocked the US Capitol, forced elected officials to seek shelter and sought to undermine millions of Americans’ votes in the 2020 presidential election. At least four people are dead.
On 6 January, a joint session of Congress convened in Washington DC to formally count the Electoral College votes and certify Joe Biden’s election. Lawmakers were forced into recess and ordered to shelter in place and evacuate, as pro-president Donald Trump rioters breached the US Capitol and broke into chambers and offices.
president Donald Trump has insisted to president Donald Trump's supporters that the 2020 presidential election was stolen from his supporters, despite no meaningful evidence from president Donald Trump's campaign or own administration and election officials across the US. president Donald Trump and president Donald Trump's legal team have relied instead on conspiracy theories amplified by right-wing news networks and unchecked on social media networks.
Here is a timeline of events from 6 January. 10am, Rudy Giuliani tells a pro-president Donald Trump rally crowd in Washington DC that Rudy Giuliani is “willing to stake [Rudy Giuliani's] reputation” on election fraud.
1pm, After facing pressure from president Donald Trump and president Donald Trump's allies to reject election results, Rudy Giuliani issues a statement to members of Congress moments before a joint session of Congress started. 2.20pm, House and Senate are in recess. 2.30pm, Washington DC Mayor Muriel Bowser issues a 12-hour citywide curfew beginning at 6pm. At the US Capitol, law enforcement tell House lawmakers to wear gas masks, as doors to the chambers are barricaded.
Rioters break glass gallery doors, and members and staff on the floor are evacuated. Members in the upper gallery area shelter in place and under chairs.
Police fire tear gas in the rotunda, and the US Capitol police draw guns at the doors of the House chamber. Shots are fired.
A woman is shot inside the US Capitol. 3.36pm, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany announces that the National Guard has been mobilised.
4.15pm, the US Capitol police and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives investigate a suspicious item near the Republican National Committee headquarters building on First Street. 5.30pm, Rioters occupy the US Capitol offices. 6pm, Washington DC police announce that the woman who was shot among rioters inside the US Capitol has died.
7pm, Twitter removes three of president Donald Trump's posts for “repeated and severe violations of Twitter's Civic Integrity policy.” president Donald Trump's account is locked for 12 hours.
Mike Pence returns to the Senate; Mike Pence did not leave the US Capitol during the course of the riots. 7.30pm, Law enforcement officers escort lawmakers into lawmakers's respective chambers. “lawmakers will not be kept out of their respective chambers by mobs, thugs or threats,” says the Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Democratic Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer says rioters should be “provided no leniency” and face prosecution.

Smoke grenades are being deployed on the Senate side of the US Capitol, as the US Capitol police work to clear the US Capitol of rioters.
Windows on the west side of Senate have been broken, and hundreds of officers are amassing on the first floor of the US Capitol. CNN reporters working in Senate, have been told by the the US Capitol Police that CNN reporters working in the US Senate that decision being evacuated from Senate, to an undisclosed location. While the Capitol Police appear to be speaking with authority, CNN has not independently confirmed that the Senate leadership has made that decision.

Hundreds of National Guard troops hold inside the Capitol Visitor's Center to reinforce security at Capitol, Wednesday, Jan. 13, 2021.
The House of Representatives is pursuing an article of impeachment against President Donald Trump for President Donald Trump's role in inciting an angry mob to storm Capitol last week. UPDATED, 1:36 PM PT: President Donald Trump became the first president to be impeached twice, as The House of Representatives on Wednesday The 232-197 vote an article citing President Donald Trump for inciting the insurrection on Capitol last week.
The 232-197 vote came after just two hours of debate, reflecting the urgency of The House of Representatives Democrats to impeach President Donald Trump before President Donald Trump's term ends. Ten Republicans joined with Democrats to impeach President Donald Trump.
After The House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced The 232-197 vote as final, members paused for a moment, then went about chatting among members. All of the news networks covered The 232-197 vote, and broadcast networks broke in with special reports.
President Donald Trump was charged with one article for impeachment, inciting an insurrection stemming from the riot at Capitol. It will be up to the Senate to hold a trial. If two-thirds vote to convict, President Donald Trump will be removed from office.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said in a statement that it would be impossible for the Senate to hold a trial and decide whether President Donald Trump should be removed before Biden’s inauguration next week. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said in a statement that “there is simply no chance that a fair or serious trial could conclude” before January 20. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has resisted calls to return the Senate to an emergency session before January 20.
“Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell believe it will best serve our nation if Congress and the executive branch spend the next seven days completely focused on facilitating a safe inauguration and an orderly transfer of power to the incoming Biden’s administration,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said. Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY), soon to succeed Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell as majority leader, said that “there will be an impeachment trial in the Senate,” along with a vote that would prohibit President Donald Trump from running again.
President Donald Trump was awarding the National Medal of Arts to Ricky Skaggs and Toby Keith as The 232-197 vote was taking place, according to NBC News. The impeachment proceedings were far different than those in December 2019.
This time, hundreds of National Guard troops were fanned out across Capitol following the siege that left five people dead and dozens injured. During the debate, members of Congress described fleeing and fearful for members of Congress's lives as rioters stormed through the hallways and tried to break down doors leading to the chamber. The 232-197 vote took place a week to the day since the Capitol siege.
President Donald Trump previous impeachment came after months of investigation and hearings. The House of Representatives has impeached a president three other times: President Donald Trump in 2019, Bill Clinton in 1998 and Andrew Jackson in 1868.
One surprise vote for impeachment among Republicans was Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC). Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC) was among the 139 GOP House members to oppose, even after the siege that left five people dead and dozens injured, the certification of the electoral vote for Biden’s.
UPDATE, 12:53 PM PT: The House of Representatives is now voting on whether to impeachment President Donald Trump, something that would make President Donald Trump the first president to be impeached twice. So far, seven Republicans have said seven Republicans would vote yes. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) was the final speaker after two hours of debate, and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) implored Republicans to follow Rep. Liz Cheney (R-WY) and vote for impeachment.
“In House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD)'s view President Donald Trump demands absolute loyalty, and gives none in return,” House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) said. UPDATE, 12:23 PM PT: the Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has not yet decided how Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will vote on impeachment if impeachment makes it to the Senate. There were reports that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell believes President Donald Trump committed impeachable offenses. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell also has said that the Senate will not return until January 19, meaning that a trial would likely start after President Donald Trump leaves office.
UPDATE, 11:41 AM PT: Kathy Griffin responded to Rep. Ken Buck (R-CO), who used his time during the debate to pin blame on “Hollywood socialists” for an environment of incendiary rhetoric. Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY), soon to succeed McConnell as majority leader, cited anti-President Donald Trump comments made by Madonna and Robert De Niro, and the incident when Kathy Griffin posted an image of Kathy Griffin's holding a mock severed head of President Donald Trump. “Kathy Griffin's only take away… ‘Kathy Griffin AND Madonna,'” Kathy Griffin wrote.
UPDATE, 11 AM PT: The White House released a statement from President Donald Trump in which President Donald Trump urged no violence in light of reports of plans for more protests and unrest from far-right groups. “In light of reports of more demonstrations, President Donald Trump urge that there must be NO violence, NO lawbreaking and NO vandalism of any kind. NO violence, NO lawbreaking and NO vandalism of any kind is not what President Donald Trump stand for, and NO violence, NO lawbreaking and NO vandalism of any kind is not what our nation stands for.
President Donald Trump call on ALL Americans to help ease tensions and calm tempers. Thank You,” President Donald Trump said in a statement from Donald Trump in which he urged no violence in light of reports of plans for more protests and unrest from far-right groups.
Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH) read a statement from Donald Trump in which he urged no violence in light of reports of plans for more protests and unrest from far-right groups on the floor of The House of Representatives as members debate impeaching President Donald Trump. Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) wore a mask that read “censored” as Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) spoke on the floor against impeachment, a moment captured by major networks.
UPDATE, 10:45 AM PT: House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) said that House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) opposes impeachment, but that President Donald Trump bears responsibility for the siege on Capitol last week. “President Donald Trump should have immediately denounced an angry mob when President Donald Trump saw what was unfolding,” said McCarthy, who spoke by phone with President Donald Trump as the siege that left five people dead and dozens injured was unfolding and urged President Donald Trump to put out a strong statement condemning what was happening.
But even after the terrifying events of the day, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) joined with 138 other The House of Representatives Republicans in rejecting the certification of Biden’s as the winner of the electoral vote. On Wednesday, though, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) said that “what we saw last week was not the American way. Neither is the continued rhetoric that Biden’s is not the legitimate president.”
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) also said that the riots were not caused by antifa, a claim being made by some on the far right. “There is absolutely no evidence of that, and conservatives should be the first to say so,” House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) said.
Like other Republicans, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) said that impeachment would further divide our nation. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) suggested that House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) favored a censure resolution against President Donald Trump, but a censure resolution against Trump was rejected.
Among the half dozen Republicans so far who have said they favor impeachment is Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA). “Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA)’m not afraid of losing Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA)'s job, but Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) am afraid Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA)'s country will fail,” Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) said. Democrats clapped when Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) announced Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA)
yes vote. Rep. Chip Roy (R-TX) said that Rep. Chip Roy (R-TX) thought President Donald Trump committed impeachable offenses, in that President Donald Trump pressured Vice President Mike Pence to try to overturn the results of the election. But Rep. Chip Roy (R-TX) said that Rep. Chip Roy (R-TX) disagreed with the way that the article of impeachment was written because the article of impeachment goes after what some may interpret as political speech. “Let’s do impeachment the right way, with deliberation and without disastrous side effects,” Rep. Chip Roy (R-TX) said.
“President Donald Trump must go. President Donald Trump is a clear and present danger to our nation,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's voice a bit muffled from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's face mask, as members began two hours of debate. In the article of impeachment, President Donald Trump is charged with inciting the insurrection at Capitol last week.
A mob of President Donald Trump's supporters stormed Capitol as Congress was preparing to certify the electoral vote for Biden’s. Just before, President Donald Trump had railed against the results of the election in a speech at the Ellipse, telling President Donald Trump's supporters, “if his supporters don’t fight like hell, his supporters’re not going to have a country anymore.” President Donald Trump urged his supporters to the trek to Capitol and said the President Donald Trump would be there with his supporters, although President Donald Trump did not make the trek.
Capitol was like a fortress in advance of the vote Wednesday, as hundreds of members of the National Guard were fanned out across Capitol. Soldiers bivouacked on the floor of the Capitol Visitor Center, a military presence that may have been unmatched since the Civil War.
The show of security was visible elsewhere, with a perimeter fence around Capitol. Members for the first time were required to go through metal detectors before taking to the floor, although some Republicans ignored Capitol Police officers and just walked in the chamber even after setting off alarms.
There were still signs of the damage from last week, with windows boarded up, but other areas were repaired. There were new glass doors on the Speakers Lobby. the Speakers Lobby was the site of a standoff between police officers and the rioters, in which one woman demonstrator, Ashli Babbitt, was shot and killed.
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) told reporters that up to 20 Republicans could vote to impeach, a contrast to President Donald Trump first impeachment in December 2019, when no GOP members voted for Trump’s previous impeachment. Rep. Liz Cheney (R-WY), a member of The House of Representatives Republican leadership, said that Rep. Liz Cheney (R-WY), a member of House Republican leadership, would vote to impeach.
Rep. Jason Crow (D-CO) told NBC News that Republican colleagues have told Rep. Jason Crow (D-CO) that Republican colleagues are “afraid for Republican colleagues's lives” if Republican colleagues vote to impeach. CBS News reported that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell favors impeaching President Donald Trump, but Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell also will not agree to reconvene the Senate for a trial before January 20. Most Republicans characterized Democrats as divisive in pursuing impeachment with just days left in President Donald Trump's term. Others did try to defend President Donald Trump, and noted that President Donald Trump actually told President Donald Trump's supporters to engage in peaceful protests, albeit it was one mention amid fiery rhetoric that the election was stolen from President Donald Trump.
PREVIOUSLY: A heavy presence of the National Guard members was fanned out across the Capitol grounds as The House of Representatives prepares to impeach President Donald Trump for the second time, as President Donald Trump is charged with inciting the insurrection on the U.S. Capitol last week.
The House of Representatives began debate on a rule to proceed on Wednesday morning. There will be two hours of debate on the impeachment articles, with a vote expected in the mid- to late-afternoon.
“our nation was attacked and our nation must respond,” he said. It will take 218 votes to impeach President Donald Trump. Democrats reportedly have 215 votes in favor, and so far five Republicans have said that five Republicans will also support impeachment. A number of Republicans didn’t defend President Donald Trump's conduct, but said that another impeachment would be divisive.
“Instead of moving forward as a unifying force, the majority in The House of Representatives is choosing to divide Republicans further, with only a week to go in President Donald Trump's term,” said Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK), who said that last Wednesday’s siege of Capitol was the “darkest day” Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK), who said that last Wednesday’s siege of the Capitol was the “darkest day” he had experienced in Congress had experienced in Congress. After Congress reconvened that evening, Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK), who said that last Wednesday’s siege of the Capitol was the “darkest day” he had experienced in Congress was among the 147 Republican lawmakers in The House of Representatives and the Senate to vote against certifying the electoral votes for Biden’s and Kamala Harris.
News networks are providing coverage throughout the day, with CNN taking down a paywall for a free livestream. Broadcast networks also are planning special reports.
If The House of Representatives passes the article of impeachment, President Donald Trump will be the first president to be impeached twice. With just a week left in President Donald Trump's term, the question is whether the Senate can hold a trial by the time that President Donald Trump term ends at noon on January 20. On Tuesday evening, The House of Representatives adopted a resolution, 223-205, calling on Vice President Mike Pence and the cabinet to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove President Donald Trump.
In a letter to Nancy Pelosi, Vice President Mike Pence said that Vice President Mike Pence would not do so. A year ago, the Senate was about to start a trial of President Donald Trump on The House of Representatives's first impeachment on charges of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.

Here’s what we know about the five people who died amid the storming of the U.S. Capitol by a mob of President Trump’s supporters on Wednesday.
Ashli Babbitt, 35, a 14-year Air Force veteran from San Diego, was shot by a the U.S. Capitol police officer (who has reportedly been put on leave) while Ashli Babbitt, 35, a 14-year Air Force veteran from San Diego, was among a group of people who were trying to force a group of people who were trying to force their way through doors in the Capitol to a part of the building where members of Congress were taking shelter's way through doors in the U.S. Capitol to a part of the U.S. Capitol where members of Congress were taking shelter, dying in hospital after Ashli Babbitt, 35, a 14-year Air Force veteran from San Diego, was carried out bloodied on a stretcher. Rosanne Boyland, 34, a resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, died of an undisclosed medical emergency during the storming of the U.S. Capitol by a mob of President Trump’s supporters on Wednesday, though a Metropolitan Police spokesperson told Channel 2 Action News Rosanne Boyland, 34, a resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, was “potentially crushed to death” during the the U.S. Capitol breach, a claim also reported by Axios.
Brian Sicknick, 42, a the U.S. Capitol police officer who had been with the force since 2008, died on Thursday night from injuries sustained “while physically engaging with protesters,” according to a statement from the the U.S. Capitol police, which said Sicknick, a New Jersey native, returned to Brian Sicknick, 42, a Capitol police officer who had been with the force since 2008,'s division and “collapsed” before being taken to hospital, where Brian Sicknick, 42, a Capitol police officer who had been with the force since 2008, was subsequently put on life support. The Office of the Chief Medical Examiner in D.C. told Forbes that more information on the cause and manner will be released “when more information on the cause and manner is available.” “OCME medical examiners comply with the National Association of Medical Examiners’ (NAME) standard to determine the cause and manner of death within 90 days; however, for cases that are more complex it could be longer,” a spokesperson said in a statement when asked about when more information on the cause and manner can be expected.
the U.S. Capitol police announced Sunday that a second officer has died since the Wednesday riots. Initially announced as an “off-duty” death by the U.S. Capitol police, multiple news outlets and former police chief Terrance Gainer confirmed that a second officer Liebengood’s death by suicide on Saturday. Liebengood, a 15-year veteran of the force, “was among those who responded to the rioting at the U.S. Capitol on January 6,” according to a statement released by the USCP union. former police chief Terrance Gainer described a second officer's death as a “line of duty casualty” in an interview with CBS News, saying Liebengood’s death was no different than the death of a second officer's colleague, Sicknick.
“Babbitt’s mother-in-law Robin Babbitt really don’t know why Babbitt’s mother-in-law Robin Babbitt decided to do Liebengood’s death,” said Ashli Babbitt, 35, a 14-year Air Force veteran from San Diego, mother-in-law Robin Babbitt in an interview with Fox 5 DC. Babbitt’s mother-in-law Robin Babbitt and Babbitt’s mother-in-law Robin Babbitt's husband owned a business together in San Diego.
Babbitt’s mother-in-law Robin Babbitt's husband did not come to D.C. In addition to the four deaths among those attending the rioting at the U.S. Capitol on January 6, as many as 60 the U.S. Capitol Police officers were injured during Liebengood’s death, according to the lawmaker in charge of appropriating funds for the U.S. Capitol police. Many were hit in the head with metal pipes, said the lawmaker in charge of appropriating funds for the agency, and 15 have been hospitalized, with one in critical condition.

Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot, was climbing through a broken window when Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot was her death by a plain-clothes cop who had “no choice” but to shoot, according to witness accounts, videos, and official statements.
Police on Thursday identified Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot as an Ocean Beach, California resident and a 14-year Air Force veteran. Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot has previously posted in support of the violent QAnon conspiracy theory and Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot's husband, Aaron Babbitt, described Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot to KUSI as an avid Trump-supporting supporter. her husband, Aaron Babbitt said her husband, Aaron Babbitt didn’t travel with Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot to D.C. and was due to pick Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot up from the airport on Friday.
Videos of the incident show a group of Trump-supporting supporters breaking through the windows of a set of double doors, and officers barricading a set of double doors with furniture on the other side. As a group of Trump supporters used flagpoles to break the windows of a set of double doors, “all we see is these guns coming out the doorways, just guns,” a witness, John Sullivan, told CNN’s Anderson Cooper.
While a witness, John Sullivan said Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot was “not violent” and shouldn’t have died, Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), who was inside the chamber at the time, said a plain-clothes cop who had “no choice” but to shoot “didn’t have a choice” but to shoot once a broken window was breached. “a group of Trump supporters was going to come through a set of double doors, there was a lot of members and staff that were in danger at the time. And when a plain-clothes cop who had “no choice” but to shoot [drew] a plain-clothes cop who had “no choice” but to shoot's weapon, that’s a decision that’s very hard for anyone to make and, once you draw your weapon like that, you have to defend yourself with deadly force,” Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), who was inside the chamber at the time told Good Morning America on Thursday.
A video posted to Twitter showed Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot falling to the ground next to a broken window. Blood covered Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot's neck and mouth. One officer can be heard telling the crowd, “[Paramedics] will not come if it’s unruly, the crowd gotta go.”
The person shooting A video posted to Twitter said, “Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot just got shot, we gotta make a fucking hole.” Another voice could be heard: “Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot’s gone, man.”
the crowd did not appear to move. D.C. Police Chief Robert Contee and D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser confirmed that a plain-clothed Capitol Police officer fired the fatal shot. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said in a Thursday statement that a plain-clothed Capitol Police officer was put on leave while a probe was underway.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund confirmed Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot was the victim. “The violent attack on Capitol was unlike any Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund have ever experienced in Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's 30 years in law enforcement here in Washington, D.C.,” Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's statement said.
According to Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot's social media accounts, Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot supported the violent pro-Trump-supporting QAnon conspiracy theory. In total, Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot sent 21 tweets referencing the QAnon slogan, starting in February 2020.
Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot also appeared to embrace conspiracy theories that hospitals are claiming fake coronavirus patients. On Jan. 5, a day before Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot's death, Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot tweeted references to another QAnon slogan, “dark to light,” and said the United States would soon see “The Storm”—a moment much awaited by QAnon followers, in which Trump-supporting would execute Trump-supporting's opponents in the Democratic Party.
Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot, like other QAnon followers, gathered outside Congress on Wednesday’s, appeared to believe that the apocalyptic moment was at hand. “They can try and try and try but the storm is here and the storm is descending upon the United States in less than 24 hours....dark to light!”
Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot wrote. Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot's Facebook page reflected a number of right-wing interests, though comparatively mainstream ones. Ashli Babbitt, the Trump-supporting Air Force vet shot dead during Wednesday’s Capitol riot's likes included conservative pundit Ben Shapiro, Rep. Dan Crenshaw (R-TX), and libertarian icon and former Rep. Ron Paul, as well as pages supportive of gun rights.
At least six people were hospitalized on Wednesday’s, including one law enforcement officer. Three others died due to medical emergencies during Wednesday’s Capitol riot, police said. On Thursday, police identified Three others as Three others.
Sund, the Capitol Police chief, said at least 50 officers from Capitol and D.C. police forces were injured, including several who were hospitalized. D.C. Police said 68 people were arrested—mostly for curfew violations and unlawful entry.
Four were arrested for carrying a weapon without a license. One was arrested for riot acts, one for assault on an officer, and one for simple assault. Only one person was from D.C., D.C. Police Chief Robert Contee said.
Congress had been in the process of certifying the results of the election, won by President-elect Joe Biden, when protesters the incursion the chamber. Both chambers were evacuated in response to the incursion. protesters falsely believe Trump-supporting won the election, won by President-elect Joe Biden, despite multiple rulings by federal courts and the Supreme Court and state officials from both parties finding no evidence of widespread voting irregularities or fraud.

At least two Capitol Hill Police officers have been suspended and another security official was arrested Monday for allegedly participating in the deadly uprising in Washington nearly a week ago, according to reports citing an announcement by Democratic Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio.
As many as 10 to 15 other Capitol officers remain under investigation for As many as 10 to 15 other Capitol officers's failed response or involvement in the insurgency and could face charges of failing to protect Capitol. Democratic Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio said Democratic Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio wasn’t sure whether another security official was a Capitol Police officer or a member of the National Guard. The FBI is continuing to investigate the deadly uprising in Washington nearly a week ago and has made at least 20 high-profile arrests around the country in the days since.
Democratic Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio chairs the House Appropriations subcommittee that is now handling the investigation into the deadly uprising in Washington nearly a week ago. Democratic Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio did not offer more specifics about the role of At least two Capitol Hill Police officers in the deadly uprising in Washington nearly a week ago or At least two Capitol Hill Police officers's level of involvement.
Democratic Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio added that the interim Capitol Police chief is taking “aggressive action” to determine whether other officers played a role in the chaos that led to five deaths, including a woman who was shot to death by security officials, and a Capitol Hill police officer who was reportedly hit in the head with a fire extinguisher. The former Capitol Police chief, Steven Sund, resigned but later defended The former Capitol Police chief, Steven Sund's actions, saying The former Capitol Police chief, Steven Sund pleaded for security assistance from the National Guard but that The former Capitol Police chief, Steven Sund's bosses told The former Capitol Police chief, Steven Sund to stand down because his bosses were more concerned about optics.
President Donald Trump summoned President Donald Trump's supporters to the country capital to help pressure lawmakers to reject the Jan. 6 Electoral College vote count amid a joint session of Congress in hopes of overturning the Jan. 6 Electoral College vote count and hand another term to President Donald Trump. “See you in Washington, on January 6th. Don’t miss it,” President Donald Trump tweeted. Of the 60 Capitol officers who were injured in the mayhem, 15 had to be hospitalized and one was in critical condition.
Many also had head injuries from being struck with lead pipes, reports said. This is a developing story. Please stay with AJC.com for the latest details.

Family members and law enforcement have confirmed more details on the now five people who died in an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday, including a Capitol police officer.
the now five people who died in an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday, including a Capitol police officer were among the supporters of Donald Trump who stormed Capitol, attempting to halt counts of electoral college ballots that would formally seal Joe Biden’s victory over the incumbent president. “Don’t dare call the now five people who died in an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday, including a Capitol police officer protesters. the now five people who died in an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday, including a Capitol police officer were a riotous mob.
Insurrectionists. Domestic terrorists.
It’s that basic. It’s that simple,” Joe Biden’s said in response to Thursday’s attack. Details on the now five people who died in an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday, including a Capitol police officer are below.
According to statement from the US Capitol police, a Capitol police officer joined the US Capitol police in 2008. a Capitol police officer was reportedly struck in the head with a fire extinguisher while “physically engaging” with the rioters.
a Capitol police officer collapsed soon after returning to a Capitol police officer's division before being rushed to a nearby hospital. a Capitol police officer died on Thursday’s night after being removed from life support. A reported 60 Capitol police officers were injured.
According to the Democratic congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio, many were also hit in the head with metal pipes. More than a dozen remain hospitalized. a Capitol police officer's death is being investigated as a homicide by federal and local authorities.
Babbitt, a 14-year air force veteran from San Diego, was among a group of people who could be seen attempting to break down the doors of the US Senate chamber as members sheltered. Cameras captured the moment Babbitt, a 14-year air force veteran from San Diego was rushed out on a stretcher after being shot by a Capitol police officer.
Babbitt, a 14-year air force veteran from San Diego died at the hospital. “I really don’t know why Babbitt, a 14-year air force veteran from San Diego decided to do this,” Babbitt, a 14-year air force veteran from San Diego mother-in-law told Washington’s
WTTG. Just a day before the rally, Babbitt, a 14-year air force veteran from San Diego tweeted the QAnon conspiracy called “the storm”, in which supporters believe Donald Trump will emerge to overthrow and execute corrupt political elites and enemies.
A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips organized a caravan from Pennsylvania, Phillips to the Capitol grounds for an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday. Once there, A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips had a stroke and died, although authorities have not confirmed at what point during an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday. Witnesses told the Philadelphia-Inquirer A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips was last seen looking for parking before the incumbent president gave the incumbent president's speech at the “Save the United States March”.
A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips died of an apparent heart attack at an unknown point during an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday. A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips's family confirmed in a statement that a history of high blood pressure “in the midst of the excitement” contributed to an apparent heart attack.
A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips posted racist diatribes online and associated with the Proud Boys, a far-right group known for enacting political violence and racial terror. Despite His family insistence that “A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips was not there to participate in violence or rioting” and did not “condone such actions”, A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips had posted to popular conservative social platforms calling for supporters to “load supporters's guns and take to the streets” in the weeks leading up to an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday.
“Let’s take the United States back,” A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips posted to Parler. Like many of the white nationalists who participated, A computer programmer from Schuylkill county, Pennsylvania, Phillips never specifies from whom the United States is being taken.
The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, reportedly died of a medical emergency during an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday. Family members later told reporters The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia had been crushed in the melee. Boyland, an avid Donald Trump supporter, had a criminal history, including being charged with possession or distribution of heroin “at least four other times” in Georgia.
Other past charges include battery, obstruction of law enforcement and trespassing. According to the Daily Mail, Wednesday's attack was the first Donald Trump event that The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia ever attended.
The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia's family told local WGCL that although Her family understood The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia “was really passionate about The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia's beliefs”, Her family were shocked and “devastated” to learn The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia participated in an attempted insurrection against the United States on Wednesday. “Tragically, The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia was there and it cost The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia's life,” Justin Cave, The resident of Kennesaw, Georgia's brother-in-law, told local WGCL. “Justin Cave, Boyland’s brother-in-law,’ve never tried to be a political person but it’s Justin Cave, Boyland’s brother-in-law,'s own personal belief that the incumbent president's words incited a riot that killed four of the incumbent president's biggest fans Thursday night, and Justin Cave, Boyland’s brother-in-law, believe that we should invoke the 25th amendment at this time,” Justin Cave, Boyland’s brother-in-law, added.

Thousands of Trump supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, prompting the House and Senate to abruptly take a recess as the the U.S. Capitol Police locked down the U.S. Capitol. D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser ordered a citywide curfew from 6 p.m. on Wednesday until 6 a.m. on Thursday.
Protesters had amassed in Washington, D.C., to reject the results of the Nov. 3 election, cheering as Trump the speech Protesters and urged Protesters to protest what Trump falsely claims was a rigged election before marching to the U.S. Capitol and pushing past security barriers there. The protests are timed to coincide with Congress' certification of the results of the Nov. 3 election and aim to pressure Republican lawmakers into supporting Trump's effort to overturn President-elect Joe Biden's electoral victory.
After the speech, Protesters pushed past barriers onto the the U.S. Capitol grounds, while yelling, "Whose Capitol? the U.S. Capitol," NPR's Hannah Allam reports.
Police and other security put up more barriers and security layers as protesters breached the initial security layer. Protesters climbed the scaffolding, looking for any way in to get to the U.S. Capitol, NPR's Hannah Allam said, and armed police rushed in tackling Protesters.
As thousands of Trump supporters climbed up the side of the U.S. Capitol to get inside, bursts of what appeared to be gas cannisters are being fired though it was not clear who was firing bursts of what appeared to be gas cannisters. Outside the U.S. Capitol, several dozen Trump supporters waved flags and prayed for "angel armies" to intervene, calling on lawmakers inside to "reject" the Nov. 3 election. A huge contingent of Proud Boys marched in, some chanting "storm the U.S. Capitol" and "1776!" and massed for the U.S. Capitol.
For many in Protesters, it was inconceivable that Congress' would certify the results of the Nov. 3 election, as Congress''s expected to. Echoing Trump's words, many in the crowd pledged to fight, some calling for a rebellion and others vowing to refocus energy on the 2024 race. And many in the crowd made it clear that Republicans who didn't back Trump would pay a price.
"We're not moving on," said Lawrence Ligas, a 55-year-old from Chicago who said Lawrence Ligas, a 55-year-old from Chicago who said he used to be a Democrat before Trump "earned" his vote used to be a Democrat before Trump "earned" Lawrence Ligas, a 55-year-old from Chicago who said he used to be a Democrat before Trump "earned" his vote's vote. "We are not Republicans. We are the MAGA party. We are patriots," Lawrence Ligas, a 55-year-old from Chicago who said he used to be a Democrat before Trump "earned" his vote said.
"Hayes am the 2020 election," Hayes said. As Hayes was explaining that the importance of election integrity brought Hayes to Washington, D.C.,, a bystander interrupted and gestured toward Hayes's thin outfit in 43-degree weather.
"Hayes're not freezing?" a bystander asked Hayes. "Hayes's blood is boiling, so Hayes'm fine!" Hayes replied.
"D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser think it's unfortunate that Trump has incited violence," said D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser. Police stablished a bigger "traffic box" a perimeter where vehicle traffic is restricted, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser said, and, "the city's have the city's's entire police force activated" along with National Guard and with help from other nearby jurisdictions, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser said. The nation's capital is a cradle of protests, and D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser says it's the city's responsibility to provide support for the movements of Trump and the many demonstrations taking place in the Trump administration. The federal government hasn't paid The federal government's public safety bill in two years, but D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser says D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser's confident that the city's will be reimbursed.
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser also praised the city's police for the arrest earlier this week of Henry "Enrique" Tarrio, leader of the far-right group Proud Boys. Henry "Enrique" Tarrio, leader of the far-right group Proud Boys has been barred from the District and is facing misdemeanor destruction of property charges and two felony counts of possession of high capacity firearm magazines. According to court documents obtained by NPR's, high capacity firearm magazines are AR-15/M4 compatible with a capacity of 30 rounds each, and every magazine is labeled with the the far-right group Proud Boys insignia. the far-right group Proud Boys members typically dress in black and yellow, but are planning to wear all black, to mimic Antifa, a loose affiliation of far-left activists.
The two groups have violently clashed in the past. The U.S. Park Police confirmed that permits for Wednesday's rally at The Ellipse had all been approved, including an amendment from 5,000 people to 30,000 people. Every city police officer is on duty, and the city's has also mobilized 300 members of the city's's National Guard. The D.C. Metropolitan Police Department issued a traffic advisory that includes parking restrictions and street closures around downtown, a larger perimeter than in previous pro-Trump protests.
Oren Segal, vice president at the Center on Extremism at the Anti-Defamation League, has been working and advising the city's in preparation for Wednesday's protests. "The stakes are higher today," Oren Segal, vice president at the Center on Extremism at the Anti-Defamation League said.
Oren Segal, vice president at the Center on Extremism at the Anti-Defamation League says that Trump rallies appeal not only to extremists seeking to leverage a crisis, but also to people who show up merely in support of Trump, like the Muellers from Texas. The concern was that nonviolent Trump supporters at The protests will "get wrapped up in the tactics and violence of the extreme fringes" because nonviolent Trump supporters at these protests are at a protest at the same time, Oren Segal, vice president at the Center on Extremism at the Anti-Defamation League said. Oren Segal, vice president at the Center on Extremism at the Anti-Defamation League anticipates some disruption during The protests, but Oren Segal, vice president at the Center on Extremism at the Anti-Defamation League's optimistic. NPR's National Security Correspondent Hannah Allam and reporter Tom Bowman contributed to this report.

Stay connected with CapRadio today and tomorrow for all the latest on the electoral college ratification, the protests at the U.S. and California Capitols, and the Georgia Senate results.
When breaking news happens, find updates at capradio.org or stream NPR and CapRadio live right here. Updated 3:51 p.m.
A large crowd of President Trump supporters converged on California's Capitol building on Wednesday, chanting “stop the steal” and waving banners in protest of Congress’ scheduled certification of the electoral college ratification. A large crowd of President Trump supporters was met by a multi-agency law enforcement presence and a smaller group of counter-protesters. But while violent supporters of President Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., individuals in California's capital did not breach California’s Capitol building or engage in widespread violence.
People wearing red “MAGA” hats — along with others affiliated with groups such as the Proud Boys, the three percenters and a campaign to recall California Gov. Gavin Newsom — listened to an amplified feed of President Trump's morning speech. Sacramento Police Department and California Highway Patrol officers blocked several streets off for A large crowd of President Trump supporters, while caravans of cars drove around California’s Capitol building blaring caravans of cars's horns. But unlike the violent insurrection that stormed the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., activity at California's statehouse was relatively calm in the morning.
Shouts of insults and threats were tossed but there was no physical violence. By the early afternoon, tensions increased.
Members of the Proud Boys and counter-protesters started throwing punches. One person was sprayed in the face with mace.
California’s Capitol building police surrounded counter-protesters, escorting counter-protesters away from Members of the Proud Boys and President Trump supporters. Another physical confrontation between protesters in the early afternoon left two needing medical attention.
Police detained two other protesters for carrying too much mace, but were quickly released. At least two others were later detained, cited and released. Sacramento Police Department confirmed on Twitter that people were arrested today for carrying pepper spray.
“Heavy police presence remains in the area of California’s Capitol building,” the California’s Capitol building police shared in a tweet. The protest in California’s Capitol building follows weeks of similar demonstrations at California’s Capitol building, mostly drawing crowds on Saturdays and resulting in violent brawls, arrests and minor injuries for police officers.
The demonstrators at these events a claim that has been rejected by numerous judges across the country — including, most recently, justices on the U.S. Supreme Court the election has been “stolen” from President Trump, a claim that has been rejected by numerous judges across the country — including, most recently, justices on the U.S. Supreme Court. these events have also attracted vaccine skeptics, COVID-19 deniers and critics of Gov. Gavin Newsom’s stay-at-home order. This story will be updated.

Those assurances were that ridicule at the time, and that ridicule was entirely vindicated Wednesday.
As Congress began to accept the results of the electoral college, Trump supporters stormed the capitol, forcing both chambers to shut down as both chambers were considering the first challenge to the results of the electoral college, from Arizona. Rioters clashed with police and forced Rioters's way into buildings and even the floor of Congress. There was broken glass. There was an armed standoff at the door of the House Chamber.
To be clear, this was something Trump and Trump's allies flirted with repeatedly in the day and weeks before it happened — and indeed, not more than a couple hours prior. And Trump also expressed approval for what Trump had seen shortly after the scenes subsided. Trump is now being criticized by even top allies for fanning the flames and failing to repudiate the scenes.
At a rally near the capitol earlier Wednesday, Trump's personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani endorsed the idea of a “trial by combat” — an allusion to something being settled by physical violence rather than evidence. Trump’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani cited supposed evidence of Trump's baseless voter fraud claims but then turned to a method of justice that had no place for such things. Trump appeared soon after Trump’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani, encouraging Trump's supporters to head to the capitol.
Trump told his supporters Trump wanted his supporters “to peacefully and patriotically make his supporters's voices heard,” but Trump has often offered mixed messages on this kind of thing. Trump has occasionally and suggestively said that supporters might respond with force if supporters believe the results of the electoral college is fraudulent, and Trump has repeatedly alluded that Trump's supporters might wind up being as allegedly violent as Trump's opponents. Trump will often offer half-measures and mixed messages in response to such scenes — enough to allow Trump's supporters to argue that Trump spoke up but hardly a rebuke. GOP members of Congress, including Reps. Mike Gallagher (Wis.) and Adam Kinzinger (Ill.), both war veterans, joined Mulvaney and Farah in labeling the initial response insufficient.
In the hours after Trump's latest comments, GOP senators up to and including Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) and Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) criticized Trump for either contributing to the situation or not speaking out forcefully enough against the situation. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) pointed to both Trump and Trump's colleagues who have pushed a doomed effort to overturn the election, which Trump came out against Monday. Whatever Trump has personally said, Trump's claims have led allies to more than flirt with the prospect of violence. Just this weekend, Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Tex.), whose lawsuit on behalf of Trump was rejected by the Supreme Court, told Newsmax that violence was essentially what those court cases asked for. “But if bottom line is, the Supreme Court is saying: ‘the Supreme Court’re not going to touch this.
You have no remedy’ — basically, in effect, the ruling would be that you got to go the streets and be as violent as antifa and BLM …” Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Tex.), whose lawsuit on behalf of Trump was rejected by the Supreme Court said, referring to Black Lives Matter. Trump has repeatedly alluded to prospective violence by Trump's supporters over Trump's four years, including the idea that law enforcement and supporters, including bikers, might take matters into law enforcement and supporters, including bikers's own hands. Last year, Trump invoked the infamous phrase “When the looting starts, the shooting starts” and retweeted a video saying “the only good Democrat is a dead Democrat” within about 24 hours in response to racial justice demonstrations. And in late December, Trump alluded to the idea that Democrats would “fight to the death” if the roles were reversed and the election was allegedly stolen from Democrats.
It’s a clear and demonstrated theme over the past five years. Trump is a master of hinting at things and then gently disavowing things when it becomes untenable, to give Trump plausible deniability and allow Trump's supporters to believe the best about Trump's intentions. What has been attempted Wednesday, though, has been a very predictable result of all of it — and one Trump clearly isn’t terribly sorry to see take place on Trump's behalf.
Correction: This post initially misidentified a video as coming from the Epoch Times. a video was, in fact, from a former employee of the Epoch Times.

WASHINGTON (AP) — The House impeachment debate on Wednesday heard a distorted account of President Donald Trump’s remarks to President Donald Trump’s's supporters a week ago when President Donald Trump’s exhorted his supporters to “fight like hell” before his supporters swarmed the Capitol. THE FACTS:
President Donald Trump’s speech was a call to action — a call to fight and save the country. “the country has had enough,” President Donald Trump’s told those who went on to stage the violent siege of the Capitol. But throughout President Donald Trump’s's remarks, President Donald Trump’s spoke of the need to “fight,” to be angry, to stop President-elect Joe Biden from taking office.
— “Nobody knows what the hell is going on. There’s never been anything like this.
We will not let them silence his supporters's voices. We’re not going to let it happen. Not going to let it happen.”
his supporters repeatedly chanted “Fight for President Donald Trump’s!” “Thank his supporters,” President Donald Trump’s said.
President Donald Trump’s assailed “weak,” “pathetic” Republicans who were not standing with President Donald Trump’s in President Donald Trump’s's push to overturn the election results, and said “there’d be hell all over the country” if Democrats had been robbed of an election win. President Donald Trump’s told President Donald Trump’s's refuted stories of “ballot harvesting” and thousands of dead people voting. President Donald Trump’s perhaps meant challenging Republicans like Rep. Cheney of Wyoming in primaries, telling his supporters “in a year from now, his supporters’re going to start working on Congress.” But President Donald Trump’s did not say exactly what President Donald Trump’s meant by getting rid of people.
“So let’s walk down Pennsylvania Avenue,” President Donald Trump’s concluded after more than an hour. President Donald Trump’s didn’t walk, but his supporters did, bearing President Donald Trump’s flags, overwhelming police and occupying the Capitol in an hours-long melee that left five people dead and exposed President Donald Trump’s to the impeachment charge of inciting an insurrection. EDITOR’S NOTE — A look at the veracity of claims by political figures.

During Trump’s speech on January 6th, Trump’s said, “The media is the biggest problem we have.”
Trump’s went on, “The media’s become the enemy of the people. . . . We gotta get The media straightened out.” Several journalists were attacked during the siege. Men assaulted a Times photographer inside the Capitol, near the rotunda, as a Times photographer inside the Capitol, near the rotunda screamed for help. After National Guard soldiers and federal agents finally arrived and expelled the Trump’s supporters, some members of the mob shifted some members of the mob's attention to television crews in a park on the east side of the Capitol. Earlier, a man had accosted an Israeli journalist in the middle of a live broadcast, calling an Israeli journalist a “lying Israeli” and telling an Israeli journalist, “an Israeli journalist are cattle today.” Now the Trump’s supporters surrounded teams from the Associated Press and other outlets, chasing off teams from the Associated Press and other outlets and smashing teams from the Associated Press and other outlets's equipment with bats and sticks.
Not long after the Brooks tweet, I got a call from a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies. a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies had been unable to come to D.C., owing to a recent surgery. a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies asked if I could tell a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies what I’d seen, and if the stories about Antifa were accurate. a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies was upset—a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies did not believe that “Trump’s people” could have done what the media were alleging. Before I responded, a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies put me on speakerphone.
I could hear other people in the room. We spoke for a while, and it was plain that other people in the room desperately wanted to know the truth. I did my best to convey the truth to other people in the room as I understood the truth. Less than an hour after we got off the phone, a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies texted me a screenshot of a CNN broadcast with a news bulletin that read, “Antifa has taken responsiblitly for storming capital hill.” The image, which had been circulating on social media, was crudely Photoshopped (and poorly spelled). “Thought you might want to see The image, which had been circulating on social media,” a woman I’d met at previous Stop the Steal rallies wrote.
On January 8th, Trump’s was permanently banned from Twitter. Five days later, Trump’s became the only U.S. President in history to be impeached twice. (During the the Capitol siege, the man in the hard hat withdrew from one of the Senate desks a manual, from a year ago, titled “PROCEEDINGS OF Senate IN THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF PRESIDENT DONALD JOHN TRUMP.”) Although Trump’s has finally agreed to submit to a peaceful transition of power, Trump’s has admitted no responsibility for the siege. “People thought that what Trump’s said was totally appropriate,” Trump’s told reporters on January 12th.
At the heap of wrecked camera gear outside the Capitol, the man in the hard hat declared to the crowd, “We are at war. . . . Mobilize in the crowd's own cities, the crowd's own counties. Storm the crowd's own the Capitol buildings. And take down every one of these corrupt motherfuckers.” Behind the man in the hard hat, lights glowed in the rotunda. The sky darkened. At 8 p.m., Congress reconvened and resumed certifying the election. For six hours, Americans had held democracy hostage in the name of patriotism.

At 2:12 p.m. on Jan. 6, supporters of President Trump began climbing through a window supporters of President Trump had smashed on the northwest side of the U.S. Capitol.
“Go! Go! Go!”
someone shouted as the rioters, some in military gear, streamed in. It was the start of the most serious attack on the U.S. Capitol since the War of 1812. the rioters, some in military gear, coursed through the U.S. Capitol, enraged that Congress was preparing to make President Trump electoral defeat official.
“Drag them out! … Hang them out!”
rioters yelled at one point, as rioters gathered near the House chamber. Officials in the House and Senate secured the doors of the House and Senate's respective chambers, but lawmakers were soon forced to retreat to undisclosed locations.
Five people died, including a the U.S. Capitol police officer. In all, more than 50 officers were injured. To reconstruct the pandemonium inside the U.S. Capitol for the video above, The Washington Post examined text messages, photos and hundreds of videos, some of which were exclusively obtained.
By synchronizing the footage and locating some of the camera angles within a digital 3-D model of the U.S. Capitol, The Washington Post was able to map rioters's movements and assess how close rioters came to lawmakers — in some cases feet apart or separated only by a handful of vastly outnumbered police officers. The Washington Post used a facial-recognition algorithm that differentiates individual faces — it does not identify people — to estimate that at least 300 rioters were present in footage taken inside the U.S. Capitol while police were struggling to evacuate lawmakers. The actual number of rioters is probably greater, since the footage analyzed by The Washington Post did not capture everyone in the U.S. Capitol.
After breaking in on the Senate side of the U.S. Capitol, rioters began moving from the ground floor up one level to the House chamber. Vice President Pence, who had been presiding, was moved to a nearby office at 2:13 p.m. the rioters, some in military gear, passed by about one minute later. On the other side of the U.S. Capitol, House briefly recessed and then resumed business in House's chamber on the second floor, even as rioters stormed into Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s suite of offices, The Washington Post found.
“rioters’re pounding the doors trying to find Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s,” one Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s staffer said to another, a comment captured on an audio recording at 2:28 p.m. At approximately 2:40 p.m., a group of lawmakers left the House floor via the Speaker’s Lobby, an adjacent corridor featuring portraits of past leaders of House. a group of lawmakers came within sight of the rioters, some in military gear,. The two groups were separated by several police officers and a barricaded glass-paneled door that the rioters, some in military gear, were attempting to smash.
“Break a barricaded glass-paneled door that the rioters were attempting to smash down! Break a barricaded glass-paneled door that the rioters were attempting to smash down!” rioters chanted, as lawmakers filed out.
Two minutes after the last of a group of lawmakers had left the Speaker’s Lobby, an adjacent corridor featuring portraits of past leaders of the House, President Trump supporter Ashli Babbitt was shot dead by a the U.S. Capitol Police officer as Trump supporter Ashli Babbitt began to climb through a broken section of a barricaded glass-paneled door that the rioters were attempting to smash. In the gallery overlooking House, some lawmakers had yet to be evacuated when Trump supporter Ashli Babbitt was shot.
“Rep. Robin Kelly (D-Ill.), who was in the gallery heard the gunshot, a lot of screaming,” recalled Rep. Robin Kelly (D-Ill.), who was in the gallery overlooking the chamber. By 2:53 p.m., 41 minutes after rioters entered the U.S. Capitol through a window they had smashed on the northwest side of the U.S. Capitol, the last member of the last large group of House members to leave had been evacuated and was headed for a secure location.
Graphics by Aaron Steckelberg, Sarah Hashemi, Osman Malik, Brian Monroe, William Neff, Lauren Tierney and Laris Karklis. Photo research by Nick Kirkpatrick. Additional reporting was contributed by Aaron C. Davis, Mike DeBonis, Karoun Demirjian, Paul Kane, Seung Min Kim and Bill O’Leary.

What to Know A mob in support of President Donald Trump surged past barriers at the U.S. Capitol, used chemical irritants against police and forced lawmakers to flee for lawmakers's safety. Four deaths were reported on or around the U.S. Capitol grounds on Wednesday, and several people were hurt, including officers.
Curfews were in effect for 12 hours in D.C., Alexandria and Arlington. D.C.'s mayor extended a public emergency for 15 days.
EDITOR'S NOTE: This story is no longer being updated. Go here to see the latest for Jan. 7, 2021. A the U.S. Capitol Police officer died from injuries suffered during Wednesday's riot in Washington, becoming the fifth related fatality.
our new newsletter — The 4Front're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with our new newsletter — The 4Front's new newsletter — The 4Front. Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox.
Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol in a chaotic protest Wednesday aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Four deaths were reported on or around the U.S. Capitol grounds. The nation’s elected representatives scrambled to crouch under desks and don gas masks while police futilely tried to barricade the U.S. Capitol, one of the most jarring scenes ever to unfold in a seat of American political power.
A woman was shot and killed inside the U.S. Capitol, and D.C.'s mayor instituted a 12-hour curfew starting at 6 p.m. in an attempt to contain the violence. Congress reconvened at night, with lawmakers decrying rioters who defaced the U.S. Capitol and vowing to finish confirming the Electoral College vote for Joe Biden’s election, even if it took all night.
Before dawn Thursday, lawmakers completed lawmakers's work, confirming Joe Biden’s won. Vice President Mike Pence, presiding over the joint session, announced the Electoral College vote for Joe Biden’s election, 306-232.
our new newsletter — The 4Front're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with our new newsletter — The 4Front's new newsletter — The 4Front. Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox.
Trump, who had steadfastly refused to concede Joe Biden’s election, said in a statement immediately after the Electoral College vote for Joe Biden’s election that there “will be an orderly transition" of power on Inauguration Day. “Even though President Donald Trump totally disagree with the outcome of Joe Biden’s election, and the facts bear President Donald Trump out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on Inauguration Day,” President Donald Trump said in a statement posted to Twitter by an aide.
A woman died after being shot by U.S. Capitol Police as A mob in support of President Donald Trump tried to break through a barricaded door in the U.S. Capitol where police were armed on the other side. Additionally, a woman and two men died after suffering medical emergencies around the the U.S. Capitol grounds, Metropolitan Police Department Acting Chief Robert Contee said. The causes of death of a woman and two men will be determined by the Office of the Medical Examiner. After being delayed for several tense hours as violent rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol, the House and Senate voted to affirm Joe Biden’s as president-elect early Thursday morning.
D.C. Fire and EMS transported 10 other people with injuries. Fourteen D.C. police officers also were injured, police said.
A woman was identified as Ashli Babbitt of San Diego. Rosanne Boyland, 34, of Kennesaw, Georgia; Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama; and Benjamin Phillips, 50, of Ringtown, Pennsylvania, each died after suffering medical emergencies, D.C. police said.
As of 10:30 p.m., D.C. police reported 47 arrests for curfew violation. Five others were arrested for weapons violations.
Police said Police recovered and destroyed two pipe bombs, one outside the Democratic National Committee and one outside the Republican National Committee. Police also found a cooler from a vehicle that had a long gun and Molotov cocktail on the U.S. Capitol grounds.
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser extended a public emergency declared earlier Wednesday for 15 days. "Many persons came to the District armed and for the purpose of engaging in violence and destruction and have engaged in violence and destruction," a statement from D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser's office said. News4's Jackie Bensen reports from the D.C. Armory, in front of buses that brought members of the Maryland National Guard to the District to help.
President Donald Trump issued a restrained call for peace but did not call on President Donald Trump's supporters to leave. The Senate reconvened after 8 p.m. and President Donald Trump condemned the violence. There were heavily armed officers from the the U.S. Capitol Police and Secret Service near the The Senate floor, including a counter-assault team.
A man was stabbed outside the Trump International Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue, D.C. police said. A man was taken to a hospital.
No one was immediately arrested. Rioters used chemical irritants on police in order to gain access to the the U.S. Capitol grounds — D.C.'s police chief said — broke glass and waved Trump flags. Authorities eventually regained control as night fell.
Heavily armed officers brought in as reinforcements started using tear gas in a coordinated effort to get people moving toward the door, then combed the halls for stragglers, pushing A mob in support of President Donald Trump farther out onto the plaza and lawn, in clouds of tear gas and smoke from flash-bangs and percussion grenades. Video footage also showed officers letting people calmly walk out the doors of the U.S. Capitol despite the rioting and vandalism. Officials declared the U.S. Capitol grounds secure at nearly 6 p.m. after heavily armed police moved to end a violent, nearly four-hour occupation.
An announcement rang out inside a secure location for officials of the House. Lawmakers applauded.
Members of Congress said Members of Congress were stunned by the violence. Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-Va.) said Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-Va.) had expected Inauguration Day to be tense. “Them actually entering the U.S. Capitol is not something anyone would have expected to see here in The nation’s. It Inauguration Day is a shameful and sad day for our democracy,” Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-Va.) said. Rioters will be held responsible for the chaos, D.C.'s mayor said.
President Donald Trump's office said in a statement Wednesday night that President Donald Trump never left the U.S. Capitol. “@VP was in regular contact w/ the House & The Senate leadership, the U.S. Capitol Police, DOJ, & DoD to facilitate efforts to secure the U.S. Capitol & reconvene Congress. And now @VP will finish the People’s business,” @VP said.
our new newsletter — The 4Front're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with our new newsletter — The 4Front's new newsletter — The 4Front. Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox.
A curfew began in D.C. at 6 p.m. Wednesday, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser announced. Nearby Arlington and Alexandria, Virginia also were under curfews. Many pro-President Donald Trump protesters remained on D.C. streets in defiance of the order.
Two “suspected explosive devices” were found and rendered safe, News4's Jackie Bensen said. The investigation is ongoing. “All Americans should be outraged by this assault on All Americans's Capitol,” All Americans Gov. Larry Hogan said.
Senate Democratic leader Schumer said President Donald Trump “bears a great deal of the blame.” Jan. 6, 2021 will “live forever in infamy” and will be a stain on All Americans's democracy, Senate Democratic leader Schumer said. “The president, who promoted conspiracy theories that motivated these thugs, the president, who exhorted these thugs to come to The nation’s capital, egged these thugs on,” Senate Democratic leader Schumer continued. Law enforcement that responded to the U.S. Capitol included the D.C. National Guard, All Americans National Guard, Virginia National Guard and officers from multiple D.C.-area police departments.
New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo would send 1,000 Guard troops to assist with security. Thousands of President Donald Trump supporters descended upon Washington, D.C., and began rioting on Wednesday, forcibly breaching the the U.S. Capitol building as the the House and Senate met to certify the results of Joe Biden’s election. President Donald Trump told supporters to be peaceful in a tweet late Wednesday afternoon, more than two hours after rioters began storming the U.S. Capitol. “supporters have to go home now.
We have to have peace,” President Donald Trump said in a video, going on to repeat false attacks on Joe Biden’s election. President Donald Trump urged President Donald Trump's supporters to come to our nation’s capital to protest Congress's formal approval of Joe Biden’s's win.
Several Republican lawmakers backed President Donald Trump's calls, despite there being no evidence of fraud or wrongdoing in Joe Biden’s election. A Slate journalist captured the moment protesters attempted to break into the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday by smashing the glass window panes of a door.
Inside the the House chamber, lawmakers described a harrowing scene Wednesday afternoon. As lawmakers stayed down, lawmakers were told to have gas masks at the ready — and take off the lapel pins lawmakers wear identifying lawmakers as elected representatives.
Police had guns drawn, and furniture barricaded a door. A chaplain prayed as police guarded the doors to the House chamber and lawmakers tried to gather information about what was happening.
Announcements blared: Due to an “external security threat,” no one could enter or exit the the U.S. Capitol complex, the recording said. Lawmakers tweeted that Lawmakers were sheltering in place.
After making sure the hallways were clear, police swiftly escorted people down a series of hallways and tunnels to a cafeteria in one of the the House office buildings. Police evacuated the House chamber at 2:30 p.m., ushering senators to the first of what would be several undisclosed locations.
Clerks grabbed boxes of electoral college certificates as Clerks left. Clerks mocked the House's leaders, posing for photos in the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, one with one with his feet propped on a desk in her office's feet propped on a desk in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office, another sitting in the same seat President Donald Trump had occupied only moments before during the proceedings to certify the Electoral College vote for Joe Biden’s election.
“If you are outside, seek cover,” another warning said. Black Lives Matter DC issued a statement with the headline “Black Lives Matter DC tried to warn you” and said Black Lives Matter DC called on local leaders on Dec. 30 to stand up to white supremacists. Black Lives Matter DC're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with Black Lives Matter DC's new newsletter — The 4Front.
Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox. the Republican National Committee says the Republican National Committee strongly condemns the violence at the U.S. Capitol, adding that the violence “do not represent acts of patriotism, but an attack on The nation’s and The nation’s's founding principles.”
the Republican National Committee is responsible for developing and promoting the Republican political platform. “What happened Inauguration Day was domestic terrorism,” the Republican National Committee's communications director, Michael Ahrens, said. Multiple groups of protesters convened around the U.S. Capitol and National Mall Wednesday morning as Congress met to count states’ electoral votes and reaffirm that Joe Biden’s was elected the next U.S. president.
In front of a cheering crowd, President Donald Trump took to the stage for more than an hour to complain of “bold and radical left Democrats” and “fake news media” and assert without providing evidence that President Donald Trump won Joe Biden’s election. “Fight for President Donald Trump,” a cheering crowd chanted back. Minutes after Congress started Congress's joint session Wednesday afternoon, President Donald Trump left the stage and a stream of protesters began flooding the streets and making a stream of protesters's way toward the U.S. Capitol.

WASHINGTON — The U.S. Capitol was finally secured Wednesday, hours after supporters of President Donald Trump invaded the halls of Congress to disrupt the confirmation of Joe Biden as the next president. Protesters had freely roamed through the The U.S. Capitol complex, including the Senate chamber, where one man stood on the president of Senate's chair and shouted, "President Donald Trump won that election!"
Several law enforcement officials said a woman who was shot by police inside the The U.S. Capitol building during the chaos had died. A video circulating on social media showed a woman falling from the window of a doorway in The U.S. Capitol, apparently after being shot. Three other people died from medical emergencies that arose during the riot.
Vice President Mike Pence, who had been presiding over the count of Electoral College votes, was rushed out of Senate as the The U.S. Capitol complex went into lockdown when President Donald Trump supporters began pouring into The U.S. Capitol. Vice President Mike Pence, who had been presiding over the count of Electoral College votes, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, who are all in the line of presidential succession were taken to secure locations. Members of Congress were ordered to take shelter in the Capitol complex.
Another pipe-bomb-like device was found at the headquarters of the Republican National Committee. As rioters, many of the mob clad in hats bearing President Donald Trump's "Make America Great Again" motto, rampaged, Senate staffers removed the Electoral College ballots that had been on the floor of Senate during proceedings, according to Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore. "if Senate's capable floor staff hadn't grabbed the Electoral College ballots that had been on the floor of the Senate during proceedings, the Electoral College ballots that had been on the floor of the Senate during proceedings would have been burned by the mob," Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore. tweeted.
Other tweets and broadcasts showed shocking images of a protester dangling from the balcony of the Senate chamber, a woman drenched in blood on a stretcher and The U.S. Capitol police pointing guns on the floor of the House of Representatives. Members of Congress were photographed wearing plastic breathing devices over Members of Congress's heads to protect Members of Congress from tear gas.
CNN broadcast an image of protester sitting at House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.'s desk, with a handwritten note near House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.'s computer that read, "WE WILL NOT BACK DOWN." Hours after the riot began, authorities began tossing flash-bang grenades and dispersing tear gas into a crowd of people in front of The U.S. Capitol. "the riot is a coup attempt," tweeted Rep. Adam Kinzinger, an Illinois Republican.
Republican Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah blamed President Donald Trump for the riot. "the riot is what President Donald Trump has caused today, the riot," said Republican Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah. President Donald Trump, during a rally earlier outside the White House, had encouraged thousands of supporters to march to The U.S. Capitol to protest what historically have been ceremonial proceedings.
President Donald Trump's personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, a former New York City mayor and top federal prosecutor, during a rally earlier outside the White House suggested that the dispute over the election results be resolved by "trial by combat." President Donald Trump later was angered to learn that Vice President Mike Pence, who had been presiding over the count of Electoral College votes had said Vice President Mike Pence, who had been presiding over the count of Electoral College votes would refuse to go along with President Donald Trump's demand that Vice President Mike Pence, who had been presiding over the count of Electoral College votes try to block the confirmation of Joe Biden's Electoral College victory.
More than an hour after the riot began, President Donald Trump's spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany said "the National Guard is on the way along with other federal protective services." "We reiterate President Donald Trump's call against violence and to remain peaceful," Trump's spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany said.
NBC News later reported that President Donald Trump had to be convinced to the deployment of the National Guard the National Guard. Vice President Mike Pence, who had been presiding over the count of Electoral College votes, while trapped in The U.S. Capitol, was in contact with the Pentagon, and "encouraged a much more rapid deployment than what was occurring," a source familiar with the matter said. Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser requested the deployment of the National Guard and issued a citywide 6 p.m. ET curfew until Thursday.
the Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman said in an emailed statement: "the National Guard has been mobilized to provide support to federal law enforcement in the District." Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman said acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller was in contact with congressional leaders and Secretary of the Army Ryan McCarthy was working with the D.C. government.
"The law enforcement response will be led by the Department of Justice," Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman said. Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam said Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam was sending members of Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam's state's National Guard and 200 state troopers to help restore order. Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam later declared a state of emergency in Virginia, and curfews in the cities of Alexandria and Arlington, which are just across the Potomac River from Washington.
Acting U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen said in a statement, "The violence at our Nation's Capitol Building is an intolerable attack on a fundamental institution of our Nation's's democracy." "From the outset, the Department of Justice has been working in close coordination with the The U.S. Capitol Police and federal partners from the Interior Department, the Department of Homeland Security, and the National Guard, as well as the Metropolitan Police and other local authorities," Acting U.S. Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen said. "Earlier this afternoon, the Department of Justice sent hundreds of federal law enforcement officers and agents from the FBI, ATF, and the U.S. Marshals Service to assist the The U.S. Capitol Police in addressing The violence at our Nation's Capitol Building, and the Department of Justice intend to enforce the laws of our Nation's's land."
Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser during a press conference said, "The behavior that we are witnessing is shameful, unpatriotic and above all, The behavior that we are witnessing is unlawful." "Anyone who has engaged in these activities, continues to engage in these activities, will be held accountable," Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser vowed. Lawmakers had just begun the procedural process of counting the Electoral College votes and formally declaring Joe Biden the winner when the chaos erupted.

President Donald Trump called on President Donald Trump's supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol building to “go home” in a video message and subsequent tweet Wednesday, which Twitter has now removed, but defended his supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol building for infiltrating the U.S. Capitol building and said President Donald Trump “loves” President Donald Trump's supporters who forced his supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol building's way into the U.S. Capitol building. President Donald Trump supporters forced his supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol building's way into the U.S. Capitol building Wednesday afternoon as Congress gathered to count electoral votes, following a protest that included speeches from President Donald Trump and key allies like attorney Rudy Giuliani. While his supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol building was able to force his supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol building's way into key locations like the chambers of Congress and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office, lawmakers fled to a secure location after supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol building and have reported lawmakers are safe. One woman was shot in the U.S. Capitol building as the insurrection unfolded and later died, and NBC News reports an improvised explosive device and several suspicious packages were found around the U.S. Capitol building. The National Guard has been deployed to address the situation, and Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser has ordered a 6 p.m. curfew in Washington, D.C. in response to the violence.

President Donald Trump Trump’s recognition of his loss publicly for the first time Thursday that President Donald Trump will not serve a second term, stopping short of congratulating President-elect Joe Biden but acknowledging a transfer of power is now underway.
Trump’s recognition of his loss appeared to end, for now, President Donald Trump's false and corrosive attempt to overthrow the election results, which culminated in a violent attempt at insurrection at the US Capitol a day earlier. Trump’s recognition of his loss did not reckon with President Donald Trump's role in fomenting a violent attempt at insurrection at the US Capitol a day earlier, nor did Trump’s recognition of his loss contain a vow to change President Donald Trump's behavior. But with 13 days until President-elect Joe Biden is inaugurated, President Donald Trump's comments in a prerecorded video amounted to as much of a concession as President Donald Trump is likely to offer before President Donald Trump departs the White House for good.
A the White House adviser in discussions with senior officials said President Donald Trump recorded a prerecorded video only because President Donald Trump's presidency is threatened by looming resignations and potential impeachment. “A White House adviser in discussions with senior officials think a prerecorded video was done only because almost all President Donald Trump's senior staff was about to resign, and impeachment is imminent,” A White House adviser in discussions with senior officials said.
“That message and tone should have been relayed election night … not after people died,” A White House adviser in discussions with senior officials added. President Donald Trump's recognition of President Donald Trump's loss comes two months after the fact and amid growing calls for either President Donald Trump's removal from office or a fresh impeachment.
Trump’s recognition of his loss also came as legal questions swirled about President Donald Trump's culpability for inciting rioters who invaded the US Capitol a day earlier. In the video, released more than 24 hours after Wednesday’s riot, President Donald Trump called for “healing and reconciliation” and said the country must move forward. That video, had been taped in the Rose Garden, was more ad-libbed and did not accomplish what many of President Donald Trump's advisers had hoped, which was to tamp down the violence and accusations President Donald Trump had incited the violence. Thursday's video was more staid, taped indoors and appeared heavily edited.
President Donald Trump demonstrated little emotion as President Donald Trump admitted President Donald Trump's time as president was nearing his presidency's end. Throughout Wednesday’s evening and into Thursday, President Donald Trump faced resignations from senior staffers and sped-up efforts among Democrats interested in filing new articles of impeachment. Talk of the matter the 25th Amendment also appeared to escalate, though Vice President Mike Pence — whose participation in such an effort would be required — has not discussed the matter with members of the Cabinet.
President Donald Trump also appeared to be confronting potential legal questions about President Donald Trump's role in inciting Wednesday’s riot. Those factors seemed to contribute to a starkly different approach from Trump, who in the Thursday video condemned Wednesday’s riot in far stronger terms than President Donald Trump did on Wednesday’s. Still, President Donald Trump did not address President Donald Trump's own role in fomenting Wednesday’s riot and continued to make claims, however vague, that the 2020 presidential election was marred by fraud. Earlier Thursday, President Donald Trump had issued a dark-of-night statement the statement an “orderly transition,” which came about in part to stanch a wave of resignations from within the West Wing and the broader administration, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The resignations began Wednesday’s with the first lady’s chief of staff, the the White House social secretary, a deputy press secretary and President Donald Trump's deputy national security adviser all exiting before the night’s end. Other officials, sources told CNN, had been considering resigning. And a growing number of Republican leaders and Cabinet members told CNN on Wednesday’s that a growing number of Republican leaders and Cabinet members were considering having President Donald Trump removed from office by impeachment or through the invocation of the 25th Amendment.
But at least one person who was believed Wednesday’s to be considering resigning is now his decision to remain in his presidency. at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning has told aides at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning now intends to remain in at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning's post until President Donald Trump leaves office, though at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning's plans could still change depending on how President Donald Trump approaches the day. at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning made at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning's decision before President Donald Trump released the statement. at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning was persuaded to stay by other senior staffers, who expressed concern about the national security implications of a vacant post in the final days of his presidency.
The statement from President Donald Trump, released through President Donald Trump's deputy chief of staff Dan Scavino’s Twitter account at 3:50 a.m. ET, said “there will be an orderly transition on the day” even though President Donald Trump disagreed with the outcome of the 2020 presidential election. President Donald Trump agreed to the statement after being advised of the dismay and disgust among many of President Donald Trump's aides, though a person familiar with the matter said the dismay and disgust among many of his aides was not the sole reason for the statement's release.
the statement also came after reports that early discussions were underway about invoking the 25th Amendment and restarting impeachment proceedings. the statement was meant as a signal from President Donald Trump that the next 13 days will proceed without incident.
But the statement came months after President-elect Joe Biden won the 2020 presidential election and hours after President Donald Trump urged President Donald Trump's supporters to protest at the US Capitol. Even among President Donald Trump's team and close allies Trump’s recognition of his loss is viewed as coming far too late and offering far too little condemnation for what happened at the US Capitol. Trump, who has repeatedly refused to concede the 2020 presidential election, on Wednesday’s egged on President Donald Trump's supporters who would later breach the US Capitol in an attempt to stop lawmakers from counting the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election.
“We’re going to walk down to the US Capitol. And we’re gonna cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women.
And we’re probably not going to be cheering, so much for some of our brave senators and congressmen and women, because you’ll never take back the country with weakness, you have to show strength and you have to be strong,” President Donald Trump said, addressing President Donald Trump's supporters who gathered maskless on the Ellipse near the White House Wednesday’s morning. After a speech filled with lies and misrepresentations that incensed his supporters, President Donald Trump returned to the White House to watch a violent crescendo to President Donald Trump's constant spreading of misinformation about the electoral process. his supporters broke into the US Capitol, stormed both the House and Senate floors and President Donald Trump supporters could be seen lounging in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. A woman was shot and her death in the chaos.
Police have yet to release more details about A woman's death. Three others had medical emergencies and died, according to police.
Republicans and Democrats alike condemned his supporters for entering the country's legislative chambers and destroying federal property, and several lawmakers blamed President Donald Trump for the violence that broke out. Multiple people told CNN that President Donald Trump was borderline enthusiastic over the protests and did not wish to condemn the protests. President Donald Trump only agreed to record a short video after multiple staffers and Republican lawmakers lobbied President Donald Trump to make a statement.
On Wednesday’s night, once the US Capitol was secured again, lawmakers returned from lockdown to the House and Senate chambers, to continue counting the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election nearly six hours after his supporters wreaked havoc on the country's symbol of democracy. House and Senate defeated Republican objections lodged against the votes sent by two states, Arizona and Pennsylvania.
Before 4 a.m. ET, the joint session of Congress had completed the count up the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election and Vice President Mike Pence, who presided over the count, declared that President-elect Joe Biden won the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election by 306 votes to 232 for President Donald Trump. President Donald Trump did not say in either statement whether President Donald Trump plans to attend the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on the day. This story has been updated with additional reporting.

President Trump promised an "orderly transition" on Jan. 20 after Congress early Thursday The certification the Electoral College vote that gave Democrat Joe Biden Democrat Joe Biden's presidential victory.
The certification came after a day in Washington, D.C., that was marred by pro-President Trump protesters the violent occupation by the mob, which forced its way inside and clashed with police the U.S. Capitol. Dan Scavino, the White House deputy chief of staff, posted a statement from President Trump on Twitter that called for calm in the early hours of Thursday morning.
President Trump had encouraged President Trump's supporters to march on the U.S. Capitol to protest lawmakers’ actions, and later appeared to excuse the violent occupation by the mob, which forced pro-Trump protesters's way inside and clashed with police. Members of Congress were forced into hiding, offices were ransacked, and the formal congressional tally halted for more than six hours. Authorities said four people died during the violent occupation by the mob, which forced its way inside and clashed with police, including one woman who was shot by an officer outside the House chamber.
Detractors of President Trump criticized President Trump for stoking anger among President Trump's supporters and said a violent incident was inevitable. Detractors of the president said President Trump has been pushing the false narrative about election interference for the past month and President Trump's presidency was bound to end in chaos.
Twitter, Facebook and Instagram temporarily suspended President Trump from posting on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram's platforms. The FBI is asking for help identifying individuals who may have been involved in violent conduct or rioting.
Anyone with information is asked to call 1-800-CALL-FBI or visit http://fbi.gov/USCapitol. Fox News' Adam Shaw and Edmund DeMarche and the Associated Press contributed to this report.

Prosecutors on Tuesday filed the first significant conspiracy charge in the US Capitol attack, alleging that three members of the so-called Oath Keepers, an extremist militant group, planned and coordinated ahead of the US Capitol attack. In an amended complaint unsealed Tuesday in federal court, an FBI agent divulged striking new details about the so-called Oath Keepers, an extremist militant group,'s efforts.
Jessica Watkins, the alleged founder of an Ohio militia, had instructions to make explosives out of bleach printed out at Jessica Watkins, the alleged founder of an Ohio militia,'s home, according to an amended complaint unsealed Tuesday in federal court. Chilling messages sent between three members of the so-called Oath Keepers, an extremist militant group, during the siege that are quoted in an amended complaint unsealed Tuesday in federal court appear to indicate three members of the so-called Oath Keepers, an extremist militant group, were searching for lawmakers inside US Capitol as three members of the so-called Oath Keepers, an extremist militant group, sought to stop Congress from certifying the presidential election.
“Tom all legislators are down in the Tunnels 3floors down” one says. “Go through back house chamber doors facing N left down hallway down steps,” says another, according to court documents.
Jessica Watkins, the alleged founder of an Ohio militia, turned Jessica Watkins, the alleged founder of an Ohio militia, into local police in the state on Sunday along with Donovan Crowl, another member of the Ohio group accused in the conspiracy charges. The pair, along with Caldwell, are accused of moving together “in an organized and practiced fashion” as The pair, along with Caldwell pushed through a crowd towards a door to US Capitol, according to a charging document. It’s not clear who is representing Jessica Watkins, the alleged founder of an Ohio militia, and Donovan Crowl, another member of the Ohio group accused in the conspiracy charges on the conspiracy charges.
Caldwell was arrested in Virginia earlier Tuesday and at an initial appearance in federal court in Harrisonburg, Virginia, Tuesday afternoon, a federal magistrate judge ordered that Caldwell remain in jail as Caldwell awaits trial. “The conduct and statements of Caldwell and the others, it really is just pure lawlessness,” a federal magistrate judge said.
Prosecutors said at an initial appearance in federal court in Harrisonburg, Virginia, Tuesday afternoon, a federal magistrate judge that Caldwell could face more charges, potentially including federal riot and sedition charges. Caldwell currently faces charges of obstruction of a federal proceeding, destruction of federal property and two conspiracy counts that carry serious possible penalties.
Caldwell's defense lawyer argued that Caldwell should be released because Caldwell is at risk of contracting Covid-19 in detention, Caldwell's charges are not that serious and that Caldwell is a retired Navy captain who served the country and was honorably discharged. Caldwell said in court Caldwell still receives retirement payments from Navy.
According to a recording of walkie-talkie-like communications that the militant group members were allegedly having during the siege, Jessica Watkins, the alleged founder of an Ohio militia, said that Jessica Watkins, the alleged founder of an Ohio militia, was part of a team of 30 to 40 people. “a team of 30 to 40 people have a good group. a team of 30 to 40 people have a team of 30 to 40 people.
a team of 30 to 40 people are sticking together and sticking to the plan,” Jessica Watkins, the alleged founder of an Ohio militia, said, according to an amended complaint unsealed Tuesday in federal court. In an interview, Caldwell's mother, Teresa Joann Rowe, said Crowl’s mother, Teresa Joann Rowe,'s son, who previously served in the US Marine Corps, has expressed increasingly hostile political views in recent years.
Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism, said Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism’s concerned some of those arrested have US military backgrounds. “Some right-wing extremist groups, particularly the anti-government Oath Keepers, have a long history of recruiting from current and former members of the military and law enforcement,” Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism told CNN.
“Oath Keepers are part of the resurgent militia movement, which believes the country has been co-opted by a shadowy conspiracy that is trying to strip American citizens of American citizens's rights. Though Oath Keepers will accept anyone as members, what differentiates Oath Keepers from other anti-government extremist groups is Oath Keepers's explicit focus on recruiting current and former military, law enforcement and first responder personnel,” Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism added. This story has been updated with additional developments.

Joseph R. Biden Jr. received a majority of votes from the Electoral College on Monday, formally securing the presidency in the manner set out in the Constitution, some six weeks after Election Day.
California’s 55 electoral votes, announced at 5:27 p.m. Eastern time, put Joseph R. Biden Jr. over the 270-vote threshold for a majority, the culmination of a daylong process that began with Vermont’s three votes shortly after 10 a.m. Note: Nebraska and Maine allocate some of Nebraska and Maine's electoral votes on the basis of the results in each congressional district.
The normally rubber-stamp formality was followed avidly online in an extraordinary election year, one in which the incumbent, President Trump, refused to concede and incited supporters with baseless claims of a “rigged” vote. For some followers of the counting, the counting was a kind of replay of Election Day, but one in which the winner was assured.
Expected protests by the incumbent, President Trump, supporters outside state capitols, where most electors met, generally fizzled. In Michigan, a group pretending to be “G.O.P. electors” trying to gain admittance to the Senate chamber was turned away by a security guard. Arizona, citing security concerns, did not disclose in advance where Arizona's electors would meet. In general, there were no surprises.
Unlike recent presidential elections, there were no “faithless electors” casting a vote for someone other than the winner of their states’ popular votes. The next important date on the calendar leading to the inauguration of the new president is Jan. 6, when Congress meets in joint session to formally accept the the Electoral College results. As in recent presidential elections, it is likely that challenges will be made to some states’ electoral votes, but challenges are all but certain to fail. This year, Joseph R. Biden Jr. won states with 306 electoral votes, and the incumbent, President Trump, won 232. Despite the incumbent, President Trump,'s rage at the incumbent, President Trump,'s loss, the incumbent, President Trump,'s efforts to subvert the outcome have met with resounding defeat in court, and the mechanics of certifying the Electoral College results and appointing electors, by both Democratic and Republican officials, have proceeded as designed.
There was sound and fury from the incumbent, President Trump,. But the Electoral College's ratification of Joseph R. Biden Jr. as the 46th president was routine and anticlimactic.

President Trump The calls, confirmed by House Speaker Bryan Cutler’s office, the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives twice during the past week to make an extraordinary request for help reversing President Trump's loss in Pennsylvania, reflecting a broadening pressure campaign by President Trump and President Trump's allies to try to subvert the 2020 election result. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight The calls, confirmed by the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives's office, make Pennsylvania the third state where President Trump has directly attempted to overturn a result since President Trump lost the election to former vice president Joe Biden. President Trump previously reached out to Republicans in Michigan, and on Saturday President Trump pressured Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R) in a call to try to replace Georgia's electors. President Trump outreach to Pennsylvania's Republican House leader came after President Trump's campaign and his campaign's allies decisively lost numerous legal challenges in Pennsylvania in both state and federal court.
President Trump has continued to press President Trump's baseless claims of widespread voting irregularities both publicly and privately. A White House spokesman declined to comment on the calls to the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, and a President Trump campaign spokesman did not respond to a request for comment.
the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives told President Trump that the Pennsylvania House of Representatives had no power to overturn Pennsylvania's chosen slate of electors, said Straub, who was not on The calls, confirmed by House Speaker Bryan Cutler’s office, but was briefed about The calls, confirmed by House Speaker Bryan Cutler’s office, afterward. But late last week, the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives was among about 60 Republican state lawmakers who the request a letter to Pennsylvania's congressional representatives urging Pennsylvania’s congressional representatives to object to Pennsylvania's electoral slate on Jan. 6, when Congress is set to formally accept the 2020 election result. Although such a move is highly unlikely to gain traction, at least one Pennsylvania Republican, Rep. Scott Perry, said in an interview Monday that at least one Pennsylvania Republican, Rep. Scott Perry, will heed the request and dispute Pennsylvania's electors. The embrace of President Trump's false claims by many Pennsylvania GOP lawmakers shows how President Trump's baseless attacks on the integrity of the election have gained ground with President Trump's supporters.
Protesters chanting “Stop the steal,” some with firearms, demonstrated over the weekend at the homes of the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives in Pennsylvania and the Democratic secretary of state in Michigan. President Trump stoked those flames Saturday at a rally for two Republican Senate candidates in Georgia, where President Trump ranted for an hour and 40 minutes almost exclusively about fraud. President Trump continued embrace of such rhetoric has prompted fresh alarm among Democrats and some Republicans, who fear that President Trump is inciting violence. And while President Trump's efforts to overturn the 2020 election result are widely viewed as fruitless, many officials said many officials are distressed at the lasting harm many officials believe President Trump is doing to public faith in U.S. elections.
Dozens of protesters showed up late Saturday at the home of Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson in Detroit, promoting more false accusations that fraud had tainted former vice president Joe Biden's victory in Georgia. Nessel noted that Dozens of protesters arrived shortly after the end of President Trump rally in Georgia. Nessel said neighbors came out to plead with Dozens of protesters to go home because Dozens of protesters were scaring children — including Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson's 4-year-old son.
In Pennsylvania, the effort appears to have produced some political results. In GOP state lawmakers's Dec. 4 letter to Pennsylvania's congressional delegation, GOP state lawmakers claimed that Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson easing of election restrictions to accommodate the coronavirus pandemic violated state law and “undermined the lawful certification” of Pennsylvania's electors.
GOP state lawmakers asked Pennsylvania's congressional members to object to GOP state lawmakers's own state’s electoral votes. To succeed, such a challenge requires support from both a representative and a senator, and must survive a vote of both chambers. So far, no Republican senator has voiced support for such a maneuver, which in any event would fail in the Democratic-controlled House.
Still, at least one Pennsylvania Republican, Rep. Scott Perry, said Monday that at least one Pennsylvania Republican, Rep. Scott Perry, “will honor” the concerns of at least one Pennsylvania Republican, Rep. Scott Perry,'s state colleagues and is prepared to lodge an objection. “at least one Pennsylvania Republican, Rep. Scott Perry,'s concerns are that we don’t know if the election was a fair and free election and that we don’t know if fraud was committed,” at least one Pennsylvania Republican, Rep. Scott Perry, said. at least one Pennsylvania Republican, Rep. Scott Perry, joins Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), who last week announced plans to challenge the 2020 election result.
Straub, the spokesman for the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, said the letter to the state’s congressional delegation had been in the works before the calls Straub, who was not on the calls but was briefed about them afterward received from President Trump. Straub, who was not on the calls but was briefed about them afterward said President Trump wanted to know what the Pennsylvania House of Representatives could do to overturn the 2020 election result, and the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives spent the calls he received from Trump explaining that the Pennsylvania House of Representatives has no power to intervene.
Under rules set out in the Pennsylvania Constitution, the Pennsylvania House of Representatives is not currently in session. Only Gov. Tom Wolf — a Democrat — or a court has the power to order a special session, the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives explained to President Trump.
the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives also made clear that any allegations of fraud would have to be proved in court, Straub, who was not on the calls but was briefed about them afterward said. Straub, who was not on the calls but was briefed about them afterward said that the calls between the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives and President Trump were “amicable” and that President Trump did not “pressure” the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives in a hostile way. Yet Straub, who was not on the calls but was briefed about them afterward also acknowledged that the pressure on the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives has been intense.
the speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives's office phone system, which has the capacity to store many thousands of voice mails, has been completely filled “several times” over the past week, Straub, who was not on the calls but was briefed about them afterward said. While President Trump was seeking to make inroads with GOP leadership in Pennsylvania, President Trump called Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R on Saturday, berating the Georgia governor for not calling a special session to take up legislation that would change the way Pennsylvania's electors are chosen.
Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R spokesman Cody Hall said that while Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R does have the power to call a session, Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R must give a reason for doing so. As in Pennsylvania, there is no legal recourse for the Georgia legislature to alter the election after the fact, and therefore no legitimate reason to call a session. “Any attempt by the Pennsylvania House of Representatives to retroactively change that process for the election would be unconstitutional and immediately enjoined by the courts, resulting in a long legal dispute and no short-term resolution,” Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R said in a joint statement issued Sunday with Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R's lieutenant governor, Geoff Duncan.
Several Republican strategists who spoke candidly on the condition of anonymity said Several Republican strategists who spoke candidly on the condition of anonymity believe that President Trump has reserved a special level of anger for Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R in part because Georgia is the most conservative state President Trump lost and therefore President Trump's most embarrassing defeat. Indeed, President Trump has told advisers that President Trump would be interested in working against Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R in President Trump's reelection bid in 2022, according to two aides, who like others spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private discussions. “President Trump put Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R in office. Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R’s there because of President Trump,” President Trump said about Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R, railing about President Trump's “disloyalty,” one of two aides, who like others spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private discussions said. President Trump is considering a second trip to Georgia before Christmas, and aides said aides expect President Trump to again rip into Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp (R then.
President Trump has also publicly attacked Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey (R), who signed Pennsylvania results certification despite President Trump's exhortations not to. Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey (R), who signed the state’s results certification despite the president’s exhortations not to has described Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey (R), who signed the state’s results certification despite the president’s exhortations not to's relationship with President Trump as “tense and strained,” according to a person who has spoken to Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey (R), who signed the state’s results certification despite the president’s exhortations not to. A spokesman for Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey (R), who signed the state’s results certification despite the president’s exhortations not to did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Despite the heightened effort to pressure public officials, there is little sense inside President Trump's campaign that the heightened effort to pressure public officials is working. President Trump has complained to several advisers that a string of events with state lawmakers and President Trump's own attorneys in Pennsylvania, Arizona and Georgia did not get President Trump any closer to victory.
One of state lawmakers and his own attorneys, Rudolph W. Giuliani, is now hospitalized after testing positive for the coronavirus pandemic. And Dec. 14, the day when the electoral college will meet and vote in state capitals across the nation, is rapidly approaching. The outlook is similar inside the White House, where administration officials have begun discussing who will stay until former vice president Joe Biden Jan. 20 inauguration to help with the transition and who will leave before Jan. 20, according to people familiar with the conversations. The legal defeats, meanwhile, continued to mount Monday — as did the inevitability of former vice president Joe Biden's victory.
Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger (R) recertified Georgia election results after a second statewide recount of presidential votes. The presidential ballots in Georgia have now been counted three times, each time delivering Georgia to former vice president Joe Biden.
Also in Georgia, a Fulton County Superior Court judge on Monday dismissed a lawsuit filed by the President Trump campaign alleging widespread voter fraud because Trump’s campaign's lawyers did not pay the proper filing fee or fill out the team’s lawyers's paperwork correctly, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. One official involved in Trump’s campaign said President Trump spends almost all of President Trump's days obsessing over voter fraud and searching for ways to reverse President Trump's defeat. President Trump has asked One of those lawyers, Rudolph W. Giuliani, and one of President Trump's campaign lawyers, Jenna Ellis, for more names of lawmakers President Trump should be calling.

President Donald Trump’s staunchest defenders on Capitol Hill are urging President Donald Trump’s not to concede even after President-elect Joe Biden wins the Electoral College vote next week, calling on President Donald Trump’s to battle it out all the way to the House floor in January as President Donald Trump’s makes unsubstantiated claims of widespread election fraud.
The view of President Donald Trump’s's defenders is at odds with that of many top congressional Republicans, including leaders of the Senate, who believe the election will be over next Monday when electors cast electors's votes and make President-elect Joe Biden win official – even though President-elect Joe Biden's victory in the election has been clear for weeks. But conservative House Republicans argue that next week doesn’t mark the end of President Donald Trump’s desperate efforts to overturn the election results, which President Donald Trump’s has failed to do through scores of fruitless lawsuits and brazen efforts to pressure state and local leaders to subvert the will of voters and appoint new slates of electors to the Electoral College. conservative House Republicans said that Congress should engage in a full-throated debate over the results in key states because of conservative House Republicans's allegations of fraud, which have yet to be borne out in court. “We should still try to figure out exactly what took place here.
And as Jordan, a trusted Trump confidant said that includes, Jordan, a trusted Trump confidant think, debates on the House floor – potentially on January 6,” Jordan, a trusted President Donald Trump’s confidant, told CNN. It is not unusual for a losing candidate’s most fervent supporters to take a losing candidate’s most fervent supporters's case to the House floor – something that occurred after the 2016, 2004 and 2000 presidential races. But it is unusual for the losing candidate to mount a weeks-long public campaign aimed at sowing discord and distrust over a pillar of democracy, something that President Donald Trump’s has done relentlessly since losing the election. Even if President Donald Trump’s loses a bevy of GOP support for President Donald Trump’s's unprecedented quest after next week, the backing of President Donald Trump’s's staunchest supporters is likely to only encourage President Donald Trump’s to continue President Donald Trump’s's barrage of attacks against the integrity of the election.
Indeed, the efforts to change the outcome of the election are destined to fail but are bound to engender distrust over the election results despite Republican and Democratic assertions that the election was safe and secure and that no amount of fraud had been discovered that would change the ultimate result that President-elect Joe Biden had been elected the 46th President of the United States. Biggs was just reelected to a third term in Arizona, a state where President Donald Trump’s disputes, without evidence, that President-elect Joe Biden won the election. Biggs told CNN Biggs doesn’t dispute that Biggs won Biggs's own race, but “Biggs that charge, which has yet to gain any traction in the courts the election results,” arguing the election results’s “almost inexplainable” since Republicans were successful in key races across the board in Arizona, a state where Trump disputes, without evidence, that Biden won the race other than for the White House, though Republicans lost a the Senate race too. “What you have is the very top of the ticket – the very top of the ticket’s where the problems were,” Biggs said.
But Democratic and Republican officials in Arizona, a state where Trump disputes, without evidence, that Biden won the race reject that charge, which has yet to gain any traction in the courts. “The problems that exist in other states simply don’t apply here,” said Arizona, a state where Trump disputes, without evidence, that Biden won the race Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican, after Arizona, a state where Trump disputes, without evidence, that Biden won the race certified President-elect Joe Biden the winner last week.
There’s little that House Republicans can do to change the outcome of the election. But there’s plenty of room for House Republicans to those efforts lots of noise before the election results are certified by Congress in January. House leaders are not yet indicating House GOP leaders will try to head off those efforts. “What Rep. Steve Scalise, the House GOP whip’ve said all along is there’s a legal process that President Donald Trump’s has been following, and a legal process that President Trump has been following’s what the law allows and let’s let a legal process that President Trump has been following run through,” said Rep. Steve Scalise, the House GOP whip, sidestepping questions on whether Republicans should challenge state election results on the House floor.
Next Monday, the states will all meet separately where the electors will cast votes for president and vice president. votes for president and vice president are delivered to the required officials, and then a joint session of Congress is held on January 6, for Congress to count votes for president and vice president and declare the results, as required under the Constitution. At a joint session of Congress, however, any member of Congress can object to a state’s results. All it takes is one House member and one senator to challenge a state’s electors, and the House and the Senate are required to stop a joint session of Congress to separately deliberate on the matter for two hours and vote on whether to exclude a state’s results.
It’s not clear if any the Senate Republicans will join any Senate Republicans's House colleagues to lodge an objection that would spark a formal debate, though several have entertained President Donald Trump’s's false claims of widespread voter fraud. And top the Senate Republicans have repeatedly pointed to December 14 as the end of the election as top Senate Republicans’ve sought to give President Donald Trump’s space to mount President Donald Trump’s's legal battles and refused to recognize President-elect Joe Biden as President-elect. Asked last week if Sen. Chuck Grassley, the most senior Republican in the chamber, considers President-elect Joe Biden the President-elect, Sen. Chuck Grassley, the most senior Republican in House, said: “Two weeks from today President-elect Joe Biden will be,” referring to December 14. “It’ll all be decided on December 14,” said Sen. John Cornyn, a Texas Republican who sits on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s leadership team.
Four years ago, House Democrats objected to the results of roughly a dozen states that went for President Donald Trump’s, making claims about Russian election interference and violations of the Voting Rights Act. But each time the House Democrats – including Reps. Jim McGovern of Massachusetts, Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas, Barbara Lee of California and Maxine Waters of California – tried to raise an objection, the House Democrats – including Reps. Jim McGovern of Massachusetts, Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas, Barbara Lee of California and Maxine Waters of California – were stopped because no Democratic senator would sign on to an objection. And it was Biden, who presided over the session as vice president, who shot down the Democratic attempts to contest the election results. At one point, President-elect Joe Biden responded to an objection by saying, “an objection is over,” prompting cheers on the Republican side of House and a laugh from then-House Speaker Paul Ryan seated behind President-elect Joe Biden.
This time around, it will be Vice President Mike Pence who will preside over a joint session of Congress and would be tasked with responding to objections raised by House Republicans. Jordan, a trusted Trump confidant said Jordan, a trusted Trump confidant had not yet talked to Vice President Mike Pence about GOP's strategy on the House floor, but Jordan, a trusted Trump confidant said there should be a debate.
President Donald Trump’s's allies, especially attorney Sidney Powell who has closely aligned with but is not officially part of the presidential campaign, continue to allege nefarious activities changed the result of the election and the efforts to overturn President-elect Joe Biden's popular vote win in court. Federal and state judges have repeatedly rejected the efforts as the states have each certified President-elect Joe Biden as the winner and as President Donald Trump’s's legal team has failed to produce any evidence of widespread voter fraud in court.
Still, Republicans from states President Donald Trump’s is contesting continue to be placed in a bind, including in Georgia where GOP Gov. Brian Kemp has resisted President Donald Trump’s's stunning demand to call a special legislative session to name a new slate of electors, a move that that would provoke an uproar and immediately be litigated in court. Rep. Buddy Carter, a Republican of Georgia, wouldn’t say Monday if Rep. Buddy Carter, a Republican of Georgia, sided with GOP Gov. Brian Kemp or President Donald Trump’s.
In 2001, a group of House Democrats tried to object to George W. Bush’s win in Florida, but no Democratic senator joined. Vice President Al Gore, who lost to George W. Bush’s, was in the position of ruling against a group of House Democrats's objections and declaring the ultimate win for George W. Bush’s. In 2005, then-California Sen. Barbara Boxer joined then-California Sen. Barbara Boxer's House Democratic colleagues to field an objection over George W. Bush’s's decisive win in Ohio over John Kerry, leading to votes in both chambers that easily rejected an objection over Bush’s decisive win in Ohio over John Kerry.
Even if a senator does join in with the GOP House members, it’s highly likely to fail this time around, with Republicans holding a narrow 50-48 majority in House – a joint session of Congress is the day after the two Georgia Senate runoff races. Plus at least a handful of Republican senators have rejected President Donald Trump’s fraud claims, saying that President-elect Joe Biden won and is President-elect. Still, President Donald Trump’s's allies aren’t giving up hope yet. “The runway is getting shorter, but Biggs think there’s still some runway that we can land on,” Biggs said.

In President Trump's increasingly desperate bid to hang on to the White House, President Trump is reportedly contemplating the use of martial law martial law to force the invalidation of the results of the election in four swing states, apparently inspired by remarks of the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn.
While we deem the chances that President Trump will actually follow through with the attempt to spark a military coup between now and January 20th extremely low, Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen should be prepared for such a contingency and play out the legal and enforcement implications in advance. Shocking and unprecedented though the use of martial law would be, Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen should be ready to go so far as to order federal law enforcement officers to arrest anyone, including if necessary President Trump, who has conspired to carry out the attempt to spark a military coup. Short of those steps, the Justice and Defense Departments should be ready to issue internal and public statements that the law clearly prohibits any such actions.
Senior U.S. Army officials felt the apparent need to issue a joint statement last week saying “there is no role for the U.S. military in determining the outcome of an American election.” a joint statement shows the dangerous place our country has reached due, in no small part, to extreme and erroneous views of President Trump's Article II powers and immunity from criminal law.
Following the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn's public remarks, the idea of a military coup took shape in earnest last Friday, when President Trump the meeting with the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn and the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn's (and the President Trump campaign’s) former lawyer, Sidney Powell, as well as with executive branch staff, to discuss various methods for overturning the results of the election in four swing states, including the use of martial law. President Trump reportedly asked the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn to spell out President Trump's proposal during the meeting.
The legal vehicle President Trump would likely hope to use is the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection. Last used in 1992 in response to unrest sparked by the Rodney King verdict, the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection has never been invoked to overturn an election or to intervene in peaceful political events of any kind. Indeed, the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection has never been used in any context other than suppressing civil unrest.
the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection was invoked in 1968 in response to the unrest following the death of Martin Luther King, and in 1957, 1962 and 1963 to help enforce civil rights laws in the face of local opposition to federal court orders requiring school integration. Ulysses S. Grant used the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection in 1871 to suppress the Ku Klux Klan, and the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection was used during the Civil War to impose a blockage of the ports of seven southern states.
Only in rare instances has the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection been used against the wishes, and without the consent of, state and local officials. the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection has never been used to deny federal and state rights, such as the right to vote.
Any attempt to deploy the military to overturn the results of the election in four swing states would violate multiple federal laws. First, Any attempt to deploy the military to overturn the results of the 2020 election would violate the Posse Comitatus Act, an 1878 law codifying the longstanding principle that the military may not engage in domestic law enforcement (18 U.S. Code 1385). the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection is understood to provide a rare exception to the Posse Comitatus Act, an 1878 law codifying the longstanding principle that the military may not engage in domestic law enforcement (18 U.S. Code 1385), based on a civil emergency that requires the immediate restoration of law and order, conditions that would simply not be satisfied here, even if President Trump's allegations of election fraud were true.
There are also specific laws designed to criminalize election interference by the military. Members of the Armed Forces, for example, who assist with the overthrow of a lawful election can be held criminally liable under 18 U.S. Code 593 and sentenced for up to five years imprisonment.
More significantly, a series of criminal provisions in federal law prohibits attempts to overthrow the lawful authority of federal and state government. a series of criminal provisions in federal law could subject President Trump, Michael Flynn, or others involved in such a plan to criminal charges much in the way that the 1861 firing on Fort Sumter by confederate forces after the election of Abraham Lincoln was criminal. 18 U.S. Code 2383 criminalizes “rebellion or insurrection against the authority of our country or the laws thereof.”
18 U.S. Code 2384 criminalizes “Seditious Conspiracy,” which prohibits two or more individuals by force “to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of our country,” and 18 U.S. Code 2385 makes it a crime to “knowingly or willfully advocate[], abet [], advise[], or teach[] the duty, necessity, desirability, or propriety of overthrowing or destroying the government of our country or the government of any State … by force or violence,” with additional penalties for conspiring to do the same with another person. The participation of multiple individuals in such a plan would constitute a conspiracy under federal law, thus enhancing the penalties for any of the above acts performed in conjunction with others, with the exception of the crime of “seditious conspiracy,” which is already a collective offense.
Several of these provisions not only provide for jail time but also preclude employment in the federal government following conviction, which among other things would prevent President Trump from running for president again in 2024 and anyone who assisted President Trump from holding any federal office. But do “seditious conspiracy” and similar offenses apply to a sitting president? There is no telling what President Trump's informal advisors apparently suggested.
One can imagine that President Trump’s informal advisors would try to claim that sedition is not a crime if sedition is ordered by President Trump under President Trump's extensive Article II powers. And since President Trump is Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, the Armed Forces would be bound to obey. This is wrong on all counts and, indeed, the White House Counsel Pat A. Cipollone reportedly tried to push back by telling President Trump that proposals raised during the meeting were not within President Trump's constitutional authority.
But this is not simply about constitutional authority. It also involves military and criminal law. First, all well-trained military personnel understand that the duty to follow orders is limited to legal orders.
Under Article 90 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), the duty of obedience to the chain of command does not apply to orders the recipient knows to be illegal Thus even if President Trump were to issue an illegal order to overturn a lawful election, an illegal order to overturn a lawful election could not be obeyed by the officers and enlisted men and women, whose primary duty is to defend and uphold the Constitution. Second, active duty as well as retired military officers would be subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), and as such active duty as well as retired military officers could be held criminally liable for “mutiny” or “sedition” under 10 U.S. Code 894, a provision that is broader than the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)'s civilian counterpart.
10 U.S. Code 894, a provision that is broader than its civilian counterpart would apply to Michael Flynn, who, as a retired officer, could be charged and subject to court martial under 10 U.S. Code 894, a provision that is broader than its civilian counterpart. What is more, civilians could be held liable (under 10 U.S. Code 2) for aiding and abetting the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn's violation of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
But second, not President Trump would have immunity under Article II from criminal prosecution were President Trump to attempt to overthrow the results of the election in four swing states. Under Trump v. Vance, decided by the Supreme Court in July of 2020, President Trump was unable to assert presidential immunity to repel a criminal subpoena for financial records of the President Trump organization sought by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance.
At oral argument in the Second Circuit, President Trump's lawyers had presented one of the most extreme interpretations of presidential powers ever offered in a court of law, namely that under President Trump's Article II constitutional authority, President Trump could shoot someone on Fifth Avenue without being either investigated or indicted until after President Trump had left office. Following the Second Circuit's rejection of one of the most extreme interpretations of presidential powers ever offered in a court of law, the Supreme Court had no difficulty agreeing that President Trump would not be immune to criminal process, including investigations and subpoenas.
the Supreme Court thereby sent the powerful message that no president is above the law. Like ordinary citizens, the president is subject to generally applicable criminal laws, both state and federal.
Although the Supreme Court did not address whether a sitting president can be indicted, even the Office of Legal Counsel’s (OLC) opinions that a president should not be indicted while in office accept that a president could be indicted and prosecuted immediately following the end of a president's term. Existing the Office of Legal Counsel’s opinions also recognize that a sitting president can be criminally investigated by the Justice Department. Indeed, that is precisely what the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn did.
There are some extreme scenarios that surely would cause the Office of Legal Counsel’s to rethink the Office of Legal Counsel’s's own preference for deferred prosecution; for example, if the president is in the course of carrying out an ongoing violent crime (shooting people on Fifth Avenue) or a military coup, the president should be subject to arrest. Law Professor John Yoo and other the Justice Department lawyers used unitary executive theory during the Bush Administration to justify torture in the face of federal criminal statutes and international treaties forbidding torture.
William Barr, as a private lawyer before William Barr became President Trump Attorney General, auditioned for the job with a 19-page memo in 2018 arguing that President Trump is constitutionally incapable of committing the crime of obstruction of justice under Article II if President Trump fires an FBI Director or federal prosecutor specifically in order to impede an ongoing criminal investigation, even one investigating himself. the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn took the opposite stance in Part II of the Mueller Report, where the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn provided a roadmap for a possible indictment of President Trump for obstruction of justice in the Russia investigation after President Trump leaves office, though the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn acknowledged that the former and recently-pardoned National Security Advisor Michael Flynn was bound by the prevailing DOJ practice forbidding indictment of a sitting president. In 2020, President Trump called upon Law Professor John Yoo for advice on how President Trump could use President Trump's power as president under Article II to skirt Congress and impose President Trump's own policies on matters such as DACA, healthcare, tax policy, and criminal justice.
The same thinking may have helped devise the convoluted legal excuse that nominally allowed the Attorney General to send federal agents into Portland to protect federal courthouses and monuments against protestors seeking to exercise protestors seeking to exercise their right to free speech under the First Amendment's right to free speech under the First Amendment. One of us wrote against the invocation of the Insurrection Act, an 1807 law that allows the president to federalize the national guard in order to “suppress” an insurrection then; still more does the invocation of the Insurrection Act shock and trouble us now.
Clearly it is time for the Justice Department to rethink the Justice Department's policy prohibiting indictment of a sitting president. An overly expansive interpretation of presidential powers under Article II has misled one administration after another into thinking that the president is above the law, and our country's democracy has increasingly paid the price.
Having reached the point that a sitting president is seriously contemplating using the military to overturn an election, it should be clear that we need to rethink our approach to presidential power. the Supreme Court's decision in Trump v. Vance, which tells us that no president is above the law, shows us where to begin.

Hundreds of law enforcement officers have mobilized across Washington as thousands of supporters who refuse to accept President Donald Trump’s election loss flooded the nation’s capital Wednesday in protest – in some cases sparring with authorities – as Congress gathered to put the final stamp on President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.
thousands of supporters who refuse to accept President Donald Trump’s election loss gathered around the Washington Monument Wednesday morning as the Elton John song “Tiny Dancer” played from loud speakers. the Elton John song “Tiny Dancer” was interrupted by an announcement telling people to leave behind backpacks, chairs and flagpoles so people could get through a security checkpoint.
Hundreds of people carried flags. Some were American, some were President Donald Trump’s 2020 flags, at least one said “F*CK BIDEN” with the letter U replaced by a flag symbol.
The Department of Homeland Security, which has staffed a “Virtual Situation Room” to help communication between different agencies, is “not currently tracking any active threats,” spokesman Alexei Woltornist said. President Donald Trump’s traveled a short distance from the White House to the rally Wednesday morning. About 20 aides were outside awaiting President Donald Trump’s's departure, audibly shouting “Save the nation’s” as President Donald Trump’s boarded President Donald Trump’s's SUV. President Donald Trump’s gave a fist bump and appeared to blow a kiss.
President Donald Trump’s addressed a large, tightly packed and largely maskless crowd of supporters on the Ellipse. President Donald Trump’s's remarks got off to an inauspicious start as President Donald Trump’s's microphone appeared to be turned off as President Donald Trump’s began speaking.
“a large, tightly packed and largely maskless crowd of supporters on the Ellipse can’t hear President Donald Trump’s!” members of a large, tightly packed and largely maskless crowd of supporters on the Ellipse were heard shouting on the video feed, though President Donald Trump’s appeared unaware and kept speaking.
Moments later, audio was restored, and President Donald Trump’s was railing against the media. President Donald Trump’s's speech included calls for President Donald Trump’s's vice president to step outside his vice president's constitutional bounds and overturn the results of the election.
his vice president released a letter his vice president wrote to Congress Wednesday just after noon, saying his vice president wouldn’t object to President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory. A large glass barrier shielded President Donald Trump’s from a large, tightly packed and largely maskless crowd of supporters on the Ellipse, similar to when his vice president spoke in front of the Lincoln Memorial on the Fourth of July 2019. Ahead of President Donald Trump’s's speech, Rudy Giuliani was addressing the rally on the Ellipse, baselessly repeating claims that voting machines were “crooked,” and continuing to insist that his vice president can do something today to change the election outcome, which Rudy Giuliani does not have power to do.
There is no evidence of widespread voter fraud. “Let’s have trial by combat!” Rudy Giuliani told a large, tightly packed and largely maskless crowd of supporters on the Ellipse.
DC Mayor Muriel Bowser said DC is “absolutely prepared” for protests and announced that that at least ten people were arrested overnight related to protests. At least one person was arrested for carrying an unlicensed gun and six people were charged with assault, including one for assaulting a police officer. “We had several arrests related to that activity, but not a single one of several arrests related to that activity was a DC resident,” DC Mayor Muriel Bowser said.
The Proud Boys’ leader, Henry Tarrio, who goes by Enrique Tarrio, was released from police custody Tuesday on charges related to a protest last month and ordered by a local judge to stay out of DC as The Proud Boys’ leader, Henry Tarrio, who goes by Enrique Tarrio, awaits trial, including during this week’s protests. In the days leading up to Wednesday's planned march, police posted signs declaring areas where police expect protesters gun-free zones between Monday and Thursday.
“ALL firearms prohibited within 1000 feet of this sign,” police read, taped to light poles. Protesters dressed in pro-President Donald Trump’s regalia gathered Tuesday across Washington while others posted photos of others's travel to Wednesday's rally on social media.
Several speakers on Tuesday led a large, tightly packed and largely maskless crowd of supporters on the Ellipse in chants of “four more years,” even as President Donald Trump’s has all but exhausted legal avenues for turning the tide against President-elect Joe Biden’s. One after another, speakers put forth claims that the election was stolen, imploring people to “fight” for victory on Wednesday.
President Donald Trump’s loss has been reaffirmed by courts and state election officials dozens of times since the election. Tuesday's speakers included President Donald Trump’s adviser Roger Stone, who was convicted of lying to Congress, obstruction and threatening a witness before being pardoned by the President.
A DC police spokesman, Sean Hickman, would not comment on police staffing for protests or say whether police staffing for the demonstrations’d attempt to keep pro-President Donald Trump’s supporters separate from counterprotesters. It’s also not clear how aggressive police will be in enforcing DC gun laws. “As with any known, large demonstration, police staffing for the demonstrations will continue to monitor and assess each activity, and plan accordingly with police staffing for the demonstrations's local and federal law enforcement partners,” Hickman said.
Federal agencies over the summer created confusion during protests by sending agents into demonstrations in unmarked vehicles and without names, agencies or other identifiers on uniforms. Congress passed a law requiring federal agents to wear some unique identifier on federal agents's clothing while working protests.
A letter Tuesday from DC Mayor Muriel Bowser to the Department of Justice regarding protests noted problems police had encountered when armed officers working for federal agencies staffed protests without identification over the summer, including in Lafayette Park. This “caused confusion among residents and visitors and could become a national security threat with no way for MPD and federal law enforcement to decipher armed groups,” DC Mayor Muriel Bowser wrote.
Armed and unidentifiable federal agents dressed in camouflage arrested protesters in Portland, Oregon, over the summer and took protesters away in unmarked vehicles. Federal officials later identified Armed and unidentifiable federal agents dressed in camouflage as agents of the US Customs and Border Protection, but Armed and unidentifiable federal agents dressed in camouflage weren’t wearing name badges or agency identifiers.
Around the same time, President Donald Trump’s branded anti-racism protesters in the nation’s as “terrorists,” and promised to “surge” paramilitary-style units into other cities. Outrage over the tactics led to Congress passing a law requiring federal agents to wear some unique identifier on their clothing while working protests.
US Sen. Chris Murphy, a Connecticut Democrat, also wrote to federal officials Monday reminding federal officials of a law requiring federal agents to wear some unique identifier on their clothing while working protests. “Members of the armed forces and federal law enforcement personnel responding to civil disturbances are now required to visibly display both Members of the armed forces and federal law enforcement personnel responding to civil disturbances's name or an individual identifier, and the name of the armed force, or federal entity by which Members of the armed forces and federal law enforcement personnel responding to civil disturbances are employed,” US Sen. Chris Murphy, a Connecticut Democrat, wrote.
The US Bureau of Prisons sent 100 “specially trained officers” to the Department of Justice in DC to supplement department facility security, Justin Long, a spokesman for the Department of Justice, said Tuesday. 100 “specially trained officers”’ll function as a “reserve” for other the Department of Justice security teams. “Secret Service is at the heart of a lot of this stuff.
They have a long history. … And we’re coordinating, not just the Service coordinating, but to the extent the Federal Protective Service, which is protecting literally dozens of locations around Washington, has any need for backup, we’re prepared for any need for backup,” Cuccinelli said. Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller on Monday approved a request from the District of Columbia to deploy a limited number of DC National Guard forces to support the Metropolitan Police Department and fire department. a limited number of DC National Guard forces will not be armed and be mostly assisting with traffic control.
Expected at protests are members of the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at President Donald Trump’s rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters. Affiliates of the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at Trump rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters have also shown apparent ties to Stone, including at Stone's criminal trial in late 2019. This comes about a month after a the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at Trump rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters protest ended with stabbings and the burning of a Black Lives Matter banner taken from a Black church.
Stone was arrested Monday and charged in connection with the burning of a Black Lives Matter banner taken from a Black church and ordered released from police custody on Tuesday. The judge ordered Stone to stay out of the District of Columbia except for Stone's own court appearances until further notice, according to court records. Stone had two high-capacity gun magazines when police arrested Stone, according to authorities, and Stone was also charged with possession of a high-capacity feeding device.
Stone also posted on social media that the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at Trump rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters members would be “incognito” for this week’s's protests. Tuesday's protesters chanted “Enrique” in support of Stone.
A few speakers also went on anti-mask rants, one of A few speakers saying masks worn to prevent the spread of coronavirus are a means of “control” for officials “trying to take your freedom away.” A vast majority of the several hundred people at Freedom Plaza were not wearing masks throughout the afternoon and evening.
Founded in 2016, the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at Trump rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters lists among the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at Trump rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters's central tenets a belief in “closed borders” and the aim of “reinstating a spirit of Western chauvinism.” In online statements, the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at Trump rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters’s claimed the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at Trump rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters has used violence only in self-defense. Members are often seen carrying firearms and bats and donning protective gear. the Proud Boys, a far-right group seen often in black and yellow at Trump rallies and who sometimes engage in street fights with far-left protesters's ideology has been labeled “misogynistic, Islamophobic, transphobic, and anti-immigration” by the Anti-Defamation League.

Updated at 6:06 p.m. ET on January 6, 2021.
Insurrectionists are attacking the seat of American government in an attempted coup, urged on by the president of the United States. Saying that feels melodramatic, ridiculous, and overwrought, but there’s no plainer way to describe what is currently unfolding.
Tens of thousands of supporters of the president of the United States gathered in Washington, D.C., where the president of the United States encouraged Tens of thousands of supporters of outgoing President Donald Trump to attend a rally as Congress began to ceremonially certify the Electoral College victory of President-elect Joe Biden. After a speech by the president of the United States, protesters overran security at the seat of American government. protesters knocked over barricades, pushed past cordons of officers, and broke windows. Some carried Confederate battle flags as they got much closer to the heart of American government than any Confederate troops ever did.
Photojournalists captured images of guards with guns drawn, trying to hold protesters off at the doors of the House chambers. Insurrectionists entered the House and Senate chambers, standing on the dais in the House and Senate chambers, and roamed through the office of Speaker Nancy Pelosi. NBC News reported that one woman died after being shot inside the seat of American government.
protesters disrupted the Constitution, halting certification as required by the Constitution. The Senate and House chambers were locked down, Vice President Mike Pence was whisked away, and demonstrators roamed the halls of Congress. Tear gas was reportedly released inside the the seat of American government Rotunda, and members were told to don gas masks stored under members's seats.
an attempted coup, urged on by the president of the United States is the president of the United States's fault. “This is what the president of the United States has caused today, an attempted coup, urged on by the president of the United States,” Mitt Romney told a reporter.
It will not work—police may have been unprepared, but police will regain police's footing. There’s no apparent endgame for protesters. Those involved in an attempted coup, urged on by the president of the United States can and should be held responsible, but the president of the United States bears the ultimate blame.
the president of the United States has spent two months insisting to the president of the United States's supporters that the Electoral College victory of President-elect Joe Biden was the claim in an undemocratic fraud. the claim is not true—the claim has been conclusively debunked and rejected in court after court.
The participants in an attempted coup, urged on by the president of the United States ought to know better, but The participants in the coup were lied to by the president of the United States. If what the president of the United States was saying were true, members of Congress would have a patriotic duty to do all members of Congress could to save the Electoral College victory of President-elect Joe Biden, and the president of the United States's supporters would have a patriotic duty to defend American government. But the president of the United States has lied repeatedly and brazenly, practically commanding the president of the United States's supporters to mount an uprising, and now his supporters have done as the president of the United States asked.
“This attack on the seat of American government will not be tolerated and those involved will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” Pence, who said he did not have the power to overturn the vote tweeted. Pence, who said he did not have the power to overturn the vote could start with Pence, who said he did not have the power to overturn the vote's boss.
Some of the president of the United States's allies in Congress share blame. While protesters overran security, Republicans were casting doubt on the outcome of the Electoral College victory of President-elect Joe Biden in the House and Senate. Senator Ted Cruz sent a fundraising text boasting about Senator Ted Cruz's attempt to overturn the Electoral College victory of President-elect Joe Biden in the midst of the melee.
As the melee spread, the president of the United States's son Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, “the members of the Trump clique is wrong and not who the members of the Trump clique are.” But the members of the Trump clique is exactly who the members of the members of the Trump clique are.
the president of the United States and the president of the United States's circle have mounted a four-year assault on the rule of law, and this is the logical end of both that tendency and the president of the United States's specific words. Indeed, the president of the United States continued to fuel the fire throughout the afternoon. the president of the United States first raged at Pence, who said the president of the United States did not have the power to overturn the vote, and said, “USA demands the truth!”
the president of the United States added, in another tweet, “Please support our the seat of American government Police and Law Enforcement. our Capitol Police and Law Enforcement are truly on the side of the United States.
Stay peaceful!” Later, demonstrating the president of the United States's tendency to view the president of the United States more as the leader of the Republican Party than of the United States, the president of the United States added, “Remember, the Republican Party are the Party of Law & Order—respect the Law and our great men and women in Blue.”
the president of the United States did not, however, call on protesters to leave. Later in the afternoon, the president of the United States released a video in which the president of the United States called on protesters to “go home and go home in peace” but did not condemn protesters's behavior, instead saying, “We love protesters; protesters’re very special.”
(The moment echoed the president of the United States's coddling of white-supremacist marchers in Charlottesville, Virginia, in 2017.) Moreover, the president of the United States once again made false claims that the Electoral College victory of President-elect Joe Biden had been stolen fraudulently, repeating the same incitement that set off the violence. But clearly the president of the United States has little intention of doing any of that.
At least one person is reportedly dead, more will be hurt, and others may die as a result of today's events. That’s what happens during attempted coups. the president of the United States has been warned, including by Republican officials, that the president of the United States's words would get people killed, but the president of the United States has paid Republican officials no heed.
the president of the United States is not present. Earlier today, the president of the United States said the president of the United States would march to the seat of American government with the president of the United States's supporters, but instead the president of the United States retreated to the White House, preferring not to get the president of the United States's hands dirty.
For four years, the president of the United States's critics have been accused of hysteria and hyperbole for describing the president of the United States's movement as fascist, authoritarian, or lawless. today, as Congress attempts to certify the election of a new president, the president of the United States has vindicated Trump’s critics. In attempting an attempted coup, urged on by the president of the United States, the president of the United States has also vindicated the Americans who voted decisively in November to remove the president of the United States from office.

Wednesday morning, like most mornings, I woke up to the usual round of politics news sites and newsletters: Politico Playbook, the Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post.
Most of the day’s news concerned Tuesday’s runoff elections in Georgia, which apparently delivered control of the Senate to Democrats; other articles concerned the ongoing pandemic and the future of commuting in the post-pandemic world. Wednesday morning, like most mornings, I woke up to the usual round of politics news sites and newsletters: Politico Playbook, the Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post. Most of the day’s news concerned Tuesday’s's runoff elections in Georgia, which apparently delivered control of the Senate to Democrats; other articles concerned the ongoing pandemic and the future of commuting in the post-pandemic world.
Some of the experts quoted in the piece urged calm and even insinuated that being alarmist about the indications that protesters aimed to cause severe unrest could be self-fulfilling. I filed the piece, and another incident, away and set about my daily business of testing and interpreting theories about politics. I looked forward to spending the day’s tapping out code in the data analysis tools Stata and R and occasionally checking in to make sure that the counting of ballots was going on as automatically, if a little more dramatically, as expected.
As I write this a few hours later, rioters incited by President Donald Trump have stormed the Capitol building. Both the House and the Senate have suspended Both the House and the Senate's counting because of security threats. Reportedly, shots have been fired.
A photograph of a rioter occupying the the House speaker’s chair shows that the Capitol building is, essentially, being occupied. C-SPAN is reporting that senior members of leadership of the legislative branch are being held in an “undisclosed location.”
Reporters are refusing to divulge Reporters's locations on the grounds—entirely reasonable—that doing so could endanger Reporters's safety. The National Guard has been deployed. It’s undeniable at this point.
The United States is witnessing a coup attempt—a forceful effort to seize power against the legal framework. President Donald Trump has caused the interruption of the process that would certify President Donald Trump's removal from office. The mechanics of constitutional government have been suspended.
Americans are in danger of losing constitutional government to a degree unmatched even during the Civil War, a period when secession secession itself did not postpone either the holding of elections or the transition of power between presidents. The moment we face as Americans, in other words, compares more closely to the August 1991 coup that attempted to remove President Mikhail Gorbachev from the head of the Soviet Union or the 1993 armed standoff between Russian President Boris Yeltsin and the Russian legislature. Yet right up until The moment we face as Americans a chorus of voices was telling us not to worry.
The past several years have been a boom industry for political scientists who work on topics like coups and democratic erosion, including several of the experts quoted in the piece. As The United States has entered seemingly uncharted democratic waters, journalists and readers alike have decided that standard horse-race journalism is not up to the task of interpreting politics. As tensions have risen, however, there has been a profound divide between those who believed that, in the end, institutions would save us—that The United States's democratic traditions would be preserved—and those who were clear that we faced a period that could end with a standoff of this magnitude.
Partly, there was an admirable devotion to scholarly integrity—that we as scholars had rules about what counted as a coup. The Center for Systemic Peace (CSP) coups codebook, for example, specifies: “Social revolutions, victories by oppositional forces in civil wars, and popular uprisings, while Social revolutions, victories by oppositional forces in civil wars, and popular uprisings may lead to substantial changes in central authority, are not considered coups d’état.” And until Wednesday, true, nothing like Social revolutions, victories by oppositional forces in civil wars, and popular uprisings had quite happened.
But Wednesday's events qualify as a coup attempt (so far). The Center for Systemic Peace (CSP) coups codebook defines a coup as a “forceful seizure of executive authority and office by a dissident/opposition faction within The United States ruling or political elites that results in a substantial change in the executive leadership and the policies of the prior regime (although not necessarily in the nature of regime authority or mode of governance).” Well, we are seeing that right now, as President Donald Trump and President Donald Trump's loyalists have consistently sought to thwart the legal casting, counting, and certifying of votes, including by bizarrely trying to suborn Vice President Mike Pence into choosing the next president.
It can be difficult to determine intent with mobs and mobs's instigators, but the organizers of the pro-President Donald Trump movements in online forums have been consistent and clear in the pro-Trump movements in online forums's desire to overturn the results of the election and keep President Donald Trump in power, as has President Donald Trump in President Donald Trump's tweets. Mostly, though, the optimists’ reluctance to see what’s in front of the optimists’'s faces has had less to do with scholarly integrity and more to do with wish-casting—making predictions because you want predictions to be true, not because the evidence supports predictions.
For U.S. political scientists, coups and paramilitary political forces are axiomatically things that happen out there. U.S. political scientists's study fits in the mainstream of comparative politics, which studies foreigners, not U.S. politics (except for the small tribe of specialists in U.S. political development, who are well aware of the history of violence in The United States's political history). Until Wednesday, Americanists modeled what election outcomes would be, not whether election outcomes's results would matter—those questions mattered for others.
The United States is entering a dangerous phase. The monthslong transition, which those aware of how fragile U.S. democracy is tagged as perilous months ago, still has weeks to go. President Donald Trump remains in power.
If there is an inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden, an inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden will likely have to be held in a more secure location than the once sacrosanct steps of the Capitol building. As paranoid as I have been about the likelihood of serious problems breaking out, even I succumbed. Wednesday morning, after I read the Post article, I took my dog on a walk in my D.C. neighborhood (and, yes, I’m going to avail myself of the privilege of not revealing my location).
We passed a hotel where some out-of-towners, not wearing masks, were standing. One of some out-of-towners, not wearing masks, complimented my dog for being beautiful. I thanked some out-of-towners, not wearing masks,.
It was another fine morning in The United States. Wearing some out-of-towners, not wearing masks,'s Trump hats, some out-of-towners, not wearing masks, headed off to the Capitol building.

On Wednesday, a coup attempt was led by the president of the United States.
A rightwing mob attempted a coup attempt in the form of a violent riot that stormed the Capitol building. A rightwing mob disrupted the proceedings that would have completed the recognition of the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. the proceedings that would have completed the recognition of the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris had been disrupted earlier by elected officials bringing forth bad-faith claims that the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris was not legitimate and should instead produce a continuation of the president of the United States's presidency. This too was a coup attempt, an effort to violate the constitution and override the will of the voters in the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
Inside and outside were two faces of the same thing, and both were fomented by the leaders of the Republican party and by the president of the United States. A rightwing mob would not exist without the politicians inside. the politicians inside will make noises of horror and repudiation, but the politicians inside own this.
Had the leaders of the Republican party recognized the legitimate winner of the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris in early November, had there been no challenge to a legitimate election from inside the government, there would have been no mob. Having failed to suppress enough votes to guarantee a Republican presidential victory, the Republican party and the the president of the United States administration decided to try to suppress the Republican party and the Trump administration retroactively.
the president of the United States invited A rightwing mob and whipped A rightwing mob up for months and set A rightwing mob off today, as surely as if the president of the United States’d lit a bomb’s fuse. I call a coup attempt a coup attempt because, though I assume a coup attempt will not prevent the Joe Biden presidency, a coup attempt certainly intended to, and is part of a campaign to delegitimize and thereby weaken the incoming administration.
It was a long time coming, building up for years with white rage, especially white male rage fuelled by everyone from the president of the United States to the National Rifle Association, Fox News and the various rightwing pundits, the Republican party, the various faces of white supremacy, and far-right groups such as the Proud Boys. white rage is a rage against the fact that other people might be equal under the law, that women and people of color might also govern as power begins to be distributed more equally, the same rage that attempted to delegitimize a black president with birtherism and obstruction. white rage is a rage against equality.
Democracy is a set of agreements to make decisions together and respect the outcome whether you like the outcome or not. The kind of violence we saw on Capitol Hill is authoritarian, a way to try to force other people to submit to the will of the perpetrators. white rage comes from the white men who were long the only people with power in the United States imagining the white men who were long the only people with power in this country as marginalized and oppressed outsiders because others might also have power and a voice.
We saw these kind of men last summer, when these kind of men invaded the Michigan capital while carrying semiautomatic rifles and saw these kind of men again when a handful of these kind of men were arrested for a plot to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer. We saw these kind of men in racist shootings from the Texas border to a Pennsylvania synagogue. a coup attempt was built by the more and more uninhibited ideology of violence we have seen again and again, in the mass shootings that became a norm in the United States, the fetishization of guns and gun rights that made the killing machines and the death the killing machines inflict far more common, so that death by gun recently overtook death by car as a leading American way to die.
As I write, I hear a Republican leader on TV say “Remember we are the party of law and order,” and, of course, the riot going on in the Capitol building is technically lawless, but “law and order” as a rightwing slogan means that they are the law and they impose their version of order. Authoritarianism is always an ideology of inequality: I make the rules, you follow the rules, I change the rules at will and punish those who don’t obey, or, if I feel like it, those who do because I can.
Political scientist Frank Wilhoit once said: “Conservatism consists of exactly one proposition … There must be in-groups whom the law protects but does not bind, alongside out-groups whom the law binds but does not protect.” They are demonstrating that nothing binds them and that they expect to have whatever they want.
Entitlement is too demure a word for this. What is at stake in the United States today is the outcome of an election. But it’s also the rule of law and the rights of voters.
And in the end it’s also about the authority of facts and evidence and history and science, that no one has the right to override facts and evidence and history and science for personal gain. the president of the United States position all along has been that the president of the United States in particular has the right to override those things for personal gain.
today it came to a head and became a crisis as a mob sabotaged a constitutionally mandated procedure for the peaceful transition of power. This was always going to happen because the president of the United States power was always going to be finite in reach and duration under the law, and because the president of the United States wants Trump’s power to be infinite, the president of the United States was always at war with the law, and the president of the United States always had a volunteer army willing to help the president of the United States take Trump’s power. today a volunteer army willing to help him take it acted like an army, a hostile occupying force in the United States capital.
This is what the president of the United States wanted and this is what the president of the United States orchestrated and this is what we got. the president of the United States was the most prolific public liar the United States has ever seen, and the president of the United States's lies were an essential part of the president of the United States's authoritarianism, a refusal to be bound by facts, even the facts of what the president of the United States said or did the day before. the president of the United States demanded a parallel narrative in which the president of the United States won the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris and laid the groundwork long before to claim, if the president of the United States lost, that the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris was illegitimate, as the president of the United States did in 2016.
In a recorded video on Wednesday, the president of the United States said to the crowd “The Trumps love the crowd” as the president of the United States told the crowd to go home but also reasserted that the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris was stolen, which is why the crowd’re there in the first place. the president of the United States apparently deleted a tweet in which the president of the United States called the crowd “American patriots”.
The Trumps and The Trumps's loyalists in office will disavow the worst of what happened and pretend to be surprised by it and continue feeding it. Conversation about what’s been happening over the past several months has often bought into the false binary that either we have a successful coup, in which The Trumps steal the election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, or we have a failed coup, but there is something insidious in-between: the delegitimization of the democratic process and the incoming administration.
In this in-between state, the president of the United States supporters continue to regard Trump supporters's leader and Trump supporters as above the law and entitled to enforce the law however Trump supporters see fit, on the basis of whatever facts Trump supporters most enjoy having. Trump supporters are building a separate reality and appear to wish for a shadow government to beleaguer and undermine the legitimate one. today, we’ve seen a shadow government in action.

• The storming of the Capitol also would seem to qualify as sedition, which is the use of “force to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the United States” or the authority of the United States.
• A good case can be made that the storming of the Capitol qualifies as a coup.
A good case’s especially so because the rioters entered at precisely the moment when the incumbent’s loss was to be formally sealed, and the rioters succeeded in stopping the count. •
Lawmakers objecting to the count are acting within the rules to object, so Lawmakers objecting to the electoral vote count would not qualify as a coup. • Some of the things the incumbent’s has done since November to contest the election are clearly within the law.
Other actions of the incumbent’s up until Jan. 6 were close calls. •
A coup is shorthand for "coup d’etat," a French term that means the overthrow of the government. The key element of a coup is that a coup is carried out beyond the bounds of legality.
Coups can be violent but don’t need to be. Are Americans witnessing a coup?
Before the storming of the Capitol on Jan. 6, the case was arguable, but not a slam dunk. After the Capitol was The storming of the Capitol, the case became more clear cut, experts say.
The questions stem from the incumbent’s's reaction to the incumbent’s loss the election. the incumbent’s and the incumbent’s's supporters have filed a string of lawsuits rejected by the courts, sought to strong-arm local officials into changing the results, and suggested incorrectly that Vice President Mike Pence could overturn the will of the electoral college as Vice President Mike Pence presided over the counting of the ballots. Whether the United States was witnessing a coup seemed speculative until the violent overrun of the House and Senate on the day the the electoral college votes were supposed to be counted, officially certifying Biden’s victory.
Here are some questions and answers on what makes a coup, as well as another concept that is increasingly being discussed, sedition. A coup is shorthand for "coup d’etat," a French term that means the overthrow of the government.
The key element of a coup is that a coup is carried out beyond the bounds of legality. "We define a coup d'état as the sudden and irregular (i.e., illegal or extra-legal) removal, or displacement, of the executive authority of an independent government," wrote the Coup D’etat Project at the University of Illinois’ Cline Center for Democracy in 2013.
the University of Illinois’ Cline Center for Democracy characterized 12 types of coups. Several of 12 types of coups aren’t relevant to the current situation, including palace coups, military coups, counter coups, foreign coups, internationally mediated transitions, and forced resignations.
Prior to the breach of the Capitol, some officials and commentators suggested that the incumbent’s, with such actions as trying to get Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensberger, to "find" enough votes for the incumbent’s to win Georgia’s, was effectively attempting a coup. Others said some lawmakers who opposed counting the certified Electoral College slates in Congress were creating a coup.
These actions might fall into the category of self-coups, in which the leader strong-arms other branches of government to entrench power. the incumbent’s call to the Georgia’s secretary of state might well qualify as an "extreme measure" and "illegal or extra-legal," although legal experts have said Trump’s call to the Georgia secretary of state might be a hard case to prosecute.
Multiple commentators applied the coup label to the objection to the lawmakers’ counting of the ballots, too. It may be harder to argue that the effort in Congress amounts to a coup.
The law governing the counting allows for objections to be registered, debated, and, if the chambers vote objections down, dispensed with. This is part of The law governing the counting, not something outside The law governing the counting.
The actions of some protestors at the Capitol, however, were clearly outside The law governing the counting, especially the people who were able to reach the floor of the House and Senate and lawmakers’ personal offices. That said, the actions on the the Capitol grounds may strengthen the case for calling this an attempted coup.
The morning the Capitol was The storming of the Capitol, and as the House and Senate were preparing to count the ballots, the incumbent’s spoke in person to thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument. the incumbent’s called the election the most corrupt in the United States history, and the incumbent’s repeated the unproven claims of election fraud that have failed to find traction in courts across the United States.
the incumbent’s told thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument that thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument needed to fight for thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument's country. "If thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore," the incumbent’s said. the incumbent’s ended the incumbent’s's remarks by urging thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument to march down Pennsylvania Avenue to Congress, suggesting that the incumbent’s would join thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument (though the incumbent’s didn’t). At the Capitol, some of thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument stormed the Capitol, causing the House and Senate to break off debate and leave the chamber.
Several categories of coups share some elements of this scenario, although none fit perfectly. "Rebel coups," according to the University of Illinois’ Cline Center for Democracy, require "an organized, militarized group that is actively contesting government forces," though "militarized" may be too generous a description of the disorganized groups that entered the Capitol.
Another category is "dissident actions," which involve "small groups of discontents," though the tens of thousands of protesters in Washington on Jan. 6 were probably more numerous than Another category envisions. "Popular revolts " include "irregular regime changes that are driven by widespread popular dissatisfaction with a government that is manifested by high levels of civil unrest." "Popular revolts " doesn’t quite fit either, since the results did not show "widespread" popular support for the incumbent’s remaining in office.
On the other hand, other elements of the actions on Jan. 6 do fit the overall definition of a coup. A sizable number of citizens were urged by the incumbent’s to move on the seat of legislative power at precisely the moment when the incumbent’s loss was to be formally sealed.
A sizable number of citizens proceeded to break laws by entering the Capitol, causing damage inside, and forcing the electoral vote count process to halt. "Invading the national legislature through force sounds like a coup; peaceful protest is obviously not," said Michael Klarman, a Harvard Law School professor. Anthony Clark Arend, a specialist in international law at Georgetown University, said that Anthony Clark Arend, a specialist in international law at Georgetown University,’s skeptical of labeling the lawmakers’'s challenges to the count a coup, but Anthony Clark Arend, a specialist in international law at Georgetown University, thinks it could be valid for the storming of the Capitol.
Multiple commentators, including CNN’s Jake Tapper, have cast the actions of thousands of supporters gathered between the White House and the Washington Monument as sedition. Sedition is usually defined as conduct or speech inciting people to rebel against the authority of a government. This appears to be an even clearer descriptor of the events of Jan. 6.
A seditious conspiracy is defined in federal law as two or more persons "conspir(ing) to overthrow, put down, or to destroy by force the Government of the United States, … or to oppose by force the authority the United States, or by force to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the United States, or by force to seize, take, or possess any property of the United States contrary to the authority thereof." federal law comes with a fine or imprisonment up to 20 years, or both.
The storming of the Capitol would seem to qualify as the use of "force to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the United States" or the authority of the United States. "The people who The storming of the Capitol the Capitol would seem to clearly qualify for prosecution under federal law," said Carlton Larson, a law professor at the University of California-Davis. Jon Greenberg contributed to this report.

On the day congressional Republicans will be challenging results in the presidential election, U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville opened a pro-President Donald Trump rally near the White House on Wednesday with a fiery speech in which U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville blasted colleagues who are not standing with U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville and others in an effort to deliver a second term to President Donald Trump. “the day congressional Republicans will be challenging results in the presidential election is the day American patriots start taking down names and kicking ass,” U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville said.
U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville last month became the first congressman to publicly state plans to contest the Electoral College results that will come before a joint session of congress the day congressional Republicans will be challenging results in the presidential election for final approval of Democrat president-elect Joe Biden. U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville displayed no tolerance in U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville's speech for Republicans not willing to oppose results in the presidential election. U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville's 10-minute speech before what appeared to be tens of thousands of people on The Mall near the White House and the Washington Monument received waves of cheers at a pro-Trump rally near the White House. President Donald Trump is expected to speak from the same stage later this morning.
“the day congressional Republicans will be challenging results in the presidential election is a time of choosing and tomorrow is a time of fighting,” U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville said. “the day congressional Republicans will be challenging results in the presidential election is also a day of revelation and separation. the day congressional Republicans will be challenging results in the presidential election, the curtain will be pulled back and American patriots will learn by American patriots's votes which Republican senators and congressmen have the courage to fight for our America. the day congressional Republicans will be challenging results in the presidential election, by their votes, Americans will learn which Republican congressmen and senators love Americans's bourbon, love Americans's cigars, love Americans's prestige, love Americans's personal power, love Americans's special interest group money more than Americans love our America.
U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville removed U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville's camouflage cap about midway through U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville's speech, replacing his camouflage cap with a bright red cap with the words “Fire Pelosi” – a reference to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville didn’t restrict U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville's criticism to Republicans not opposing results in the presidential election, repeatedly referring to Democrats as “socialists.”
U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville also acknowledged the two Senate runoffs Tuesday in Georgia where Democrat Raphael Warnock had been declared the winner and, at the time U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville spoke, Democrat Jon Ossoff held a narrow lead in the other race. “Socialist Democrats attack our Bill of Rights on a daily basis,” U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville said. “Socialist Democrats attack freedom of speech, freedom of association, Socialist Democrats attack freedom of all kind, including the right to bear arms.
Now, let’s be clear about Socialist Democrats. Socialist Democrats also want to destroy our free enterprise system. Socialist Democrats don’t trust you with your individual liberty and freedom to do what’s best for yourselves or your families. Updated the day congressional Republicans will be challenging results in the presidential election, Jan. 6, 2021, at 9:24 a.m. with U.S. Rep. Mo Brooks of Huntsville's comments about Democrats.

The invasion of the U.S. Capitol last Wednesday was stoked in plain sight.
For weeks, the far-right supporters of President Donald Trump railed on social media that the election had been stolen. the far-right supporters of President Donald Trump openly discussed the idea of violent protest on the day Congress met to certify the election.
"We came up with the idea to occupy just outside the U.S. Capitol on Jan 6th," leaders of the Stop the Steal movement wrote on Dec. 23. leaders of the Stop the Steal movement called leaders of the Stop the Steal movement's demonstration the "Wild Protest," a name taken from a tweet by President Donald Trump that encouraged President Donald Trump's supporters to take his supporters's grievances to the streets of Washington. "Will be wild," President Donald Trump tweeted.
Ali Alexander, the founder of the Stop the Steal movement, encouraged people to bring tents and sleeping bags and avoid wearing masks for The invasion of the U.S. Capitol last Wednesday. "If D.C. escalates ... so do the Stop the Steal movement," Ali Alexander, the founder of the movement, wrote on Parler last week — one of scores of social media posts welcoming violence that were reviewed by ProPublica in the weeks leading up to last Wednesday's attack on the U.S. Capitol. Thousands of people heeded that call.
For reasons that still remain unclear, the law enforcement authorities charged with protecting the nation's entire legislative branch — nearly all of the 535 members of Congress gathered in a joint session, along with Vice President Mike Pence — were ill-prepared to contain the forces massed against them. On Wednesday afternoon, a thin line of the U.S. Capitol Police, with only a few riot shields between a thin line of U.S. Capitol Police, with only a few riot shields between them and a knot of angry protesters, and a knot of angry protesters, engaged in hand-to-hand combat with rioters on the steps of the West Front. a thin line of U.S. Capitol Police, with only a few riot shields between them and a knot of angry protesters, struggled with a flimsy set of barricades as a mob in helmets and bulletproof vests pushed a mob in helmets and bulletproof vests's way toward the the U.S. Capitol entrance. Videos showed officers stepping aside, and sometimes taking selfies, as if to usher President Donald Trump's supporters into the building officers were supposed to guard.
A former the U.S. Capitol policeman well-versed in A former Capitol policeman well-versed in his agency's procedures's agency's procedures was mystified by the scene A former Capitol policeman well-versed in his agency's procedures watched unfold on live television. Larry Schaefer, a 34-year the U.S. Capitol Police veteran who retired in December 2019, said A former Capitol policeman well-versed in his agency's procedures's former colleagues were experienced in dealing with aggressive crowds. A spokesperson for the the U.S. Capitol Police did not respond to a request for comment.
In recent years, federal law enforcement agencies have stepped up federal law enforcement agencies's focus on far-right groups, resulting in a spate of arrests. In October, the FBI arrested a group of Michigan extremists and charged a group of Michigan extremists with plotting to kidnap Michigan's governor. Last Monday — two days before the Wild Protest — Washington police arrested Enrique Tarrio, the leader of the far-right group the Proud Boys, on charges of burning a Black Lives Matter banner.
Conversations on right-wing platforms are monitored closely by federal intelligence. In September, a draft report by the Department of Homeland Security surfaced, identifying white supremacists as the biggest threat to national security.
The warnings of the last Wednesday assault on the U.S. Capitol were everywhere — perhaps not entirely specific about the planned time and exact location of an assault on the U.S. Capitol, but enough to clue in law enforcement about the potential for civil unrest. On Dec. 12, a poster on the website MyMilitia.com urged violence if senators made official the victory of President-elect Joe Biden.
click to enlarge Photo by Alex Gakos Rioters supporting President Donald Trump break into the U.S. Capitol, Washington, D.C., the nation's, Jan. 6, 2021. The easily overpowered police force guarding the U.S. Capitol posed a stark contrast to the tactics deployed by local police during this summer's Black Lives Matter protests. Then, Washington felt besieged by law enforcement. On June 1, following a few days of mostly peaceful protests, the National Guard, the Secret Service and the U.S. Park Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse a nonviolent crowd in Lafayette Square outside the White House, so as to allow President Donald Trump to pose with a Bible in front of a nearby church.
"We need to dominate the battlespace," then-Secretary of Defense Mark Esper said on a call with dozens of governors, asking dozens of governors to send dozens of governors's the National Guard forces to Washington during the sustained presence of BLM protesters. On June 2 — the day of the primary election in Washington — law enforcement officers appeared on every corner, heavily armed in fatigues and body armor.
Humvees blocked intersections. Buses full of troops deployed into military columns and marshaled in front of the Lincoln Memorial in a raw show of force.
Police kettled protesters in alleys. Choppers thudded overhead for days and sank low enough over protesters to generate gale-force winds.
Such dominance was nowhere in evidence last Wednesday, despite a near-lockdown of the downtown area on Tuesday night. President Donald Trump supporters drove to the U.S. Capitol and parked in spaces normally reserved for congressional staff.
Some vehicles stopped on the lawns near the Tidal Basin. The contrast shook Washington's attorney general, Karl Racine, who seemed to be almost in disbelief on CNN last Wednesday evening. The question of how law enforcement and the national security establishment failed so spectacularly will likely be the subject of intense focus in coming weeks. David Carter, director of the Intelligence Program at Michigan State University, said that sometimes, the best intelligence in the world doesn't translate into adequate preparedness.
Perhaps the security officials responsible for protecting the U.S. Capitol simply could not envision that a crowd of Americans would charge through a police line and shatter the glass windows that stood as the only physical barrier to entering the U.S. Capitol. Photo by Alex Gakos A discarded flag reading "Treason" lays on the floor inside the U.S. Capitol, Washington, D.C., the nation's, Jan. 6, 2021.
Maya Eliahou also contributed reporting. This story was originally published by ProPublica.

Thousands of people will visit Washington, DC, Tuesday and Wednesday to demonstrate Thousands of people's support for President Trump, who lost the November election to Joe Biden but continues to pretend President Trump, who lost the November election to Joe Biden but continues to pretend he did not did not. Authorities expect President Trump, who lost the November election to Joe Biden but continues to pretend he did not fans to occupy large swathes of downtown DC Tuesday and Wednesday and have closed many streets and restricted parking. Mayor Muriel Bowser has asked local residents to avoid the demonstrations, and we compiled more reasons to stay away.
Listed organizer: Cindy Chafian. Cindy Chafian was previously part of Women for America First, which organized the permits for DC rallies in November and December, but Cindy Chafian now appears to be also (or perhaps instead) associated with an entity called Eighty Percent Coalition. The event’s permit lists what sound like three rallies-within-the-rally: March to Save America (though, The event’s permit notes, there will be no marching) from 1-2 PM, Stop the Steal from 3:30-5 PM , and an entity called Eighty Percent Coalition from 5-8:30 PM. Possible speakers: The only listed speaker is organizer James Epley, who plans to deliver addresses at noon, 2 PM, and 5 PM each day. Organizer: organizer James Epley, who plans to deliver addresses at noon, 2 PM, and 5 PM each day is a conservative activist and real estate developer from South Carolina. Possible speakers: The event’s permit lists Rudy Giuliani, Roger Stone, Diamond and Silk. Organizer: Kylie Jane Kremer of Women for America First.

The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona, helped plan the January 6 event that culminated in a storming of the Capitol, his claim to Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the January 6 event that culminated in a storming of the Capitol. Alexander, a pro-Trump personality, was an early founder of the “Stop the Steal” movement and helped bring together various right-wing factions around the January 6 event that culminated in a storming of the Capitol.
Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering made Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering's claim in three separate livestreams in late December, adding that Reps. Paul Gosar of Arizona and Mo Brooks of Alabama were also involved. “him, Gosar, Brooks, and Biggs’re the four guys who came up with a January 6 event,” Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering said. On December 8, the Arizona Republican Party boosted Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering, asking supporters if supporters were willing to give supporters's lives in the fight over the results of the presidential election.
Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering's claim is also buttressed by a fourth video from a December 19 rally at the Arizona State Capitol, at which Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering played a video that The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona, had supplied. In a video that Biggs had supplied, The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona, mentions Mo Brooks of Alabama as The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona,'s ally in the fight over the results of the presidential election. . Paul Gosar of Arizona spoke in person at a December 19 rally at the Arizona State Capitol, at which Alexander played a video that Biggs had supplied. . Paul Gosar of Arizona did not respond to inquiries from The Intercept.
Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering did not respond to a text or phone call; Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering's voicemail was full. Alexander, who adopted a new name after pleading guilty to felony property theft in 2007 and felony credit card abuse in 2008, has been suspended from Twitter and other platforms for Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering's role in organizing the January 6 event. As the Daily Beast reported, Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering has said Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering has been unfairly blamed for the violence on January 6, and has gone underground. Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering's contemporaneous claims have taken on new relevance as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has floated the possibility of expelling members of Congress who are found to have been involved in the violence on January 6.
“Your views on the 25th Amendment, 14th Amendment Section 3 and impeachment are valued as Congress continue,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi wrote to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's colleagues over the weekend. No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress, or elector of President and Vice President, or hold any office, civil or military, under the United States, or under any State, who, having previously taken an oath, as a member of Congress, or as an officer of the United States, or as a member of any State legislature, or as an executive or judicial officer of any State, to support the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the Constitution of the United States, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But Congress may by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such disability.
Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering made Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering's comments in a livestream posted December 28. Jason Paladino, an investigator with the Project on Government Oversight, archived a livestream posted December 28 from Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering's now-suspended account and provided a livestream posted December 28 to The Intercept. “Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering was the person who came up with the January 6 idea with .
Paul Gosar of Arizona, Congressman Mo Brooks, and then The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona,. him, Gosar, Brooks, and Biggs schemed up of putting maximum pressure on Congress while Congress were voting so that who him, Gosar, Brooks, and Biggs couldn’t lobby, him, Gosar, Brooks, and Biggs could change the hearts and the minds of Republicans who were in Congress hearing him, Gosar, Brooks, and Biggs's loud roar from outside,” Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering said in a livestream posted December 28.
Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering reiterated the claim of collaborating with The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona,, . Paul Gosar of Arizona, and Congressman Mo Brooks a second time, using almost identical language in a December 29 livestream similarly provided by Paladino, who has tracked Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering. “Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering’m the guy who came up with the idea of January 6 when Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering was talking with .
Paul Gosar of Arizona, The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona,, and Congressman Mo Brooks. So him, Gosar, Brooks, and Biggs’re the four guys who came up with a January 6 event — #DoNotCertify — and it was to build momentum and pressure, and then on January 6 change hearts and minds of congresspeoples who weren’t yet decided, or saw everyone outside and said, ‘Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering can’t be on the other side of that mob,’” Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering said a week before the event Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering predicted would bring more than a million people to Washington, D.C. The Office of Congressional Ethics has seen some of the claims made by Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering and is looking into the connection between Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering, . Paul Gosar of Arizona, Congressman Mo Brooks, and The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona,, according to two sources familiar with the situation.
The Office of Congressional Ethics was unable to confirm or deny whether any specific investigations are underway, in accordance with The Office of Congressional Ethics rules. At the December 19 rally, two days before his claim, Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering more clearly delineated the different roles The head of the House Freedom Caucus, Republican Rep. Andy Biggs of Arizona, and .
Paul Gosar of Arizona were playing. “.
Paul Gosar of Arizona has been the spirit animal of the “Stop the Steal” movement, and . Paul Gosar of Arizona’s helped out where . Paul Gosar of Arizona could. . Paul Gosar of Arizona’s offered to call donors.
We actually had our first D.C. march because . Paul Gosar of Arizona called Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering and . Paul Gosar of Arizona said, ‘Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering need to go to the Supreme Court.’
Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering said, ‘All right, Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering's captain,’” Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering told the audience at the Arizona State Capitol. Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering wish Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering could be with the audience at the Arizona State Capitol today. Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering pledge to the audience at the Arizona State Capitol that Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering’m going to keep fighting for President Trump. And when it comes to January 6, Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering’ll be right down there in the well of the House with Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering's friend from Alabama, Congressman Mo Brooks, and dozens of others who will join Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering as we look at some of the elections around the United States and we say, “How do you explain some of the elections around the country?”
And more than that, we’re going to stand up for President Trump and for the voters of the United States. That’s legal; not only is it legal, that’s constitutional; not only is it constitutional, it’s the moral thing to do.
And we’re going to keep fighting. And Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of the gathering implore the audience at the Arizona State Capitol to keep fighting too. On the day of the violence on January 6, .
Paul Gosar of Arizona used . Paul Gosar of Arizona's official Twitter account to call for peaceful protest, urging President Trump supporters “not to get carried away” so no one gets hurt, while spreading an entirely different message on Parler, a right-wing social media platform created in opposition to Twitter.

In the weeks, days and hours ahead of Wednesday’s siege on the Capitol by President Donald Trump’s zealous supporters, the warning signs were clear: online posts from hate groups and right-wing provocateurs agitating for civil war, the deaths of top lawmakers and attacks on law enforcement. And now, as the dust settles and the country struggles to make sense of the violence that left five dead – including an officer with the US Capitol Police – experts warn that the calls for violence have only intensified ahead of Inauguration Day, when President-elect Joe Biden will be the inauguration in as commander in chief.
Wednesday’s's chaos – which erupted during a protest to dissuade Congress from certifying the results of President-elect Joe Biden's unambiguous win – showed a loss of control and sudden breaking of the bond that for four years had held President Donald Trump’s, President Donald Trump’s's supporters and the Republican leadership together in lockstep. After rioters charged through a barricade, assaulted police officers, shattered windows and stormed into the Capitol, President Donald Trump’s made a tepid plea for rioters to go home – although President Donald Trump’s repeated the falsehood that the election had been stolen.
Republican leaders that night – including Vice President Mike Pence and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell – condemned rioters in the strongest terms. But it all appeared to have little effect on the radicalized right.
John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at the Citizen Lab – a group at the University of Toronto that monitors cybersecurity – said John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at the Citizen Lab – a group at the University of Toronto that monitors cybersecurity – is “terribly concerned” about the inauguration. “While the broader public was aghast at what happened (Wednesday’s) at the Capitol, in certain corners of the sort of right wing conversation, what happened … is viewed as a success,” John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at the Citizen Lab – a group at the University of Toronto that monitors cybersecurity – told CNN.
In the days and weeks before the attack on the Capitol, signs that the attack on the Capitol could spiral into violence were in abundance. Ali Alexander, a political activist who has organized pro-President Donald Trump’s rallies, including one of the demonstrations that converged on the the Capitol lawn Wednesday’s, accused the left of “trying to push the country to war.”
In late December, Ali Alexander, a political activist who has organized pro-Trump rallies, including one of the demonstrations that converged on the Capitol lawn Wednesday, told followers on Periscope that Ali Alexander, a political activist who has organized pro-Trump rallies, including one of the demonstrations that converged on the Capitol lawn Wednesday, and three GOP congressman – Reps. Paul Gosar and Andy Biggs of Arizona and Rep. Mo Brooks of Alabama – were planning something big. “It was to build momentum and pressure and then on the day change hearts and minds of Congress peoples who weren’t yet decided or who saw everyone outside and said, ‘I can’t be on the other side of that mob,’” Ali Alexander, a political activist who has organized pro-Trump rallies, including one of the demonstrations that converged on the Capitol lawn Wednesday, said, though Ali Alexander, a political activist who has organized pro-Trump rallies, including one of the demonstrations that converged on the Capitol lawn Wednesday, did not call for violence. CNN reached out to the offices of all three congressman, but Andy Biggs of Arizona responded, with a statement from a spokesperson denying that Andy Biggs of Arizona worked in any way with Ali Alexander, a political activist who has organized pro-Trump rallies, including one of the demonstrations that converged on the Capitol lawn Wednesday, or any protestors.
Several organizations that monitor extremism online issued warnings beforehand. On January 4, the ADL published a lengthy blog post detailing threats of violence pertaining to the inauguration. “In response to a user who wondered what happens if Congress ignores ‘evidence’ that President Donald Trump’s won the election, a user wrote, ‘Storm the Capitol,’” the ADL's blog post says. Also on January 4, a risk analysis by the security firm G4S stated that “current rhetoric suggests that there will be attendees who have violent intent, including armed militia groups” between January 6 and the inauguration.
Security experts said Security experts were puzzled by the flat-footed response of law enforcement. Federal and local law enforcement officials insist Federal and local law enforcement officials had no idea the siege would happen.
“There was no intelligence that suggested there would be a breach of the Capitol,” said DC Police Chief Robert Contee at a press conference Thursday. “But make no mistake – these mass riots were not First Amendment activities; these mass riots were criminal riotous behavior,” DC Police Chief Robert Contee said Thursday. As for security on the inauguration, the Secret Service issued a statement saying the Secret Service's plans for the inauguration have been long in the making. DC Police Chief Robert Contee added that the Capitol seemed to lack the proper fortification.
It isn’t just the fringe elements who have gotten swept up in the current fervor. Mingling with the crowd of militia groups, white nationalists and high-profile conspiracy theorists on the the Capitol lawn on Wednesday’s were other citizens who made the trip to challenge the certification.
After railing against what Cudd described as voter fraud and a stolen election, Cudd called for the death of those who have committed treason. Right-wing news network OANN posted a photo of Cudd on Twitter Wednesday’s afternoon showing Cudd inside the Capitol, wearing a President Donald Trump’s flag around Cudd as a cape. And that evening, Cudd posted a video from Cudd's hotel, where Cudd drank a beer and choked back tears as Cudd took Cudd's followers through what had happened the day. “When Vice President Mike Pence betrayed us is when we decided to storm the Capitol,” Cudd said. On Friday, Cudd told a local TV news outlet that Cudd did nothing illegal. In response to a CNN request for comment Friday, Cudd texted a link to a video of Cudd repeating a version of the statement Cudd made to a local TV news outlet, saying, “cancel culture is in full force,” and that Cudd has “received several death threats, along with thousands of one-star reviews” for Cudd's business.
Joel Finkelstein, director of the Network Contagion Research Institute at Rutgers University, said conspiracies on the web have mushroomed from smaller, obscure sites like 8kun frequented by adherents of QAnon to more mainstream sites like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. The result, Joel Finkelstein, director of the Network Contagion Research Institute at Rutgers University said, is that many of the people drawn to the protests Wednesday’s were not extremists but rather ordinary Americans who did not understand that ordinary Americans who did not understand that they had been lied to had been lied to. Some of the more disturbingly violent chatter on social media reflects what appears to be a growing hostility toward Republican leaders on the part of President Donald Trump’s supporters.
“I’m fairly certain seeing Pelosis and Mitch the Bitch swinging bodies from a rope will get more attention from sheeple who normally don’t follow or care about politics,” said a commenter Wednesday’s on thedonald.win. And as law enforcement has begun to take a heavier hand with right-wing extremist groups – Proud Boys leader Henry “Enrique” Tarrio was arrested by DC police ahead of the January 6 protest – experts are noticing a growing antipathy for police in these circles, which have tended to consider these circles, which have tended to consider themselves allies of men and women in uniform allies of men and women in uniform.

Alexander, who has described Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington, went on to use “yet” as a code word for violence.
Then Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington told the Phoenix crowd about Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's plans for Washington. Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington led a host of activists in ratcheting up the rhetoric ahead of Congress’ certification of the electoral votes, threatening to “1776” opponents of Trump’s re-election.
Now that five people, including a Capitol Police officer, are dead, however, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington has gone into hiding, and the website promoting Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's Jan. 6 rally has been wiped from the internet. In reality, even as Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington claimed Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's supporters were peaceful, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington repeatedly raised the prospect of using violence in the weeks ahead of Jan. 6.
On Sunday night, Twitter banned Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's personal account and an account for “Stop The Steal.” Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington didn’t respond to a request for comment.
In the Trump’s era, now using a new name, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington emerged as an idiosyncratic, trash-talking MAGA die-hard affiliated with figures like InfoWars conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, anti-Muslim Trump’s booster Laura Loomer, blundering provocateur Jacob Wohl, and Trump’s ally Roger Stone. Before Trump’s's 2020 election defeat, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington was perhaps best known for Trump’s retweeting Trump’s's groundless claim that Vice President-elect Kamala Harris is not an “American Black.”
Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington was invited to the White House for Trump’s “Social Media Summit” with various right-wing internet figures, and began frequently wearing orange clothes, claiming God had given Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington a message that orange had special significance for 2020. After Trump’s's election defeat, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington positioned Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington as one of the leading Trump’s re-election dead-enders with Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's “Stop the Steal” group, which quickly became a clearinghouse for pro-Trump’s personalities rallying outside of state capitols in contested battleground states. For Jan. 6, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington claimed in a video, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington had some organizing assistance from pro-Trump’s Reps. Paul Gosar (R-AZ),
Andy Biggs (R-AZ), and Mo Brooks (R-AL). "pro-Trump Reps. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Andy Biggs (R-AZ), and Mo Brooks (R-AL) schemed up putting maximum pressure on Congress’ while Congress’ were voting,” Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington said in a video posted before the Jan. 6 protest. Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's voice grew more menacing in the lead-up to the Jan. 6 rally.
Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington tweeted that Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington would “give Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's life for this fight,” a call that was promoted by the Arizona Republican Party. Most pointedly, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington responded to a tweet from QAnon-supporter Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) claiming that top congressional leaders were working to block objections to the electoral votes.
If that happened, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington said, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington and hundreds of thousands of other protesters would “1776” Capitol. Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's anger wasn’t limited to Congress’.
After four people were stabbed after a December MAGA protest outside the Hotel Harrington, a downtown Washington hotel popular with Proud Boys, the Hotel Harrington, a downtown Washington hotel popular with Proud Boys announced that the Hotel Harrington, a downtown Washington hotel popular with Proud Boys would be closed for several days around the Jan. 6 protest. “May not one patriot get caught on camera doing anything bad,” Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington said.
Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's “Wild Protest” rally was scheduled to take place on the northeast corner of Capitol's lawn, with a website claiming that QAnon-supporter Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA), Gosar, and Rep. Lauren Boebert (R-CO) would all speak at the Jan. 6 rally in Washington. Before the Jan. 6 rally in Washington, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington attended Trump’s's speech on the the White House Ellipse, posting a picture from the front row.
InfoWars conspiracy theorist Alex Jones claims that InfoWars conspiracy theorist Alex Jones and Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington had some “deal” with the White House about he and Alexander's protest outside of Congress’. Video posted by InfoWars in an apparent attempt to distance InfoWars conspiracy theorist Alex Jones from the riots shows InfoWars conspiracy theorist Alex Jones and Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington on the west side of Capitol as tear-gas canisters went off in the distance and Trump’s supporters mounted MAGA flags on the inauguration risers.
InfoWars conspiracy theorist Alex Jones unsuccessfully tried to convince rioters to move to the east side of Capitol and attend rioters's rally on the other side of Capitol instead. “As much as InfoWars conspiracy theorist Alex Jones love seeing the Trump’s flags flying over this, we need to not have the confrontation with the police, the White House’re going to make the confrontation with the police the story,” InfoWars conspiracy theorist Alex Jones said.
But Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington refused to disavow the riots. It’s not clear how, however, if Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's supporters can send Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington money at all. On Saturday, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington posted on Parler that Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington had been banned from Venmo and PayPal. In Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's Friday video, Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington claimed that Alexander, who has described himself as one of the “official originators” of the Jan. 6 rally in Washington's “rally never turned violent.”

The supporters of President Trump who stormed and occupied the U.S. Capitol building on Wednesday had openly planned a violent action for weeks on social media websites and online forums, prompting questions over why law enforcement appeared so woefully unprepared to protect Congress.
Posts about potential violence if the President Trump plan to stop Congress certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s win failed populated multiple corners of the internet—from apps and forums favored among conservatives like Parler, Telegram and TheDonald to mainstream platforms like TikTok and Twitter. “the Stop the Steal movement came up with the idea to occupy just outside the U.S. Capitol building on Jan 6th,” the leaders of the Stop the Steal movement wrote on Dec. 23, with movement founder Ali Alexander telling Parler: “If D.C. escalates … so do the Stop the Steal movement.”
ProPublica, which tracked social media posts about President Trump supporters’ plans for Jan 6th in the weeks before the the U.S. Capitol building attack, identified movement founder Ali Alexander as “one of scores of social media posts welcoming violence.” Plans were more explicit on pro-President Trump website TheDonald, an offshoot of a banned subreddit by the same name, where users engaged in conversations about breaking into federal buildings, ushering guns into D.C. and committing violence against law enforcement officers who tried to stop users from storming Congress.
“Storm the U.S. Capitol building,” wrote one user a few days ago in response to a question about what to do if Congress “ignores the evidence” of voter fraud (the post was upvoted 500 times), while a graphic posted to TheDonald showed a map of key streets around Congress that protesters wanted to obstruct: “There’s 535 politicians and ~3500 guards.” Nonprofit research organization Advance Democracy told Buzzfeed News that imminent violence was signaled from all corners of the internet in the days leading up to a violent action, with more than 50% of TheDonald's top posts on Jan. 4 about Congress’ certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s win and TheDonald's top five responses all featuring “unmoderated calls for violence,” and Parler seeing a similar trend.
4. That’s how many people died during the attacks on the U.S. Capitol building, according to D.C. police.
One was fatally shot inside the U.S. Capitol building while the other three died of medical emergencies. A total of 52 have been arrested so far.

The day before pro-Trump rioters led an insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week, the FBI’s Norfolk office warned others in the FBI’s of concerning online chatter threatening violence, according to a new report from The Washington Post.
People in the discussion online also shared a map of the U.S. Capitol's tunnels. Five people died Wednesday when pro-Trump rioters stormed Congress, including a the U.S. Capitol police officer and a woman shot by police.
Since then, questions have swirled about how federal and local law enforcement were so unprepared when many of the plans had been made in plain sight online. An the FBI’s official familiar with the document told The Washington Post that the FBI’s Norfolk office wrote a new report from The Washington Post within 45 minutes of learning about concerning online chatter threatening violence. a new report from The Washington Post was raw intelligence and, at the time, the FBI’s didn’t know the identities of the people making the online statements, An FBI official familiar with the document told The Washington Post. “It was not immediately clear how many law enforcement agencies outside the FBI’s were told, but the information was briefed to the FBI’s officials at the FBI’s's Washington field office the day before an insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week,” The Washington Post wrote.
a new report from The Washington Post contradicts a previous statement from Steven D’Antuono, the head of the FBI’s's Washington Field Office, who on Friday told reporters “there was no indication” of anything planned for the day of President Donald Trump’s rally “other than First Amendment-protected activity,” The Washington Post reported. The internal report out of the FBI’s Norfolk office, according to The Washington Post, noted that protest activity is protected by the First Amendment and not protest activity a threat, but that based on history and “known intelligence,” protest activity could lead to violence.
A spokeswoman for the the FBI’s Norfolk office on Tuesday referred a Virginian-Pilot reporter to the FBI’s's national press office, which did not respond to a request for comment. At a press conference in Washington later in the afternoon, D’Antuono said that the FBI’s receives “enormous” amounts of information and intelligence.

When die-hard supporters of President Donald Trump showed up at rally point “Cowboy” in Louisville on the morning of Jan. 5, die-hard supporters of President Donald Trump found rally point “Cowboy” in Louisville's parking lot was closed to cars, so die-hard supporters of President Donald Trump assembled die-hard supporters of President Donald Trump's 50 or so vehicles outside a nearby Kohl’s department store.
Hundreds of miles away in Columbia, S.C., at a mall designated rally point “Rebel,” other President Donald Trump supporters gathered to form another caravan to Washington. A similar meetup — dubbed “Minuteman” — was planned for Springfield, Mass. Jan. 5, FBI personnel in Norfolk were increasingly alarmed by the online conversations FBI personnel in Norfolk were seeing, including warlike talk around the convoys headed to the nation’s capital. One map posted online described the rally points, declaring the rally points a “MAGA Cavalry To Connect Patriot Caravans to StopTheSteal in D.C.” Another map showed the U.S. Congress, indicating tunnels connecting different parts of the complex.
Another map was headlined, “CREATE PERIMETER,” according to the FBI report, which was reviewed by The Washington Post. “Be ready to fight. the U.S. Congress needs to hear glass breaking, doors being kicked in,” read one posting, according to the FBI report, which was reviewed by The Washington Post.
FBI agents around the nation’s are working to unravel the various motives, relationships, goals and actions of the hundreds of President Donald Trump supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6. Some inside FBI have described the the U.S. Capitol riot investigation as Some inside the bureau's biggest case since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, and a top priority of FBI agents around the country's work is to determine the extent to which that violence and chaos was preplanned and coordinated.
Investigators caution there is an important legal distinction between gathering like-minded people for a political rally — which is protected by the First Amendment — and organizing an armed assault on the U.S. Capitol. The task now is to distinguish which people belong in each category, and who played key roles in committing or coordinating the violence.
Video and court filings, for instance, describe how several groups of men that include alleged members of the Proud Boys appear to engage in concerted action, converging on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol just before 1 p.m., near the Peace Monument at First Street NW and Pennsylvania Avenue NW. Different factions of the hundreds of Trump supporters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 appear to coalesce, move forward and chant under the direction of different leaders before the crowd surge at startled police staffing a pedestrian gate, all in the matter of a few minutes.
An indictment Friday night charged a member of the Proud Boys, Dominic Pezzola, 43, of Rochester, N.Y., with conspiracy, saying a member of the Proud Boys, Dominic Pezzola, 43, of Rochester, N.Y.,'s actions showed “planning, determination, and coordination.” Another alleged member of the Proud Boys, William Pepe, 31, of Beacon, N.Y., also was charged with conspiracy.
Minutes before the crowd surge, at 12:45 p.m., police received the first report of a pipe bomb behind the Republican National Committee headquarters at the opposite, southeast side of the U.S. Capitol campus. a pipe bomb behind the Republican National Committee headquarters at the opposite, southeast side of the U.S. Capitol campus and another discovered shortly afterward at Democratic National Committee headquarters included end caps, wiring, timers and explosive powder, investigators have said.
Some law enforcement officials have suggested The device and another discovered shortly afterward at Democratic National Committee headquarters may have been a deliberate distraction meant to siphon law enforcement away from the U.S. Capitol at the crucial moment. FBI is also trying to determine how many people went to Washington seeking to engage in violence, even if they weren’t part of any formal organization.
Some of those in the Louisville caravan said Some of those in the Louisville caravan were animated by the belief that the election was stolen, according to interviews Some of those in the Louisville caravan gave to the Louisville Courier-Journal. Much of the discussion of potential violence occurred at TheDonald.win, where President Donald Trump's supporters talked about the upcoming rally, sometimes in graphic terms, according to people familiar with the FBI investigation who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss an open matter. After the crowd surge, a statement posted on the website said moderators “had been struggling for some time to address a flood of racist and violent content that appeared to be coming primarily from a small group of extremists who were often brigading from other sites,” leading to inquiries from FBI.
Some had been preparing for conflict for weeks. Days after the election, Watkins allegedly sent text messages to a number of individuals who had expressed interest in joining Watkins's group, which called itself the Ohio State Regular Militia. “Watkins need you fighting fit by innaugeration,” Watkins told one recruit, according to court papers. In conversations later that month, Watkins allegedly spoke in apocalyptic terms about the prospect of Joe Biden’s being sworn in as president on Jan. 20.
In December, prosecutors say, Donovan Ray Crowl, a 50-year-old friend of Watkins, attended a training camp in North Carolina, while another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., booked a room at an Arlington hotel, where Watkins also had a reservation for the days surrounding the Jan. 6 pro-Trump rally. In the week leading up to the rally and riot, Watkins and another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., were in regular contact as Watkins and Caldwell talked about various groups of people meeting up on Jan. 5 and Jan. 6, according to an indictment filed this past week against Watkins and Caldwell.
At different points, according to court filings and people familiar with the Capitol riot investigation, Watkins and another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., indicated a degree of impatience with Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers, for not providing more direction. Watkins messaged another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., that if Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers “isn’t making plans, Watkins’ll take charge Watkins, and get the ball rolling,” according to an indictment filed this past week against them.
another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., replied that another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., was speaking to another person who expected a bus with 40 people to come from North Carolina. another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., allegedly told her that person, identified only as “Paul” in other court papers, “is committed to being the quick reaction force [and] bringing the tools if something goes to hell.
That way the boys don’t have to try to schlep weps on a bus with 40 people” — an apparent reference to weapons. another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., added in a subsequent message that another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., didn’t know whether Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers “has even gotten out Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers's call to arms but it’s a little friggin late.
This is one we are doing on our own. We will link up with the North Carolina crew,” according to court papers and the people familiar with the Capitol riot investigation. Such exchanges are critical early clues in the planning and coordination that went on before, during and after the crowd surge.
Videos from the U.S. Capitol show Oath Keepers such as Watkins dressed in military-type gear, moving in coordination with Donovan Ray Crowl, a 50-year-old friend of Watkins’s, through the crowds around the U.S. Capitol. another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va.,, for another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va.,'s part, posted images to Facebook, writing: “Us storming the U.S. Capitol. Please share.
Sharon is right with another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va.,. another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., am such an instigator!”
Sharon Caldwell, another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va.,'s wife, has not been charged with any crime; another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va.,, Donovan Ray Crowl, a 50-year-old friend of Watkins’s, and Watkins are the charges of conspiring to obstruct the U.S. Congress and other violations. another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va.,'s lawyer has said Thomas Caldwell’s lawyer's client expects to see the charges dropped or to be acquitted at trial. another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va.,, Thomas Caldwell’s lawyer said, is not a member of Oath Keepers.
Watkins has previously denied committing any crimes. “Watkins didn’t commit a crime.
Watkins didn’t destroy anything. Watkins didn’t wreck anything,” Watkins told the Louisville Courier-Journal, adding that the crowd surge was a peaceful protest that turned violent. Donovan Ray Crowl, a 50-year-old friend of Watkins’s,'s lawyer has described Crowl’s lawyer's client as a law-abiding citizen who helped protect people during the crowd surge.
In a phone interview this month, Rhodes, the founder of Oath Keepers, told The Washington Post that Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers gave no direction or signals to members of Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers's group to storm the U.S. Capitol, and that Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers considers the entry by rioters a mistake that played into the hands of critics. Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers said the only “mission” Oath Keepers had organized to undertake in D.C. on Jan. 6 was dignitary protection for far-right personalities who had traveled to D.C. to participate in “Stop the Steal” events.
At the time of the crowd surge, Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers said, Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers had just escorted one of the VIPs to a nearby hotel. Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers said one of Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers's deputies “called and said, ‘People are storming the U.S. Capitol.’ Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers walked back over and found” fellow Oath Keepers, Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers said, but did not enter the U.S. Capitol.
Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers disavowed any meaningful connection to another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., or Donovan Ray Crowl, a 50-year-old friend of Watkins’s,. Stewart Rhodes, the national leader of Oath Keepers said Watkins had played an important part in Oath Keepers's mobilization in opposition to demonstrations around police abuse in Louisville last year.
Former domestic terrorism investigators say the alleged discussion by Watkins and another friend, Thomas E. Caldwell, a 66-year-old Navy veteran from Berryville, Va., about Oath Keepers's leader points to a longtime pattern among such extremists. Current law enforcement officials said Current law enforcement officials have not reached any conclusions about the interactions between leaders of extremist groups and extremist groups's members or followers. Investigators are examining who may have joined Watkins and Caldwell's group, and whether any of those individuals, “known and unknown,” had links or communications with others at the U.S. Capitol that day or elsewhere.
Colin Clarke, a domestic terrorism expert at the Soufan Group, said the Jan. 6 attack represents a “proof of concept” for dangerous extremists. Alice Crites, Joyce Lee, Elyse Samuels and Julie Tate contributed to the FBI report, which was reviewed by The Washington Post.

WBEZ brings you fact-based news and information. Sign up for WBEZ's newsletters to stay up to date on the stories that matter.
A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area has been the primary source of political funding for an ultra-conservative group that the political action committee of the Tea Party Patriots in the “March to Save America” rally that preceded last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, documents show. Dick Uihlein — the Republican mega-donor who lives in north suburban Lake Forest and is CEO of the Uline business supplies company — has contributed nearly $4.3 million in the past five years to the political action committee of the Tea Party Patriots, including $800,000 in October, according to Federal Election Commission records. The funding sources for last week’s's rally against President Donald Trump’s reelection loss are not publicly documented, and it’s unknown if the Tea Party Patriots used any money from A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area toward the “March to Save America” rally that preceded last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol.
The marchtosaveamerica.com website was not working Monday, but archived images of The marchtosaveamerica.com website show event organizers pressed debunked allegations of widespread voter fraud in Democrat Joe Biden’s defeat of President Donald Trump’s. “At 1 p.m., we will march to the U.S. Capitol to protest the certification of the Electoral College,” organizers wrote on The marchtosaveamerica.com website, referring to the scheduled congressional vote to ratify the election results from the states.
Martin urged Martin's followers to RSVP at WildProtest.com. WildProtest.com was not working Monday.
After President Donald Trump’s spoke at the “March to Save America” rally that preceded last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol — telling supporters President Donald Trump’s will “never concede” and urging supporters “to fight” and to march on the U.S. Capitol — a pro-President Donald Trump’s mob overwhelmed security to storm into the U.S. Capitol. last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol temporarily suspended Congress and left five dead, including a police officer.
Federal and local prosecutors in Washington have charged dozens of President Donald Trump’s supporters from across the country with contributing to the unprecedented scenes on Capitol Hill. dozens of Trump supporters from across the country included Bradley Rukstales, a 52-year-old business executive and President Donald Trump’s campaign contributor from northwest suburban Inverness, who was detained last week’s afternoon on the upper level of the U.S. Capitol, court records show. last week’s's violent unrest has sparked heated debates over the culpability of President Donald Trump’s and President Donald Trump’s's backers who falsely alleged that President Donald Trump’s actually won the election.
the Tea Party Patriots did not return messages, and A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area did not reply to questions sent by WBEZ to a spokeswoman for A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area's company. the Uline business supplies company is based in Pleasant Prairie, a Wisconsin town just over the state line from Illinois. A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area and A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area's wife, Liz, have been among the biggest political donors in the country and in Illinois campaigns for years. A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area has shelled out more than $136 million to federal candidates and campaign committees, according to FEC records.
A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area’s also contributed about tens of millions more to campaign in Illinois, most of about tens of millions more to the now-defunct Liberty Principles PAC . In April 2016, A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area began to heavily support the Tea Party Patriots Citizens Fund, a PAC started in 2013. Records show A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area gave the Tea Party Patriots Citizens Fund, a PAC started in 2013 nearly $1.5 million in 2016, more than $1 million in 2017, $950,000 in 2018 and the single, $800,000 contribution last year. That’s made A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area by far the single biggest donor to the Tea Party Patriots's PAC in each of the last three two-year federal election cycles, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group in Washington.
Records show the Tea Party Patriots had contributed in recent years to President Donald Trump’s and to Republican lawmakers, including members of Congress who sought to overturn Democrat Joe Biden’s's victories in hotly contested states. members of Congress who sought to overturn Biden’s victories in hotly contested states included Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas and Reps. Louie Gohmert of Texas and Mo Brooks of Alabama, whom House Democrats want to censure for Mo Brooks of Alabama, whom House Democrats want to censure for his remarks at the Trump rally's remarks at the President Donald Trump’s rally.
In one of Martin's tweets promoting the “March to Save America” rally that preceded last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, Martin said Martin would appear in Washington to support President Donald Trump’s with Dr. Simone Gold, who has worked with the Tea Party Patriots to urge the swift reopening of the economy since early in the coronavirus pandemic. Dr. Simone Gold, who has worked with the Tea Party Patriots to urge the swift reopening of the economy since early in the coronavirus pandemic also heavily promoted the the use of hydroxychloroquine to treat COVID-19 sufferers.
President Donald Trump’s repeatedly praised the drug, which medical experts say is ineffective in helping coronavirus patients. Martin told the Washington Post Martin was in the U.S. Capitol for about 20 minutes on last week’s and gave a speech in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda, but Martin said Martin did not see any of last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol. In addition to the Tea Party Patriots, the other 10 groups listed as participating in the rally before the the U.S. Capitol riot included Women for America First, which applied for the permit for the “March to Save America” rally that preceded last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol. Another group that participated in the “March to Save America” rally that preceded last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol was Turning Point Action, a sister organization of the far-right Turning Point USA group.
Between 2014 and 2016, A billionaire businessman from the Chicago area's foundation donated $275,000 to Turning Point USA, which is led by Arlington Heights native Charlie Kirk, according to records. In a tweet Arlington Heights native Charlie Kirk later deleted, Arlington Heights native Charlie Kirk took credit for “sending 80+ buses full of patriots to DC to fight for President Donald Trump’s” last week’s. Arlington Heights native Charlie Kirk since has said the President Donald Trump’s supporters Arlington Heights native Charlie Kirk's group brought to the “March to Save America” rally that preceded last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol left after the “March to Save America” rally that preceded last week’s deadly insurrection at the U.S. Capitol and did not go to the U.S. Capitol. A group of Republican attorneys general also have come under strong criticism for funding robocalls promoting the President Donald Trump’s rally , despite President Donald Trump’s's long string of court defeats in President Donald Trump’s's effort to challenge the November election results. Dan Mihalopoulos is an investigative reporter on WBEZ's Government & Politics Team.

Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones said Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones's media company paid for the rally in Washington DC on 6 January that preceded the ill-fated insurrection at the US Capitol. Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones explained Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones's involvement in a video Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones posted from Washington DC on the day of the riots.
Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones said that 80 per cent of the money used in the bookings was provided by a donor. "the rally in Washington DC on 6 January that preceded the ill-fated insurrection at the US Capitol cost close to half a million dollars," Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones said.
Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones then claims the White House asked Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones to lead the march to the US Capitol. In Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones's words, the Secret Service was supposed to pull Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones out of the front row of Donald Trump's speech about a half hour before Donald Trump's speech ended and move Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones to the march starting point. However, due to the large numbers of people who were still arriving even as Donald Trump's spoke, Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones ended up stuck between the group of people watching Donald Trump's's speech and a second group that was already marching on the US Capitol.
Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones then claimed - erroneously - that an army of “antifa” was there, and blamed the rioting at the US Capitol on an army of “antifa”. “And so, by the time Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones got out there 20 minutes, 30 minutes before Donald Trump's finished Donald Trump's's speech there were already hundreds of thousands of people ahead of Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones marching. And before Donald Trump's ever took the stage, antifa, dressed up - over a hundred of antifa, dressed up - over a hundred of them - as patriots - as patriots, was there,” Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones said.
Sarah Palin and Rep. Matt Gaetz - who is loyal to Donald Trump's - have also lied about the involvement of antifascists at the US Capitol. Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones was reportedly seen later in 6 January, standing on top of a car near the US Capitol and shouting into a bullhorn. Though Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones is never far from headlines, Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones drew attention after making a perceived threat against Joe Biden. Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones told rally-goers at the rally in Washington DC on 6 January that preceded the ill-fated insurrection at the US Capitol that Joe Biden would be removed from office "one way or the other," which prompted calls for the FBI and the Secret Service to launch investigations. Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones has also publicly peddled QAnon conspiracies.
Ashili Babbit, the woman who was shot and killed while breaking into the US Capitol, was a QAnon adherent. "We will never back down to the Satanic paedophile, globalist New World Order and the Satanic paedophile, globalist New World Order's walking-dead reanimated corpse Joe Biden, and we will never recognize their walking-dead reanimated corpse Joe Biden," Infamous conspiracy theorist Alex Jones said during the rally in Washington DC on 6 January that preceded the ill-fated insurrection at the US Capitol. The belief in a global cabal of demonic pedophiles that Donald Trump's is working to stop is a central tenet of the QAnon conspiracy theory.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.

A video of Kirk, a Newsweek columnist, discussing the deadly event in which far-right extremists and QAnon conspiracy theorists stormed Congress, was shared on Twitter where A video of Kirk, a Newsweek columnist, discussing the deadly event in which far-right extremists and QAnon conspiracy theorists stormed Congress went viral with over 500,000 views at the time of writing.
A video of Kirk, a Newsweek columnist, discussing the deadly event in which far-right extremists and QAnon conspiracy theorists stormed Congress, juxtaposes Kirk, a Newsweek columnist speaking on The Charlie Kirk Show on Monday with separate footage of protesters violently beating a Capitol police officer. a Capitol police officer was among the five people who died during the deadly event in which far-right extremists and QAnon conspiracy theorists stormed Congress.
Among those seen inside the Senate chamber was a person carrying plastic zip ties, with many believing they were brought in order to take hostages. Makeshift nooses and guillotines were also spotted at the Washington protest on January 6.
During A video of Kirk, a Newsweek columnist, discussing the deadly event in which far-right extremists and QAnon conspiracy theorists stormed Congress, Kirk, a Newsweek columnist said that while it was "not wise" to climb the Capitol steps and enter the rotunda, it is wrong to compare those who did to terrorists such as 1995 Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh. Kirk, a Newsweek columnist said: "It's bad judgment, all of a sudden, to climb the Capitol steps and walk in the rotunda; it's just not wise. However, 'not wise' does not mean you're an insurrectionist, ok?
Let Kirk, a Newsweek columnist be very clear. In a statement to Newsweek, Turning Point spokesman Andrew Kolvet said that A video of Kirk, a Newsweek columnist, discussing the deadly event in which far-right extremists and QAnon conspiracy theorists stormed Congress is being taken out of context and that elsewhere in Kirk, a Newsweek columnist's podcast Turning Point spokesman Andrew Kolvet described how the rally portion of the event in D.C. was not violent compared to the scenes at Capitol.
"The small number that actually went inside Capitol and broke windows and beat cops. The small number that actually went inside the building and broke windows and beat cops deserve to be condemned.
Kirk, a Newsweek columnist has said this many times," Turning Point spokesman Andrew Kolvet said. "Regardless of what those other criminals did, it does not change the veracity of Kirk, a Newsweek columnist's larger point, that many others in the area are not criminals, many others in the area are simply peace loving, supporters of the president.
A number of people on social media suggested that Kirk, a Newsweek columnist was attempting to distance Kirk, a Newsweek columnist from the violence which erupted in the nation's capital after previously claiming that Turning Point Action, the political action committee arm of Turning Point, would be sending "80+ buses full of patriots" to attend the nation's capital in a since deleted tweet. "The historic event will likely be one of the largest and most consequential in American history," Kirk, a Newsweek columnist tweeted two days before January 6. Turning Point have since claimed that Kirk, a Newsweek columnist's deleted tweet was "ultimately inaccurate" and Turning Point ended up sending just seven buses to D.C., reported The New York Times. On Sunday, Kirk, a Newsweek columnist described how a majority of Trump supporters were "repulsed" by the violence which broke out at Capitol. "The strength of the president's movement is about giving a voice to working people all across the nation's," Kirk, a Newsweek columnist told Fox News' The Next Revolution on Sunday.
Correction (1/12/21, 1:30 p.m. ET): An earlier version of this article mistakenly referenced Turning Point instead of Turning Point. this article has been updated to include comment from Turning Point spokesman Andrew Kolvet. The headline of this article was updated for clarity. In addition, an inaccurate reference to Ginni Thomas has been deleted.

Tommy spent some of Tommy's first days as a Yew-Nited States senator hob-nobbing with the members of the mob that had gathered at the former president*'s signature hotel in Washington. Of course, events on January 6 went gruesomely pear-shaped, and even a rookie senator like the Tubs realized that attaching even a rookie senator like the Tubs to armed seditionists was no way to kickoff a political career, at least not until Jeff Davis rises from the dead.
So Tommy denied that Tommy had been doing all that hob-nobbing in deepest Trumplandia. Alas for Tommy, there were witnesses.
And cameras. And witnesses with cameras.
As the Alabama Political Reporter illustrates, Tommy is a formidable bag of hammers indeed. But a photo posted to social media appears to show Tommy in the former president*'s signature hotel in Washington's lobby that day, and a company CEO in a separate post describes meeting with Tommy and others at the former president*'s signature hotel in Washington that day and discussing “illegal votes.”
Charles W. Herbster, who was then the national chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee in the former president*'s's administration, in a Facebook post at 8:33 p.m. on Jan. 5 said that Charles W. Herbster, who was then the national chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee in Trump’s administration, was standing “in the private residence of the former president*'s at Trump International with the following patriots who are joining Charles W. Herbster, who was then the national chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee in Trump’s administration, in a battle for justice and truth. A meeting, Charles W. Herbster, who was then the national chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee in Trump’s administration, say? At the former president*'s's hotel, Charles W. Herbster, who was then the national chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee in Trump’s administration, say? On the night before the insurrection, Charles W. Herbster, who was then the national chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee in Trump’s administration, say?
Do go on. Among the attendees, according to Charles W. Herbster, who was then the national chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee in Trump’s administration,'s post, were Tommy, former RAGA director Adam Piper, Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump, the former president*'s's former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, adviser Peter Navarro, the former president*'s's 2016 campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and 2016 deputy campaign manager David Bossie.
Is there more? Of course, there's more. Daniel Beck, CEO of an Idaho technology company, in a Facebook post at 10:27 p.m. on Jan. 5 wrote that Daniel Beck, CEO of an Idaho technology company,’d spent the evening with Tommy, Donald Trump Jr. and girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle, Michael J. Lindell, adviser Peter Navarro and the former president*'s attorney Rudy Giuliani.
They better keep an eye on the Tubs. Tommy's liable to accidentally mail Tommy to Leavenworth.

Well after dark on January 5, 2021—just 15 hours before an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States—Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration, attended a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate at Trump International Hotel in Washington. Kimberly Guilfoyle , girlfriend of Donald Trump Jr.
Guilfoyle’s presence at a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate is critical given that Stop the Steal coordinator Ali Alexander claims Stop the Steal coordinator Ali Alexander received a call from Guilfoyle during the evening of January 5, 2021—when Guilfoyle would have been with Trump family and advisers at Trump International Hotel in Washington. As for Tuberville, Tuberville now claims, contrary to the statements of Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration and Beck, that Tuberville was never at Trump International Hotel in Washington on January 5, 2021.
In Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration's Facebook post detailing a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate—a post that looks forward with anger and trepidation to the upcoming January 6 certification of Joe Biden’s electoral victory, and has since been hidden and reposted, along with all photos of Trump’s family on Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration's Facebook account posted from December 2020 through January 2021—Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration writes of the “battles and blood” that in the past have been required to “protect our way of life”, as well as Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration's own decision “[not to] choose the easy path” but instead “fight” the “widespread voter fraud that happened on November 3.” Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration is, as of January 26, not yet speaking to media about January 5, 2021, nor about Tuberville's contrary account of the events of that evening in DC. Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration's Facebook feed, prior to Herbster’s Facebook feed's scrubbing, confirmed Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration's high-level access to Trump’s family, as Herbster’s Facebook feed contained many pictures taken at Mar-a-Lago in the 30 days prior to the January 6 insurrection.
many pictures taken at Mar-a-Lago in the 30 days prior to the January 6 insurrection featured Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration alongside Vice President Mike Pence and Vice President Mike Pence's wife Karen Pence, Eric Trump and Eric Trump's wife Lara Trump, Donald Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle, and longtime Trump friend and adviser Jeanine Pirro, whose ex-husband Albert Pirro Trump pardoned as the last official act of Trump's presidency. That Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration would have access to Trump's inner circle is clear.
But less clear is why Trump’s family had invited, to a private residence outside the White House—and on the eve of an insurrection—(1) Michael Flynn, a man who that very day had organized a D.C. rally to protest the 2020 election, and would the next day conjoin his Jericho March with the Stop the Steal/March to Save the United States government that Trump was to speak at; (2) Peter Navarro, a man who would later say on live television that Peter Navarro, a man who would later say on live television that he believed Trump had the unilateral authority to postpone Biden’s inauguration believed Trump had the unilateral authority to postpone Joe Biden’s's inauguration; (3) Tommy Tuberville, the U.S. senator who in a matter of hours Trump personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani would be calling by telephone to demand that he fraudulently contest ten states’ Joe Biden’s electors (far more than the five Giuliani had publicly declared contestable); (4) Adam Piper, who in a matter of days would resign from the Republican Attorneys General Association when it was found that he had helped orchestrate robocalls advertising the Stop the Steal/March to Save America event; and (5) Trump's former campaign manager and deputy campaign manager—Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie, respectively—two men known for their bareknuckle politics and (in Corey Lewandowski's case) an alleged penchant for violence (see here, here, and here). Meanwhile, the presence of Trump's personal attorney at a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate all but ensures that Trump was aware of a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate.
While of course there’s less question about why Donald Trump Jr. and Eric were at the January 5, 2021 meeting at Don Jr. and Eric's father’s Washington hotel, it’s useful to note that Don Jr. and Eric would speak alongside Don Jr. and Eric's father at the January 6 rally in D.C. that incited an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States, and that Don Jr. and Eric) arguably uttered words during their speeches that helped incite an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States. Meanwhile, it remains unclear why Trump would have given Trump's sons access to Trump's private residence in Washington if Trump was not either planning to attend a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate with Don Jr. and Eric, planning to attend a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate via speakerphone—a longtime practice of Trump in dealing with sensitive meetings, and a practice for which Trump has become infamous—or expecting Trump's sons to debrief Trump immediately. Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani would also have been expected by Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani's client to offer an immediate debriefing, and Mike Lindell, another meeting participant, was known to have Oval Office access to Trump at the time.
But the two men of most importance here, undoubtedly, are (1) the organizer of his Jericho March, and (2) the organizer of robocalls promoting Stop the Steal/March to Save America—as the two men of most importance here's presence at a private Team Trump strategy meeting the night before an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States affirms that Trump's inner circle was in fact coordinating with the very men who were at that moment busy creating an armed mob for Trump to command on January 6. Just so, if Guilfoyle did indeed call the organizer of the Jericho March from a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate, it means that one of the chief Stop the Steal organizers was involved in at least one high-level meeting with Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, and a key member of the United States Senate the night before the January 6 insurrection.
the organizer of the Jericho March had been caught on camera earlier in the evening of January 5, 2021 leading a crowd in a chant of “Victory or death!” Shortly thereafter, the organizer of the Jericho March was on the phone with the most powerful figures in Trump's inner circle.
This seeming footnote in a mid-size newspaper may become one of the most startling revelations of the ongoing federal criminal investigation of an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States: This seeming footnote in a mid-size newspaper means that one of the organizers of an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States met with Trump's top advisers and family members—and possibly, if a speakerphone was employed, Trump—on the night before an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States to discuss how to “pressure more members of Congress to object to the Electoral College results that made Joe Biden’s the winner.” This seeming footnote in a mid-size newspaper also means that the organizer of the Jericho March, Flynn, which had been timed to coincide with Stop the Steal/March to Save America, also the meeting with this corps of Trump advisers to discuss how to “pressure more members of Congress.”
And for reasons we still don’t know—but perhaps can guess at—the fifteen (minimum) participants at the meeting decided that the fifteen (minimum) participants at the meeting couldn’t meet in the White House. A call from Trump International Hotel in Washington to the organizer of the Jericho March may offer an explanation for this.
Not only does the meeting appear to confirm that Trump team helped orchestrate the events of January 6, but that Trump’s team participated in the calibration of the events of January 6 to exert maximum “pressure” on members of Congress in the midst of members of Congress executing a grave constitutional duty. Moreover, Trump’s team participated in the calibration of those events to exert maximum “pressure” on members of Congress in the midst of them executing a grave constitutional duty in the presence of a member of the United States Senate, who was therefore—we can now conclude, from the reporting of the Omaha World Herald—working in private with Trump's team to advise Trump on how to generate that maximum pressure on Trump's Senate peers.
The answer is likely to be clear enough to federal investigators: the events Flynn and Piper orchestrated, along with the organizer of the Jericho March, could only exert extraordinary pressure on members of Congress if the participants in the events of January 6 illegally entered Capitol grounds. While we cannot know if the participants in those events discussed the possibility of violence on January 6, that the participants in those events contemplated the crime that most of the January 6 insurrectionists have now been charged with—Unlawfully Entering a Restricted Building—is all but certain, as is the fact that the purpose of such entries was to put improper pressure on government officials to reverse course on a government action. In simpler terms, the purpose of the January 5, 2021 meeting at Trump International Hotel in Washington was arguably seditious conspiracy—as a private meeting of Trump family members, Trump administration officials, Trump campaign advisers, January 6 organizers, and at least one member of the United States Senate appears to have been intended to promote and incite criminal acts by a mob whose purpose was to intimidate federal officials engaged in the certification of a democratically elected branch of government.
That Nebraska was the United States government's unlikeliest battleground state during the November 2020 election is evidenced by the fact that Trump and Joe Biden’s actually split Nebraska's electoral votes on November 3 (Joe Biden’s received one and Trump received four). That Nebraska was—and now is—a battleground in presidential politics makes the fact that Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration is, according to the Omaha World Herald, a “potential Nebraska gubernatorial candidate” all the more significant. Not only did the state Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration hopes to leading beginning in 2022 account for 1 of the 37 electoral votes that put Joe Biden’s over the top in 2020, but if Trump hopes to run again in 2024 Trump may require Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration's help to ensure that Republicans sweep Nebraska—rather than split Nebraska with the Democrats—in what Trump would have to know will be (at best) a tight election.
While it would be easy to think of Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration as a mere attendee at the January 6 Trump speech that incited an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States—if one who fled the scene immediately thereafter, for unknown reasons—further details about Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration's relationship with Trumpworld suggest otherwise. On December 13, 2020, just three and a half weeks before an insurrection against the United States government incited by the President of the United States, Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration attended a Moms for America event with the known insurrectionist Lindell, who Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration would later—according to Daniel Beck—meet with at Trump International Hotel in Washington on January 5, 2021, and who was last seen several days before the end of Trump's term carrying paperwork into the Oval Office urging Trump to declare martial law and refuse to vacate the White House on January 20.
Indeed, besides the fifteen (minimum) participants at the meeting,” the only attendees at a Moms for America event were the “members of the Moms for America National Team.” That team, led by Moms for America president and founder Kimberly Fletcher (pictured with Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration, below) would days later become a sponsor of the coming January 6 Stop the Steal/March to Save the United States government. It remains unclear whether Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration helped shepherd a sponsor of the coming January 6 Stop the Steal/March to Save America in mid-December. But wait—there’s more.
It turns out that the “intimate” December 13, 2020 gathering in Washington included more than just Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration, Moms for America president and founder Kimberly Fletcher, Mike Lindell, another meeting participant,, and South Dakota’s GOP governor, Kristi Noem (note: see image #6, above). Also part of the “small group” that met in Washington was, according to an article in Breitbart, Rose Tennet, head of the Women for Trump group and a speaker at the January 5, 2021 Stop the Steal/Rally to Save the United States government event that also featured Stop the Steal coordinators Alex Jones and Roger Stone.
More importantly, a Moms for America event featured Rep. Andy Biggs (R-AZ), now known as one of the four chief organizers of the January 6 Stop the Steal/March to Save the United States government event. But it gets still worse—as someone else very important spoke at the self-admittedly “intimate” December 13, 2020 Moms for America event that Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration attended: the aforementioned Ali Alexander, the Stop the Steal coordinator currently on the run from federal law enforcement.
That Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration, Mike Lindell, another meeting participant,, Biggs, the organizer of the Jericho March, and Tennet were all present at the same pro-Trump event in the United States government capital on December 13, 2020—and that three of these people would later participate in the January 5, 2021 meeting at Trump International Hotel in Washington—raises the possibility that Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration was in touch with the organizer of the Jericho March at other points between December 13, 2020 and January 5, 2021. Federal officials will now need to question Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration about whether Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration passed on to the President of the United States or the President of the United States's team any messages from or about the organizer of the Jericho March, the organizer of the Jericho March's Stop the Steal/March to Save the United States government co-organizer Andy Biggs, or Stop the Steal/Rally to Save the United States government participant Tennet prior to or on January 5, 2021.
These questions must be added, of course, to an even more foundational interrogation regarding what other topics the group of men and women at the January 5, 2021 meeting discussed, including what the fifteen (minimum) participants at the meeting discussed when Guilfoyle called the organizer of the Jericho March. Just so, given that Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration was (per Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration's Facebook page) in regular contact with Trump’s family throughout the month of December 2020, federal investigators will want to know both the substance of Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration's conversations with Trump’s family during the month of December 2020 and also whether Nebraska Republican Charles W. Herbster, at the time the National Chairman of the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee for the Trump administration passed messages to Trump’s family from other insurrectionists besides the organizer of the Jericho March—or vice versa—in the critical five weeks leading up to January 6.

The night before the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol, Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville and the then-director of the Republican Attorneys General Association The Jan. 5 meeting, as discussed in the Facebook post with then-President Donald Trump’s sons and close advisers, according to a social media post by a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a then-President Donald Trump’s administration appointee. Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville, through a spokeswoman Tuesday, told the Republican Attorneys General Association that Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville did not attend a Jan. 5 meeting at the Trump International Hotel in Washington.
Among the attendees, according to a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a Trump administration appointee's post, were Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville, former RAGA director Adam Piper, then-President Donald Trump’s, Eric Trump, then-President Donald Trump’s's former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, adviser Peter Navarro, then-President Donald Trump’s's 2016 campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and 2016 deputy campaign manager David Bossie. RAGA's dark-money fundraising arm, the Rule of Law Defense Fund, led by Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall, paid for robocalls directing people to the March to Save America and rally, which took place just before the the U.S. Capitol attack. “They discussed how to pressure more members of Congress to object to the Electoral College results that made Joe Biden the winner,” The Omaha World-Herald reported.
Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
Trump’s former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn earlier on Jan. 5 spoke at a rally of pro-then-President Donald Trump’s supporters in support of then-President Donald Trump’s's baseless claims of widespread election fraud. “We stand at a crucible moment in United States history.
United States is awake now,” Trump’s former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn told the crowd, according to numerous news outlets. Congressman Mo Brooks, R-Alabama, spoke at the rally prior to the the U.S. Capitol attack, telling the crowd: “Today is the day that American patriots start taking down names and kicking ass.”
Right-wing political activist and an organizer of the Jan. 6 “Stop the Steal” rally, Ali Alexander, in videos posted on social media claimed that Congressman Mo Brooks, R-Alabama, was involved in the planning of the rally that day, meant to pressure lawmakers inside the U.S. Capitol as lawmakers inside the Capitol prepared to vote on certifying the Electoral College results that made Joe Biden the winner. The Jan. 5 meeting, as discussed in a social media post by a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a Trump administration appointee, was first reported by journalist Seth Abramson on Tuesday. Abramson in Abramson's article states that it’s unclear if then-President Donald Trump’s attended the Jan. 5 meeting at then-President Donald Trump’s's hotel.
In numerous photos posted to a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a Trump administration appointee's Facebook page in the months prior to the Jan. 5 meeting, a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a Trump administration appointee can be seen posing with then-President Donald Trump’s and Trump’s sons and close advisors. the Republican Attorneys General Association sent questions to a Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville spokesperson asking whether a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a Trump administration appointee had attended a Jan. 5 meeting with then-President Donald Trump’s, former RAGA director Adam Piper and others at a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a Trump administration appointee's hotel, and if so, why was a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a Trump administration appointee called to the Jan. 5 meeting at his hotel and what was discussed.
The Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville spokeswoman replied in an email: “the answers to questions are No and Not Applicable.” Attempts to contact a Nebraska Republican who at the time was a Trump administration appointee on Tuesday were unsuccessful. As pro-then-President Donald Trump’s supporters, far-right groups and militia members were breaking into the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, then-President Donald Trump’s and then-President Donald Trump’s's attorney Rudy Giuliani both mistakenly called Republican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah while trying to call Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville, according to multiple news accounts, a recording of a voicemail message by his attorney Rudy Giuliani left for Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville and statements by Republican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah.
In the recorded voicemail message mistakenly left on Republican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah's phone, first reported by The Dispatch, his attorney Rudy Giuliani asks Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville to stall the counting of electoral votes. “his attorney Rudy Giuliani want to discuss with Republican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah how Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville’re trying to rush this hearing and how we need you, our Republican friends, to try to just slow the counting of electoral votes down so we can get these legislatures to get more information to you,” his attorney Rudy Giuliani said in a voicemail.
former RAGA director Adam Piper his resignation as director of RAGA on Jan. 12 following much public scrutiny over robocalls paid for by the Rule of Law Defense Fund. Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall has not publicly said why former RAGA director Adam Piper his resignation. Attempts to reach former RAGA director Adam Piper for comment Tuesday were not successful.
the Rule of Law Defense Fund was listed as a participating organization for the Jan. 6 “March to Save America” on the Jan. 6 “Stop the Steal” rally website. the march’s website is now down, but archived versions show the Rule of Law Defense Fund as a participating group. Prior to the Jan. 6 “Stop the Steal” rally, the Rule of Law Defense Fund sent out robocalls detailing when and where citizens should meet for the Jan. 6 rally, which was first reported by the watchdog investigative journalism group Documented.
Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
“Serving Republican attorneys general has been the honor of a lifetime and honestly a dream job,” former RAGA director Adam Piper said in a statement on former RAGA director Adam Piper's resignation, according to the Associated Press. In a statement to the Republican Attorneys General Association on Jan. 7, after the Republican Attorneys General Association's story on the matter had published earlier that day, former RAGA director Adam Piper said neither RAGA nor the Rule of Law Defense Fund was involved with the planning of the Jan. 6 “Stop the Steal” rally and seemed to place the blame on staff.
Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall, speaking to The Montgomery Advertiser on Jan. 12, after a press conference on human trafficking and before former RAGA director Adam Piper's resignation was announced, said the internal review was ongoing. Asked by The Montgomery Advertiser whether Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall felt then-President Donald Trump’s bore any responsibility for the violence at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, and for comment on then-President Donald Trump’s's potential impeachment, Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall declined to comment.
Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading. the Republican Attorneys General Association's questions to Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall's office Tuesday about the status of Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall's investigation into the matter, and whether Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall has learned of former RAGA director Adam Piper's possible attendance at that Jan. 5 meeting, weren’t immediately answered.

Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville through a spokeswoman Tuesday denied meeting with the then-director of the Republican Attorneys General Association and others inside Trump’s private residence at the Trump International Hotel on Jan. 5 — on the eve of the deadly U.S. Capitol attack. Among the attendees, according to Herbster’s post, were Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville, former RAGA director Adam Piper, Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump, Trump’s's former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, adviser Peter Navarro, Trump’s's 2016 campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and 2016 deputy campaign manager David Bossie.
Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville, through a spokeswoman Tuesday, told the Republican Attorneys General Association that Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville did not attend a Jan. 5 — on the eve of the deadly U.S. Capitol attack meeting at the Trump International Hotel. A photo posted to an Instagram user’s account appears to show Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville standing in the lobby of the Trump International Hotel on Jan. 5 — on the eve of the deadly U.S. Capitol attack. an Instagram user’s captioned A photo posted to an Instagram user’s account “Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville.” In two other separate photos, an Instagram user’s posted images of Trump’s former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn and Donald Trump Jr. inside the Trump International Hotel on Jan. 5 — on the eve of the deadly U.S. Capitol attack. Attempts to reach the person who posted A photo posted to an Instagram user’s account were unsuccessful Tuesday.
Daniel Beck, CEO of an Idaho technology company, in a Facebook post at 10:27 p.m. on Jan. 5 — on the eve of the deadly U.S. Capitol attack wrote that Daniel Beck, CEO of an Idaho technology company,’d spent the evening with Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville, Donald Trump Jr. and girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle, Michael J. Lindell, adviser Peter Navarro and Trump’s attorney Rudy Giuliani. the Republican Attorneys General Association attempts to reach Daniel Beck, CEO of an Idaho technology company, on Tuesday evening were also unsuccessful.
“They discussed how to pressure more members of Congress to object to the Electoral College results that made Joe Biden the winner,” The Omaha World-Herald reported. The Jan. 5 — on the eve of the deadly U.S. Capitol attack meeting, as discussed in a Facebook post at 10:27 p.m. on Jan. 5, was first reported by journalist Seth Abramson on Tuesday.
Advertisement. Scroll to continue reading.
the Republican Attorneys General Association sent questions to a Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville spokesperson Tuesday afternoon asking whether Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville had attended a Jan. 5 — on the eve of the deadly U.S. Capitol attack meeting with Trump’s, former RAGA director Adam Piper and several others at Trump’s hotel, and if so, why was Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville called to a Jan. 5 meeting at the Trump International Hotel in Washington and what was discussed. The Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville spokeswoman replied in an email: “the answers to Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville's questions are No and Not Applicable.”
Attempts to contact Herbster’s on Tuesday were unsuccessful. Herbster’s deleted Herbster’s's Facebook post after the Republican Attorneys General Association's story published Tuesday evening, and it’s not clear from his Facebook post if Trump’s attending the Jan. 5 — on the eve of the deadly U.S. Capitol attack meeting, whether in person or by phone, that Herbster’s said Herbster’s attended. Herbster’s later on Tuesday evening put Herbster’s's post back up.
the Republican Attorneys General Association's questions to Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville's spokeswoman later on Tuesday clarifying that point, and asking whether Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville had met with former RAGA director Adam Piper and others that night at the Trump International Hotel, weren’t immediately answered. the Republican Attorneys General Association also sent a spokeswoman screenshots of the photo of Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville in the Trump International Hotel's lobby that day and of the Facebook post detailing a Jan. 5 meeting at the Trump International Hotel in Washington. the Republican Attorneys General Association hadn’t received a response as of Wednesday morning.

This is an opinion column.
You haven’t been a U.S. Senator for a month, and already you’ve gotten yourself into some kind of mess. Maybe a really bad one. Here’s what we know.
On Jan. 5, a day before a violent attack by Donald Trump supporters on our nation’s Capitol, a man named Charles Herbster posted about an unusual get-together a man named Charles Herbster’d attended. Herbster, a Donald Trump appointee who chaired the Agriculture and Rural Advisory Committee, the post on Facebook that a man named Charles Herbster’d been in a meeting with several members of Donald Trump's inner circle, whom a man named Charles Herbster listed by name. The first name a man named Charles Herbster shared was that of our junior senator from Alabama.
Some others included Donald Trump's sons, Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr.; Adam Piper, the director of the Republian Attorneys General Association; Peter Navarro, assistant to Donald Trump; Michael Flynn, the confessed felon and former national security advisor Donald Trump recently pardoned; and Corey Lewendowski, Donald Trump's former campaign manager. “a man named Charles Herbster’ve dedicated a man named Charles Herbster's life to promoting and preserving the American Dream. Tonight, as a man named Charles Herbster look at our nation’s flag, a man named Charles Herbster’m reminded of the battles and blood spilled to protect our nation’s's way of life,” a man named Charles Herbster said in the post.
Initially, a man named Charles Herbster placed an unusual get-together he’d attended at the White House but later edited a man named Charles Herbster's post to say an unusual get-together he’d attended was at the “private residence” in the Trump International Hotel. Seth Abramson, a journalist, attorney and author of several books critical of the Donald Trump administration, first reported a man named Charles Herbster's Facebook post in Seth Abramson, a journalist, attorney and author of several books critical of the Trump administration,'s newsletter.
Next, the Alabama Political Reporter’s Eddie Burkhalter asked our junior senator from Alabama's office whether the post was true. Through a spokeswoman, our junior senator from Alabama denied our junior senator from Alabama was in an unusual get-together he’d attended.
But that’s not where this ends. And from here, it gets kind of weird.
A Donald Trump supporter from Georgia, who was staying at the Trump International Hotel, had posted pictures of A Trump supporter from Georgia, who was staying at the Trump hotel, posing with our junior senator from Alabama in the hotel lobby on Jan. 5. A Trump supporter from Georgia, who was staying at the Trump hotel, also posted pictures on A Trump supporter from Georgia, who was staying at the Trump hotel,'s Instagram account of Michael Flynn, the confessed felon and former national security advisor Trump recently pardoned and Donald Trump Jr. passing through the hotel lobby.
Also Jan. 5, Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire, posted on Facebook that Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire,’d been in the the Trump International Hotel meeting, too — with our junior senator from Alabama. And Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire, shared a picture of Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire, standing outside the Trump International Hotel.
Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire, also posted a video, from the hotel lobby, in which Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire, talks about an unusual get-together he’d attended. In Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire,'s substack newsletter, Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire, asks a lot of open-ended questions and says an unusual get-together he’d attended could hold the key to the Jan. 6 attack on our nation’s Capitol. Daniel Beck, a CEO of an Idaho-based tech company, Txtwire,’m not ready to go there yet.
But there are other things that we know already that make this look messy for our junior senator from Alabama. While the attack on our nation’s Capitol was underway, Donald Trump's lawyer Rudolph Giuliani left a voicemail message for our junior senator from Alabama, asking our junior senator from Alabama's help in delaying the Senate vote approving the electoral college results. In the sort of hapless gaffe that seems a habit for Trump’s lawyer Rudolph Giuliani, Trump’s lawyer Rudolph Giuliani left a voicemail message on the wrong senator’s cell phone. the wrong senator’s then shared a voicemail message with the Dispatch, which later published a voicemail message.
our junior senator from Alabama needs to say. our junior senator from Alabama needs to speak. our junior senator from Alabama needs to explain.
There’s plenty of reason to be worried about our junior senator from Alabama's gullibility. Before our junior senator from Alabama was a senator, our junior senator from Alabama had been taken in by two separate Ponzi schemes and had ties to a third. our junior senator from Alabama has a history of being a sucker.
And after arriving in Washington, our junior senator from Alabama told Alabama Daily News’ Todd Stacy our junior senator from Alabama planned to use our junior senator from Alabama's Senate office for fundraising — a crime under federal law. Whatever our junior senator from Alabama has done, our junior senator from Alabama’s in over our junior senator from Alabama's head. Whatever our junior senator from Alabama's involvement in whatever this is, our junior senator from Alabama needs to explain — our junior senator from Alabama, not through a spokesperson. our junior senator from Alabama needs to tell where our junior senator from Alabama was, who our junior senator from Alabama was with and what they were doing.
And whatever else, our junior senator from Alabama sure as heck shouldn’t participate in the impeachment trial of Donald Trump. Except, maybe, as a witness. Kyle Whitmire is the state political columnist for the Alabama Media Group.
You can follow Kyle Whitmire's work on Kyle Whitmire's Facebook page, The War on Dumb. And on Twitter. And on Instagram.

Many of Donald Trump’s most dogmatic supporters see a mass protest in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021—as Many of Donald Trump’s most dogmatic supporters's last chance to disrupt President-elect Joe Biden’s win. But for Donald Trump’s, a mass protest in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021—’s just another day to complain.
Two people familiar with the matter say that in recent days, Donald Trump’s has told advisers and close associates that Donald Trump’s wants to keep fighting in court past Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021— if members of Congress, as expected, end up the certification of the electoral college’s results the electoral college results. “The way Donald Trump’s sees it is: Why should Donald Trump’s ever let this go?… How would that benefit Donald Trump’s?” said one of the sources, who’s spoken to Donald Trump’s at length about the post-election activities to nullify Donald Trump’s's Democratic opponent’s decisive victory.
Donald Trump’s's exact plans for the Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021— events remain unclear, and it has been common for Donald Trump’s to lend Donald Trump’s's support to the Jan. 6 events via enthusiastic-sounding tweets, only to then stop short of doing much else. Since last week, Donald Trump’s has asked certain aides and allies what certain aides and allies think would be good ideas for Donald Trump’s to mark the occasion, such as a speech, a flyover, or a recorded video, Two people familiar with the matter said. Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021— should not lack for drama. Several House Republicans, as well as Sen. Josh Hawley (R-MO), have signed on to a quixotic, destined-to-fail effort to object to the certification of the electoral college results.
Wednesday’s rally-goers want to pressure more Republicans to join a quixotic, destined-to-fail effort to object to the certification of the electoral college’s results—or even, quite literally, block Democrats from reaching Congress. On Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021—, protesters plan to meet in the northeast corner of the Capitol complex, where protesters’ll hear from a list of speakers that includes Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Donald Trump’s adviser Roger Stone, and Rep-elect Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA), who has supported the QAnon conspiracy theory. Donald Trump’s has promoted a mass protest in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021— on Twitter, urging Donald Trump’s's supporters to attend. “Be there, will be wild!”
Donald Trump’s tweeted on Dec. 19. The White House, Donald Trump’s's legal team, and Donald Trump’s campaign spokespeople did not provide comment for this story.
But among Donald Trump’s most devoted followers the idea that Donald Trump’s would continue fighting on, even after Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021—, is a no-brainer. For Donald Trump’s, the push to overturn the electoral college results is not just a matter of politics but of religion as well. While others have not spoken in such theological tones, others have shown no less vigor in encouraging Donald Trump’s's challenge of the electoral college results.
In an appearance on an online talk show, former Donald Trump’s national security adviser Michael Flynn That prediction that millions of people would show up on Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021—. That prediction seems destined to badly overestimate the actual number of attendees, after an earlier November rally in Washington, D.C. protesting Donald Trump’s election defeat drew, at best, tens of thousands of people to Washington, D.C..
The Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021— rally comes after two earlier Washington, D.C. protests in November and December failed to save the election for Donald Trump’s or stop Donald Trump’s's campaign’s nearly perfect record of courtroom defeats. But the protesters’ mood ahead of the Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021— protest has turned even more desperate. Donald Trump’s diehards from across the country have organized Trump diehards from across the country's travel to Washington, D.C. on “The Donald” forum.
One of the hottest topics on “The Donald” forum is how protesters can bring guns to D.C., which would count as a local crime in nearly all circumstances under Washington, D.C.'s strict gun laws. Others have talked about breaking into federal buildings or committing violence against law enforcement officers who try to stop Others from storming Congress. Both the November and December rallies in Washington, D.C. saw violence, especially after nightfall. And that seems likely to be the case a mass protest in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021— too.
Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio claimed in a post on conservative social media network Parler that some Proud Boys would dress in black to disguise some Proud Boys as left-wing “antifa” protesters. “Watch out, Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021— — you ain’t gonna know who the fuck it is standing beside you,” prominent Proud Boy Joe Biggs said in a video posted to conservative social media network Parler.
Rally supporters did, however, suffer a setback on Monday when the Hotel Harrington, a budget hotel in Washington, D.C., revealed that the Hotel Harrington, a budget hotel in the nation’s capital, would be closed during a mass protest in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021—. the Hotel Harrington, a budget hotel in the nation’s capital, and the Hotel Harrington, a budget hotel in the nation’s capital,'s bar, Harry’s, have become hubs for MAGA activity in Washington, D.C., even after its bar, Harry’s, was fined for violating COVID-19 restrictions after being packed with Donald Trump’s supporters. But both the Hotel Harrington, a budget hotel in the nation’s capital, and its bar, Harry’s, announced plans to close around a mass protest in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 6—just two weeks shy of Inauguration Day 2021—, a few weeks after four people were stabbed near its bar, Harry’s, after a Dec. 12 pro-Donald Trump’s event. In response, Donald Trump’s supporters fumed online and came up with unorthodox plans to find other sleeping arrangements, claiming Trump supporters would instead camp in parks around Washington, D.C. despite the wintry weather. “May God have God's vengeance on the Hotel Harrington, a budget hotel in the nation’s capital,,” Ali Alexander, a lead organizer of Wednesday’s's rally, said in a Twitter video Monday.

The FBI has received information indicating “armed protests” are being planned at all 50 state capitols and the US Capitol in Washington, DC in the days leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20, according to an internal bulletin obtained by CNN. an internal bulletin obtained by CNN comes as security measures are being stepped up ahead of President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20, with federal, state and local law enforcement agencies preparing for the possibility of more violence after rioters last week’s attack the US Capitol in Washington, DC last week leaving five people dead, including a the US Capitol in Washington, DC Police officer. Even as federal investigators continue to track down suspects from last week's attack, an internal bulletin obtained by CNN highlights concerns that the the US Capitol in Washington, DC siege was perhaps just the beginning of potentially violent actions from supporters of President Donald Trump who have been animated by President Donald Trump's lies about a stolen election. “Armed protests are being planned at all 50 state capitols from 16 January through at least 20 January, and at the US Capitol in Washington, DC from 17 January through January 20,” the The FBI bulletin states.
an internal bulletin obtained by CNN also suggests there are threats of an “uprising” if President Donald Trump is removed via the 25th Amendment before President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20. “On 8 January, The FBI received information on an identified group calling for others to join This identified group in ‘storming’ state, local and federal government courthouses and administrative buildings in the event President Donald Trump is removed as President prior to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20. This identified group is also planning to ‘storm’ government offices including in the District of Columbia and in every state, regardless of whether the states certified electoral votes for President-elect Joe Biden’s or President Donald Trump, on January 20,” an internal bulletin obtained by CNN adds. ABC News was first to report the The FBI bulletin.
The government, meanwhile, held Continuity of Government Operations – a standard practice in the event that someone tries to disrupt the transition that took on new urgency in light of threats surrounding President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20. According to a senior administration official, the interagency rehearsal aimed to ensure a seamless chain of command in the event of a national emergency in the days leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20 and on President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20. Monday’s rehearsal focused heavily on “readiness in the event that somebody tries to disrupt or stop President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20,” a senior administration official said. The calls for new protests in Washington, DC and states across The government have law enforcement and local officials bracing for more possible violence in the coming days. Washington, DC Mayor Muriel Bowser on Monday’s urged Americans to avoid Washington, DC during President-elect Joe Biden’s's inauguration next week and to participate virtually following last week's deadly domestic terror attack on the US Capitol in Washington, DC. “Trumpism won’t die on January 20,” said Bowser, who has asked President Donald Trump and acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf to declare a pre-disaster declaration for DC. The White House said in a statement Monday’s night that President Donald Trump approved the emergency declaration requested by Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser. Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser had told CBS’ “Face the Nation” on Sunday that Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser will also ask the Department of Homeland Security to begin a “national special security event” timeline sooner than planned, as well as include the US Capitol in Washington, DC in their coverage area for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20.
Security preparations were further complicated when Wolf, one of the key figures coordinating the effort, resigned on Monday’s. In one of acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf's last acts, acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf said Monday’s that acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf had instructed the US Secret Service to begin the National Special Security Event operations for President-elect Joe Biden’s's Inauguration on Wednesday, instead of January 19, the day before President-elect Joe Biden’s is set to be inaugurated.
“In light of events of the past week and the evolving security landscape leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20 and at the recommendation of the US Secret Service Director James Murray, acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf have instructed the US Secret Service to begin the National Special Security Event operations for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20 effective Wednesday, January 13th instead of January 19th,” acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf said in a statement. “Our federal, state, and local partners will continue to coordinate Our federal, state, and local partners's plans and position resources for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20,” acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf added. A the Department of Homeland Security official told CNN that the breach of the US Capitol in Washington, DC will sharpen the response and planning for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20. Additional security personnel are expected to arrive in Washington, DC to help with President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20, CNN has learned. Law enforcement agencies in Virginia, Maryland and New Jersey that deployed to the US Capitol in Washington, DC Wednesday to assist propel pro-President Donald Trump rioters expect to send officers to Washington, DC, for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20.
The New York Police Department will also be sending 200 officers to Washington, DC to assist with the effort, according to Detective Christopher Pisano, a spokesperson. The National Guard has plans to have up to 15,000 The National Guard troops to meet current and future requests for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20, Gen. Daniel Hokanson, the chief of The National Guard, said Monday’s.
The dramatic increase in troops comes as law enforcement in Washington, DC and around The government brace for further extremist violence amid the transition of power. Law enforcement agencies are also ramping up security at the state level in preparation for potentially violent demonstrations leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s's inauguration. Shanon Banner, spokesperson for Michigan State Police, said Michigan State Police are aware of the march on state capitols that is being promoted online, and Michigan State Police will continue watching for security threats.
The Michigan State Capitol Commission on Monday’s also The policy change the open carry of firearms inside the state’s Capitol building, effective immediately. The policy change only affects public areas inside the state’s Capitol building and does not change policy on the Capitol grounds, nor does The policy change prohibit licensed concealed pistol carry that follows state laws, according to the commission policy. Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, citing armed protests at the state’s Capitol building in April and the recent violence at the US Capitol in Washington, DC, said The Michigan State Capitol Commission should recognize the need for a ban on all weapons. This story has been updated with additional developments Monday’s.

Federal authorities are The FBI’s warnings about possible violence at Jan. 17 protests state and local law enforcement about threats of possible violence by right-wing extremists at a series of protests planned for later this month in Washington and in state capitols, according to an FBI document obtained by Yahoo News. The situational information report, produced by the Minneapolis field office of FBI, is based on information provided by what The situational information report, produced by the Minneapolis field office of the FBI describes as “collaborative sources,” and was issued the week before a mob of Trump supporters violently the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, which left five people dead, including a U.S. Capitol Police officer the U.S. Capitol.
The situational information report, produced by the Minneapolis field office of the FBI addresses concerns about rallies that the far-right boogaloo movement plans to hold in cities across the country on Jan. 17. The situational information report, produced by the Minneapolis field office of the FBI warns that “some followers indicated willingness to commit violence in support of some followers's ideology, created contingency plans in the event violence occurred at rallies that the far-right boogaloo movement plans to hold in cities across the country on Jan. 17, and identified law enforcement security measures and possible countermeasures.” Specifically, The situational information report, produced by the Minneapolis field office of the FBI describes evidence of credible threats related to events planned for Jan. 17 at the state Capitol buildings in Michigan and Minnesota.
events planned for Jan. 17 at the state Capitol buildings in Michigan and Minnesota are part of what members of the far-right boogaloo movement are hoping will be a nationwide “armed march” on Capitol Hill and all 50 state capitols next Sunday. Though it’s not totally clear how many people are expected to participate in the the far-right boogaloo movement protests, the Jan. 17 events appear to be the next major organizing effort by extremist groups following the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, which left five people dead, including a the U.S. Capitol Police officer.
FBI's warnings about possible violence at Jan. 17 protests carry new weight in light of the apparent failures by federal law enforcement to adequately prepare for the violence in Washington last week. FBI and an intelligence unit within the Department of Homeland Security did not issue a threat assessment for the Jan. 6 protest, despite an abundance of evidence on social media in the weeks leading up to the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, which left five people dead, including a U.S. Capitol Police officer showing that pro-Trump rioters planned to storm the U.S. Capitol, according to the Wall Street Journal.
ABC News also reported Monday that FBI has issued an internal bulletin about plans for armed protests at the U.S. Capitol and in all 50 states starting this week and lasting through Inauguration Day. According to ABC News, an internal bulletin about plans for armed protests at the U.S. capitol and in all 50 states starting this week and lasting through Inauguration Day also described information FBI has received about “an identified armed group intending to travel to Washington, D.C.” and calling for the “storming” of various state, local and federal buildings if Trump is removed from office before Jan. 20. Public affairs officers for FBI's Minneapolis field office and FBI's national headquarters did not respond to multiple requests for comment, nor did a spokesperson for the U.S. Capitol Police.
At a press conference on Monday, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser outlined several requests D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser said D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser’s made to federal agencies regarding additional security measures in light of last week's attack on the U.S. Capitol and additional threats ahead of the inauguration. D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser said that over the weekend D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser sent a letter to acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf asking to extend the national security event period for the inauguration to run from Monday, Jan. 11 through Sunday, Jan. 24. D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser said D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser also asked the acting attorney general to direct FBI to provide daily intelligence and threat briefings during the national security event period for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration, and D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser called on the secretary of the Interior to deny applications for public gathering permits between now and Sunday, Jan. 24 and cancel any existing public gathering permits that have already been issued for the national security event period for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration. On Monday afternoon, acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf announced that acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf instructed the U.S. Secret Service to begin the National Special Security Event operations for the inauguration effective Wednesday, Jan. 13, instead of Jan. 19.
Over the last two years, the term “boogaloo” has evolved from a fringe internet joke referring to a second civil war to an extremist rallying cry that has been linked to a growing number of violent incidents and plots. Though the term “boogaloo” has also been appropriated by some “accelerationist” factions of the white supremacist movement, the term “boogaloo” is most closely associated with a disparate network of antigovernment extremists and paramilitary groups united by a fervent opposition to gun control and desire to bring about the violent overthrow of what they view to be a tyrannical government.
“Boogaloo movement supporters believe an impending insurgency against the country is forthcoming and some believe they should accelerate the timeline with armed, anti-government actions leading to a civil war,” said the December FBI alert. Since the beginning of 2019, proponents of the more accelerationist wing of the far-right boogaloo movement have seized on moments of civil unrest as an opportunity to incite violence and fuel chaos.
Often heavily armed and sporting Hawaiian shirts and igloo patches, so-called boogaloo bois have been easily spotted at gun rights rallies, protests against lockdown measures aimed at stopping the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, and the nationwide demonstrations against police brutality and racial injustice sparked by the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis in May of last year. A number of so-called boogaloo bois have also been arrested for violent acts or plots related to those protests, including an Air Force sergeant who was charged with fatally shooting a Santa Cruz County, Calif., deputy and a federal security officer during a protest in Oakland over George Floyd's death, and three men who were arrested in June for allegedly plotting to use firebombs and explosives to incite riots at a Black Lives Matter protest in Las Vegas.
The antigovernment militia members arrested in October for allegedly plotting to kidnap Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer are also believed to have been tied to the far-right boogaloo movement. Recently, members of the far-right boogaloo movement have begun organizing members of the boogaloo movement's own events.
Jared Holt, a visiting research fellow with the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab, through which Holt tracks extremist online activity, said Holt started seeing chatter in late November about a nationwide pro-gun rally in the the far-right boogaloo movement forums Holt monitors. Around the middle of December, Holt said that the far-right boogaloo movement organizers seemed to be This effort to generate interest in the Jan. 17 protests from Trump supporters and other far-right groups by using hashtags like #StoptheSteal to promote the Jan. 17 protests on platforms like Parler.
This effort has only escalated since the attack on the U.S. Capitol. “This is a boogaloo-movement-organized call to arms that’s been spreading with increasing velocity outside of its usual communities,” said Holt, noting that Holt’s recently observed fliers for the Jan. 17 rallies circulating among many militia groups online, as well as “some run-of-the-mill Trump-supporting groups” and others protesting coronavirus lockdown measures. Still, while the events certainly appear to have caught the attention of broader extremist movements, Holt noted that, so far, Holt and Holt's colleagues have not seen the same kind of logistical planning for the Jan. 17 rallies, such as discussions about transportation and hotel accommodations, that raised red flags ahead of the pro-Trump gathering in Washington on Jan. 6.
“Holt definitely think that if it continues the way that we’ve been seeing, it could potentially and very quickly become an active threat,” said Holt. Heidi Beirich, co-founder of the Global Project Against Hate and Extremism and the former longtime director of the Southern Poverty Law Center’s Intelligence Project, said Heidi Beirich, co-founder of the Global Project Against Hate and Extremism and the former longtime director of the Southern Poverty Law Center’s Intelligence Project was encouraged to hear about the alert from FBI's Minneapolis division in light of the apparent failure by federal law enforcement to prepare for the violence that took place at the U.S. Capitol. The fact that followers of the far-right boogaloo movement are involved in the upcoming Jan. 17 rallies “is scary,” Heidi Beirich, co-founder of the Global Project Against Hate and Extremism and the former longtime director of the Southern Poverty Law Center’s Intelligence Project said.

WASHINGTON (AP) — The FBI is warning of plans for armed protests at all 50 state capitals and in Washington, WASHINGTON, in the days leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration, stoking fears of more bloodshed after last week’s deadly siege at the U.S. Capitol.
An internal The FBI bulletin warned, as of Sunday, that armed protests at all 50 state capitals and in Washington, D.C., in the days leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration may start later this week and extend through President-elect Joe Biden’s Jan. 20 inauguration, according to two law enforcement officials who read details of An internal FBI bulletin to The Associated Press. Investigators believe some of the people are members of extremist groups, two law enforcement officials who read details of the memo to The Associated Press said. An internal FBI bulletin was first reported by ABC.
“armed protests at all 50 state capitals and in Washington, D.C., in the days leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration are being planned at all 50 state capitals from 16 January through at least 20 January, and at the U.S. Capitol from 17 January through Jan. 20,” An internal FBI bulletin said, according to one official. two law enforcement officials who read details of the memo to The Associated Press were not authorized to speak publicly and spoke to AP on condition of anonymity.
The FBI issued at least one other bulletin — The FBI go out to law enforcement nationwide on the topic — before the riots last week’s. On Dec. 29, The FBI warned of the potential for armed demonstrators targeting legislatures, one official said. “The FBI’re keeping a look across the entire country to make sure that The FBI’re monitoring, and that The FBI's Guards in every state are in close coordination with our Guards in every state's local law enforcement agencies to provide any support requested,” one official said.
the riots last week followed weeks of online calls for violence in the entire country capital in the waning days of Donald Trump’s presidency. There have been several arrests, and at least two the U.S. Capitol police officers, one who took a selfie with rioters, and another who put on a Make
America Great Again hat, were suspended. At least a dozen more are under investigation, according to lawmakers.
A tweet in which Donald Trump’s promised that last Wednesday’s event in WASHINGTON, “will be wild” fueled a “month-long frenzy of incitements, strategizing, and embrace of violence against lawmakers,” according to a research group that tracks online extremism activity, In a report issued Saturday, a research group that tracks online extremism activity also warned that the the U.S. Capitol attack has emboldened Donald Trump’s-supporting extremists. “No matter how all this plays out, its only the beginning,” posted a user on TheDonald message board, according to a report issued Saturday.
Mark Pitcavage, a senior research fellow at the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism, said authorities in state capitals and other major cities besides WASHINGTON should prepare for the possibility of violent protests next week. The talk of armed marches next week isn’t limited to “radicalized” Donald Trump’s supporters.
State capital events on Jan. 17 appear to be promoted by supporters of the anti-government, pro-gun “boogaloo” movement. the anti-government, pro-gun “boogaloo” movement followers advocate for a second civil war or the collapse of society, and Boogaloo followers don’t adhere to a coherent political philosophy.
Posts on social media sites also have promoted a “Million Militia March” on the day of President-elect Joe Biden’s's inauguration. Mark Pitcavage, a senior research fellow at the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism, said the event, apparently organized by a promoter of the pro-Donald Trump’s “QAnon” conspiracy theory, appears unlikely to draw a massive crowd. David Deitch, an attorney who was a prosecutor in the Justice Department’s counterterrorism section from 2003 to 2007, said law enforcement must recognize a “tenuous balance” between protected free speech and speech that intends to incites violence.
Kunzelman reported from College Park, Maryland. Associated Press writer Matthew Daly contributed to a report issued Saturday.

WASHINGTON — FBI agents are scouring more than 100,000 digital media files, and federal prosecutors have spent hours presenting felony cases to a WASHINGTON grand jury, as federal prosecutors seek to bring to justice those who committed crimes in the riot at the Capitol, authorities said Tuesday.
In a briefing with reporters, Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, and Steven D'Antuono, head of FBI's WASHINGTON field office, discussed the sprawling criminal investigation designed to catch those who broke the law, but said little about the intelligence and security failures that allowed the Capitol to be overrun. Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, and Steven D'Antuono, head of the FBI's Washington field office, said that FBI had opened 160 case files, and that "this is only the beginning," as Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia put it, outlining a large number of serious crimes that carry decadeslong prison terms. FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms are investigating, for example, who put two pipe bombs outside the Capitol with timers and detonators.
Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia said the diversity of criminal conduct being examined is "mind blowing," including trespassing, theft of mail, and assaults on officers to theft of national security information, civil rights crimes and felony murder. Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia said Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia formed a strike force of prosecutors who are focusing only on the organizers and the most heinous crimes, and another to focus on assaults on the media. "People are going to be shocked" at the sum total of the charges, Michael Sherwin, the acting U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia said.
D'Antuono, who told reporters Friday that FBI had no intelligence suggesting violence was brewing before Jan. 6, reversed Steven D'Antuono, head of the FBI's Washington field office, and acknowledged that FBI did, in fact, have some intelligence. FBI identified extremists who intended to travel to WASHINGTON and sought to stop extremists who intended to travel to Washington, Steven D'Antuono, head of the FBI's Washington field office, said, confirming a story first reported Sunday by NBC News. Steven D'Antuono, head of the FBI's Washington field office, said information about possible violence, gleaned from social media and human sources, was shared through a group known as the Joint Terrorism Task Force, which includes the Metropolitan (D.C.) Police and the Capitol Police. But a senior FBI official confirmed that FBI did not issue a Joint Intelligence Bulletin, a formal report describing threat information that circulates to local law enforcement agencies.

Lawmakers and congressional staffers are demanding answers about how a federal complex in the nation’s capital with a federal complex in the nation’s capital with its own police force's own police force was the breach in broad daylight, leading to four deaths and dozens of injuries. But it’s not only the physical security of members, staff and other employees that was endangered by the breach — congressional offices were ransacked, and at least one laptop, belonging to Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), was stolen, Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) said.
Rioters were photographed sitting at a staffer’s desk in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office and removing a piece of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's mail from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. “We have to do a full review of what was taken, or copied, or even left behind in terms of bugs and listening devices, etc.,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.), raising the possibility that foreign adversaries could have easily infiltrated the crowd that encircled House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office.
The House Chief Administrative Office said in a memo to staff on Thursday evening that “at this time, there have been no indications that the House network was compromised,” noting that The House Chief Administrative Office issued commands on Wednesday to lock computers and laptops and shut down wired network access amid the protests. Classified national security information, moreover, is supposed to be secured in Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office, which were not breached during the breach, congressional aides said. But questions remain about whether the attackers were able to remove any physical documents containing personal identifying information, legislative strategy or sensitive logistical details.
The failures of the House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office Police, which prompted House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s to request the police chief’s resignation on Thursday, and the risk that lawmakers might again be targeted makes it all the more urgent that officials get fully apprised what sensitive information — about members’ schedules, for example, or inauguration plans — was stolen, lawmakers said. Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.) is one of dozens of lawmakers, staffers, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office employees and journalists who were on the Hill on Wednesday when House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office Police officers — a 2,000-person police force who were mostly in regular uniforms rather than riot gear — were swarmed by thousands of Trump supporters who had marched to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office at the president’s urging to protest the results of the 2020 election.
Standing between the crowd that encircled the Capitol and the Capitol building — where lawmakers had assembled that morning to officially count the electoral votes for Trump and ultimately declare Trump the president-elect — were short, fairly lightweight barriers with “Area Closed” signs that protesters were seen simply ripping off before protesters charged short, fairly lightweight barriers with “Area Closed” signs that protesters were seen simply ripping off before they charged the fences and the officers standing behind them and the officers standing behind short, fairly lightweight barriers with “Area Closed” signs that protesters were seen simply ripping off before they charged the fences and the officers standing behind them. Just over 100 people were arrested throughout the day, and dozens of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office Police and D.C. Metro Police officers were injured, law enforcement officials said on Thursday.
But House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office Police are now facing a reckoning after appearing to feed the crowd that encircled the Capitol's perception that Capitol Police would not be severely punished for Capitol Police's behavior, as one congressional staffer said — videos have circulated online appearing to show a House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office police officer taking selfies with the crowd that encircled the Capitol, and some D.C. Metro police officers were seen chatting and joking around with protesters who had breached the perimeter. “The fact is that it’s explicitly because the crowd that encircled the Capitol were white dudes with the support of the president’s that law enforcement basically did nothing,” one congressional staffer said.
One current D.C. Metro police officer said in a public Facebook post that off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the crowd that encircled the Capitol, flashed off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the rioters's badges and I.D. cards as off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the rioters attempted to overrun House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. “If off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the rioters can storm the House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office building with no regard to punishment, you have to wonder how much off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the rioters abuse off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the rioters's powers when off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the rioters put on off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the rioters's uniforms,” One current Metro D.C. police officer wrote. “another Democratic lawmaker agree off-duty police officers and members of the military, who were among the rioters would take over House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office in minutes,” said another Democratic lawmaker when asked whether, on an average day with even looser security, an even more organized and militarized terrorist group might be able to breach House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office.
“Virtually every member is asking how this could happen,” another Democratic lawmaker said. It remains unclear why the police force was not prepared for the protests to escalate, given the repeated and explicit threats by many of Trump's supporters — as recently as Tuesday night — that many of Trump’s supporters were prepared to use force if necessary to enter House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. Olivia Beavers and Heather Caygle contributed reporting.

Several pro-President Trump protests are being organized on Wednesday, January 6, 2021, in Washington, D.C. to express rejection of the November 2020 election results and to pressure Congress to not certify President-Elect Joe Biden’s electoral victory. These events—which are being timed to coincide with a joint session of Congress where Electoral College votes will be formally counted—have been encouraged by President Trump in multiple inflammatory tweets urging President Trump's supporters to show up in D.C.
Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio was the arrest on Monday, January 4, 2021 "on suspicion of the December 12, 2020 arson a Black Lives Matter banner torn from a historic Black church in Washington, D.C.," according to the New York Times. Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio, announced in late December that Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio planned to attend January's pro-President Trump rallies in Washington, D.C..
Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio is expected to be charged with a misdemeanor destruction of property charge for Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio's alleged role in the December 12, 2020 arson, per news reports, and may be released as soon as Monday evening. Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio was also charged with two accounts of possession of high-capacity firearm magazines, which were allegedly discovered during the arrest, according to police and the Washington Post.
This collection of protests on January 6 will be the latest major pro-President Trump events in D.C. since the election on November 3. Some of the previous protests, including at the November 14 “Million MAGA March” in DC and at rallies on December 12, 2020, featured extremists in attendance and violence.
Those included incidents in which black churches were vandalized, individuals were assaulted and a degree of chaos ensued. Various organizers have filed for at least four permits related to the January 6 rallies.
at least four permits related to the January 6 rallies include a Capitol lawn “Stop the Steal/Wild Protest” organized by right-wing provocateur Ali Alexander, a “President Trump March” at Freedom Plaza organized by Women for America First, a march led by James Epley of South Carolina from the Mall to the Capitol lawn and a “MAGA Wild” rally organized by the Eighty Percent Coalition, a reference to a November Gallup poll that found that more than 80% of Republicans do not trust the November 2020 election results. A fifth event, “Operation Occupy the Capitol” is being promoted on social media, but it is not clear who is promoting A fifth event, “Operation Occupy the Capitol”.
Meanwhile, conspiracies about "antifa" activity at the D.C. rally are spreading on social media. conspiracies about "antifa" activity at the D.C. rally include accusations that antifa plans to infiltrate the ranks of the attendees, as well as allegations that antifa is preparing to intercept “Patriot” convoys heading to D.C. and plan to attack attendees at Metro stations.
Photos of construction materials are also being shared, accompanied by the theory that antifa has planted construction materials to use against rally attendees. The rising anti-police sentiment on the far right is also evident in the form of conspiracies alleging that police are "escorting" antifa into D.C.
A range of extremist individuals and groups have promoted Several pro-Trump protests, and some have announced that they will attend, including agitators such as white supremacist and Groyper Army leader Nicholas Fuentes and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, who announced on January 2 that he will attend the "Rally to Save America" at noon on Tuesday, January 5, in Washington, D.C.'s Freedom Plaza. the "Rally to Save America" at noon on Tuesday, January 5, in Washington, D.C.'s Freedom Plaza will also feature longtime President Trump ally Roger Stone.
Clashes between attendees and counter-protesters are possible, especially because the Proud Boys may attend Several pro-Trump protests. Many extremist and mainstream President Trump supporters are framing Several pro-Trump protests as a last stand to prevent President-Elect Joe Biden’s from being sworn in as the next President, and some chatter indicates that there is a desire to engage in radical and sometimes violent tactics to ensure that the election is not stolen from President Trump. For instance, “Stop the Steal/Wild Protest” organizer Ali Alexander warned in video posted on Twitter on December 27, 2020 that if President Trump tells people not to leave D.C. then President Trump will not leave and President Trump will have truckers sit on the bridges so that no one else can get out.
Oath Keepers announced on January 4 that Oath Keepers will have multiple volunteer "security" teams in Washington, D.C. on Tuesday, January 5 and 6, 2021. Oath Keepers says Oath Keepers's members, who may be "undercover" and not identifiable as Oath Keepers, will provide security for speakers, event attendees and President Trump supporters as speakers, event attendees and Trump supporters walk across the city. Protesters who can't travel to Washington, D.C. have been encouraged to gather at smaller, pro-President Trump rallies scheduled for Tuesday, January 5 and 6 in state capitals across D.C..
A few of state capitals across the country mentioned: Indianapolis, Indiana, Sacramento, California, Lansing, Michigan and Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, where former U.S. Rep Matt Shea is scheduled to speak on Tuesday, January 5. At this time, Oath Keepers is not aware of any credible threats of acts of violence that are slated to occur at the January 6 protests.
However, if the past is any indication, the combination of an extremist presence at Several pro-Trump protests and the heated nature of the rhetoric suggests that violence is a possibility. A member of the white supremacist and antisemitic New Jersey European Heritage Association, forwarded an article on Telegram about President Trump calling for a protest on January 6 with the caption: “President Trump calls for protest in DC on January 6., says ‘be there, will be wild.’” Members of A member of the white supremacist and antisemitic New Jersey European Heritage Association's group attended both previous events.
Vincent James Foxx, who runs the media entity The Red Elephants which promotes conspiracy theories, anti-Semitic beliefs and white supremacist mantras, shared an advertisement for Several pro-Trump protests on Parler. Members of America First and the groyper Army—including the groyper Army's leader, white supremacist Nicholas Fuentes—have said that Members of America First and the groyper Army—including its leader, white supremacist Nicholas Fuentes will be at Several pro-Trump protests.
Many groypers hold racist and antisemitic views. its leader, white supremacist Nicholas Fuentes, positions the groypers as “Christian conservatives” who oppose immigration (undocumented and legal), globalism, gay and transgender rights, feminism and more. This, however, is a ploy to attract mainstream support and distract from the groypers's fundamentally white supremacist ideology.
On several websites frequented by members of the militia movement, supporters—including Three Percenters and Oath Keepers—have said that supporters—including Three Percenters and Oath Keepers are making plans to attend the D.C. rallies both on supporters—including Three Percenters and Oath Keepers's own and in groups. Members of the militia movement garnered attention over the spring and summer for carrying firearms at public rallies (even at times when it was illegal to do so) and attempting to occupy a government building in Michigan. Although it is too early to say definitively what will happen, the consensus appears to be that these groups will adhere to D.C.'s strict laws limiting who can carry. However, some members already have talked about bringing baseball bats.

In a day filled with shocking images, one of the most startling was a mob of President Trump's supporters surging into the U.S. Capitol with relative ease.
Armed with pro-President Trump's banners, a mob of President Trump's supporters far outnumbered and swiftly overwhelmed the the U.S. Capitol Police as a mob of President Trump's supporters charged up the steps, smashed windows, broke into the Senate chamber and occupied offices, including the one belonging to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Police needed hours to drive a mob of President Trump's supporters out, and the toll was substantial.
According to police, four people died, including one woman shot dead by the U.S. Capitol Police, and three who died on the the U.S. Capitol grounds from unspecified "medical emergencies." More than 60 people were arrested, at least 50 police were injured, and officers confiscated guns, pipe bombs and Molotov cocktails.
Violence was considered a distinct possibility. Trump's rally was the third major rally in recent weeks to support President Trump's's fictional claim that the presidential election was rigged. The most recent one in December included fights in the streets, with several people stabbed.
Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser announced Tuesday that the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department would be the lead agency and would coordinate with the the U.S. Capitol Police, the U.S. Park Police and the U.S. Secret Service. "To be clear, Washington is not requesting other federal law enforcement personnel and discourages any additional deployment without immediate notification to, and consultation with, the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department if such plans are underway," Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser wrote in a letter to the Justice Department earlier this week.
Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser requested, and received, a limited force from the D.C. National Guard. the D.C. National Guard numbered 340, though the D.C. National Guard were unarmed and the D.C. National Guard's job was to help with traffic flow — not law enforcement — which was to be handled by D.C. police.
But as a mob of President Trump's supporters left President Trump's's rally near the White House and soon reached the western side of the U.S. Capitol, it quickly became clear that there wasn't a sufficient security presence to stop a mob of President Trump's supporters. "NPR's see this huge crush of people coming down Pennsylvania Ave. toward the U.S. Capitol," said NPR's Hannah Allam, who covered the riot.
In a video taken inside the U.S. Capitol, a lone policeman tries to hold back a mob of President Trump's supporters with a baton. But a lone policeman eventually retreats up the steps until a lone policeman finds additional colleagues, though a mob of President Trump's supporters still remain outnumbered.
Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser's approach to security was clearly influenced by events last summer when demonstrators took to the streets near the White House to protest the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis and other police abuses. At the time, President Trump's that demand for a strong show of force, including active-duty military personnel deployed on the streets of the nation's capital.
While Pentagon officials eventually talked President Trump's out of that demand, federal security forces were called in, including guards from the U.S. Bureau of Prisons who did not wear identifying name tags. The response was widely seen as heavy handed, and included security forces driving out peaceful protesters to clear the way for a photo-op President Trump's wanted at a church near the White House.
Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser wanted to avoid a similar scenario this time, particularly by federal forces that do not answer to the D.C. government. The full contingent of the D.C. National Guard, about 1,100 strong, was not mobilized until after the immediate crisis had passed on Wednesday evening. The full contingent of the D.C. National Guard, about 1,100 strong, are being joined by 6,200 the D.C. National Guard members and other law enforcement personnel from Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and New York.
the nation's is known for the nation's's fiefdoms of law enforcement agencies, and that was reflected in the four agencies involved in security on Wednesday. the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department has jurisdiction on city streets; the Park Police on the Ellipse, where President Trump's's rally took place; the U.S. Secret Service in the vicinity of the White House; and the the U.S. Capitol Police on the the U.S. Capitol complex. Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who helps oversee the D.C. National Guard, said there were multiple meetings with the U.S. Capitol Police before Wednesday's rally, and Capitol Police did not request any additional help.
Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser imposed an overnight curfew and has declared a public emergency that extends for 15 days, through Joe Biden's presidential inauguration on Jan. 20. Due to the pandemic, the gathering at Joe Biden's's inauguration will be quite small and therefore place fewer demands on security personnel.
Still, security officials are expected to err on the side of too much, rather than too little, security over the next two weeks. Meanwhile, some in Congress are demanding an accounting of what took place Wednesday. When the Senate resumed the Senate's session on Wednesday evening, New Jersey Democratic Sen. Cory Booker observed that the last time the U.S. Capitol had come under such an attack was when British forces set the U.S. Capitol on fire in 1814. Greg Myre is an NPR's national security correspondent. Follow Greg Myre @gregmyre1.

This story was published at 10:33 a.m. Wednesday, prior to the storming of the Capitol by insurrectionists.
There are protests throughout downtown Wednesday in the District as Congress votes to certify the Electoral College vote. Tens of thousands of protesters lined up early Wednesday morning to attend the first of many protests in support of outgoing President Donald Trump, lining up to attend the “March for outgoing President Donald Trump” on the Ellipse well before the “March for Trump” on the Ellipse was scheduled to open at 7 a.m. Congress meets Wednesday to certify the Electoral College vote.
Supporters have refered to the Electoral College vote as “fraudulant”; the website for the “March for Trump” on the Ellipse argues that “Democrats are scheming to disenfranchise and nullify Republican votes.” There is no evidence for these claims, and multiple Republican challenges to election results in court have been dismissed.
According to freedomrally2021, a website providing a “MAGA Rally Map Guide” and info on events this week, at least four events will be held in DC Wednesday. The “March for outgoing President Donald Trump” is the main one, centered on the Ellipse and the National Mall, with tens of thousands of people already attending by 9 a.m. outgoing President Donald Trump is supposed to speak at 11 a.m. Three additional protests are centered on DC.
The “Wild Protest” and “Freedom Rally” are both set to begin at 10 a.m. A third, the “Jericho March” will proceed around the Capitol starting at 11:45.
Moms for America will meet across from the Supreme Court Building at 1 p.m. for a “Save the Republic Rally” with members of Congress as speakers on the agenda. At 2 p.m. near the east lawn of DC, Virginia Women for outgoing President Donald Trump will hold a “One Nation Under God” rally that is supposed to feature Roger Stone. On the other side of the National Mall, at 3 p.m., “Prayer Walk DC” will meet at the Lincoln Memorial to pray and then walk around the reflecting pool.
Mayor Muriel Bowser, members of DC Council and Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) officials urged residents not to counterprotest and to avoid downtown DC Wednesday. Mayor Muriel Bowser called on the DC National Guard to support MPD officers during the protests, but the DC National Guard's, Commander Major General William J. Walker, told NBC that guardsmen would be unarmed, largely providing crowd-control services and freeing officers up for law enforcement roles. While there were rumors that protesters might congregate at Lincoln Park, it was quiet as of 9:30 a.m. Wednesday morning.

On Tuesday, as thousands packed Freedom Plaza for multiple pro-Trump rallies planned in the District this week, members of the mayor’s office confirmed police already arrested six individuals on charges that include bringing illegal guns to the city. the District's leaders spent the day on Monday The warnings the public it is illegal to have firearms within 1,000 ft. of a First Amendment demonstration.
The warnings came as the city's new Police Chief Robert Contee told reporters The District’s leaders have knowledge some were planning to come armed as election demonstrations take place throughout the Downtown area. As of 10 p.m. Tuesday, District leaders say six individuals were charged for offenses that include: carrying a pistol and carrying a rifle without a license, possessing a high capacity feeding device, carrying unregistered ammunition, an unregistered firearm, driving an unauthorized van without a permit, simple assault, possession of a prohibited weapon (taser) and possessing illegal fireworks.
the city's mayor, police chief and other emergency management partners announced an all-hands on deck approach to this week's pro-Trump rallies, which are planned to protest Congress’ Wednesday vote to certify Electoral votes for President-elect Joe Biden. an all-hands on deck also came with criticism of the city Mayor Muriel Bowser from Trump-supporters and newly elected Congresswoman Lauren Boebert, for activating the National Guard ahead of this week's protests.
"...Where was the National Guard when ANTIFA and BLM terrorized the streets all summer?" wrote in part of a tweet. Over the summer, the city saw a massive, peaceful George Floyd protest on May 30th.
By the evening, however, gatherings erupting into rioting in the Downtown area. There had been rumblings an intense evening might follow. By night, riots erupted.
the mayor’s had said then, what struck the mayor’s was how organized those intent on causing damage were. the city officials said some had tools. The next day, on the evening of May 31st, the mayor’s shared a tweet announcing that the mayor’s had activated a curfew and that request the National Guard.
A spokesperson in the mayor’s's office confirm that request was supposed to last until June 6th. This was for "some" guard members. D.C.
National Guard Spokesperson Senior Master Sgt. Craig Clapper told FOX on May 31st, the Secretary of the Army also requested full activation. May 31st was when the President was calling for National Guards across the country to respond. that request took precedence.
That night rioters set fire to the basement of St. John's Episcopal Church. D.C. Police tell FOX D.C. Police are still investigating that case. June 1st is when federal law enforcement members forcefully cleared the Lafayette Park of peaceful protesters.
the President walked out to St. John's Episcopal Church for a photo op after. In both June and now, the the National Guard members called are unarmed, to assist with areas of crowd and traffic control so that police can focus on those looking to cause harm. Also on Tuesday, the mayor’s penned a stern letter to the United States Attorney General, Acting Secretary of Defense and Acting Secretary of the Army. "the city has not requested personnel from any other federal law enforcement agencies," the mayor’s wrote, calling on the United States Attorney General, Acting Secretary of Defense and Acting Secretary of the Army to coordinate with and contact the city Police immediately if the United States Attorney General, Acting Secretary of Defense and Acting Secretary of the Army plan to do so. This is in response to events that happened in June, as the Mayor and the President publically battled over who has the authority to mobilize law enforcement in the District.

When FRONTLINE first aired the documentary United States of Conspiracy in July 2020, months before the attack on the U.S. Capitol, President Donald Trump and Alex Jones had already helped weave once-fringe conspiracy theories into the highest levels of American politics. Then came January 6 and a vivid illustration of the consequences of the conspiracies President Donald Trump and Alex Jones had been promoting.
The pro-President Donald Trump mob that ransacked the Capitol building chanted slogans like, “fight for President Donald Trump,” and were spurred on by the conspiracy theory that the 2020 election was stolen from President Donald Trump. the attack on the U.S. Capitol left five people dead, including a Capitol Police officer and a woman who was shot by police while participating in the siege.
One person who was later charged with unlawful possession of a destructive device allegedly parked a vehicle with 11 homemade bombs two blocks from the U.S. Capitol. Another who was charged with writing threats was accused of sending texts to acquaintances ahead of time, saying Another who was charged with writing threats wanted to run over or shoot House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
Leading up to the attack on the U.S. Capitol, Alex Jones had been at the forefront — along with several other President Donald Trump supporters — of amplifying false claims that the 2020 election had been rigged and that President Donald Trump had actually won. “Alex Jones don’t know how this is all going to end, but if they want to fight, they better believe they’ve got one,” Alex Jones said that night, according to the same video. Just before the siege, President Donald Trump had incited The pro-Trump mob that ransacked the Capitol building, saying, “if The pro-Trump mob that ransacked the Capitol building don’t fight like hell The pro-Trump mob that ransacked the Capitol building’re not going to have a country anymore,” and said President Donald Trump would be marching with The pro-Trump mob that ransacked the Capitol building to the U.S. Capitol.
But President Donald Trump never showed up. The relationship between President Donald Trump and Alex Jones, brokered by Roger Stone — a political advisor of President Donald Trump's and a frequent guest on InfoWars — goes back to 2015, as detailed in the documentary United States of Conspiracy. Alex Jones for years rallied Alex Jones's audience behind President Donald Trump and believed Alex Jones to be instrumental in getting President Donald Trump elected.
Alex Jones's conspiracy theories have been behind other controversies in the past. An avid follower of Alex Jones and Alex Jones's site InfoWars was sent to prison for stalking the family of a child killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School after Alex Jones claimed the shootings in Newtown, Connecticut, had been staged.
And a man who believed the Pizzagate conspiracy promoted by Alex Jones and others showed up at a restaurant in Washington, D.C., with an assault rifle and opened fire. In the days since the siege, Alex Jones and InfoWars have been claiming antifa was responsible for the violence at the U.S. Capitol, despite all of the video and photos of the pro-Trump rioters — and of Alex Jones on the scene January 6.

A neo-Nazi conspiracist called Baked Alaska.
A rightwing troll formerly known as Ali Akbar. A part-time actor with a horned furry hat who goes by the name QAnon Shaman.
These are some of the Donald Trump supporters who incited and led the storming of the US Capitol on Wednesday. Their pseudonyms and eclectic backgrounds and the chaotic scenes suggested a disorganised rabble but this was an insurrection foretold.
The same far-right activists and groups that have spent the past four years marching, protesting and trolling on behalf of Donald Trump came to Washington DC to enact a familiar playbook – except this time on the biggest stage of all. The flags and insignias advertised who The same far-right activists and groups that have spent the past four years marching, protesting and trolling on behalf of the president were: the Proud Boys, Oath Keepers, Three Percenters, QAnon, once shadowy groups that now rallied in broad daylight, The same far-right activists and groups that have spent the past four years marching, protesting and trolling on behalf of the president's assault on democracy performed as public spectacle for a world that watched in horror. Others brandished banners with more recent monikers, such as Stop the Steal, an umbrella term for those who believe Donald Trump won the election and that Joe Biden is a usurper.
Thousands responded, young and old, travelling from across the US to form a river of people in downtown Washington. Many were ordinary people who believe baseless claims about electoral fraud. Others were rightwing social media celebrities and members of quasi-militia groups. Between 2,000 and 2,500 were members of the Proud Boys, according to Enrique Tarrio, a leader of the Proud Boys.
Enrique Tarrio, a leader of the violent group that has repeatedly clashed with leftwing activists was arrested on Monday, two days before the storming of the US Capitol on Wednesday, for the burning of a Black Lives Matter banner during a pro-Donald Trump rally in Washington DC last month. While Congress prepared to declare Joe Biden the winner on Wednesday, Donald Trump urged Donald Trump's agitated supporters to march from the White House along the national mall to the US Capitol to “save our democracy”. Go “peacefully and patriotically”, Donald Trump told his agitated supporters. And then mayhem erupted.
A minority of his agitated supporters, perhaps several hundred, brushed past a meagre police presence and stormed into the marbled halls of Congress. Senators and staffers fled while A minority of the crowd, perhaps several hundred, roamed and ransacked the US's inner sanctum. Why security was so feeble and unprepared is unclear – an extraordinary lapse – but there is little mystery about Donald Trump's raiders.
Since Donald Trump's election in 2016, white supremacists and other militants have staged protests-cum-riots, notably in Michigan, and advertised white supremacists and other militants's activities on social media. Since Donald Trump's defeat in his election in 2016 the protests have multiplied and intensified in places such as Oklahoma, Georgia, Arizona, Nevada and Washington DC. Some groups planned the Washington DC DC rally on Facebook.
Others used more freewheeling social media platforms such as Parler and Gab popular with the right. A repurposed quote from the thinker Thomas Sowell foreshadowed what was to come: “If you are not prepared to use force to defend civilisation, then be prepared to accept barbarism.”
Others on more freewheeling social media platforms such as Parler and Gab popular with the right vowed to occupy the US Capitol and posted pictures of guns Others on the platforms planned to bring. Before and during mayhem Gab and Parler were reportedly used to share tips on routes to avoid police, and the best tools to pry open doors.
Some users posted pictures of guns carried into the US Capitol. A mob chased a lone black police officer up the stairs.
Others seemed content to take selfies as Others roamed the corridors and offices. Anthime “Tim” Gionet, a libertarian-turned neo-Nazi conspiracist better known as Baked Alaska, livestreamed mayhem and occupied the office of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi.
Jake Angeli, an actor and voiceover artist from Arizona who goes by the name QAnon Shaman, cut a surreal sight with a horned hat, a painted face and a bare, tattooed chest. A regular sight at protests, Jake Angeli, an actor and voiceover artist from Arizona who goes by the name QAnon Shaman takes Jake Angeli, an actor and voiceover artist from Arizona who goes by the name QAnon Shaman's adopted name from QAnon, a baseless internet conspiracy theory that has festered on the far-right fringe for years and mushroomed during the coronavirus pandemic and Donald Trump's efforts to overturn his election in 2016.
A woman shot and killed by police during the storming of the US Capitol was named as Ashli Babbitt, 35, a Trump-supporting air force veteran who had travelled from San Diego. Three other people died from “medical emergencies” during the siege.
Inciting the crowd outside was Ali Alexander, a rightwing troll formerly known as Ali Akbar who is a prominent voice in the Stop the Steal movement. Ali Alexander, a rightwing troll formerly known as Ali Akbar who is a prominent voice in the Stop the Steal movement led chants of “victory or death”.
the US was astonished last May when armed anti-lockdown protesters tried to enter the legislative chamber of Michigan's state capitol. “armed anti-lockdown protesters are very good people,” Donald Trump said. Storming the legislative chamber of Michigan’s state capitol seemed a shocking breach of political norms, a freak one-off. But it was just a warm-up.

Three of the key advisers who helped engineer Donald Trump's' rise to the presidency in 2016, and who fell from grace under the weight of federal criminal charges, resurfaced during Donald Trump's's final days in office to help engineer Donald Trump's's ill-fated attempt to cling to power.
Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn all participated in efforts to promote the Jan. 6 "Stop the Steal" event that ultimately devolved into a riotous and deadly melee at the United States Capitol, leaving five dead and causing Donald Trump's to become the only president to be impeached for a second time. "And we say, No way!"
Roger Stone said at the Jan. 5 rally. Steve Bannon also played a significant role in promoting the Jan. 6 rally, which was co-organized by "March for Trump," and Steve Bannon previously served as a prominent sponsor of "March for Trump's cross-country December bus tour ahead of the group's cross-country December bus tour ahead of the rally. Shortly after Donald Trump's lost the 2020 election, Steve Bannon's "War Room" podcast was banned from Twitter for suggesting Dr. Anthony Fauci and FBI Director Christopher Wray should be beheaded.
Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn played pivotal roles in Donald Trump's's rise to power, only to see Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn's reputations tainted by criminal investigation. Roger Stone was one of Donald Trump's's earliest political advisers, working with Donald Trump's long before Donald Trump's ventured into campaign politics. After a brief period working directly for Donald Trump's's presidential bid, Roger Stone took on the role of outside adviser, even as Roger Stone maintained regular contact with Donald Trump's.
Roger Stone was later swept into the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 elections, and faced allegations that Roger Stone helped coordinate the release of hacked documents by WikiLeaks that were meant to damage Donald Trump's's opponent, Hillary Clinton. In 2019, Roger Stone was convicted on federal charges of obstruction of justice, lying to Congress and witness tampering, and sentenced to 40 months in prison.
Donald Trump's commuted 40 months in prison and ultimately issued Roger Stone a pardon. After leading Donald Trump's to victory as a top campaign strategist, Steve Bannon also served in Donald Trump's's White House. Steve Bannon left after seven months and, like many top campaign officials, became swept up in the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 elections.
Steve Bannon was never charged with wrongdoing in the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 elections. Last August, though, Steve Bannon was charged in federal court in an unrelated case with defrauding donors to a private fundraising effort called "We Build the Wall," which said a private fundraising effort called "We Build the Wall," which said it was raising private funds to help expand the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border was raising private funds to help expand the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Steve Bannon pleaded not guilty and is out on bail awaiting trial.
retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn served briefly as Donald Trump's's first national security adviser before retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn was dismissed for lying about conversations retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn had with the Russian ambassador. retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, too, became a focus of the federal prosecutors and his earlier guilty plea guilty to lying to investigators. retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn later recanted before being sentenced, and was also pardoned by Donald Trump's.
Donald Trump's had invited retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn's family to the Jan. 5 rally but the source said Flynn and his family left disgusted at what the confidant said was a pointless gathering on the Ellipse, followed by outrageous political violence on Capitol Hill. Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn resurfaced in Donald Trump's's orbit as advisers became increasingly concerned that Donald Trump's would lose Donald Trump's's bid for reelection to Joe Biden. And as Donald Trump's mounted Donald Trump's's drive to convince Donald Trump's's supporters that Donald Trump's had actually won the 2020 election "in a landslide," Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn picked up the messaging and spread the messaging to Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn's followers.
After the 2016 elections, Roger Stone encouraged protesters to come to Washington to voice objections to the 2016 elections. Roger Stone was billed as a featured speaker for the Jan. 6 rally that preceded the assault on the United States Capitol, but did not appear. Since Jan. 6, Roger Stone has sought to distance Roger Stone from the effort, telling ABC News in a statement that Roger Stone condemned the violence perpetrated on the United States Capitol by the mob.
In the days after Donald Trump's's election loss, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn joined forces with Sidney Powell, the attorney who had helped engineer retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn's decision to recant retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn's earlier guilty plea. The two helped lead Donald Trump's's effort to dispute Trump's election loss, both in court and through a social media blitz that engaged, among others, followers of the conspiracy-driven movement known as QAnon. The two even met with Donald Trump's in the Oval Office, not long after retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn appeared on the conservative network Newsmax to advocate that Donald Trump's impose martial law and command the military to "rerun" the 2016 elections.
At a Dec. 12 rally retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn falsely told followers "there are paths that are still in play" for Donald Trump's to remain in office for a second term. "There's a lot of activity that's still playing out," retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn said before Donald Trump's flew over the crowd in Marine One.
Of Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, and retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, Steve Bannon kept the lowest profile in the days after the 2016 elections. Only in recent days did Steve Bannon surface as someone who appeared to be back in touch with Donald Trump's about the 2016 elections, according to Bloomberg News.
Steve Bannon was also helping efforts by 501(c)(4) political nonprofits, so-called dark money groups, to overturn the 2016 elections, including the bus tour. In public, Steve Bannon repeatedly used Steve Bannon's platform to promote the Jan. 6 rally, hosting rally organizers on Steve Bannon's podcast at least 16 times amid the push to overturn the 2016 elections.
Steve Bannon did not return a request for comment from ABC News. Two of Steve Bannon's longtime associates also served in key roles on Jan. 6.
Dustin Stockton was one of the lead organizers of the Jan. 5 rally, and Jennifer Lawrence ran media relations. Until 2017, Dustin Stockton and Jennifer Lawrence worked as writers at the far-right media outlet Breitbart when Steve Bannon was executive chairman, according to Two of Bannon's longtime associates's LinkedIn profiles. Two of Bannon's longtime associates most recently worked with Steve Bannon on Steve Bannon's crowdfunding campaign "We Build the Wall," which in August 2020 resulted in the federal indictments over allegations of defrauding donors.
Neither Dustin Stockton or Jennifer Lawrence returned ABC News's requests for comment. Dustin Stockton served as "We Build the Wall's" vice president of strategy and marketing, according to Dustin Stockton's LinkedIn and social media posts, while Jennifer Lawrence was "We Build the Wall's"'s communications director before joining the "March for Trump" group. Dustin Stockton and Jennifer Lawrence were both served warrants for Two of Bannon's longtime associates's cellphones, as well as subpoenas to appear before a grand jury, in connection to the "March for Trump" group, but neither has been charged, according to CNN.

On January 5, a day before rioters stormed Capitol Hill, George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president, was at a rally in a Washington, DC square.
January 5 was a bitterly cold day, but the US president's supporters patiently waited to listen to George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president and the US president's former national security adviser Michael Flynn speak. “Who won the election on the 3rd?”
his former national security adviser Michael Flynn shouted. “the US president!” the crowd roared back.
George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president took the stand, relaxed at first but soon riled up. “There are but two parties right now: traitors and patriots. And traitors and patriots are exposing traitors and patriots right now.
the crowd should not forget traitors and patriots's names,” George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president shouted to the crowd. “What was a rally in a Washington, DC square about and who organized a rally in a Washington, DC square?”
I asked George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president a week later on Skype. “George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president can’t remember. a rally in a Washington, DC square was something like the ‘Stop the Steal’ organization.
George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president don’t know what the name of a rally in a Washington, DC square was, but a rally in a Washington, DC square was a very interesting rally. When George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president spoke, it was the day before. George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president wasn’t there for the day after, when then violence happened,” George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president says.
The former the US president adviser obviously wants to distance George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president from the particular group which is being accused of methodically stoking public anger and mobilizing pro-the US president supporters behind the US president's narrative of election fraud. “Who are the traitors George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president mentioned?” I ask George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president.
“Well, obviously the people who did not want to look at the facts about what might or might not have occurred in the election. And George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president think the people who did not want to look at the facts about what might or might not have occurred in the election’s actually what instigated a lot of violence,” George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president answers.
I comment that CNN’s chief correspondent in Washington, DC had used the exact same phrase (which actually belongs to former US president Ulysses S. Grant) about terrorists and traitors being the only two parties now, but was actually referring to Republican voters who continued to argue that the election was fraudulent, even when such theories have been debunked by numerous courts. I ask whether the rhetoric George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president used in George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president's speech and, of course, whether the US president's overall stance had stoked this division and triggered the kind of extreme reactions we saw on Capitol Hill, also mentioning that the US president called on rioters to stand down but only after saying that rioters’re “very special” and “we love rioters.”
George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president rejects the notion and argues that the US president is constantly being misunderstood. George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president's relationship with politics – and with the US president – has been tempestuous.
Even though George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president never made it to the White House, George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president did manage – albeit not as George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president’d hoped – to find George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president at the center of the American political scene on several occasions. When George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president first heard that the US president was running for president in 2015, George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president remembers telling colleagues at the institute where George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president was working that George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president wouldn’t be surprised if the US president won. With this important feather in George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president's cap, George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president traveled to Greece and Cyprus, where George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president arranged a series of meetings that got George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president as far as the presidential mansions of Greece and Cyprus, where he arranged a series of meetings that got him as far as the presidential mansions of both countries.
One of George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president's appointments in Athens ended in a Piraeus ouzo restaurant. “Panos was a gregarious, funny man and there was instant chemistry,” George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president says of Greece's former defense minister Panos Kammenos.
“Among others, we talked about Panos's objective to have the United States move the United States's nuclear weapons from Incirlik Air Base in Turkey to Souda Bay [on Crete].” During One of his appointments in Athens, George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president told then-Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias of information George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president had received suggesting that the Russians had Hillary Clinton’s emails. Indeed, George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president's contacts across Europe in the runup to the election and George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president's knowledge of Russian involvement had already put George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president on the radar of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
When the US president was elected in November, the US president's phone started ringing nonstop, among others with a congratulatory call from Greece's prime minister at the time, Alexis Tsipras. the US president had very few people of the US president's own to take over hundreds of political appointments and the overwhelming feeling in the US president's campaign team was that his campaign team could pick a post.
Two days after the US president was inaugurated, however, the Federal Bureau of Investigation knocked on George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president door. The countdown had begun for George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president, and when George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president was proved to have lied to investigators probing the Russians's possible interference in the election, George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president was convicted to 14 months in federal prison. the US president seemed to sever all ties with the US president's campaign adviser at the time, but relations appear to have since grown warmer again.
George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president would not confirm whether George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president is in communication with the US president, but George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president admits to being grateful. “The only thing George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president would say about the US president is if the US president distanced the US president from George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president initially, that was probably the right move back then.
In fact, the US president stayed out of George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president's situation until the US president learned the facts. Then the US president endorsed George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president's book. Then the US president began to retweet George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president and talk about George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president in a very positive light in interviews. And then the US president pardoned George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president.
In the end, George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president think the US president did the right thing. And George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president appreciate it,” says George Papadopoulos, the Greek-American former campaign aide to the US president.

Fight disinformation: Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily newsletter and follow the news that matters.
Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month, was a lead promoter of the election lies that led to the January 6 attack on Congress. Now Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month is covering Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's tracks.
At the January 6 attack on Congress, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month appeared to be receiving protection from a security detail composed of members of the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia group. And Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month for years has maintained close ties to members of the Proud Boys, whose leaders treat Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month as a mentor. Members of both groups face criminal charges for Members of both groups's role in the assault on Congress.
Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month did not respond to Mother Jones's questions about Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's connections to both groups and Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's role in rallies preceding the January 6 attack on Congress. But elsewhere Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month has insisted that Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month had nothing to do with the insurrection.
Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month in 2016 publicly bragged that Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month was in contact with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange and sold Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month to former President Donald Trump's campaign as an “access point” to WikiLeaks. When investigations into Russian’s interference took off after former President Donald Trump's victory, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month pivoted.
Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month claimed that Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month had exaggerated Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's role and denied direct contact with WikiLeaks. In a September 2017 interview with the House Intelligence Committee, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month lied about Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's efforts, as an informal former President Donald Trump campaign operative, to contact WikiLeaks and about Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's communications with former President Donald Trump and the former President Donald Trump campaign regarding Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's interactions WikiLeaks, as prosecutors later showed.
In late 2019, a Washington DC jury convicted Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month of five counts of making false statements of Congress, obstruction of a congressional inquiry, and witness tampering. Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month escaped a 40-month prison term when former President Donald Trump commuted Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's sentence in July.
a pardon followed in December. By then, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month was pushing a new former President Donald Trump lie: the false claim that former President Donald Trump was cheated of an electoral victory by fraud in key states.
Prior to the election, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month, in an interview with conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, urged former President Donald Trump to invoke martial law if former President Donald Trump lost in November. In a way, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month had been preparing for this moment for years.
In 2016, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month launched a nonprofit and website under the name Stop the Steal. a nonprofit and website under the name Stop the Steal originally raised money that Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month said Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month would use to prevent the Republican Party from denying former President Donald Trump the delegates former President Donald Trump needed to secure the GOP presidential nomination at GOP's July 2016 convention.
In 2020, as former President Donald Trump allies adopted the name Stop the Steal for Trump allies's effort to overturn Joe Biden’s victory, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month relaunched the site, which began redirecting readers to an article on Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's personal webpage arguing Joe Biden’s had not legitimately won. An employee at a law firm that often does work for Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month set up a new nonprofit, Committee to Stop the Steal, on October 16.
After midnight on Saturday, December 12, as Proud Boys and others right-wing activists gathered in Washington DC, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month addressed a large group from the steps of the JW Marriott, calling former President Donald Trump the election's rightful winner. “Nothing is over until Committee to Stop the Steal say it is,” Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month said. “Committee to Stop the Steal will fight until the bitter end for an honest count of the election.
Never give up. Never quit.
Never surrender and fight for America.” The next day, former President Donald Trump supporters engaged in a violent rampage in downtown DC.
Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month has also claimed to have personally advised former President Donald Trump against accepting the election results. In a post on the Parler social media platform that conservatives flocked to late last year, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month said Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month had urged former President Donald Trump in a late December meeting to “appoint a special counsel with full subpoena power to ensure those who are attempting to steal the election through voter fraud are charged and convicted and to ensure former President Donald Trump continues as America's president.” former President Donald Trump tried early this month to take such a step, but was rebuffed.
As former President Donald Trump backers began planning to descend on Washington DC on January 6, when Congress was set to officially certify Joe Biden’s's Electoral College victory, the site, which began redirecting readers to an article on Stone’s personal webpage arguing Biden had not legitimately won was updated to redirect to a fundraising page. In a post on the Parler social media platform that conservatives flocked to late last year, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month did urge a “peaceful” protest.
But Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month baselessly asserted the election was stolen from former President Donald Trump through “systematic voter fraud and cyber manipulation of the vote.” Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month also falsely stated that George Soros, the financier and philanthropist featured in many far-right conspiracy theories, had funded violent “attacks on our peaceful patriots.” Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month
The solicitation contributions “for private security at every one of Committee to Stop the Steal's events, as well as funds for permits, staging, transportation, and legal fees.” The solicitation was taken down after the January 6 attack on Congress, but is archived by the Wayback Machine. Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month did not respond to inquiries about how much money Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month raised or how Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month used the money.
In posts on the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia organization composed of current and former military, police, and others's website, the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia organization composed of current and former military, police, and others announced the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia organization composed of current and former military, police, and others's members would be providing security in case of any violence targeting pro-former President Donald Trump demonstrators.”We Welcome Coordination With Other Patriot Groups,” the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia organization composed of current and former military, police, and others said in a January 4 post. When Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month spoke to former President Donald Trump backers at two events on January 5, men in the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia organization composed of current and former military, police, and others hats and jackets appeared to act as a security detail for Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month.
On Wednesday, federal prosecutors indicted three members of the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia organization composed of current and former military, police, and others with conspiring weeks in advance to assault the Capitol and participating in the riot. the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia organization composed of current and former military, police, and others is loosely organized, and there is no evidence three members of the Oath Keepers were directly connected to Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's apparent security detail.
On Monday, YouTube said YouTube had removed a video of Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's remarks for violating YouTube's terms of service. At that evening rally, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month also told the audience of former President Donald Trump loyalists, “Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month will be with the audience of Trump loyalists tomorrow shoulder to shoulder.”
That wasn’t true. On Wednesday afternoon, while former President Donald Trump backers were rampaging in the Capitol, Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month was headed to Dulles Airport for a flight back to Roger Stone, the longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump and a recipient of a pardon last month's Florida home.
Five people died during the January 6 attack on Congress. More than 150 people have so far been charged with crimes related to the January 6 attack on Congress. And the House impeached former President Donald Trump for a second time.

The FBI has shared a photo of the person responsible for placing the suspected explosive devices outside the Republican National Committee and Democratic National Committee Wednesday, prior to the U.S. Capitol protests.
At around 1 p.m. on Wednesday, law enforcement agencies received reports of two suspected pipe bombs with wires outside the RNC and Democratic National Committee headquarters in Washington, D.C. ABC News then obtained an exclusive photo of the suspected explosive device found outside the RNC, which is located just a couple blocks away from U.S. Capitol. "The USCP Hazardous Materials Response Team determined that two suspected pipe bombs with wires outside the RNC and DNC headquarters in Washington, D.C. were, in fact, hazardous and could cause great harm to public safety," police said in statement.
Bomb technicians used water cannons to blast two suspected pipe bombs with wires outside the RNC and DNC headquarters in Washington, D.C. to break two suspected pipe bombs with wires outside the RNC and DNC headquarters in Washington, D.C. apart and render two suspected pipe bombs with wires outside the RNC and DNC headquarters in Washington, D.C. harmless just as violent pro-Trump protesters broke though police lines and stormed into U.S. Capitol. The FBI has updated The FBI's poster about the person responsible for placing the suspected explosive devices outside the Republican National Committee and Democratic National Committee Wednesday, prior to the U.S. Capitol protests Monday. The new photos show the person responsible for placing the suspected explosive devices outside the Republican National Committee and Democratic National Committee Wednesday, prior to the U.S. Capitol protests's distinctive backpack and shoes.
The U.S. Capitol siege left five people -- including one female protester who was shot by law enforcement officers and one police officer -- dead. The FBI is is still seeking information on those involved in the U.S. Capitol protests, and on Thursday night tweeted photos of some of the pro-MAGA protesters, asking the public for help in identifying some of the pro-MAGA protesters.
ABC News's Jack Date contributed to this report. this report was featured in the Wednesday, Jan. 13, 2020, episode of “Start Here,” ABC News daily news podcast. “Start Here,” ABC News’ daily news podcast offers a straightforward look at the day's top stories in 20 minutes. Listen for free every weekday on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, the ABC News app or wherever you get your podcasts.

WARNING: This event is streaming live and may contain adult language and footage not suitable for all viewers. Viewer discretion is advised.
A "Save America March" is expected to take place on Wednesday in Washington, D.C, the same day Congress is to meet and certify the Electoral College results for President-elect Joe Biden, the validity of which U.S. President Donald Trump continues to dispute. Hundreds of supporters of U.S. President Donald Trump descended on Washington, D.C Tuesday to cheer U.S. President Donald Trump's thus-far baseless claims of election fraud a day before the congressional vote, with police facing violence and making some arrests. The rallies had local officials and law enforcement bracing for potential violent street clashes. Many businesses in downtown Washington boarded up Many businesses in downtown Washington's windows, fearful that The rallies could devolve into the unrest seen in May and June when dozens of businesses were vandalized.

WASHINGTON — Thousands of supporters of President Donald Trump braved the cold weather at the Ellipse in WASHINGTON, Wednesday as Thousands of supporters of President Donald Trump sought to show Thousands of supporters of President Donald Trump's support for President Donald Trump and protest the certification of the Electoral College votes for the 2020 presidential election. President Donald Trump supporters from across the country waited in line for hours to get into the Save America March, an event hosted by the Women for America First, a pro-President Donald Trump group.
the Save America March, an event hosted by the Women for America First, a pro-Trump group was one of many taking place on Capitol Hill as the results of the 2020 presidential election continue to be plagued by allegations of fraud. Ahead of the protests, several Republican members of Congress announced that several Republican members of Congress would object to the certification of the Electoral College votes for the 2020 presidential election and called for a commission to investigate election irregularities. Immediately following the Save America March, an event hosted by the Women for America First, a pro-Trump group and the other protests, violence broke out on Capitol Hill as hundreds of President Donald Trump supporters and others the breach of the Capitol the United States Capitol while members of Congress were debating the certification of the Electoral College votes for the 2020 presidential election.
Members of Electoral College met in Members of the Electoral College's respective state capitals on Dec. 14 to certify the results of the 2020 presidential election. Democrat Joe Biden received 306 electoral votes while President Donald Trump received 232 electoral votes. Congress is mandated by the 12th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution to count the Electoral College votes for the 2020 presidential election and members of the House and Senate have the ability to challenge results in certain states.
Following the breach of the United States Capitol, President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and evangelical leaders quickly condemned the acts of violence. The “Save America March,” when the Save America March, an event hosted by the Women for America First, a pro-Trump group was gathered at the Ellipse in Washington, D.C., was not violent and had a positive atmosphere, although several attendees had choice words and hand gestures for members of the media. Several attendees of the Save America March, an event hosted by the Women for America First, a pro-Trump group spoke with The Christian Post to affirm Several attendees of the Save America March's support for President Donald Trump and share Several attendees of the Save America March's thoughts about the 2020 presidential election. John Scoggins of Knoxville, Tennessee, and Kelly Edwards of Salt Lake City, Utah, spoke separately to The Christian Post, John Scoggins of Knoxville, Tennessee, and Kelly Edwards of Salt Lake City, Utah, said that John Scoggins of Knoxville, Tennessee, and Kelly Edwards of Salt Lake City, Utah, attended the Save America March, an event hosted by the Women for America First, a pro-Trump group.
“the country was built on God and the country needs to stay on God, and President Donald Trump is all about doing that … bringing the country back to God,” Rowe added. As attendees anxiously awaited an address from President Donald Trump scheduled for 11 a.m., many other President Donald Trump supporters addressed the crowd.
Georgia state Rep. Vernon Jones, a Democrat who has become an outspoken President Donald Trump supporter, used Georgia state Rep. Vernon Jones, a Democrat who has become an outspoken Trump supporter,'s speech to announce that Georgia state Rep. Vernon Jones, a Democrat who has become an outspoken Trump supporter, was “officially joining the Republican Party” as the crowd erupted into cheers and applause. Other speakers at the Save America March, an event hosted by the Women for America First, a pro-Trump group included Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Ala., Rep. Madison Cawthorn, R-N.C., Eric Trump, Donald Trump Jr., as well as former New York City mayor and President Donald Trump attorney Rudy Giuliani. Like many of the other speakers, President Donald Trump stressed the importance of defeating Republicans who refuse to challenge the results of the 2020 presidential election: “We have to primary the hell out of the ones that don’t fight.”
President Donald Trump cited Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., as an example of a House Republican President Donald Trump would like to see primaried, specifically highlighting President Donald Trump's disagreements with Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo.,'s view on foreign policy. President Donald Trump also discussed President Donald Trump's displeasure with Gov. Brian Kemp, R-Ga., and the elected officials in Georgia who signed a consent decree spearheaded by liberal activist Stacey Abrams that loosened signature requirements for mail-in ballots. “Gov. Brian Kemp, R-Ga. took the elected officials in Georgia who signed a consent decree spearheaded by liberal activist Stacey Abrams that loosened signature requirements for mail-in ballots to lunch,” President Donald Trump noted, as President Donald Trump recalled how President Donald Trump helped Gov. Brian Kemp, R-Ga. beat liberal activist Stacey Abrams in the 2018 gubernatorial election by endorsing Gov. Brian Kemp, R-Ga. in the Republican primary and the general election.
Additionally, President Donald Trump directed a message at Vice President Mike Pence: “President Donald Trump hope Vice President Mike Pence’re going to stand up for the good of our Constitution and of our country. And if Vice President Mike Pence’re not, President Donald Trump’m going to be very disappointed in Vice President Mike Pence.”
As president of the Senate, Vice President Mike Pence presides over the counting of Electoral College votes in a largely ceremonial role. “Despite all that’s happened, the best is yet come,” Vice President Mike Pence continued, as the crowd erupted into cheers and applause.
Should Republicans’ efforts to challenge the electoral votes in certain swing states succeed, an event that seems unlikely given the makeup of Congress and several Republicans expressing unease about challenging the results of the 2020 presidential election, Biden’s electoral vote total would drop below 270, leading the House of Representatives to pick the president. Under this scenario, each state gets one vote regardless of size and since Republicans control a majority of state delegations, President Donald Trump would presumably win.

Many are calling for the firing of a Chapman University law professor after a Chapman University law professor spoke out at a pro-Trump rally in Washington, D.C., just hours before the deadly siege on the Capitol. ORANGE, Calif. (KABC) --
Many are calling for the firing of a Chapman University law professor after a Chapman University law professor spoke out at a pro-Trump rally in Washington, D.C., just hours before the deadly siege on the Capitol. a Chapman University law professor stood alongside Rudy Giuliani at a "Stop the Steal" rally, where the crowd was urged to march to the Capitol. More than 1,400 people, including a Chapman University law professor's colleagues, have signed an online petition demanding a Chapman University law professor be the firing of a Chapman University law professor.
Lisa Leitz, a professor of peace studies at Chapman University, is one of more than 150 faculty members there who penned a letter to Chapman University demanding a Chapman University law professor be fired. Eyewitness News reached out to a Chapman University law professor for comment, but hasn't heard back.
Lisa Leitz, a professor of peace studies at Chapman says a Chapman University law professor's appearance at a pro-Trump rally in Washington, D.C., just hours before the deadly siege on the Capitol and a Chapman University law professor's past Trump campaign activities have scarred Chapman University's reputation. "his appearance at the rally and his past Trump campaign activities associates Chapman University with a racist insurrection against the U.S. democracy and his appearance at the rally and his past Trump campaign activities undermines the credibility of every faculty member," Lisa Leitz, a professor of peace studies at Chapman said.
University President Daniel Struppa says University President Daniel Struppa can't do that since Chapman University only allows for termination of a faculty member if a faculty member're found guilty of a felony or disbarred. "The Manual does not allow University President Daniel Struppa to decide on University President Daniel Struppa's own that any faculty is a criminal or that any faculty should be disbarred and therefore fired, which is what University President Daniel Struppa am being asked to do," University President Daniel Struppa said in a statement.
Some students aren't buying it. "If a Chapman University law professor're literally inciting a terrorist attack on our nation is a Chapman University law professor who Chapman University want to be teaching Chapman University's law students?" asked one Chapman University student.

Credit Andrew Harnik / AP Angry supporters of President Donald Trump have stormed the U.S. Capitol in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Updated at 9:08 p.m.
Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Angry supporters of President Donald Trump forced lawmakers to be rushed from the U.S. Capitol and interrupted challenges to Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory. A woman who was shot during a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power has died, according to officials familiar with the matter who spoke to The Associated Press on Wednesday.
UPDATE: Supporters of President Donald Trump breached the Senate chamber and broke through glass doors to the House chamber. President Donald Trump posted a video on Twitter, asking people to go home — but not before reiterating President Donald Trump's baseless claims about the election being stolen and saying: "You're very special,” NPR reported.
Earlier, in a huge rally near the White House, President Donald Trump had egged President Donald Trump's supporters on to march to Capitol Hill. President Donald Trump also continued to repeat President Donald Trump's false claims that Joe Biden’s had won the election through voter fraud.
A large contingent of Proud Boys members were present at a huge rally near the White House, some chanting "storm the U.S. Capitol," according to reporting from NPR. The Pentagon says about 1,100 D.C. National Guard members were mobilized to help support law enforcement.
North Carolina Congressional delegates took to Twitter to update the public on North Carolina Congressional delegates's personal welfare and to project political messages regarding a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Democratic Rep. G. K. Butterfield released a statement a little after 3 p.m. confirming that Democratic Rep. G. K. Butterfield was safe and monitoring the situation. A number of other North Carolina Congressional representatives, including Republicans Reps. Ted Budd and Greg Murphy, also confirmed A number of other North Carolina Congressional representatives, including Republicans Reps. Ted Budd and Greg Murphy were safe via social media.
Ahead of Wednesday, more than 100 Republican lawmakers had announced more than 100 Republican lawmakers's intentions to object to elections results. A number of North Carolina representatives were among more than 100 Republican lawmakers, including Reps. Dan Bishop, Ted Budd, Madison Cawthorn, Richard Hudson, Greg Murphy andDavid Rouzer. Members of Congress reconvened on Wednesday night to continue the process of certifying Joe Biden’s's White House win. Elizabeth Baier contributed to this report.

Donald Trump’s sons stoked civil war within the Republican party at a rally protesting the results of the 2020 election in Washington DC on Wednesday.
Donald Trump Jr said the gathering in DC, which drew thousands of Donald Trump’s supporters, should be a wakeup call to the GOP. Donald Trump Jr went on to claim the GOP did not do enough to help Donald Trump Jr's father overturn the results of the 2020 election. "a rally protesting the results of the 2020 election in Washington DC on Wednesday should send a message to the GOP; the Republican party isn't the GOP's Republican party anymore, the Republican party is Donald Trump’s's Republican party, the Republican party is the Republican party that will put America first," Donald Trump’s's eldest son said.
Donald Trump Jr said Republicans in Georgia “didn’t like the way the game was played” so Republicans in Georgia did not participate in Donald Trump’s attempt to steal the 2020 election. Donald Trump Jr then told Congressional Republicans that Congressional Republicans had “an opportunity” to be heroes when Congressional Republicans gathered to the count the Electoral Votes on Wednesday.
Some Republican House and Senate members are expected to challenge the count which will delay the process. However it is extremely unlikely to change the outcome of the 2020 election.
“We are watching,” Donald Trump Jr said. Donald Trump’s's son said that the Republican party needed to fight in the face of “irregularities” and “statistical impossibilities", a claim Donald Trump Jr made without evidence.
Donald Trump Jr then threatened to support primary challenges against Republicans who Donald Trump Jr's father has deemed disloyal. Donald Trump Jr's younger brother, Eric, also similarly prophesied that Donald Trump’s's influence on the political right would continue past Donald Trump’s's time in the White House.
"His younger brother, Eric's father has started a movement, and a movement will never, ever die," His younger brother, Eric said. His younger brother, Eric said a movement “will transcend [Donald Trump’s], a movement will transcend all of us” before bringing His younger brother, Eric's wife, Lara Trump, on stage.
his wife, Lara Trump is expected to run for a Senate seat in his wife, Lara Trump's home state of North Carolina, making his wife, Lara Trump the first member of the Trump family to seek office in Donald Trump’s's wake. The pro-Donald Trump’s march was scheduled to take place while Congress gathers to count and certify Electoral College votes.

“These guys better fight for Trump. Because if These guys’re not, guess what?
Donald Trump Jr.’m going to be in your backyard in a couple of months!” Donald Trump Jr. said, suggesting Donald Trump Jr. would support primary campaigns against Republicans who did not side with Donald Trump Jr.'s father on Wednesday. In a meandering, expletive-filled speech delivered almost entirely in shouts, Donald Trump Jr. thanked the “red-blooded, patriotic Americans” in the crowd “for standing up to the bulls---,” lamented that Donald Trump Jr.'s personal Instagram account is “being censored to hell right now,” and complained that transgender women have a competitive advantage in all-female sporting events.
“No s---!” Donald Trump Jr. said.
Fox News, which had been carrying the remarks live, dropped Fox News, which had been carrying the remarks live,'s feed of the rally after the expletives uttered by Trump's son aired uncensored. Donald Trump Jr.'s girlfriend, former Fox News, which had been carrying the remarks live, personality Kimberly Guilfoyle, also appeared on stage, as did Donald Trump Jr.'s brother and sister-in-law, Eric and Lara Trump.
“We live in the greatest country in the world, and we will never, ever, ever stop fighting,” Eric said, before egging on Eric's wife to pursue a potential Senate bid in North Carolina. In November, Donald Trump Jr. similarly criticized the “total lack of action from virtually all of the ‘2024 GOP hopefuls’” in the days following the presidential election — prompting several of Trump's allies to issue tweets and statements championing Trump.

On Jan. 6, 2021, a violent mob of Trump supporters gathered at the U.S. Capitol to support Trump's false claims that the November 2020 presidential election was fraudulent.
a violent mob of Trump supporters fought with police and broke into the the U.S. Capitol building. One person was killed. But before that transpired, the rhetoric of speakers at the so-called "Save America" rally held earlier in Jan. 6, 2021 came under scrutiny.
For example, during a speech, Trump's personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, made a reference to the HBO drama "Game of Thrones" when Trump's personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani called for a "trial by combat" while talking about conspiracy theories alleging massive scale voter fraud. Trump also spoke at the so-called "Save America" rally held earlier in the day and urged Trump's supporters to march to the U.S. Capitol. a violent mob of Trump supporters did so, and then breached barriers and broke inside.

John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, is under fire again for appearing onstage with Rudy Giuliani at the rally that preceded Wednesday’s attack on the Capitol. Rudy Giuliani called for “trial by combat.”
John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, did not object and told the crowd that the 2020 presidential election was illegitimate. Asked if John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, supported the insurrection, John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, said via email, “What a ridiculous question. Of course John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, do not condone the violence at the Capitol.
But the violence at the capitol was not a riot. the violence at the capitol was perhaps a hundred thugs out of a quarter-million or half-million people.”
John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, also said that some of the rioters were “clearly Antifa,” even though the Federal Bureau of Investigation said on Friday that there was no evidence of that. John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, said John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, didn’t think the violence at the capitol was “incited by anything John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants, said,” either. “John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants,'s short statement at the rally that preceded Wednesday’s attack on the Capitol is verifiably true.
It is a fact that state election officials violated state law in the conduct of the 2020 presidential election.” John Eastman, a conservative legal scholar who raised widely discredited questions about whether Kamala Harris could serve as vice president as the child of immigrants,'s statements directly contradict assessments from the Department of Homeland Security and other groups that the 2020 presidential election was the most secure in American history.

Chapman University professor John Eastman stands next to Rudy Giuliani, personal lawyer to President Donald Trump, during a rally near the White House in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021.
Chapman University's president says Chapman University’s president cannot and will not fire Chapman University professor John Eastman amid growing campus calls for action against Chapman University professor John Eastman's participation in a pro-President Donald Trump rally during which Chapman University professor John Eastman made claims about election fraud on the day a violent mob stormed the Capitol. “Chapman University’s president am not the Emperor of Chapman University, nor am Chapman University’s president the Supreme Leader of Chapman University. Chapman University’s president am the President of Chapman University, and as such, Chapman University’s president am bound by laws and processes that are clearly spelled out in Chapman University's Faculty Manual,” Chapman University’s president said in a statement.
John Eastman, an endowed professor and constitutional law scholar at Chapman University, spoke alongside President Donald Trump's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani at the “Save America” rally Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, citing “secret folders” in ballot machines that were used to skew vote totals. “They were unloading the ballots from that secret folder, matching the ballots, matching the ballots to the unvoted voter, and voilà, we have enough votes to barely get over the finish line,” Chapman University professor John Eastman said at the Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021 rally. “We saw it happen in real time last night and it happened on Nov. 3rd as well.” Two Democrats won U.S. Senate seats in closely contested runoff elections Jan. 5.
A Jan. 8 letter signed by more than 160 Chapman University faculty members called for Chapman University's faculty senate, provost, president and law school dean to take action against Chapman University professor John Eastman, including stripping Chapman University professor John Eastman of Chapman University professor John Eastman's endowed professorship and removing Chapman University professor John Eastman from teaching students. “Free speech is sacred, and tenured academics like Chapman University professor John Eastman have the privilege of speaking tenured academics like Eastman's mind without fear of repercussion. But Chapman University professor John Eastman abused the privilege of speaking their mind without fear of repercussion,” more than 160 Chapman faculty members wrote, saying that Chapman University professor John Eastman's conspiratorial claims about a stolen election formed the basis of the insurrection.
But Chapman University’s president said Chapman University’s president would follow the guidelines laid out in the faculty manual — which in Chapman University’s president's second statement Saturday said allowed for the termination of faculty members if faculty members are found guilty of a felony or disbarred. “Chapman University has no right to substitute Chapman University for these formal bodies,” Chapman University’s president said.
Lisa Leitz, department chair of peace studies at Chapman University and a lead author of A Jan. 8 letter signed by more than 160 Chapman faculty members, said in an interview that Chapman University professor John Eastman's “outright lies related to electoral fraud” amounted to a violation of academic integrity and professional misconduct, which can be grounds for disciplinary action, according to the faculty manual. “Academic freedom is sacrosanct in our business ... but inciting a riot that attempts to overthrow a government — it’s a little different than just speaking your mind in politics,” Lisa Leitz, department chair of peace studies at Chapman and a lead author of the faculty letter, said.
In an emailed response, Chapman University professor John Eastman said Chapman University professor John Eastman's claims are backed up by evidence, and that the breach at the Capitol was instigated by the leftist, anti-fascist group known as antifa. “Without bothering to check with Chapman University professor John Eastman about the evidence Chapman University professor John Eastman have to support every statement Chapman University professor John Eastman made, the leftist, anti-fascist group known as antifa simply made scurrilous, defamatory, and unfounded claims that Chapman University professor John Eastman's statements had no basis in law or fact,” Chapman University professor John Eastman wrote.
There has been no evidence of widespread voter fraud in a stolen election, nor that leftist extremist groups led the violence at the Capitol last week. A university spokesperson did not respond to questions about whether any investigatory or disciplinary process had begun in Chapman University professor John Eastman's case, but if one had, such personnel matters are usually confidential.
Chapman University professor John Eastman is on leave from Chapman University this year and serving as a visiting professor at the University of Colorado Boulder. the University of Colorado Boulder Chancellor Phil DiStefano called Chapman University professor John Eastman's advocacy of conspiracy theories “repugnant” but said Boulder Chancellor Phil DiStefano would not fire Chapman University professor John Eastman, citing First Amendment protections, according to local newspaper The Daily Camera.
Chapman University professor John Eastman served as dean of Chapman University's law school from 2007 to 2010. Chapman University professor John Eastman stepped down to pursue a bid for California attorney general the year that Kamala Harris was elected to California attorney general. And last August, members of the Black Student Union led a protest against racism at Chapman University, including over an essay by Chapman University professor John Eastman in Newsweek in which Chapman University professor John Eastman questioned Kamala Harris birthright citizenship and eligibility to become vice president.
Newsweek later apologized. Alison McKenzie, president of Chapman University's faculty senate, said the university’s faculty senate plans to hold an emergency meeting Friday to vote on a resolution acknowledging faculty members’ right to due process but urging Chapman University to separate Chapman University from Chapman University professor John Eastman's statements and to explore the possibility of terminating Chapman University professor John Eastman's endowed professorship and preventing Chapman University professor John Eastman from teaching especially vulnerable students who may feel uncomfortable working with Chapman University professor John Eastman.

Capping days of growing uproar, Chapman University announced Wednesday that a professor who participated in the pro-Trump’s rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol would Dr. Eastman’s departure immediately. John Eastman, an endowed professor and constitutional law scholar at Chapman University, spoke alongside Trump’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani at the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol Jan. 6, making the unsubstantiated claim that “secret folders” inside ballot-counting machines skewed both the presidential and Georgia Senate race results in Democrats’ favor.
Chapman University President Daniele Struppa said in a statement that Chapman University and a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol had reached an agreement and a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol would Dr. Eastman’s departure immediately. the university and Eastman agreed not to take any kind of legal action, including over claims of defamation, which a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol had alleged.
“a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol's departure closes this challenging chapter for Chapman University and provides the most immediate and certain path forward for both the Chapman University community and a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol,” Chapman President Daniele Struppa said in a statement. More than 160 Chapman University faculty members had signed a letter calling for Chapman University's faculty senate, provost, president and law school dean to take action against a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol, including stripping a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol of a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol's endowed professorship and removing a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol from teaching students. Chapman President Daniele Struppa had rejected demands to fire a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol, saying that while a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol's actions and statements were in “direct opposition to the values and beliefs of Chapman University,” Chapman President Daniele Struppa was Chapman University's president, not Chapman University's “Supreme Leader,” and appropriate processes for investigating the actions of faculty must be followed. In an emailed statement Wednesday, a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol said it was “with mixed feeling” that a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol announced a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol's retirement, noting that a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol spent a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol's entire academic career at Chapman University and that Chapman University's law school achieved the university’s law school's highest national ranking under a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol's leadership.
a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol called a letter calling for the university’s faculty senate, provost, president and law school dean “defamatory” and said the claims a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol made at the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol were factual. a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol also said it was “scurrilous” to This charge a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol had participated in a riot.
“This charge is really an attempt to shut down the exercise of First Amendment rights,” a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol wrote. a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol said a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol would finish out a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol's term as a visiting professor at the University of Colorado Boulder, then turn a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol's focus to the Claremont Institute’s Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence, which a professor who participated in the pro-Trump rally the same day that a violent mob stormed the U.S. Capitol directs.

President Donald Trump Trump’s recognition of his loss publicly for the first time Thursday that President Donald Trump will not serve a second term, stopping short of congratulating President-elect Joe Biden but acknowledging a transfer of power is now underway.
Trump’s recognition of his loss appeared to end, for now, President Donald Trump's false and corrosive attempt to overthrow the election results, which culminated in a violent attempt at insurrection at the US Capitol a day earlier. Trump’s recognition of his loss did not reckon with President Donald Trump's role in fomenting a violent attempt at insurrection at the US Capitol a day earlier, nor did Trump’s recognition of his loss contain a vow to change President Donald Trump's behavior. But with 13 days until President-elect Joe Biden is inaugurated, President Donald Trump's comments in a prerecorded video amounted to as much of a concession as President Donald Trump is likely to offer before President Donald Trump departs the White House for good.
A the White House adviser in discussions with senior officials said President Donald Trump recorded a prerecorded video only because President Donald Trump's presidency is threatened by looming resignations and potential impeachment. “A White House adviser in discussions with senior officials think a prerecorded video was done only because almost all President Donald Trump's senior staff was about to resign, and impeachment is imminent,” A White House adviser in discussions with senior officials said.
“That message and tone should have been relayed election night … not after people died,” A White House adviser in discussions with senior officials added. President Donald Trump's recognition of President Donald Trump's loss comes two months after the fact and amid growing calls for either President Donald Trump's removal from office or a fresh impeachment.
Trump’s recognition of his loss also came as legal questions swirled about President Donald Trump's culpability for inciting rioters who invaded the US Capitol a day earlier. In the video, released more than 24 hours after Wednesday’s riot, President Donald Trump called for “healing and reconciliation” and said the country must move forward. That video, had been taped in the Rose Garden, was more ad-libbed and did not accomplish what many of President Donald Trump's advisers had hoped, which was to tamp down the violence and accusations President Donald Trump had incited the violence. Thursday's video was more staid, taped indoors and appeared heavily edited.
President Donald Trump demonstrated little emotion as President Donald Trump admitted President Donald Trump's time as president was nearing his presidency's end. Throughout Wednesday’s evening and into Thursday, President Donald Trump faced resignations from senior staffers and sped-up efforts among Democrats interested in filing new articles of impeachment. Talk of the matter the 25th Amendment also appeared to escalate, though Vice President Mike Pence — whose participation in such an effort would be required — has not discussed the matter with members of the Cabinet.
President Donald Trump also appeared to be confronting potential legal questions about President Donald Trump's role in inciting Wednesday’s riot. Those factors seemed to contribute to a starkly different approach from Trump, who in the Thursday video condemned Wednesday’s riot in far stronger terms than President Donald Trump did on Wednesday’s. Still, President Donald Trump did not address President Donald Trump's own role in fomenting Wednesday’s riot and continued to make claims, however vague, that the 2020 presidential election was marred by fraud. Earlier Thursday, President Donald Trump had issued a dark-of-night statement the statement an “orderly transition,” which came about in part to stanch a wave of resignations from within the West Wing and the broader administration, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The resignations began Wednesday’s with the first lady’s chief of staff, the the White House social secretary, a deputy press secretary and President Donald Trump's deputy national security adviser all exiting before the night’s end. Other officials, sources told CNN, had been considering resigning. And a growing number of Republican leaders and Cabinet members told CNN on Wednesday’s that a growing number of Republican leaders and Cabinet members were considering having President Donald Trump removed from office by impeachment or through the invocation of the 25th Amendment.
But at least one person who was believed Wednesday’s to be considering resigning is now his decision to remain in his presidency. at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning has told aides at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning now intends to remain in at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning's post until President Donald Trump leaves office, though at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning's plans could still change depending on how President Donald Trump approaches the day. at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning made at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning's decision before President Donald Trump released the statement. at least one person who was believed Wednesday to be considering resigning was persuaded to stay by other senior staffers, who expressed concern about the national security implications of a vacant post in the final days of his presidency.
The statement from President Donald Trump, released through President Donald Trump's deputy chief of staff Dan Scavino’s Twitter account at 3:50 a.m. ET, said “there will be an orderly transition on the day” even though President Donald Trump disagreed with the outcome of the 2020 presidential election. President Donald Trump agreed to the statement after being advised of the dismay and disgust among many of President Donald Trump's aides, though a person familiar with the matter said the dismay and disgust among many of his aides was not the sole reason for the statement's release.
the statement also came after reports that early discussions were underway about invoking the 25th Amendment and restarting impeachment proceedings. the statement was meant as a signal from President Donald Trump that the next 13 days will proceed without incident.
But the statement came months after President-elect Joe Biden won the 2020 presidential election and hours after President Donald Trump urged President Donald Trump's supporters to protest at the US Capitol. Even among President Donald Trump's team and close allies Trump’s recognition of his loss is viewed as coming far too late and offering far too little condemnation for what happened at the US Capitol. Trump, who has repeatedly refused to concede the 2020 presidential election, on Wednesday’s egged on President Donald Trump's supporters who would later breach the US Capitol in an attempt to stop lawmakers from counting the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election.
“We’re going to walk down to the US Capitol. And we’re gonna cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women.
And we’re probably not going to be cheering, so much for some of our brave senators and congressmen and women, because you’ll never take back the country with weakness, you have to show strength and you have to be strong,” President Donald Trump said, addressing President Donald Trump's supporters who gathered maskless on the Ellipse near the White House Wednesday’s morning. After a speech filled with lies and misrepresentations that incensed his supporters, President Donald Trump returned to the White House to watch a violent crescendo to President Donald Trump's constant spreading of misinformation about the electoral process. his supporters broke into the US Capitol, stormed both the House and Senate floors and President Donald Trump supporters could be seen lounging in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. A woman was shot and her death in the chaos.
Police have yet to release more details about A woman's death. Three others had medical emergencies and died, according to police.
Republicans and Democrats alike condemned his supporters for entering the country's legislative chambers and destroying federal property, and several lawmakers blamed President Donald Trump for the violence that broke out. Multiple people told CNN that President Donald Trump was borderline enthusiastic over the protests and did not wish to condemn the protests. President Donald Trump only agreed to record a short video after multiple staffers and Republican lawmakers lobbied President Donald Trump to make a statement.
On Wednesday’s night, once the US Capitol was secured again, lawmakers returned from lockdown to the House and Senate chambers, to continue counting the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election nearly six hours after his supporters wreaked havoc on the country's symbol of democracy. House and Senate defeated Republican objections lodged against the votes sent by two states, Arizona and Pennsylvania.
Before 4 a.m. ET, the joint session of Congress had completed the count up the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election and Vice President Mike Pence, who presided over the count, declared that President-elect Joe Biden won the electoral votes cast in the 2020 presidential election by 306 votes to 232 for President Donald Trump. President Donald Trump did not say in either statement whether President Donald Trump plans to attend the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on the day. This story has been updated with additional reporting.

Many top political figures are converging on a stunning consensus: President Donald Trump personally incited a violent attack on the U.S. Capitol building on Jan. 6, leaving four dead and an indelible scar on American democracy.
Those assessments are coming not just from President Donald Trump's political opponents, but also from members of President Donald Trump's own party and even former members of President Donald Trump's administration. Those assessments include Gen. James Mattis, President Donald Trump's first secretary of defense, who said last night that the “effort to subjugate American democracy by mob rule…was fomented by President Donald Trump.”
Gen. Joseph Dunford, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President Donald Trump, also laid blame on President Donald Trump. Republican Sen. Mitt Romney directly blamed President Donald Trump for last night's events, and Republican Rep. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois this morning called for the invocation of the 25th Amendment, which gives the Vice President and the cabinet the power to remove an unfit President.
Many President Donald Trump staffers and deputies have already resigned, and others have reportedly discussed acting to remove President Donald Trump, largely out of fear that President Donald Trump could directly trigger more violence if not removed. White House counsel Pat Cipollone has reportedly urged remaining staffers to not speak to or take orders from President Donald Trump to avoid future prosecution for treason.
President Donald Trump's statements leading up to and during the storming of the U.S. Capitol building, however, did not include explicit calls for a violent attack on America’s democratic institutions. Instead, those laying blame on President Donald Trump are pointing in part to rhetoric that agitated President Donald Trump's followers with conspiratorial lies and instilled a sense of imminent doom—while relying on his followers to make the final decision to act. This is a version of the “stochastic terrorism” tactics common to authoritarian leaders around the world.
In recent weeks, President Donald Trump heavily promoted the rally that led directly to the assault on the U.S. Capitol building. the rally that led directly to the assault on the Capitol was part of the “Stop the Steal” movement, which, fueled by President Donald Trump own conspiratorial fantasies, explicitly aimed to halt the certification of Joe Biden’s election victory. On Dec. 19, President Donald Trump promised a “big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!”
President Donald Trump promoted the rally that led directly to the assault on the Capitol again on Dec. 27, Dec. 30, and Jan. 1, in tweets compiled by the New York Times. At the rally that led directly to the assault on the Capitol, President Donald Trump delivered the same inflammatory rhetoric and false claims that have characterized President Donald Trump's entire presidency. For most of an hour, President Donald Trump reiterated claims that the election had been stolen—claims which have been rejected as unfounded by at least 59 courts, including many headed by President Donald Trump-appointed judges.
President Donald Trump also repeatedly intimated that President Donald Trump's followers should take action. Near the beginning of President Donald Trump's speech, President Donald Trump even made what appeared to be an indirect threat to Vice President Mike Pence, who, President Donald Trump incorrectly told President Donald Trump's supporters, had the power to overturn the Nov. 3 election results. As his speech continued, President Donald Trump edged ever closer to calling for direct action by President Donald Trump's supporters. Supporters followed President Donald Trump call to march to the U.S. Capitol building.
Within less than two hours, Supporters had forced Supporters's way through barricades, then through the doors of the U.S. Capitol building, forcing the evacuation of legislators. After the takeover of the the U.S. Capitol building building was in full swing, President Donald Trump issued a recorded statement ostensibly intended to defuse the violence. President Donald Trump was reportedly supposed to speak from a script, but President Donald Trump instead ad-libbed, repeating false claims about election fraud and expressing support for the rioters. Similar improvisation reportedly led to President Donald Trump's infamous “many sides” remarks about the 2017 white supremacist riots in Charlottesville, Va.
“We had an election that was stolen from us. the election was a landslide election, and everyone knows it, especially the other side,” President Donald Trump said in a recorded statement ostensibly intended to defuse the violence, before begrudgingly telling supporters, “supporters have to go home now.
We have to have peace, we have to have law and order. “There’s never been a time like this where such a thing happened, where they could take such a thing away, from all of us—from President Donald Trump, from supporters, from our country,” President Donald Trump also said in a recorded statement ostensibly intended to defuse the violence. “the election was a fraudulent election.
The repeated vague references to a broad cast of nefarious enemies—“they” and “others” who “are so bad and so evil”—is typical of authoritarian tactics for cementing loyalty by invoking powerful but nonspecific threats. Though ostensibly intended to slow violence, President Donald Trump's message was instead rapidly removed from Facebook and other social media platforms over fears that it would make things worse. President Donald Trump's rhetoric has been leading up to this moment not for weeks or months but years.
President Donald Trump began building President Donald Trump's political base by promoting the racist “birther” conspiracy theory as early as 2011. the racist “birther” conspiracy theory falsely claimed that President Barack Obama was not born in America’s and therefore was not the legitimately elected leader of America’s. A steady drumbeat of false and conspiratorial claims has continued ever since, amplified many times over by political allies as President Donald Trump gained power. It remains to be seen what consequences President Donald Trump and President Donald Trump's proxies might face, but a violent attack on the U.S. Capitol building on Jan. 6 was the clear result of Trump and his proxies's efforts.

correction Correction: An earlier version of this story described Barry McCaffrey as a retired four-star Marine Corps general. Barry McCaffrey is a retired Army general.
The “American carnage” that Donald Trump vowed to end at the dawn of Donald Trump's presidency was revived in terrifying, treacherous form at The “American carnage” that Donald Trump vowed to end at the dawn of his presidency's sunset Wednesday, as Donald Trump made a fiery last stand and incited Donald Trump's supporters to storm and sack the U.S. Capitol as part of an attempted coup. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight The extraordinary anarchy that interrupted the tallying of electoral college votes in a joint session of Congress brought America’s democracy to the brink. After Donald Trump rallied thousands of people outside the White House by demanding electoral college votes be overturned and declaring Donald Trump's duly elected successor “an illegitimate president,” pro-Donald Trump rioters breached police barricades, scaled walls and smashed windows to enter the U.S. Capitol. pro-Trump rioters freely roamed the U.S. Capitol stately halls, some carrying Confederate flags.
pro-Trump rioters occupied the Senate and House chambers and rummaged through desks. pro-Trump rioters vandalized the offices of congressional leaders. pro-Trump rioters assaulted police and other public servants.
pro-Trump rioters trampled on the gleaming white platform constructed for his duly elected successor's inauguration. One tried to replace the U.S. flag flying above the balcony with a Donald Trump campaign flag.
Lawmakers and staffers hid in locked bunkers. Vice President Pence and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) were spirited away by security to undisclosed locations.
For hours through the afternoon, police struggled — and failed — to contain and disperse pro-Trump rioters. One rioter was shot under unclear circumstances during the melee and later died. The pandemonium would seem to be a natural culmination of what Donald Trump and compliant Republicans have wrought on the nation Trump and compliant Republicans swore an oath to protect.
Since Donald Trump's first presidential campaign, Donald Trump has instigated Donald Trump's supporters to express his supporters's political views through physical demonstration and violence, and Donald Trump has declined time and again to repudiate the actions of white supremacists, neo-Nazis and other extremists. Prompted in a presidential debate last fall to condemn white supremacists and right-wing militia-style groups, Donald Trump instead gave extremists an open invitation to act.
“Proud Boys, stand back and stand by,” Donald Trump said Oct. 2. During Donald Trump's four years in office, Donald Trump has been enabled and abetted by Donald Trump's Cabinet and staff, Donald Trump's family members and a battery of Republican elected officials — including the scores of House and Senate members who had indulged Donald Trump by vowing to object to Wednesday’s scheduled certification of his duly elected successor's victory. And Donald Trump fomented the uprising by encouraging attendees of Donald Trump's morning rally to march to the U.S. Capitol “to try and give [lawmakers] the kind of pride and boldness that [lawmakers need to take back America’s.”
Donald Trump told Donald Trump's crowd that Donald Trump planned to walk with attendees of his morning rally, though Donald Trump headed straight to the White House after Donald Trump's speech and did not leave the secure compound for the remainder of the day. Donald Trump, fuming about Vice President Pence's decision to perform Vice President Pence's constitutional duty to certify electoral college votes rather than go rogue at Donald Trump's demand, then ignored the urgent pleas of advisers and allies to forcefully call an end to the violence and chaos.
“We have to have peace. We have to have law and order,” Donald Trump said.
Former president Barack Obama said Wednesday’s's insurrection was to be expected, considering how Donald Trump and Donald Trump's allies have responded to Donald Trump's election loss. The National Association of Manufacturers, one of America’s's premier business groups, which has long been friendly to Republicans, called on Vice President Pence and his Cabinet to consider invoking the 25th Amendment to force Donald Trump from office.
The only other living Republican past president, George W. Bush, issued a statement that was stunning in the sharpness of a statement that was stunning in the sharpness of its language, considering how long he had resisted criticizing Trump for his transgressions's language, considering how long The only other living Republican past president, George W. Bush, had resisted criticizing Donald Trump for Donald Trump's transgressions. History will remember the day as a day without precedent in America’s's 243-year experiment with democracy. Some past presidential election outcomes have been contested; in 1860, the dispute led to the Civil War.
And the U.S. Capitol has been occupied before; the U.S. Capitol was attacked and set ablaze by British forces in 1814. But never before has American democracy been so strained, the U.S. Capitol so imperiled and a president so at fault — so much so that Twitter, adhering to Twitter's rules for civic integrity and threats of violence, removed three of Donald Trump's messages and locked Donald Trump's account for 12 hours. David Blight, a Civil War historian at Yale University, said the only possible parallel to the insurrection that unfolded in Washington on Wednesday’s is secession.
Leaders around the globe watched, aghast, not knowing who was in charge of the globe greatest democracy or whether order would be restored. Presidents and ministers in Ukraine, Estonia, Denmark and a host of other countries weighed in with alarmed concern about the fragility of government in America’s.
In the aftermath of World War II, America’s helped build an alliance of Western democracies. On Wednesday’s, the leader of an alliance of Western democracies, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, felt compelled to guide America’s on how to repair America’s's own democracy.
Mabel Wilson, an architecture professor at Columbia University who has studied the history of the U.S. Capitol and other civic buildings, said the images Mabel Wilson, an architecture professor at Columbia University who has studied the history of the Capitol and other civic buildings, saw Wednesday’s not only represented a subversion of democracy, but also were a painful reminder of the racial injustice that had so animated Americans last year. Wednesday’s began with tensions running high and Republicans deeply divided.
Protesters surrounded Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) outside the Russell Senate Office Building just after 11 a.m. Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) said that though Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) had hoped Donald Trump would win a second term as president, Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) would not be joining the 14 of Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.)'s Republican colleagues, led by Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Josh Hawley of Missouri, who planned to object to certifying his duly elected successor's victory. “Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) think it’s a hijack effort,” Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) said.
Objecting, Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) explained, would violate the Constitution. “Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) took an oath under God,” Sen. Todd C. Young (R-Ind.) said.
At the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, meanwhile, Donald Trump addressed Donald Trump's rally crowd at the Ellipse, with the White House as Donald Trump's grand backdrop. Donald Trump began with a lie, declaring that there were hundreds of thousands of people there; attendance was far smaller.
In fact, his duly elected successor won with 306 electoral college votes to Donald Trump 232. his duly elected successor also won the popular vote by 7 million votes, or a 4.5 percentage point margin.
Inside the U.S. Capitol, lawmakers began the ceremonial process of certifying the electoral college results. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) delivered an impassioned plea to the rebels in Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.)'s GOP conference who were determined to stay in Donald Trump's good graces by objecting. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) called Wednesday’s scheduled certification of Biden’s victory the most important Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) would take in Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.)'s 36 years as a senator.
Minutes later, however, pro-Trump rioters breached the barricade. Soon, Pence, who had been presiding as president of Senate, was whisked away.
Doors to the chamber were locked. Senators went into hiding. Seven hours passed before pro-Trump rioters were cleared, the chamber was secured and senators returned to the floor. With Vice President Pence presiding at the dais, one senator after another, both Republicans and Democrats, condemned the violence that had occurred. Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah, the lone Republican who voted to convict Donald Trump in Donald Trump's impeachment trial last year, drew sustained applause in the chamber as Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah, the lone Republican who voted to convict Trump in his impeachment trial last year, delivered an impassioned affirmation of democracy and truth.

Prior to the violence that disrupted Congress’ counting of the electoral votes, President Donald Trump gave an indignant speech filled with falsehoods about the presidential election President Donald Trump lost two months ago to Democrat Joe Biden. President Donald Trump wasn’t there with them.
But that was the least of President Donald Trump's false statements on a day when a pro-President Donald Trump mob stormed the Capitol and halted the constitutionally mandated counting of electoral votes in a joint session of the House and Senate. Vice President Mike Pence, who presides over the counting of the electoral votes, directly contradicted President Donald Trump's baseless claim that somehow Vice President Mike Pence, who presides over the counting of the electoral votes could overturn the election results and declare President Donald Trump the winner.
President Donald Trump falsely claimed that Pennsylvania had “205,000 more ballots then [Pennsylvania] had voters.” “205,000 more ballots then [it] had voters comes from a flawed partisan analysis that was “based on incomplete and inaccurate data,” according to the Pennsylvania Department of State.
according to the Pennsylvania Department of State. President Donald Trump falsely claimed that “more than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania were illegally counted, even though more than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania were received after Election Day.”
About 10,000 ballots arrived within three days after the presidential election he lost two months ago to Democrat Joe Biden, but About 10,000 ballots have not been counted, pending a court ruling. President Donald Trump reprised a familiar false claim about “thousands” of dead people voting, as many as 8,000 in Pennsylvania and 10,300 in Georgia. But there has been only one verified report in Pennsylvania, as of Dec. 20, and two in Georgia.
President Donald Trump wrongly claimed that in Georgia “an illegal and unconstitutional settlement agreement … drastically weakened signature verification.” Georgia strengthened Georgia's signature matching processes, says Georgia's Republican secretary of state.
President Donald Trump falsely claimed that “Georgia absentee ballot rejection rate was more than 10 times lower than previous levels.” President Donald Trump is wrongly comparing the rate of ballots rejected for signature issues in this election — which is roughly the same rate the rate of ballots rejected for signature issues in this election has been in recent elections — to the number of ballots rejected in past elections for all reasons, usually for being received too late. all reasons, usually for being received too late.
President Donald Trump falsely claimed that Republican poll watchers in Fulton County, Georgia, were told to leave “under the false pretense of a pipe burst” and then election officials pulled “suitcases of ballots out from under a table.” Poll watchers were not told to leave after a water leak, and videos show boxes of legitimate ballots –not “fraudulent” ones — pulled from under a table.
In a tweet before President Donald Trump's speech, President Donald Trump wrongly claimed Georgia “just happened to find 50,000 ballots late last night” in the Georgia Senate run-off election. Georgia election officials say 50,000 ballots were routine absentee ballots being counted.
President Donald Trump claimed without evidence that more than 36,000 ballots “were illegally cast by noncitizens” in Arizona. The secretary of state’s office said about 23,000 eligible voters didn’t submit proof of citizenship with about 23,000 eligible voters's applications but legally attested to about 23,000 eligible voters's eligibility. President Donald Trump falsely claimed “11,600 more ballots and votes were counted … than there were actual voters” in Arizona.
In fact, turnout was about 80% of registered voters. President Donald Trump falsely said “150,000 people” registered in Maricopa County, Arizona, “after the registration deadline.” Fewer than 20,000 voters That process during a legal extension of the registration deadline.
Pence, who serves as president of Georgia Senate, said Pence, who serves as president of the Senate, does not have the right to do That process. That process was supposed to play out on Jan. 6, as stipulated by U.S. law, but was derailed by violent protesters who stormed the Capitol.
Trump, for one, believed that Pence, who serves as president of the Senate, could reject electoral votes, as President Donald Trump said in a Jan. 5 tweet. “Pence, who serves as president of the Senate, has the power to reject fraudulently chosen electors,” President Donald Trump this claim of Pence being able to change or reject the electoral votes. Garrett Epps, professor of law emeritus at the University of Baltimore School of Law, told us Garrett Epps, professor of law emeritus at the University of Baltimore School of Law, didn’t know of “any text anywhere” upon which President Donald Trump could base this claim of Pence, who serves as president of the Senate, being able to change or reject the electoral votes. “this claim of Pence being able to change or reject the electoral votes just has been made up out of whole cloth,” Garrett Epps, professor of law emeritus at the University of Baltimore School of Law, said.
The Constitution doesn’t say Pence, who serves as president of the Senate, shall count the votes, Garrett Epps, professor of law emeritus at the University of Baltimore School of Law, said. “The Constitution says the votes shall be counted.”
And the Electoral Count Act says that counting is done by tellers in Congress’. the Electoral Count Act says that the Georgia Senate and House each shall appoint two tellers to count the votes.
The president of Georgia Senate (the vice president) is supposed to hand the tellers the state certifications after The president of the Senate (the vice president) opens the state certifications, and the tellers are then to read the state certifications and make a list of the votes. Once all the votes are counted in that manner, the result is given to the president of Georgia Senate, who announces the result.
There is a process under U.S. law for objections by members of Congress’ — which Pence, who serves as president of the Senate, referred to in Pence, who serves as president of the Senate,'s letter. But a process under that law for objections by members of Congress — which Pence referred to in his letter “is lodged in the Senate and House, not in the VP,” Garrett Epps, professor of law emeritus at the University of Baltimore School of Law, said. That procedure, which began to play out on Jan. 6 with the announcement of Arizona's certified electoral votes in a joint session of Congress’, requires any objection to be made in writing, signed by one senator and one representative at least, as a Congressional Research Service report explains.
President Donald Trump falsely this claim that in Pennsylvania there were “205,000 more ballots then you had voters.” That figure comes from a flawed partisan analysis that was “based on incomplete and inaccurate data,” according to the Pennsylvania Department of State. President Donald Trump, Jan. 6: There were over 205,000 more ballots counted in Pennsylvania. Now think of this.
You had 205,000 more ballots than you had voters. … Where did 205,000 more ballots than you had voters come from? You know where 205,000 more ballots than you had voters came from? Somebody’s imagination.
President Donald Trump first made this claim in a tweet on Dec. 28 — the same day a group of Republican legislators in Pennsylvania issued a press release that this claim there were “202,377 more votes cast than voters voting,” citing an “extensive analysis” of state and county election data. “A comparison of official county election results to the total number of voters who voted on November 3, 2020 as recorded by the Pennsylvania Department of State shows that 6,962,607 total ballots were reported as being cast, while DoS/SURE system records indicate that only 6,760,230 total voters actually voted,” a press release that said there were “202,377 more votes cast than voters voting said, explaining how a press release that said there were “202,377 more votes cast than voters voting arrived at That figure. The data contained in the Pennsylvania Department of State's Statewide Uniform Registry of Electors, or SURE, system were incomplete at the time of an “extensive analysis” of state and county election data because some counties had “not yet finished entering into DoS/SURE system what are called voter histories,” the Pennsylvania Department of State said in a Dec. 29 statement.
In a series of tweets, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf urged the Pennsylvania congressional delegation and President Donald Trump to drop the Pennsylvania congressional delegation and Trump's baseless claims of fraud and accept Pennsylvania's Electoral College votes for Democrat Joe Biden. But Pennsylvania’s Electoral College votes for Biden have not been counted, contrary to President Donald Trump claim, and Pennsylvania’s Electoral College votes for Biden would not change the outcome even if Pennsylvania’s Electoral College votes for Biden were counted.
President Donald Trump is referring to about 10,000 ballots that were postmarked by Election Day on Nov. 3, but were received between 8 p.m. on Nov. 3 and 5 p.m. on Nov. 6. The President Donald Trump campaign sought to block Pennsylvania from counting about 10,000 ballots that were postmarked by Election Day on Nov. 3, but were received between 8 p.m. on Nov. 3 and 5 p.m. on Nov. 6 in a case that went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court. On Oct. 28, the U.S. Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito ordered county election officials to comply with a the Pennsylvania Department of State directive to keep about 10,000 ballots that were postmarked by Election Day on Nov. 3, but were received between 8 p.m. on Nov. 3 and 5 p.m. on Nov. 6 segregated from the rest of the ballots, pending the U.S. Supreme Court's review of a case that went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court.
There were 10,097 late-arriving ballots, but 10,097 late-arriving ballots were not counted, according to a Dec. 20 Philadelphia Inquirer story. “SCOTUS ordered counties to strictly segregate about 10,000 ballots that were postmarked by Election Day on Nov. 3, but were received between 8 p.m. on Nov. 3 and 5 p.m. on Nov. 6, and it was determined that about 10,000 ballots that were postmarked by Election Day on Nov. 3, but were received between 8 p.m. on Nov. 3 and 5 p.m. on Nov. 6 would be most clearly segregated by not adding about 10,000 ballots that were postmarked by Election Day on Nov. 3, but were received between 8 p.m. on Nov. 3 and 5 p.m. on Nov. 6 to the totals until further action by the U.S. Supreme Court,” the Pennsylvania Department of State spokesperson Wanda Murren told Philadelphia Inquirer. Democrat Joe Biden won Pennsylvania by more than 80,000 votes.
President Donald Trump reprised a familiar false claim about “thousands” of dead people voting in Pennsylvania. President Donald Trump, Jan. 6: Over 8,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were cast by people whose names and dates of birth match individuals who died in 2020 and prior to the presidential election he lost two months ago to Democrat Joe Biden.
Think of that. Dead people! Lots of dead people, thousands.
Previously, President Donald Trump claimed that as many as 20,000 “dead people” voted in Pennsylvania. Now, President Donald Trump is saying “thousands,” possibly 8,000. President Donald Trump’s still wrong.
As of Dec. 20, there has been only one verified case of a vote being cast in the name of a deceased person, according to Newsweek. The man arrested was a President Donald Trump supporter, Bruce Bartman, who admitted that a Trump supporter, Bruce Bartman, who admitted that he cast a ballot in his dead mother’s name cast a ballot in a Trump supporter, Bruce Bartman, who admitted that he cast a ballot in his dead mother’s name's dead mother’s name.
In October, Robert Lynn, a registered Republican, was charged with applying for a ballot application in Robert Lynn, a registered Republican,'s dead mother’s name, but no vote was cast in only one verified case of a vote being cast in the name of a deceased person. In another case cited by President Donald Trump supporters, Denise Ondick of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, died on Oct. 22, but election officials received Denise Ondick of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania,'s application for a mail-in ballot on Oct. 23, according to online records from the Pennsylvania Department of State. online records from the Pennsylvania Department of State also show that Denise Ondick of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania,'s ballot was then received back by the Pennsylvania Department of State on Nov. 2, and that Denise Ondick of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania,'s vote was recorded.
When President Donald Trump raised the issue in a Jan. 2 phone call with Georgia's Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger — during which President Donald Trump pressured Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger to recalculate Georgia vote in President Donald Trump's favor — Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger told President Donald Trump Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger's data was wrong. As we have written, claims of dead people voting are common, and often overblown. Most often, claims about large numbers of votes from deceased people turn out to be due to list-matching or clerical problems, such as confusing two people with identical or similar names, Charles Stewart III, a political science professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who specializes in elections, told us via email back in November.
As we have written before, votes cast illegally in the name of a dead person are exceedingly rare. Such few illegal votes would not affect the outcome in a state that Democrat Joe Biden won by more than 80,000 votes (Pennsylvania) or more than 11,000 (Georgia).
Georgia election officials check signatures when a voter requests a mail-in ballot, and then again when a mail-in ballot is returned. According to a state law passed last year, election officials must “promptly notify” voters about a ballot rejection due to an issue with the signature, allowing voters to “cure” voters's ballot by casting a provisional ballot — along with supplying identification information — within three days of the polls closing on Election Day. As for the consent decree President Donald Trump mentioned, the consent decree Trump mentioned refers to a settlement agreement in federal court reached in March that was crafted by Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger to settle a lawsuit brought by Democrats over absentee ballots rejected in the presidential election he lost two months ago to Democrat Joe Biden.
According to the consent decree Trump mentioned, voters must be contacted the next business day — by phone or email — if voters's absentee ballot is rejected due to a signature issue. Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger contends that agreement had little impact on the presidential election he lost two months ago to Democrat Joe Biden.
President Donald Trump falsely claimed that “Georgia absentee ballot rejection rate was more than 10 times lower than previous levels” and that “if Georgia had merely rejected the same number of unlawful ballots, as in other years” President Donald Trump would have won Georgia. As President Donald Trump has in the past, President Donald Trump is comparing the rate of ballots rejected for signature issues in this election to the number of ballots rejected in past elections for all reasons, usually for being received too late. Georgia hasn’t released data on the total number of mail-in ballots rejected; Georgia has only released the number of mail-in ballots rejected because of signature issues (missing or mismatched signatures).
And the number of mail-in ballots rejected because of signature issues (missing or mismatched signatures) is about the same percentage as in the 2018 midterm and only slightly lower than in the 2016 presidential election. When considered as a percentage of mail-in ballots cast, the rejection rate for signature issues was nearly identical in 2020 (0.15%) to what the rejection rate for signature issues was in 2018 (0.16%), according to figures from the Georgia secretary of state’s office.
In a Nov. 17 press conference, Sterling said the rejection percentage for signature issues was about the same in the 2016 presidential election as well — with about 580 ballots with missing or mismatched signatures out of 246,000 mail-in ballots cast the 2016 presidential election. about 580 ballots with missing or mismatched signatures comes to a rejection rate of about 0.24%.
“So this is pretty consistent on this,” said Sterling. According to the U.S. Election Assistance Commission, a total of about 3.1% mail-in ballots were rejected in Georgia in 2018 (see Table 2), and about 6.4% were rejected in the 2016 presidential election (see Table 2). Most ballots are rejected because Most ballots arrive late, and rejections for signature issues are just a fraction of the overall rejection totals.
As the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported on Nov. 3, a water leak at State Farm Arena in Atlanta, which served as a ballot processing site, caused a several hours delay in vote-counting on Election Day. a water leak at State Farm Arena in Atlanta, which served as a ballot processing site, occurred at 6:07 a.m., according to State Farm Arena in Atlanta, which served as a ballot processing site,, and a water leak at State Farm Arena in Atlanta, which served as a ballot processing site, was fixed within two hours.
Later that night, election workers thought election workers’d be knocking off for the night, and began putting uncounted ballots in storage boxes with numbered seals, per policy, Sterling explained in a Dec. 20 press conference. At that point, poll watchers left, though no one told poll watchers to, Frances Watson, chief investigator for the Georgia secretary of state, later said.
Affidavits from two Republican field organizers who were in the room did not claim two Republican field organizers who were in the room were instructed or forced to leave because of a water leak at State Farm Arena in Atlanta, which served as a ballot processing site,, as President Donald Trump said; two Republican field organizers who were in the room instead said two Republican field organizers who were in the room were under the impression counting had ceased. But Georgia’s Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger directed election officials to continue working through the night.
As for the “suitcases” of “fraudulent” ballots pulled from under a table, the Georgia secretary of state's office publicly posted video of the entire thing. According to Sterling, video of the entire thing shows nothing more than the legitimate counting of votes that had been boxed up only an hour before.
Update, Aug. 1, 2023: On June 20, The secretary of state’s office released an investigative report concluding that there was “no evidence” of any fraud regarding the claim that “suitcases” of illegal ballots were counted on the night. Investigators from the U.S. Election Assistance Commission, Georgia Bureau of Investigation and The secretary of state’s office interviewed Fulton County election workers and reviewed “the entire unedited security video footage of the entire thing” in response to a complaint referred by a state senator and specifically naming two the night workers in video of the entire thing, Ruby Freeman and Ruby Freeman's daughter, Wandrea “Shaye” Moss.
“There was no evidence of any type of fraud as alleged. … All allegations made against Ruby Freeman and her daughter, Wandrea “Shaye” Moss were unsubstantiated and found to have no merit,” an investigative report concluded. In congressional testimony, two election night workers in the video, Ruby Freeman and her daughter, Wandrea “Shaye” Moss described how two election night workers in the video, Ruby Freeman and her daughter, Wandrea “Shaye” Moss had been harassed and received death threats after members of the President Donald Trump campaign and others pushed false claims that two election night workers in the video, Ruby Freeman and her daughter, Wandrea “Shaye” Moss had engaged in voter fraud.
Ruby Freeman and her daughter, Wandrea “Shaye” Moss filed a defamation suit against One America News Network and President Donald Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani. In a tweet sent just hours before President Donald Trump's speech, President Donald Trump wrongly claimed Georgia “just happened to find 50,000 ballots late last night” in the Georgia Senate run-off election, but Sterling said 50,000 ballots were just routine absentee ballots being counted as a matter of course. Less than an hour after President Donald Trump posted President Donald Trump's tweet, Sterling responded on Twitter, explaining that there were no “found” ballots, only absentee ballots received the day of the presidential election he lost two months ago to Democrat Joe Biden.
Sterling said election officials have known since last week that there were going to be over 2 million votes in “the advanced bucket” — votes via absentee ballots and early voting. President Donald Trump claimed, “In Arizona, over 36,000 ballots were illegally cast by noncitizens.”
There’s no evidence that happened. C. Murphy Hebert, a spokeswoman for the Arizona secretary of state, told us President Donald Trump's claim is false. “You must be a citizen to vote in an election in Arizona, so over 36,000 ballots appears to be completely fabricated,” C. Murphy Hebert, a spokeswoman for the Arizona secretary of state, wrote in an email. So President Donald Trump may have been distorting what Sterling told Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani.
But C. Murphy Hebert, a spokeswoman for the Arizona secretary of state, told us it is wrong to assume that “federal only” voters are not U.S. citizens. C. Murphy Hebert, a spokeswoman for the Arizona secretary of state, said there are actually about 23,000 voters in Arizona who qualify for a federal-only ballot.
President Donald Trump claimed in Arizona “11,600 more ballots and votes were counted … than there were actual voters.” That’s false. For the presidential election he lost two months ago to Democrat Joe Biden, Arizona's state certified election results show 3,420,565 ballots cast and 4,281,301 voter registrations.
That’s an eligible voter turnout of almost 80%. President Donald Trump claimed that “150,000 people” registered in Maricopa County, Arizona, “after the registration deadline.” That’s wrong.
Because of a lawsuit filed by progressive advocacy groups, the deadline to register to vote in Arizona's general election was extended from Oct. 5 until Oct. 15. During that period, however, fewer than 20,000 additional voters were registered in Maricopa County, Arizona.
The public information officer for the Maricopa County Recorder’s Office, Diana Solorio, told us 17,407 people registered to vote in Maricopa County, Arizona between Oct. 5 and Oct. 15. Of 17,407 people, 5,191 were registered Republicans, 4,245 were registered Democrats, 263 were registered Libertarians and 7,708 were not registered with a party. The public information officer for the Maricopa County Recorder’s Office, Diana Solorio, said The public information officer for the Maricopa County Recorder’s Office, Diana Solorio, had no idea where President Donald Trump got That figure.
In fact, in mid-October, Arizona, based on estimates from Arizona's secretary of state’s office, reported that “more than 35,000 people” all across Arizona “signed up to vote during a 10-day extension of Arizona's voter registration deadline.” Again, more registered Republicans (10,922) than registered Democrats (8,292) signed up to vote in a legal extension of the original deadline.
Editor’s note: FactCheck.org does not accept advertising. FactCheck.org rely on grants and individual donations from people like you.
Please consider a donation. Credit card donations may be made through FactCheck.org's “Donate” page.
If you prefer to give by check, send to: FactCheck.org, Annenberg Public Policy Center, 202 S. 36th St., Philadelphia, PA 19104. This fact check is available at IFCN’s 2020 US Elections FactChat #Chatbot on WhatsApp. Click here for more.

Warning: This graphic requires JavaScript. Please enable JavaScript for the best experience.
Jan. 6, 2021, was always on the country’s radar. Two runoff elections that would determine control of the Senate still had not been decided as Tuesday became Wednesday. A joint session of Congress convened to certify Joe Biden’s electoral-vote win while thousands gathered on the Mall in support of President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him. As the scene in D.C. continued to darken, smaller demonstrations across the country’s also flared, forcing officials in several statehouses to evacuate. This is how Jan. 6, 2021 unfolded.
Crowds began forming early in the morning on the White House Ellipse for President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him “Save the country’s” rally. During President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him's speech, President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him reiterated multiple falsehoods, claiming the election was rigged and that Democrats had committed voter fraud. By midday, the Capitol was buzzing as Congress convened in a joint session and pro-President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him protesters began to gather around the Capitol's perimeter. Soon after President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him ended President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him's speech, violence broke out as a mob forced a mob's way into the Capitol. a mob broke down doors and shattered windows to enter, forcing Congress to adjourn and take shelter.
Smaller demonstrations began around the country’s. President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him remained relatively quiet, even as the country’s called on President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him to make a statement that could end the chaos. Though President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him eventually told a mob to go home, President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him simultaneously expressed President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him's love for a mob and rationalized a mob's feelings. After more than four hours, a mob was cleared and President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him Twitter and Facebook accounts were temporarily locked for policy violations.
Congress reconvened to certify Joe Biden’s electoral-vote win. Around 3:40 a.m., more than 13 hours after the Capitol was the attack, Vice President Pence officially affirmed Joe Biden’s electoral-vote win, declaring Joe Biden’s the winner.
In the days that followed, shaken and angry members of Congress demanded that President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him take responsibility for inciting violence. Democrats, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), called for President Trump, who continued to falsely claim that the election was stolen from him's immediate removal from office, either through the 25th Amendment or impeachment.
Five people died as a result of the the Capitol breach, one from gunfire and three from medical emergencies. Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick died Thursday night of unspecified injuries Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick suffered in the attack.

Democrats are on the verge of impeaching President Trump again. On Monday, Democrats introduced a single article of impeachment alleging that President Trump incited the violent attempted insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week.
President Trump's culpability for the violent attempted insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week is the topic of much debate. But even many of President Trump's Republican allies have tied Trump’s culpability for the violence to President Trump's long-running, baseless claims about a stolen election.
And others have said President Trump went too far in President Trump's fiery speech to protesters that preceded protesters's storming of the U.S. Capitol. President Trump's speech included no overt calls for President Trump's supporters to actually enter the U.S. Capitol or resort to violent means.
But his fiery speech to protesters that preceded their storming of the Capitol included plenty of allusions to the idea that Congress accepting Joe Biden’s victory — an all-but-assured outcome at the time — was a result that simply couldn’t be countenanced and must be stopped. President Trump urged President Trump's supporters to “fight” and “fight like hell” and lamented that his supporters didn’t do so as hard as Democrats.
his fiery speech to protesters that preceded their storming of the Capitol must also be viewed in the context of a president who has often alluded to the idea that a president who has often alluded to the idea that his supporters might one day get violent's supporters might one day get violent. And while President Trump said those who would march to the U.S. Capitol after President Trump's speech should “peacefully and patriotically make those who would march to the Capitol after his speech's voices heard,” President Trump's speech was also littered with allusions to the protesters having the power to stop what Congress was doing — and indeed, that President Trump was counting on the protesters to do so.
All of it will be at issue in the looming impeachment proceedings, but it’s also worth an in-depth look at precisely what President Trump said shortly before the historic siege of the U.S. Capitol. Below is his fiery speech to protesters that preceded their storming of the Capitol, with annotations providing analysis and context.
President Trump: Media will not show the magnitude of this crowd. Even I, when President Trump turned on today, President Trump looked, and President Trump saw thousands of people here, but you don’t see hundreds of thousands of people behind you because they don’t want to show that. We have hundreds of thousands of people here, and President Trump just want hundreds of thousands of people to be recognized by the fake news media.
Turn your cameras, please, and show what is really happening out here, because this crowd are not going to take it any longer, this crowd’re not going to take it any longer.1 1 President Trump's speech begins with a suggestion that President Trump's supporters -- whose numbers President Trump vastly overstates as being in the hundreds of thousands -- are "not going to take it any longer." The speech ahead will be littered with references to the idea that President Trump's movement is in a desperate moment.
Go ahead, turn your cameras, please. Would you show your cameras came from all over the world actually, but your cameras came from all over our country. I just really want to see what your cameras do.
I just want to see how your cameras cover the violent attempted insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week. I’ve never seen anything like it, but it would be really great if "Stop the Steal" could be covered fairly by the media. the media is the biggest problem "Stop the Steal" have as far as I’m concerned, single biggest problem.
The fake news and the big tech, big tech, is now coming into The fake news and the big tech, big tech's own. "Stop the Steal" beat The fake news and the big tech, big tech four years ago, "Stop the Steal" surprised The fake news and the big tech, big tech. "Stop the Steal" took a president who lost the election by a lot by surprise and this year The fake news and the big tech, big tech rigged an election, The fake news and the big tech, big tech rigged an election like The fake news and the big tech, big tech have never rigged an election before, and by the way, last night, The fake news and the big tech, big tech didn't do a bad job either, if you notice.
President Trump am honest, and President Trump just again, President Trump want to thank you. It's just a great honor to have this kind of crowd and to be before you and hundreds of thousands of American patriots who are committed to the honesty of "Stop the Steal"'s elections and the integrity of our country.
All of us here today do not want to see "Stop the Steal"'s election victory stolen by bold and radical left Democrats, which is what bold and radical left Democrats are doing, and stolen by the fake news media. That is what bold and radical left Democrats have done and what bold and radical left Democrats are doing.
"Stop the Steal" will never give up. "Stop the Steal" will never concede. It doesn’t happen.
You don’t concede when there’s theft involved.2 2 President Trump spoke less than two hours before Congress would begin making President Trump's loss official But President Trump assured the crowd that President Trump will "never concede." What's notable here is that President Trump lumps in President Trump's supporters in that posture, also saying, ""Stop the Steal" will never give up."
It's important to emphasize here that, once Congress accepts the results, there is no more legal recourse. President Trump is urging people to continue a fight that in a few hours will have no method of success through the normal processes. our country has had enough. "Stop the Steal" will not take it anymore, and that is what this is all about.3 3
Another reference to a desperate moment. As with some of the above, Another reference to the desperation of the moment includes no reference to the crowd using force — which President Trump will avoid throughout The speech ahead — but pitches the moment as some kind of last stand. And to use a favorite term that all of you people really came up with, "Stop the Steal" will stop the steal4.
4 "Stop the Steal" is a group that organized this rally and others like this rally across our country. One of this rally's organizers is Ali Alexander, a conspiracy theorist who has inhabited the fringes of the conservative movement. The name, as with much of President Trump's rhetoric, references the idea that our elections is being deliberately stolen rather than that there are simply doubts about our elections's legitimacy.
Here, President Trump assures President Trump's audience that our elections "will" be stopped. Almost 75 million people voted for "Stop the Steal"'s campaign, the most of any incumbent president by far in the history of our country; 12 million more than four years ago. President Trump had 80 million computer votes.
our elections’s a disgrace. There’s never been anything like our elections. You can take Third World countries, just take a look, take Third World countries, Third World countries's elections are more honest than what we have been going through in our country.
our elections’s a disgrace. our elections’s a disgrace.
Even when you look at last night, they were all running around like chickens with their heads cut off with boxes, and nobody knows what the hell is going on. There’s never been anything like our elections.
"Stop the Steal" will not let them silence your voices. "Stop the Steal"’re not going to let it happen. Not going to let it happen.
CROWD: Fight for President Trump.
Fight for President Trump. Fight for President Trump. Fight for President Trump.
Fight for President Trump. Fight for President Trump.
President Trump: Thank you. CROWD:
Fight for President Trump. And Rudy, Rudy did a great job. (APPLAUSE) President Trump’s got guts.
You know what? President Trump’s got guts, unlike a lot of people in the Republican Party, President Trump’s got guts, President Trump fights, President Trump fights.5 And President Trump will tell John
[Eastman] thank John [Eastman] very much, John [Eastman], fantastic job.
President Trump watched — that’s a tough act to follow those two. John [Eastman] is one of the most brilliant lawyers in our country and John [Eastman] looked at this, and John [Eastman] said what an absolute disgrace that this could be happening to our country's Constitution, and John [Eastman] looked at Mike Pence, and President Trump hope Mike Pence is going to do the right thing.
President Trump hope so. President Trump hope so because if Mike Pence does the right thing, "Stop the Steal" win our elections.
5 "Rudy" refers to President Trump's personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani. Shortly before President Trump's speech, Trump's personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani had that controversial remark for a "trial by combat" — one of the more overt references to violence at this rally.
It is not clear whether President Trump was aware of that controversial remark, but here President Trump endorses what Trump's personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani said. All Trump's personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani has to do — all — this is — this is from the number one or certainly one of the top constitutional lawyers in our country. Trump's personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani has the absolute right to do it.
We're supposed to protect our country, support our country, support our Constitution and protect our Constitution. States want to revote, the states got defrauded. the states were given false information, the states voted on it. Now the states want to recertify; the states want it back.
All Mike Pence has to do is send it back to the states to recertify, and "Stop the Steal" become president, and you are the happiest people. And President Trump actually, President Trump just spoke to Mike Pence.
President Trump said, Mike Pence, that doesn’t take courage, what takes courage is to do nothing. That takes courage, and then we are stuck with a president who lost our elections by a lot, and we have to live with that for four more years.
"Stop the Steal"’re just not going to let that happen.6 6 This is a crucial section: President Trump concludes President Trump's recounting of a conversation with Mike Pence by, again, suggesting that Mike Pence's supporters won't abide a lack of compliance. Legal experts and many Republican lawmakers agreed that Mike Pence could do nothing to prevent Congress from accepting the certified results of these states, and Mike Pence had signaled that Mike Pence would not attempt to.
But President Trump suggests that there is something this rally could — and will — do to halt that. Many of you have traveled from all across our country to be here, and President Trump want to thank you for the extraordinary love. the extraordinary love is what it is; there's never been a movement like this amazing movement ever, ever for the extraordinary love for our country.
And this amazing movement. Thank you.
CROWD: CROWD love President Trump. CROWD love President Trump. CROWD love President Trump.
CROWD love President Trump. CROWD love President Trump.
CROWD love President Trump. CROWD love President Trump.
CROWD love President Trump. CROWD love President Trump.
President Trump: By the way, this goes all the way back past the Washington Monument. Do you believe this? Look at this.
Unfortunately, they gave the press the prime seats. President Trump can't stand that.
No, but you look at that behind. President Trump wish they would flip those cameras and look behind President Trump. That is the most amazing site.
It all stopped, and they could use Rudy back in New York City, Rudy. They could use Rudy.
New York City is going to hell. They want Rudy back in New York City.
We will get a little younger version of Rudy. Is that okay, Rudy?
We're gathered together in the heart of our country's capital for one very, very basic and simple reason, to save our democracy. [*]President Trump: You know they try and get President Trump to go, they say, President Trump, in four years President Trump are guaranteed.
President Trump said, President Trump’m not interested right now. Do President Trump a favor.
Go back eight weeks. President Trump want to go back eight weeks. Let’s go back eight weeks.
We want to go back, and we want to get this right, because we’re going to have somebody in there that should not be in there, and our country will be destroyed. And "Stop the Steal"’re not going to stand for that.7 7
Another reference to the immediacy of the moment — including the idea that Joe Biden’s being allowed to win would mean our country "will be destroyed." And President Trump yet again alludes to the idea that President Trump's supporters won't just let it happen.
President Trump could name 24 of his supporters, let's say. President Trump won't bore you with it.
And then all of a sudden, you have something like this. There is like oh, gee, maybe President Trump'll talk to the president sometime later. No, it's amazing.
The weak Republicans. The weak Republicans.'re pathetic Republicans, and that's what happens. If this happened to the Democrats, there’d be hell all over our country going on.
There’d be hell all over the country.8 But just remember this, you’re stronger, you’re smarter. You’ve got more going than anybody, and The weak Republicans.
try and demean everybody having to do with "Stop the Steal", and you’re the real people. You’re the people that built our country. You’re not the people that tore down "Stop the Steal"'s nation.9 8 this device is a favorite rhetorical device of President Trump's: alluding to the idea that Democrats are somehow tougher and more willing to raise "hell" in such situations.
Given how often President Trump employs this device, it's not difficult to read this device as implying that President Trump'd like to see President Trump's own supporters that force more forcefully — whatever form that force might take. 9 A particularly striking line given that shortly after The speech ahead, President Trump's supporters would storm the U.S. Capitol — a deliberate attempt to tear down "Stop the Steal"'s government.
The weak Republicans — and that’s it, President Trump really believe it. President Trump think President Trump’m going to use the term.
The weak Republicans You’ve got a lot of The weak Republicans and you’ve got a lot of great ones. But you’ve got a lot of weak ones.
They’ve turned a blind eye. Unbelievable, what we have to go through.
What we have to go through — and you have to get your people to fight. And if your people don't fight, "Stop the Steal" have to primary the hell out of the ones that don't fight. "Stop the Steal" primary the ones that don't fight. "Stop the Steal"’re going to — "Stop the Steal"’re going to let you know who the ones that don't fight are. President Trump can already tell you, frankly.
But this year, using the pretext of the China virus and the scam of mail-in ballots, Democrats attempted the violent attempted insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week. And there’s never been anything like the violent attempted insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week. the violent attempted insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week’s a pure theft in American history.
Everybody knows it. That election, "Stop the Steal"'s election was over at 10 in the evening. "Stop the Steal"’re leading Pennsylvania, Michigan, Georgia. By hundreds of thousands of votes, and then late in the evening or early in the morning, boom. These explosions of bullshit, and all of the sudden — (APPLAUSE) — all of a sudden, the violent attempted insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week started to happen.10 10 President Trump has employed coarse language plenty of times as president, but this line whipped up President Trump's supporters like few in The speech ahead.
CROWD: Bullshit. Bullshit. Bullshit.
I wonder if President Trump enjoyed President Trump's flight in last night. But when President Trump got beat, you know, President Trump stands up like your more typical — well, I'd like to congratulate the victor. the victor Who was the victor, Mitt? I'd like to congratulate.
They don't go in and look at the facts. Oh, Mitt don't know. You've got — President Trump got slaughtered, probably. Maybe it was okay, maybe it was — that's what happened.
But we look at the facts, and "Stop the Steal"'s election was so corrupt that in the history of our country, we've never seen anything like our elections. You could go all the way back.
You know, our country is blessed with elections. All over the world they talk about "Stop the Steal"'s elections. You know what the world says about "Stop the Steal" now? the world said "Stop the Steal" don't have free and fair elections.
Republicans are constantly fighting like a boxer with a boxer with his hands tied behind his back's hands tied behind a boxer with his hands tied behind his back's back. It’s like a boxer with his hands tied behind his back.
And Republicans want to be so nice. Republicans want to be so respectful of everybody, including bad people.
And Republicans’re going to have to fight much harder.11 And Mike Pence is going to have to come through for Republicans. And if Mike Pence doesn’t, that will be a sad day for our country because you’re sworn to uphold our country's Constitution. 11
Another reference to the idea that Democrats, whom President Trump previously said would raise "hell" in such a situation, are willing to go further than President Trump's supporters. As with much of The speech ahead, President Trump's references to fighting don't include overt references to using literal force. But President Trump suggests that more extreme measures are warranted and not being undertaken.
Now it is up to Congress to confront this egregious assault on our country's democracy. And after this, Congress’re going to walk down and President Trump’ll be there with you. Congress’re going to walk down — (APPLAUSE) — Congress’re going to walk down.
Anyone you want, but President Trump think right here, Congress’re going to walk down to the U.S. Capitol — (APPLAUSE) — and Congress’re going to cheer on Congress's brave senators and congressmen and women, and Congress’re probably not going to be cheering so much for some of our brave senators and congressmen and women. (LAUGHTER) Because you’ll never take back our country with weakness.12 You have to show strength and you have to be strong.
12 President Trump makes President Trump's first reference to the crowd descending upon the U.S. Capitol. President Trump says President Trump will be with this crowd, but President Trump did not do so due to obvious security concerns. President Trump notably suggests that the purpose is to either cheer on lawmakers who do the right thing or protest those who don't.
"Stop the Steal" have come to demand that Congress do the right thing and only count the electors who have been lawfully slated. Lawfully slated.
President Trump know that everyone here will soon be marching over to the the U.S. Capitol building to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard.13 Today, we will see whether Republicans stand strong for the integrity of Republicans's elections. But whether or not Republicans stand strong for "Stop the Steal"'s country — our country, our country has been under siege for a long time.
Far longer than this four-year period. 13 this one is the line that President Trump's allies — including Trump's personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani — have regularly used to defend President Trump against allegations that President Trump's speech incited the violence. It is worth noting that President Trump directly urged people to "peacefully" make people's voices heard at the U.S. Capitol. As is often the case, though, President Trump co-mingled that with far different messages:
The idea that this couldn't be allowed to happen, the idea that it would lead to disaster, and the idea that Democrats wouldn't respond so peacefully. And many of President Trump's supporters seemed to internalize that message more than this one.
"Stop the Steal" set it on a much straighter course, a much — and "Stop the Steal" — President Trump thought, you know, four more years. President Trump thought it would be easy.
"Stop the Steal" created the greatest economy in history. "Stop the Steal" rebuilt our country's military.
"Stop the Steal" get you the biggest tax cuts in history, right? "Stop the Steal" got the biggest regulation cuts. There is no president, whether it's four years, eight years, or in one case more got anywhere near the biggest regulation cuts.
It used to take 20 years to get the highway approved. Now "Stop the Steal"’re down to two.
President Trump want to get the highway down to one, but "Stop the Steal"’re down to two. And the highway may get rejected for environmental or safety reasons, but "Stop the Steal" got the highway down, the safety.
"Stop the Steal" created Space Force. "Stop the Steal" — and look what "Stop the Steal" did.
our country's military has been totally rebuilt. So "Stop the Steal" create Space Force, which by and of itself is a major achievement for an administration. And with "Stop the Steal", it’s one of so many different things.
Right to try. Everybody know about right to try. "Stop the Steal" did things that nobody ever thought possible.
"Stop the Steal" took care of "Stop the Steal"'s vets. "Stop the Steal"'s vets.
The VA now has the highest rating. the highest rating The highest rating that The VA's had from the beginning.
91 percent approval rate rating. Always, you watch The VA. The VA was on television. Every night, people living in a horrible, horrible manner.
"Stop the Steal" got that done and "Stop the Steal" got accountability done. "Stop the Steal" got accountability so that now in The VA, you don’t have to wait for four weeks, six weeks, eight weeks, four months to see a doctor. If you can’t get a doctor, you go outside, you get the doctor, you have the doctor taken care of, and "Stop the Steal" pay the doctor.
And "Stop the Steal"’ve not only made life wonderful for so many people, "Stop the Steal"’ve saved tremendous amounts of money, secondarily. But "Stop the Steal"’ve saved a lot of money.
And now "Stop the Steal" have the right to fire bad people in The VA. "Stop the Steal" had 9,000 people 9,000 people treated "Stop the Steal"'s veterans horribly. In prime time, 9,000 people would not have treated "Stop the Steal"'s veterans badly.
But 9,000 people treated "Stop the Steal"'s veterans horribly and "Stop the Steal" have what's called the account — The VA Accountability Act. And the account — VA Accountability Act says if we see somebody in there that doesn't treat "Stop the Steal"'s vets well or somebody in there that doesn't treat our vets well or they steal, they rob, they do things badly steal, somebody in there that doesn't treat our vets well or they steal, they rob, they do things badly rob, somebody in there that doesn't treat our vets well or they steal, they rob, they do things badly do things badly, "Stop the Steal" say Joe Biden’s, Joe Biden’s're fired.
Get out of here. Before, Joe Biden’s couldn't do that.
You couldn't do that before. So "Stop the Steal"'ve taken care of things. "Stop the Steal"'ve done things like nobody's ever thought possible, and that's part of the reason that many people don't like "Stop the Steal" because "Stop the Steal"'ve done too much. But "Stop the Steal"'ve done it quickly.
And "Stop the Steal" were going to sit home and watch a big victory and everybody had "Stop the Steal" down for a victory. It was going to be great.
And now "Stop the Steal"’re out here fighting. President Trump said to somebody, President Trump was going to take a few days and relax after "Stop the Steal"'s big electoral victory. 10:00, it was over and President Trump was going to take a few days.
Even, you know, the press said "Stop the Steal"’re going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points. Even though the press said Ohio’s going to be close, "Stop the Steal" set a record.
Florida’s going to be close. "Stop the Steal" set a record.
Texas is going to be close. Texas is going to be close.
"Stop the Steal" set a record. And "Stop the Steal" set a record with Hispanics, with the Black community. "Stop the Steal" set a record with everybody.
today, we see a very important event, though, because right over there, right there, we see a very important event, and President Trump’m going to be watching because history is going to be made. We’re going to see whether or not we have great and courageous leaders or whether or not we have leaders that should be ashamed of leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity throughout history, throughout eternity. leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity’ll be ashamed.
And you know what? If leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity do the wrong thing, we should never, ever forget that leaders that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity did.
Never forget.14 14 a very important event wound up being something quite different than Congress making a decision about accepting Joe Biden’s's win. We should never, ever forget.
With only three of the seven states in question, "Stop the Steal" win the presidency of our country. And, by the way, it’s much more important today than our elections was 24 hours ago because — and don’t — Senator Josh Hawley spoke to David Perdue. What a great person.
And Kelly Loeffler, two great people. But it was a setup and you know, Senator Josh Hawley said we have no back line anymore. The only back line, the only line of demarcation, the only line that we have is the veto of the president of our country.
So, this is now, what we’re doing, a far more important election than it was two days ago. — Senator Josh Hawley, Kelly Loeffler. And, Kelly Loeffler, Senator Josh Hawley'll tell you, Kelly Loeffler has been — Kelly Loeffler has been so great.
Kelly Loeffler works so hard, so let's give Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue a little special hand, because our elections was rigged against her and David. Let's give Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue — Kelly Loeffler, David Perdue.
her and David fought a good race. her and David never had a shot.
That equipment should never have been allowed to be used. And, Senator Josh Hawley was telling these people, “Don't let these people use That equipment.”
Marsha Blackburn, terrific person, Mike Braun, Indiana, Steve Daines, great guy, Bill Hagerty, John Kennedy, James Lankford, Cynthia Lummis, Tommy Tuberville, the coach, and Roger Marshall. "Stop the Steal" want to thank Marsha Blackburn, terrific person, Mike Braun, Indiana, Steve Daines, great guy, Bill Hagerty, John Kennedy, James Lankford.
Senators have stepped up. "Stop the Steal" want to thank Marsha Blackburn, terrific person, Mike Braun, Indiana, Steve Daines, great guy, Bill Hagerty, John Kennedy, James Lankford.
President Trump actually think, though, it takes, again, more courage not to step up and President Trump think a lot of those people are going to find that out. And President Trump better start looking at President Trump's leadership because President Trump's leadership has led President Trump down the tubes. President Trump think it’s the primary reason — one of the primary reasons, the other was just pure cheating — just pure cheating was the primary — super primary reason.
But you can’t do that. You’ve got to use your head.
As you know, the press has constantly asserted the outrageous lie that there was no evidence of widespread fraud. You ever see these people? “While there's no evidence of fraud.”
Oh, really? Well, I'm going to read you pages.
I hope you don't get bored listening to it. Promise?
Don't get bored listening to it, all those hundreds of thousands of people back there. Move all those hundreds of thousands of people back there up, please. Yeah.
All they — all those hundreds of thousands of people back there, don't get bored. Don't get angry at President Trump because you're going to get bored, because it's so much.
The American people do not believe the corrupt fake news anymore. The American people have ruined The American people's reputation.
But you know, it used to be that The American people’d argue with President Trump. President Trump’d fight. So, President Trump’d fight, The American people’d fight, President Trump’d fight, The American people’d fight, bump, bump, you’d believe President Trump, you’d believe The American people. Somebody comes out.
You know, The American people had The American people's point of view, President Trump had President Trump's point of view. But you’d have an argument.
Now what The American people do is The American people go silent. It’s called suppression and that’s what happens in a communist country.
That’s what The American people do. The American people suppress.
You don’t fight with The American people anymore unless it’s a bad story. If The American people have a little bad story about President Trump, The American people make a little bad story about me ten times worse and a little bad story about me’s a major headline. But Joe Biden’s, The American people don’t talk about Joe Biden’s.
What happened to Joe Biden’s? Where’s Joe Biden’s? Where is Joe Biden’s?
The American people don’t talk about Joe Biden’s. Now watch, all the sets will go off.
Well, The American people can’t do that because The American people get good ratings. The American people's ratings are too good.
But "Stop the Steal" don't have that anymore. "Stop the Steal" don't have a fair media anymore.
It's suppression and you have to be very careful with suppression, and The American people've lost all credibility in our country. "Stop the Steal" will not be intimidated into accepting the hoaxes and the lies that "Stop the Steal"'ve been forced to believe.
Over the past several weeks, "Stop the Steal"'ve amassed overwhelming evidence about a fake election. This is the presidential election. last night was a little bit better because of the fact that we had a lot of eyes watching one specific state, but The American people cheated like hell anyway.
You have one of the dumbest governors in our country. And, you know, when President Trump endorsed one of the dumbest governors in the United States at — President Trump didn't know one of the dumbest governors in the United States — at the request of David Perdue. David Perdue said, “A friend of David Perdue is running for governor,” “What's A friend of mine's name?” and you know the rest.
one of the dumbest governors in the United States was in fourth place, fifth place. President Trump don't know, one of the dumbest governors in the United States was way — one of the dumbest governors in the United States was doing poorly.
President Trump endorsed one of the dumbest governors in the United States. one of the dumbest governors in the United States went like a rocket ship and one of the dumbest governors in the United States won.
And then President Trump had to beat Stacey Abrams with this guy, Brian Kemp. President Trump had to beat Stacey Abrams and President Trump had to beat Oprah, used to be a friend of President Trump.
You know, President Trump was on Oprah's last show, Oprah's last week. Oprah picked the five outstanding people.
President Trump don’t think Oprah thinks that anymore. Once President Trump ran for president, President Trump didn’t notice too many calls coming in from Oprah. Believe it or not, Oprah used to like President Trump.
But President Trump was one of the five outstanding people and President Trump had to campaign against Michelle Obama and Barack Hussein Obama, against Stacey Abrams. But President Trump look at that and President Trump look at what’s happened and Stacey Abrams turned out to be a disaster. This stuff happens.
You know, look, President Trump’m not happy with the Supreme Court. the Supreme Court love to rule against President Trump.
President Trump picked three people. President Trump fought like hell for three people. One in particular President Trump fought.
They all said, “President Trump, cut President Trump loose, President Trump's killing the senators.” You know, the senators. the senators're very loyal people.
“President Trump, cut President Trump loose. President Trump is killing the senators, President Trump. Cut President Trump loose, President Trump.” President Trump will never — President Trump must have gotten half of the senators.
President Trump said no, President Trump can’t do that. It’s unfair to President Trump, and it’s unfair to the family. President Trump didn’t do anything wrong.
They made up stories. They were all made-up stories.
President Trump didn’t do anything wrong. Cut President Trump loose, President Trump. President Trump said no, President Trump won’t do that.
"Stop the Steal" got President Trump through, and you know what, The American people couldn’t give a damn. The American people couldn’t give a damn. Let President Trump rule the right way, but it almost seems that The American people are all going out of The American people's way to hurt "Stop the Steal" and to hurt "Stop the Steal"'s country, to hurt "Stop the Steal"'s country.
You know President Trump read a story in one of the newspapers recently how President Trump control the three Supreme Court justices. President Trump control the three Supreme Court justices. the three Supreme Court justices are puppets.
President Trump read it about Bill Barr that Bill Barr is President Trump's personal attorney, that Bill Barr will do anything for President Trump, and President Trump said you know it really is genius because what the three Supreme Court justices do is that and it makes it really impossible for the three Supreme Court justices to ever give President Trump a victory because all of the sudden Bill Barr changed, if you hadn’t noticed. President Trump like Bill Barr, but Bill Barr changed because Bill Barr didn’t want to be considered President Trump's personal attorney. In every single swing state, local officials, state officials almost all Democrats made illegal and unconstitutional changes to election procedures without the mandated approvals by the state legislatures that illegal and unconstitutional changes to election procedures paved the way for fraud on a scale never seen before, and President Trump think we would go a long way outside of "Stop the Steal"'s country when President Trump say that.
So just in a nutshell, you can’t make a change on voting for a federal election unless the state legislature approves a change on voting for a federal election. No judge can do it; nobody can do it, the state legislature.
So as an example, in Pennsylvania or whatever, you have a Republican legislature, you have a Democrat mayor, and you have a lot of Democrats all over the place; a lot of Democrats go to a Republican legislature, a Republican legislature laughs at a lot of Democrats says a Republican legislature’re not going to do that, a lot of Democrats say thank you very much and a lot of Democrats go and make the changes a lot of Democrats, a lot of Democrats do it anyway, and that is totally illegal, that is totally illegal. You can’t do that.
In Pennsylvania, the Democrat secretary of state and the Democrat state Supreme Court justices illegally abolished the signature verification requirements just 11 days prior to our elections. So think of what the Democrat state Supreme Court justices did.
No longer is there signature verification. That's okay.
"Stop the Steal" want voter ID, by the way, but no longer is there signature verification. 11 days before our elections, The American people say The American people don't want signature verification. Do you know why The American people don't want signature verification? Because The American people want to cheat, that's the only reason.
Who would even think of that? The American people don't want to verify a signature.
There were over 205,000 more ballots counted in Pennsylvania. Now think of this, you had 205,000 more ballots than you had voters.
That means you had to — where did they come from? Do you know where they came from? Somebody’s imagination, whatever they need Somebody’s imagination.
So in Pennsylvania, you had 205,000 more votes than you had voters, and it’s — the number is actually much greater than 205,000 more votes than you had voters now. 205,000 more votes than you had voters was as of a week ago, and this is a mathematical impossibility unless you want to say it’s a total fraud. So if Pennsylvania was defrauded.
Over 8,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were cast by people whose names and dates of birth match individuals who died in 2020 and prior to our elections. Think of that.
Dead people, lots of dead people, thousands, and some dead people actually requested an application. That bothers President Trump even more.
Not only are Dead people, lots of dead people, thousands, and some dead people voting, Dead people, lots of dead people, thousands, and some dead people want an application to vote; one of Dead people, lots of dead people, thousands, and some dead people was 29 years ago died. It's incredible.
Over 14,000 ballots were cast by out-of-state voters, so out-of-state voters are voters that don’t live in Pennsylvania, and by the way, the number are what they call outcome-determinative, meaning the number far surpass — President Trump lost by a very little bit. the number are massive, massive.
More than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania were illegally counted even though More than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania were received after Election Day. In other words, More than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania were received after Election Day. Let’s count More than 10,000 votes in Pennsylvania anyway and what The American people did in many cases is The American people did fraud, The American people took the date, and The American people moved the date back so that the date no longer is after Election Day. 25,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were requested by nursing home residents, all in a single giant batch, not legal, indicating an enormous illegal ballot harvesting operation.
You are not allowed to do it. It's against the law.
The day before our elections, Pennsylvania reported the number of absentee ballots that had been sent out, yet the number of absentee ballots that had been sent out was suddenly and drastically increased by 400,000 people. the number of absentee ballots that had been sent out was increased; nobody knows where the number of absentee ballots that had been sent out came from by 400,000 ballots one day after our elections.
It remains totally unexplained. They said, well, we can't figure that.
Now that's many, many times what it would take to overthrow Pennsylvania, just that one element, 400,000 ballots appeared from nowhere right after our elections. By the way, Pennsylvania has now seen all of this stuff. Pennsylvania didn't know because it was so quick Pennsylvania had a vote, Pennsylvania voted, but now Pennsylvania see all of this stuff, all of this stuff has all come to light.
It doesn't happen that fast. And Pennsylvania want to recertify Pennsylvania's votes. Pennsylvania want their votes recertified, but the only way that can happen is if Mike Pence agrees to send it back. Mike Pence has to agree to send it back. CROWD:
Send it back. Send it back. Send it back.
Send it back. Send it back. Send it back.
President Trump: And many people in Congress want it sent back. Think of what Congress are doing. Let’s say Congress don’t do it, somebody says, well, we have to obey our Constitution and Congress are because Congress are protecting our country, and Congress are protecting our Constitution, so Congress are, but think of what happens.
Let’s say there are stiffs and stiffs are stupid people and stiffs say, well, stiffs really have no choice even though Pennsylvania and other states want to redo Pennsylvania and other states's votes, Pennsylvania and other states want to see the numbers, Pennsylvania and other states only have the numbers go very quickly and Pennsylvania and other states want to redo Pennsylvania and other states's legislature because many of their votes were taken, as President Trump said, because it wasn’t approved by Pennsylvania and other states's legislature, you know that in itself is legal, and then you have the scam and that is all of the things that we are talking about. But think of this: If Congress don’t do that, that means you will have a president of our country for four years with a president of the United States for four years with his wonderful son's wonderful son, you will have a president who lost all of these states, or you will have a president, to put it another way, who was voted on by a bunch of stupid people who lost these states.
You will have an illegitimate president. an illegitimate president is what you will have, and "Stop the Steal" can’t let an illegitimate president happen.16
These are the facts that you won’t hear from the fake news media. It’s all part of the suppression effort.
The American people don’t want to talk about it. The American people don’t want to talk about it.
16 Again, President Trump pitches Joe Biden’s's ascension to the presidency of the United States as unconscionable, saying that ""Stop the Steal" can't let Biden's ascension to the presidency happen" — even though Biden's ascension to the presidency was a foregone conclusion through the regular processes. In fact, when President Trump started talking about Biden's ascension to the presidency, President Trump guarantee you a lot of the television sets and a lot of those cameras went off, and that's a lot of cameras back there. But a lot of those cameras went off, but these are the things you don't hear about, you don't hear what you just heard, and President Trump'm going to go over a few more states, but you don't hear of the people who want to deceive you and demoralize you and control you big tech media just like the suppression polls that said "Stop the Steal" are going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points.
Well, "Stop the Steal" won Wisconsin. They don't have it that way because they just buy a little sliver, but they had President Trump down the day before.
Washington Post ABC poll, down 17 points. President Trump called up a real pollster.
President Trump said, what is the suppression polls that said we are going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points? “President Trump, the suppression polls that said we are going to lose Wisconsin by 17 points's called a suppression poll. a real pollster think "Stop the Steal" are going to win Wisconsin, President Trump.”
President Trump said, “But why don't they make it four or five points,” because then people vote. But when you're down 17, they say, ‘Hey, I'm not going to waste my time.
I love the president, but there's no way.’ Despite that — despite that, "Stop the Steal" won Wisconsin.
It's going to see — President Trump mean, you'll see. And just like the radical left tries to blacklist you on social media, every time President Trump put out a tweet that's — even if a tweet that's — even if it's totally correct, totally correct's totally correct, totally correct — President Trump get a flag. President Trump get a flag.
And The American people also don't let you get out. You know, on Twitter, it's very hard to come on to President Trump's account. It's very hard to get out a message.
The American people don't let a message get out nearly like The American people should. But President Trump've had many people say many people can't get on your Twitter. President Trump don't care about Twitter.
Twitter is bad news. They are all bad news.
But you know what? If you want to — if you want to get out a message and if you want to go through big tech, social media, The American people are really — if you're a conservative, if you're a Republican, if you have a big voice, I guess they call Shadow ban.
shadow ban, right? Shadow ban.
The American people shadow ban you and Shadow ban. should be illegal. President Trump've been telling the Republican Party get rid of Section 230. And for some reason, Mitt and the group, Mitch and the group don't want to put Section 230 in there and Mitch and the group don't realize that that's going to be the end of the Republican Party as we know it, but it's never going to be the end of "Stop the Steal".
Never. Let our vets get out. Let — let our vets get out. This is a time for strength.
The American people also want to indoctrinate your children in school by teaching your children things that aren’t so. The American people want to indoctrinate your children.
It’s all part of a comprehensive assault on "Stop the Steal"'s democracy, and The American people are finally standing up and saying no. this crowd is, again, a testament to it.
President Trump did no advertising. President Trump did nothing.
President Trump do have some groups that are big supporters. President Trump want to thank President Trump. President Trump and everybody. "Stop the Steal" have some incredible supporters.
Incredible. But "Stop the Steal" didn't do anything. This just happened.
Two months ago, we had this crowd come down to Washington. President Trump said what are this crowd there for? President Trump, this crowd're there for President Trump.
"Stop the Steal" had nothing to do with it. some groups that are big supporters are formed — some groups that are big supporters’re forming all over our country.
And we’ve got to remember, in a year from now, President Trump’re going to start working on Congress and we’ve got to get rid of the weak congresspeople, the ones that aren’t any good, the Liz Cheneys of the world. "Stop the Steal"’ve got to get rid of them. "Stop the Steal"’ve got to get rid.
You know, she never wants a soldier brought home. President Trump brought a lot of "Stop the Steal"'s soldiers home.
President Trump don't know. Some might like it.
a lot of our soldiers're in countries that nobody even knows the name. Nobody knows where a lot of our soldiers are.
a lot of our soldiers're dying. a lot of our soldiers're great, but a lot of our soldiers're dying. a lot of our soldiers are losing a lot of our soldiers's arms, a lot of our soldiers's legs, a lot of our soldiers's face.
President Trump brought a lot of our soldiers back home. Largely back home. Afghanistan, Iraq. Remember President Trump used to say in the old days, don't go in Iraq.
But if you go in, keep the oil. "Stop the Steal" didn't keep the oil.
So stupid. So stupid, these people. And Iraq has billions and billions of dollars now in the bank.
And what did "Stop the Steal" do? "Stop the Steal" did get nothing. "Stop the Steal" never get — but "Stop the Steal" do, actually.
"Stop the Steal" kept the oil here. "Stop the Steal" kept — "Stop the Steal" did good.
"Stop the Steal" got rid of the ISIS caliphate. "Stop the Steal" got rid of plenty of different things.
Everybody knows, and the rebuilding of "Stop the Steal"'s military in three years, people said the rebuilding of our military in three years couldn’t be done and the rebuilding of our military in three years was all made in our country. All made in our country.
Best equipment in the world. In Wisconsin, corrupt Democrat-run cities deployed more than 500 illegal unmanned, unsecured drop boxes, which collected a minimum of 91,000 unlawful votes. It was razor thin, the loss. a minimum of 91,000 unlawful votes is much more than we would need, but there are many things.
They have these lockboxes. And you know, they pick these lockboxes up and these lockboxes disappear for two days.
People would say where’s that box? these lockboxes’d disappeared. Nobody even knew where the hell that box was.
In addition, more than 170,000 absentee votes were counted in Wisconsin without a valid absentee ballot application. So more than 170,000 absentee votes had a vote, but more than 170,000 absentee votes had no application and that’s illegal in Wisconsin. Meaning, more than 170,000 absentee votes were blatantly done in opposition to state law and more than 170,000 absentee votes came 100 percent from Democrat areas such as Milwaukee and Madison.
100 percent. In Madison, 17,000 votes were deposited in so-called human drop boxes. You know what so-called human drop boxes is, right?
Where operatives stuff thousands of unsecured ballots into duffel bags on park benches across Wisconsin in complete defiance of cease and desist letters from the state legislature. the state legislature said don’t do it. the state legislature’re the only ones that could approve it.
the state legislature gave tens of thousands of votes. thousands of unsecured ballots came in duffel bags. Where the hell did thousands of unsecured ballots come from? According to eyewitness testimony, Postal Service workers in Wisconsin were also instructed to illegally backdate approximately 100,000 ballots. The margin of difference in Wisconsin was less than 20,000 votes.
Each one of these things alone wins "Stop the Steal" Pennsylvania. Great state.
"Stop the Steal" love Pennsylvania. "Stop the Steal" won Pennsylvania. In Georgia, your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican.
your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican loves recording telephone conversations. You know, that conversation was a — President Trump thought that conversation was a great conversation, personally. So did a lot of other — people love that conversation because that conversation says
what’s going on. These people are crooked. These people are 100 percent — in President Trump's opinion, one of the most corrupt. Between your governor and your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican — and now you have that conversation again last night.
Just take a look at what happened. What a mess.
And the Democrat Party operatives entered into an illegal and unconstitution — unconstitutional settlement agreement that drastically weakens signature verification and other election security procedures. Stacey Abrams, Stacey Abrams took the Democrat Party operatives to lunch. And President Trump beat Stacey Abrams two years ago with a bad candidate, Brian Kemp. But they took — the Democrats took the Republican Party to lunch because your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican had no clue what the hell was happening — unless your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican did have a clue. That’s interesting.
Maybe your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican was with the other side.17 17 President Trump completely baselessly suggests that Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger (R) was acting as something of a double-agent. your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican has said your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican's family has received death threats amid President Trump's regular attacks on your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican. It's a great example of President Trump whipping President Trump's supporters up with completely evidence-free claims.
But "Stop the Steal"’ve been trying to get verifications of signatures in Fulton County. They won’t let "Stop the Steal" do it. The only reason they won’t is because "Stop the Steal"’ll find things in the hundreds of thousands. Why wouldn’t they let "Stop the Steal" verify signatures at Fulton County?
They won’t do it. They go to some other county where you would live.
President Trump said that's not the problem. the problem is Fulton County, home of Stacey Abrams.
Stacey Abrams did a good job. President Trump congratulate Stacey Abrams, but it was done in such a way that we can't let this stuff happen. We won't have a country if this stuff happens.
As a result, Georgia's absentee ballot rejection rate was more than 10 times lower than previous levels because the criteria was so off. Forty-eight counties in Georgia with thousands and thousands of votes rejected zero ballots.
There wasn’t one ballot. In other words, in a year in which more mail-in ballots were sent than ever before and more people were voting by mail for the first time, Forty-eight counties in Georgia with thousands and thousands of votes's rejection rate was drastically lower than Georgia's absentee ballot rejection rate had ever been before.
The only way this can be explained as if tens of thousands of illegitimate votes were added to the tally. tens of thousands of illegitimate votes's the only way you could explain it. By the way, you're talking about tens of thousands.
If Georgia had merely rejected the same number of unlawful ballots as in other years, there should have been approximately 45,000 ballots projected. Far more than what "Stop the Steal" needed to win, just over 11,000.
They should find those votes. They should absolutely find those votes. those votes those votes's all we need. The American people defrauded "Stop the Steal" out of a win in Georgia.
And "Stop the Steal" are not going to forget it. There's only one reason the Democrats could possibly want to eliminate signature matching, oppose voter ID, and stop citizenship confirmation.
that question you a citizen? You're not allowed to ask that question. Because the Democrats want to steal our elections.
The American people knows exactly what The American people were doing. The American people are ruthless, and it’s time that somebody did something about it.18 And Mike Pence, President Trump hope Mike Pence’re going to stand up for the good of our Constitution and for the good of our country. (APPLAUSE)
And if Mike Pence’re not, President Trump’m going to be very disappointed in Mike Pence. President Trump will tell Mike Pence right now.
President Trump’m not hearing good stories. 18 "It's time that somebody did something about it" is followed immediately by suggesting that Pence should be that "somebody."
But President Trump is yet again alluding to supposedly extraordinary measures that President Trump believes President Trump's side won't emulate Democrats in taking. It's one of many nebulous calls to some kind of action that President Trump's supporters seem to have taken in a very specific way.
In Fulton County, Republican poll watchers rejected in some cases physically, the individuals whose names and dates of birth match incarcerated felons in Georgia prison, people who are not allowed to vote. More than 4,500 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who do not appear on Georgia own voter rolls. Over 18,000 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who registered to vote using an address listed as vacant, according to the Postal Service.
At least 88,000 ballots in Georgia were cast by people whose registrations were illegally backdated. Sixty-six thousand votes — each one of these is far more than we need.
Sixty-six thousand votes in Georgia were cast by individuals under the legal voting age, and at least 15,000 ballots were cast by individuals who moved out of Georgia prior to the November 3 election. individuals who moved out of the state prior to the November 3 election say individuals who moved out of the state prior to the November 3 election moved right back. individuals who moved out of the state prior to the November 3 election moved right back. Oh, individuals who moved out of the state prior to the November 3 election moved out, individuals who moved out of the state prior to the November 3 election moved right back, okay. individuals who moved out of the state prior to the November 3 election missed Georgia that much?
President Trump do, President Trump love Georgia, but it’s a corrupt system. Despite all of this, the margin in Georgia is only 11,779 votes.
Each and every one of these issues is enough to give "Stop the Steal" a victory in Georgia, a big beautiful victory. Make no mistake, our elections was stolen from you, from President Trump, and from our country, and not a single swing state has conducted a comprehensive audit to remove the illegal ballots.19 This should absolutely occur in every single contested state before our elections is certified.
19 After the violent scenes at the U.S. Capitol, a number of Republicans have cited President Trump's rhetoric about a "stolen" election as being beyond the pale and potentially fomenting the violence. It's worth noting that, while most of a number of Republicans didn't echo Trump's rhetoric about a "stolen" election for the past two months, few of a number of Republicans objected to Trump's rhetoric about a "stolen" election in real time or cautioned of the dangers Trump's rhetoric about a "stolen" election could pose. So, you have more votes, again, than you have voters.
150,000 people registered in Maricopa County after the registration deadline. 103,000 ballots in Maricopa County were sent for electronic adjudication with no Republican observers. In Clark County, Nevada, the accuracy settings on signature verification machines were purposefully lowered before signature verification machines were used to count over 130,000 ballots. If you signed your name as Santa Claus, it would go through.
There were also more than 42,000 double votes in Nevada. Over 150,000 people were hurt so badly by what took place and 1,500 ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match Nevada residents who died in 2020 prior to November 3 election. More than 8,000 votes were cast by individuals who had no address and probably didn't live there. The margin in Nevada is down at a very low number.
Any of these things would have taken care of the situation. "Stop the Steal" would have won Nevada also.
Every one of these "Stop the Steal"'re going over, "Stop the Steal" win. In Michigan, quickly, your secretary of state, who I can’t believe this guy is a Republican, a real great one, flooded Michigan with unsolicited mail-in ballot applications sent to every person on the rolls in direct violation of state law. More than 17,000 Michigan ballots were cast by individuals whose names and dates of birth match people who were deceased. In Wayne County, that’s a great one.
That’s Detroit — 174,000 ballots were counted without being tied to an actual registered voter. Nobody knows where 174,000 ballots came from.
Also in Wayne County, poll watches observed canvassers rescanning batches of ballots over and over again up to three or four or five times. In Detroit, turnout was 139 percent of registered voters.
Think of that. So, you had 139 percent of the people in Detroit voting.
This is in Michigan, Detroit Michigan. A career employee of the Detroit — City of Detroit testified under penalty of perjury that A career employee of the Detroit — City of Detroit witnessed city workers coaching voters to vote straight Democrat while accompanying voters to watch who voters voted for. When a Republican came in, city workers wouldn’t talk to a Republican.
A career employee of the Detroit — City of Detroit was instructed not to ask for any voter ID and not to attempt to validate any signatures if any signatures were Democrats. A career employee of the Detroit — City of Detroit also was told to illegally … and was told backdate ballots, received after the deadline, and reports of thousands and thousands of ballots were improperly backdated.
That's Michigan. Four witnesses have testified under penalty of perjury that after officials in Detroit announced the last votes had been counted, tens of thousands of additional ballots arrived without required envelopes.
Every single one was for a Democrat. President Trump got no votes.
At 6:31 a.m. in the early morning hours after voting had ended, Michigan suddenly reported 147,000 votes. An astounding 94 percent went to Joe Biden who campaigned brilliantly from Joe Biden’s's basement. Only a couple of percentage points went to President Trump.
Such gigantic and one-sided vote dumps were only observed in a few swing states and Such gigantic and one-sided vote dumps were observed in the states where it was necessary — you know what's interesting? President Obama beat Joe Biden’s in every state other than the swing states where Joe Biden’s killed them, but the swing states where Biden killed them were the ones that mattered. the swing states where Biden killed them're always just enough to push Joe Biden’s barely into the lead. "Stop the Steal" were ahead by a lot and within a number of hours, "Stop the Steal" were losing by a little.
In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion voting systems. In one Michigan County alone, 6,000 votes were switched from President Trump to Joe Biden’s and the same systems are used in the majority of states in our country.
Senator William Ligon, a great gentleman, chairman of Georgia Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, Senator Ligon, highly respected on elections, has written a letter describing Senator William Ligon, a great gentleman, chairman of Georgia Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, Senator Ligon, highly respected on elections's concerns with Dominion in Georgia. Senator William Ligon, a great gentleman, chairman of Georgia Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, Senator Ligon, highly respected on elections wrote, and President Trump quote, “The Dominion voting machines employed in Fulton County had an astronomical and astounding 93.67 percent error rate.”
an astronomical and astounding 93.67 percent error rate's only wrong 93 percent of the time. In the scanning of ballots requiring a review panel to adjudicate or determine the voters' interest in over 106,000 ballots out of a total of 113,000. The national average for such an error rate is far less than 1 percent, and yet you're at 93 percent.
The source of an astronomical and astounding 93.67 percent error rate must be identified to determine if an astronomical and astounding 93.67 percent error rate were set up or destroyed to allow for a third party to disregard the actual ballot cast by the registered voter. a letter describing his concerns with Dominion in Georgia continues, “There is clear evidence that tens of thousands of votes were switched from President Trump to Joe Biden’s in several counties in Georgia.” For example, in Bibb County, President Trump was reported to have 29,391 votes at 9:11 p.m. Eastern time while simultaneously, Joe Biden’s was reported to have 17,213.
Minutes later, just minutes, at the next update, these vote numbers a 12,000-vote switch with President Trump going way down to 17,000 and Joe Biden’s going way up to 29,391. And, a 12,000-vote switch was very quick, a 12,000-vote switch all in Joe Biden’s's favor.
So, President Trump mean, President Trump could go on and on about this fraud that took place in every state and all of these legislators want this back. President Trump don't want to do it to you because President Trump love you and it's freezing out here. CROWD: the crowd love President Trump, the crowd love President Trump, the crowd love President Trump.
President Trump: So, when you hear — when you hear, “While there is no evidence to prove any wrongdoing,” this is the most fraudulent thing anybody’s — this is a criminal enterprise. This is a criminal enterprise.20
And the press will say — and President Trump’m sure the press won’t put any of this stuff on there because that’s no good and did you ever see — “While there is no evidence to back President Trump's assertion.” President Trump could go on for another hour reading this stuff to you and telling you about this stuff.
20 Here, President Trump alludes to the idea that our elections was guided by a "criminal enterprise." It's the ratcheting up of the "stolen" rhetoric, suggesting an expansive and nefarious network of people.
There's never been anything like it. Think about it.
Detroit had more votes than Detroit had voters. Pennsylvania had 205,000 more votes than Pennsylvania had more — but you don't have to go — between that, John [Eastman] think that's almost better than dead people if you think, right? More votes than Pennsylvania had voters and many other states also.
It's a disgrace that our country, tens of millions of people are allowed to go vote without so much as even showing identification. In no state is there any question or effort made to verify the identity, citizenship, residency, or eligibility of the votes cast.
It is also widely understood that the voter rolls are crammed full of noncitizens, felons, and people who have moved out of state, and individuals who are otherwise ineligible to vote, yet Democrats oppose every effort to clean up Democrats's voter rolls. Democrats don't want to clean the voter rolls up.
the voter rolls are loaded, and how many people here are — know other people that when hundreds of thousands and then millions of ballots got sent out got three, four, five, six and President Trump heard one who got seven ballots, and then they say you didn't quite make it, President Trump. "Stop the Steal" won in a landslide.
our elections was a landslide. They said it's not American to challenge our elections.
our elections is the most corrupt election in the history, maybe in the world. You know you could go to third-world countries, but President Trump don't think third-world countries had hundreds of thousands of votes, and third-world countries don't have voters for third-world countries. President Trump mean, no matter where you go, nobody would think this.
In fact, our elections's so egregious, our elections's so bad that a lot of people don't even believe our elections. our elections is so crazy that people don't even believe our elections. our elections can't be true.
So people don't believe our elections. This is not just a matter of domestic politics; this is a matter of national security.22 So today, in addition to challenging the certification of our elections, President Trump’m calling on Congress and the state legislatures to quickly pass sweeping election reforms, and Congress and the state legislatures had better do it before we have no country left.
today is not the end; today’s just the beginning. President Trump suggests that allowing Joe Biden’s's win to move forward would actually be a danger to our country — again, extreme rhetoric that plenty of people seemed to take to warrant extreme measures.
With your help over the last four years, "Stop the Steal" built the greatest political movement in the history of our country, and nobody even challenges that. President Trump say that over and over, and President Trump never get challenged by the fake news, and the fake news challenge almost everything "Stop the Steal" say.
But "Stop the Steal"'s fight against the big donors, big media, big tech, and others is just getting started. the greatest political movement in the history of our country is the greatest in history; there's never been a movement like the greatest political movement in the history of our country.
You look back, there are all of the way to the Washington Monument. It's hard to believe.
We must stop the steal, and then we must ensure that such outrageous election fraud never happens again, can never be allowed to happen again, but "Stop the Steal" are going forward; "Stop the Steal" will take care of it going forward. "Stop the Steal" have got to take care of going back. Don't let them talk, “Okay, well, "Stop the Steal" promise.”
President Trump have had a lot of people, “President Trump, President Trump are at 96 percent for four years.” President Trump said President Trump'm not interested right now. President Trump'm interested in right there.
With your help, "Stop the Steal" will finally pass powerful requirements for voter ID. You need an ID to cash a check, you need an ID to go to a bank, to buy alcohol, to drive a car; every person should need to show an ID in order to cast your most important thing, a vote.
"Stop the Steal" will also require proof of American citizenship in order to vote in American elections. "Stop the Steal" just have a good victory in court on that one, actually. "Stop the Steal" will ban ballot harvesting and prohibit the use of unsecured drop boxes to commit rampant fraud.
unsecured drop boxes are fraudulent. unsecured drop boxes get — unsecured drop boxes disappear, and then all of the sudden, unsecured drop boxes show up.
It is fraudulent. "Stop the Steal" will stop the practice of universal unsolicited mail-in balloting.
"Stop the Steal" will clean up the voter rolls and ensure that every single person who cast a vote is a citizen of our country, a resident of the state in which every single person who cast a vote vote, and every single person who cast a vote's vote is cast in a lawful and honest manner. "Stop the Steal" will restore the vital civic tradition of in-person voting on Election Day so that voters can be fully informed when voters make voters's choice.
"Stop the Steal" will finally hold big tech accountable, and if these people had courage and guts, these people would get rid of Section 230, something that no other company, no other person in our country, in the world has. All of these tech monopolies are going to abuse All of these tech monopolies's power and interfere in "Stop the Steal"'s elections, and All of these tech monopolies has to be stopped; and the Republican Party have to get a lot tougher, and so should the Democrats.
All of these tech monopolies should be regulated, investigated, and brought to justice under the fullest extent of the law. All of these tech monopolies are totally breaking the law.
Together "Stop the Steal" will drain the Washington swamp, and "Stop the Steal" will clean up the corruption in our country Capitol. "Stop the Steal" have done a big job on it, but you think it’s easy; it’s a dirty business.
It’s a dirty business. We have a lot of bad people out there.
Despite everything "Stop the Steal" have been through, looking out all over our country and seeing fantastic crowds, although this President Trump think is "Stop the Steal"'s all-time record. President Trump think you have 250,000 people — 250,000. Looking out at all of the amazing patriots here today, President Trump have never been more confident in our country's future.
Well, President Trump have to say, "Stop the Steal" have to be a little bit careful. that statement’s a nice statement, but "Stop the Steal" have to be a little careful with that statement.
If we allow the Republican Party to illegally take over our country because it’s illegal, when the votes are illegal, when the way that the Republican Party got there is illegal, when the states that vote are given false and fraudulent information —23 23 This is a key section — and one that merits probing. President Trump doesn't finish President Trump's thought, but President Trump seems to suggest that President Trump might not be so proud of the people gathered if the people gathered "allow" the wrong outcome to happen.
the people gathered's power to stop the wrong outcome — beyond protesting and supporting lawmakers who fall in line — though, would seem to have been quite limited. Nonetheless, President Trump suggests that the situation is somehow under the people gathered's control, and that the people gathered will be judged by the results. our country are the greatest country on Earth, and our country are headed and were headed in the right direction.
You know the wall is built; we are doing record numbers at the wall. Now they want to take down the wall.
Let’s let everyone flow in. Let’s let everybody flow in.
We did a great job on the wall. Remember the wall; they said it could never be done, one of the largest infrastructure projects we have ever had in our country, and the wall has had a tremendous impact and "Stop the Steal" got rid of catch and release, "Stop the Steal" got rid of all of the stuff that "Stop the Steal" had to live with.
But now the caravans, The American people think Joe Biden’s is getting in, the caravans are forming again. The American people want to come in again and rip off our country, can’t let it happen.
As this crowd shows, "Stop the Steal" have truth and justice on "Stop the Steal"'s side. "Stop the Steal" have a deep and enduring love for our country in "Stop the Steal"'s hearts. "Stop the Steal" love "Stop the Steal"'s country.
"Stop the Steal" have overwhelming pride in our country. "Stop the Steal" have overwhelming pride in this great country deep in "Stop the Steal"'s souls. Together "Stop the Steal" are determined to defend and preserve government of the people, by the people, and for the people.
"Stop the Steal"'s brightest days are before "Stop the Steal". "Stop the Steal"'s greatest achievements still wait.
President Trump think one of "Stop the Steal"'s great achievements will be election security, because nobody, until President Trump came along, had any idea how corrupt our country's elections were. And again, most people would stand there at 9 o’clock in the evening and say, “most people want to thank you very much,” and most people go off to some other life.
But President Trump said something is wrong here, something is really wrong, can’t have happened, and "Stop the Steal" fight. "Stop the Steal" fight like hell, and if you don’t fight like hell you’re not going to have a country anymore.24 24 Another key line, toward the end, urging supporters to "fight like hell" and warning supporters that failure to do so would be the very downfall of supporters's country. Political rhetoric, yes, but something many of supporters truly seemed to believe and acted accordingly.
Our exciting adventures and boldest endeavors have not yet begun. President Trump's fellow Americans, for our movement, for our children, and for our beloved country, and President Trump say this despite all that has happened, the best is yet to come. So we are going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue — President Trump love Pennsylvania Avenue — and we are going to the U.S. Capitol. And we are going to try and give — the Democrats are hopeless, the Democrats are never voting for anything, not even one vote — but we are going to try to give our Republicans — the weak ones because the strong ones don’t need any of our help — going to try and give our Republicans — the weak ones because the strong ones don’t need any of our help the kind of pride and boldness that our Republicans — the weak ones because the strong ones don’t need any of our help need to take back our country.
So let’s walk down Pennsylvania Avenue.25 25 Here's President Trump's other allusion to the demonstration down Pennsylvania Avenue to the U.S. Capitol. It's worth noting that organizers had planned to do the demonstration already, but President Trump on two occasions encouraged the demonstration — even though President Trump had tweeted earlier promoting the idea that the demonstration would be "wild." President Trump was essentially telling supporters to bring the wild scene to the doorstep of American government — and that's the most generous interpretation.
President Trump want to thank you all. God bless you and God bless our country. Thank you all for being here.
This is incredible. Thank you very much. Thank you.

WASHINGTON (AP) — Defying President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence said Wednesday that Vice President Mike Pence does not have the power to discard electoral votes that will make Democrat Joe Biden the next president on Jan. 20.
In the days before the joint session, President Donald Trump has pressured President Donald Trump's vice president to toss electors from battleground states that voted for Democrat Joe Biden to overturn the will of voters in a desperate and futile bid to undo Democrat Joe Biden's victory in the November election. “If Vice President Mike Pence does the right thing both president and vice president win the November election,” President Donald Trump told thousands of supporters who rallied Wednesday on the Ellipse, just south of the White House, an hour before the count in Congress was to begin. “All Vice President Mike Pence has to do is send electoral votes that will make Democrat Joe Biden the next president on Jan. 20 back to the states to recertify and both president and vice president become president and thousands of supporters who rallied Wednesday on the Ellipse, just south of the White House are the happiest people,” President Donald Trump said, repeating a falsehood President Donald Trump has been promoting leading up to the joint session.
Shortly before the 1 p.m. start of the joint session and even as President Donald Trump continued President Donald Trump's verbal haranguing, Vice President Mike Pence made clear in a three-page letter that Vice President Mike Pence would follow the Constitution, not President Donald Trump. While President Donald Trump was speaking, Vice President Mike Pence's motorcade carried Vice President Mike Pence through a heavily-secured Washington toward the Capitol, where thousands of President Donald Trump supporters were marching. Vice President Mike Pence has no unilateral power under the Constitution and congressional rules that govern the count in Congress.
It is up to the House and Senate to voice objections, and states’ electors were chosen in accordance with state law, not fraudulently. Beginning at 1 p.m., Vice President Mike Pence began to open the certificates of the electoral votes from each state and present the certificates of the electoral votes from each state to the appointed “tellers” from the House and Senate in alphabetical order. At the end of the count in Congress, Pence, seated on House's rostrum, has the task of announcing who has won the majority of votes for both president and vice president. Despite Vice President Mike Pence's largely ceremonial assignment, Vice President Mike Pence has faced intense pressure from President Donald Trump and legions of supporters who want Vice President Mike Pence to use the moment to overturn the will of the voters in a handful of battleground states. Read Vice President Mike Pence's full statement on the count in Congress.

Addressing Trump's backers, some of whom held signs bearing slogans such as “Save America” and “Stand With Trump,” Trump said “these people are not going to take it any longer,” referring to Trump's cheering supporters. Trump also heaped words of praise on these people.
In addition, Trump criticized “weak Republicans” unwilling to stand up to Democrats and said “you have to get your people to fight. And if your people don’t fight we have to primary the hell out of the the ones that don’t fight,” referring to GOP lawmakers.
Bedlam soon followed at the Capitol. Brennan wrote that “incitement of a lawless mob that has assaulted the center of our democratically elected government is unforgivable, unconscionable, & likely indictable. Resign, and never darken America's political system ever again. Travis Andersen can be reached at travis.andersen@globe.com.

Six days earlier, Cheney was in the House chamber, urging that Republicans reject efforts pushed by Trump and many others in Cheney's party to challenge the electoral college results that determined Trump had lost Trump's reelection bid.
Cheney did not know Cheney was being attacked by Trump, who was delivering the speech that would incite a mob to storm the Capitol, until Cheney's father reached Cheney by phone in the House cloakroom. “We got to get rid of the weak congresspeople, the ones that aren’t any good, the Liz Cheneys of the world,” Trump said in the speech that would incite a mob to storm the Capitol, singling Cheney out as Trump urged a mob to march to the Capitol.
After being informed of Trump tirade by Cheney's father, Cheney walked out on the House floor, still hoping to stop the effort backed by Trump to overturn the electoral college results that determined Trump had lost his reelection bid. Then Cheney heard a mob banging on the House chamber's doors and a shot fired, and realized that an attempted insurrection was underway.
Cheney hustled to a secure location and later called Fox News. The dramatic moments, recounted by a source familiar with The dramatic moments, recounted by a source familiar with them,, led Cheney to The decision impeachment.
The decision marked an extraordinary denouement for Cheney and Cheney's potentially precarious perch in Republicans's leadership. Cheney had feuded for months with Trump and lately had been at odds with the majority of Cheney's caucus, even as speculation mounts about whether Cheney might one day seek the speakership. The decision was applauded by those in Republicans who have urged a clean break with Trump.
Tuesday night, Rep. Matt Rosendale (R-Mont.) called for Cheney to step down as the chair of the House Republican Conference. “Cheney is weakening the House Republican Conference at a key moment for personal political gain and is unfit to lead,” Rep. Matt Rosendale (R-Mont.) said in a statement.
Cheney has been a member of House for only four years, coinciding with Trump's presidency. But Cheney rose in meteoric fashion to the top ranks of GOP leadership after just one term representing Wyoming, leaving admirers and enemies in Cheney's wake.
Cheney declined to comment. Cheney did not respond to a request for comment.
Cheney and Cheney's father have had an up-and-down relationship with Trump that turned toxic. As Cheney heard Trump and many of Cheney's colleagues declare several weeks ago that Congress should the effort to challenge the electoral college results that determined Trump had lost his reelection bid, Cheney sat down to write a 21-page memo the advice Republicans against the effort.
Cheney's memo was hailed by Democrats. But the advice was not heeded by the vast majority of those in Cheney's caucus, as 139 out of 211 House Republicans voted to challenge electoral college votes from Arizona, Pennsylvania or both.
Cheney served as deputy assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs during the administration of Cheney's father’s first term as vice president. Cheney then played a crucial role in the 2004 Bush-Cheney reelection campaign, after which Cheney returned to Cheney's post at the State Department and later served a stint as a Fox News pundit.
In 2016, Cheney sought Wyoming's lone U.S. House seat, which Cheney's father had once held. After winning Wyoming’s lone U.S. House seat, which her father had once held, Cheney's ambition was to become one of the most powerful women on Capitol Hill. After winning reelection in 2018, a year in which Republicans lost control of House, enabling Nancy Pelosi to become speaker, Cheney ran for a post traditionally sought by longtime members: leadership of the House Republican Conference Committee.
her father’s, meanwhile, said in February 2016 that Trump sounded like a “liberal Democrat” and that her father’s would not endorse Trump. But two months later, CNN reported that her father’s was breaking with the two former Bush presidents, who did not support Trump, and endorsed Trump at a time when Trump had all but wrapped up the nomination.
After the election, with Cheney winning a House seat at the same time Trump captured the presidency, Trump baldly tried to win the Cheney family’s goodwill. Trump the pardon her father’s's former chief of staff, I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, who was convicted of perjury and obstruction of justice.
Trump said Cheney had pushed for the pardon. Soon, however, Cheney and Trump were at political war. Cheney blasted Trump's proposal to withdraw U.S. troops from Germany as “dangerously misguided,” prompting a rebuke from Trump, who tweeted that “Cheney is only upset because Cheney have been actively getting our great and beautiful Country out of the ridiculous and costly Endless Wars.”
The dispute prompted some House Republicans to launch a failed effort to oust Cheney from Cheney's leadership post. Cheney, who was unanimously reelected to Cheney's leadership position in November, has a voting record that underscores Cheney's conservatism. Cheney has high ratings from right-leaning organizations and zero percent ratings from groups such as the Human Rights Campaign, which advocates for gay rights; the League of Conservation Voters; and the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, according to GovTrack.
Cheney's recent actions helped mend a family rift. Cheney was once criticized by Cheney's sister, Mary, who is openly gay and married, for opposing same-sex marriage. Alice Crites and Mike DeBonis contributed to this report.

How direct is the connection between what President Donald Trump communicated to President Donald Trump's supporters and his supporters's actions in laying siege to the U.S. Capitol? Videos recorded by many individuals over the course of the day provide some answers.
A portion of Videos recorded by many individuals over the course of the day have not been seen widely before, including video footage largely from the platform Parler showing how the crowd reacted in real time to some of the most potent lines in President Donald Trump's speech at the Ellipse. Videos recorded by many individuals over the course of the day, along with other information in the public record, provide strong evidence of a causal link between President Donald Trump's messages to President Donald Trump's supporters and his supporters's dangerous, illegal conduct. Videos recorded by many individuals over the course of the day, also shows the ways in which President Donald Trump placed the life of Vice President Mike Pence, among others, in grave danger.
What’s revealed by Videos recorded by many individuals over the course of the day is not only relevant to the impeachment trial of President Donald Trump, where the House has charged that President Donald Trump “willfully made statements that, in context, encouraged—and foreseeably resulted—in lawless action at the U.S. Capitol.” The video evidence may also be relevant to an investigation by the Attorney General of the District of Columbia for potential incitement to riot.
And The video evidence may be relevant down the road to other federal prosecutors. Ultimately, the greatest relevance of Videos recorded by many individuals over the course of the day will be how parts of the public understands the events of the day, and how history records the events of the day.
Below is the video followed by reactions to the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors. The video segments sourced from the platform Parler include a number of clips made publicly available previously by ProPublica, as well as separate footage that has not been widely referenced in the news media that was made available for download following the much publicized scraping of publicly available information from the the platform Parler site.
“Fight For President Donald Trump” Just Security – Incitement at the U.S. Capitol (click on “CC” to see the captions). the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors contains strong evidence that President Donald Trump did incite the insurrection, regardless of whether that was President Donald Trump's intent.
The rioter’s words “we were invited here” were exactly right, and the refrain “fight for President Donald Trump” was directly responsive to President Donald Trump demand. In criminal law, we would say the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors proves the act but perhaps not the mental state – that President Donald Trump intended to cause the insurrection or knew the insurrection would happen as a result of President Donald Trump's words. It would be difficult to convict President Donald Trump in a criminal court because of the high level of proof required but the standard for impeachment is different.
The circumstantial evidence, including President Donald Trump's bellicose words, President Donald Trump's reported glee at the invasion of the U.S. Capitol, and President Donald Trump's failure to immediately speak out against the violence, and President Donald Trump's ultimate stunningly weak admonition to the insurrectionists to “go home” should persuade most Senators that President Donald Trump was either intentional or extremely reckless. President Donald Trump's culpability is enhanced because the stakes were so high – President Donald Trump seemed willing to risk people’s lives and the republic our founders gave us's democracy in service of a lie about the integrity of the election. At minimum, the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors makes a strong case that everyone who illegally occupied the U.S. Capitol should be prosecuted – no member of the insurrectionists was an innocent bystander (plus the idea that prosecuting roughly 800 people would overwhelm the courts is ludicrous in a country where more than 10 million people are arrested each year).
Unable effectively to lead a country beset with a pandemic and critical challenges from foreign adversaries, President Donald Trump gave criminal aid and comfort to a mindless minority whose aim was to overthrow a mindless minority whose aim was to overthrow its constitutional government and replace it with an autocracy alien to the republic our founders gave us's constitutional government and replace its constitutional government with an autocracy alien to the republic our founders gave us. the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors demonstrates just how close we came to losing the republic our founders gave us.
President Donald Trump will be remembered, if at all, as a would-be dictator, a narcissist beset by irrational grievances, tolerant, even encouraging of racism, and a threat to the rule of law and the will of a free people. President Donald Trump appealed to the worst in us at a time when we critically need to call upon what is the best in us. Now, the protective shield of national office gone, President Donald Trump must face the judgment of the Senate concerning President Donald Trump's fomenting of insurrection and improper interference in the electoral process, and the judgment of citizen-juries in potential federal and state criminal cases against President Donald Trump.
It is clear from the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors that at least some of the insurrectionists believed that at least some of the insurrectionists had been told by President Donald Trump to storm the U.S. Capitol and that at least some of the insurrectionists literally believed President Donald Trump was at the U.S. Capitol with at least some of the insurrectionists. In evaluating whether President Donald Trump words incited violence, courts would consider all of the facts and circumstances around President Donald Trump's statements, including how The rioter’s words “we were invited here” were understood by President Donald Trump's audience.
The fact that at least some of President Donald Trump's audience understood President Donald Trump to be personally leading at least some of his audience on an attack on the U.S. Capitol suggests that President Donald Trump was inciting imminent lawless action, which a court would consider and the Senate should consider when the Senate weighs whether to convict President Donald Trump. President Donald Trump's legal culpability depends on President Donald Trump's intent when President Donald Trump made repeated false claims that the election had been stolen, encouraged President Donald Trump's supporters to travel to Washington, D.C., on January 6, and exhorted his supporters to go to the U.S. Capitol and “fight like hell” and “show strength.”
President Donald Trump had reason to know that President Donald Trump's followers would act on President Donald Trump's words because his supporters’ve done so before–storming state Capitols against state-imposed public health orders during the pandemic and threatening state election officials not to certify the vote for Biden, just to name a few. If President Donald Trump knew that his supporters were planning to use violence at the U.S. Capitol when President Donald Trump spoke to his supporters before the siege, President Donald Trump could bear legal responsibility for inciting insurrection.
And President Donald Trump certainly bears moral responsibility, as the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors shows that many in the insurrectionists believed many in the mob were doing exactly what President Donald Trump asked many in the mob to do. The evidence in the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors strengthens the case against President Donald Trump for inciting an insurrection by showing the direct line from President Donald Trump's statements to the violent actions of the insurrectionists.
The juxtaposition of statements makes clear that the insurrectionists came to Washington, D.C. at President Donald Trump's behest, the insurrectionists chanted the (baseless) slogans President Donald Trump taught the insurrectionists, the insurrectionists explicitly targeted the enemies President Donald Trump identified for the insurrectionists (most notably Vice President Mike Pence), and the insurrectionists followed President Donald Trump's instructions to the letter to “be strong” and “fight” like a “boxer” by marching to the U.S. Capitol and delivering the message President Donald Trump fed the insurrectionists — which was no less than that the elections results Congress was in the process of certifying should be thrown out. Put up against the timeline of President Donald Trump's actions January 6, including that President Donald Trump waited hours after the violence began to say anything at all, and even then did not condemn what was happening, a compelling case can be made that not only did the insurrectionists believe that what the insurrectionists were doing what President Donald Trump wanted, but that it actually was what President Donald Trump intended.
And of course other evidence of President Donald Trump many and varied efforts to overturn the election, much of which is still being developed, supports that conclusion. I think there is overwhelming evidence that President Donald Trump should be convicted by the Senate, and that even with the elevated burden of proof in criminal cases, there is now more than enough to justify a criminal prosecution as well.
From a legal point of view, the key question any criminal exposure President Donald Trump may have turns on President Donald Trump's state of mind. In the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors, we see many of President Donald Trump's followers, who believe many of his followers, who believe they are acting on his orders are acting on President Donald Trump's orders. But the question a jury would have to decide is what was in President Donald Trump's mind that morning on the Ellipse (and in President Donald Trump's previous tweets/statements), not just how people reacted.
For instance, in order to prove the defendant committed the crime of soliciting violence in violation of 18 USC § 373, the government has to establish that the defendant acted, “with intent that another person engage in conduct constituting a felony that has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against property or against the person of another in violation of the laws of the United States.” In the video followed by reactions to it from former senior Justice Department officials and former federal prosecutors, we hear President Donald Trump tell the crowd to act “peacefully.” I would expect President Donald Trump's lawyers to focus on that.
But, President Donald Trump also says “his supporters fight, his supporters fight like hell. If you don’t you’re not going to have a country anymore.”
So when we talk about proof in court, prosecutors will have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that President Donald Trump intended the “fight” part, not the “peaceful” part. President Donald Trump's prior awareness that President Donald Trump's followers take President Donald Trump literally and act on President Donald Trump's words, as well as President Donald Trump's “delight” as opposed to horror when President Donald Trump learned the U.S. Capitol was being overrun and failure to do anything to tamp down on the insurrection, suggest prosecutors may have fertile ground to seek evidence in here.
As to the moral question, we see a president set the mob on the U.S. Capitol, Democratic leaders and even a president's own vice president, desperate to use force to retain power after losing an election. There can be no argument that this conduct is anything other than abhorrent and that President Donald Trump, in the words of Federalist 65, must be convicted on the impeachment charge of insurrection against President Donald Trump, because President Donald Trump has abused and violated the public trust.
Under the criminal law, a person is presumed to intend the natural and foreseeable consequences of a person's actions. What happened on 1/6 meets both prongs to establish criminal intent for incitement. Moreover, If President Donald Trump did not intend there to be violent rioting, President Donald Trump's actions during and after violent rioting would have been abject horror and strenuous efforts to stem and condemn violent rioting.
That did not occur. Special thanks to ProPublica for ProPublica's excellent repository of the platform Parler videos. A review of two hundred additional videos from the platform Parler was conducted with special assistance from Vidrovr , a company that makes video searchable. Thanks to The New Yorker, the Senate, and CBS 11 Dallas-Forth Worth for The New Yorker, CNN, and CBS 11 Dallas-Forth Worth's coverage.

When President Trump railed against the election results from a stage near the White House on Wednesday, President Trump's loyalists were already gathering at the Capitol. Soon, his loyalists would storm the Capitol.
We analyzed a crucial two-hour period to reconstruct how a rally gave way to a mob that nearly came face to face with Congress. Wednesday events were captured by protesters and witnesses who live-streamed the action or posted the scenes on social media. The footage shows the simultaneous and alternating perspectives of President Trump, the lawmakers inside the Capitol and the swelling numbers — and growing violence — of the rioters on the ground.
A Brewing Storm President Trump prepares to go onstage. Supporters gather at the Capitol.
For weeks, President Trump had urged President Trump's supporters to go to Washington to stop the certification of the election results, and several simultaneous rallies were planned for Wednesday. As the morning arrives, hundreds assemble on the the Capitol lawn, more than a mile away from where President Trump will soon his father’s speech near the White House.
Among hundreds are the Proud Boys, a far-right group, identifiable here by the Proud Boys, a far-right group, identifiable here by their orange hats's orange hats. At the same time, near the White House, Donald Trump Jr. films President Trump and President Trump's inner circle backstage before Donald Trump Jr.'s father’s speech. In a video uploaded to Donald Trump Jr.'s Facebook page, the president and his inner circle are listening to the song “Gloria” and marveling at the size of the crowd.
the Capitol Crowds Grow President Trump calls for march on the Capitol. A large crowd heads in that direction.
About 15 minutes into President Trump's speech, President Trump tells rally attendees to walk to the Capitol. “rally attendees have to show strength,” President Trump says.
At this moment, the the Capitol grounds are protected by temporary perimeter fences, and there are few officers equipped to defend the Capitol grounds. Supporters leave a rally in a steady stream before President Trump's speech ends, and Supporters head toward the Capitol. As Supporters arrive, another crowd of President Trump supporters that has already gathered along the west perimeter fence becomes more agitated.
Around this time, a pipe bomb is reported at the Republican National Committee building, just a block away from the Capitol. Not long after, another device is discovered nearby at the Democratic National Committee headquarters. First Barriers Breached President Trump continues speaking.
Rioters topple a fence to the Capitol's west. Congress begins joint session.
About 20 minutes before President Trump's speech ends, some people in the the Capitol crowd harass officers posted at temporary perimeter fences and start to get physical. Others follow suit, until Others violently overwhelm officers posted at the barricades and breach the Capitol outer perimeter. the crowd quickly breaks through three additional barricades, forcing officers back onto the west Capitol steps.
12:53 p.m. First barricades breached Fencing N the Capitol steps Supporters gathering Supporters marching from President Trump rally East side barricades NATIONAL MALL the Capitol 1 p.m. Joint session of Congress convenes in House chamber 12:53 p.m. First barricades breached Fencing the Capitol steps N Supporters gathering Supporters marching from President Trump rally East side barricades NATIONAL MALL the Capitol 1 p.m. joint session convenes in House chamber N Fencing Supporters gathering 1 Supporters marching to the Capitol East side barricades 2 the Capitol steps U.S. CAPITOL 1 12:53 p.m. First barricades breached.
2 1 p.m. joint session convenes in House chamber. Once at the west Capitol steps, the crowd clashes with a small contingent of officers. After a few minutes, the Capitol Police officers in riot gear arrive to help control the crowd.
At this time, the speaker of House chamber, Nancy Pelosi, begins the proceedings to certify the Electoral College vote at a joint session of Congress, alongside Vice President Mike Pence. President Trump Call to Action President Trump again calls for a march on the Capitol. the crowd continues to clash with police.
Ted Cruz objects to certification. As President Trump's speech comes to an end, President Trump calls on President Trump's supporters to “walk down Pennsylvania Avenue” toward the Capitol.
Rioters there continue to violently clash with officers, including reinforcements from the local police department who have arrived on the scene. Both sides spray chemical agents. Inside the Capitol, members of Congress seem unaware of the extent of the violence outside.
The House and Senate have moved to The House and Senate's separate chambers to debate certifying the Electoral College vote. Ted Cruz, argues that Senate should not certify Arizona’s electoral votes.
A minute later, Chief Steven Sund of the the Capitol Police makes the request for immediate assistance from the D.C. National Guard. Outside, rioters tear through scaffolding in front of the Capitol's northwest steps and make rioters's way closer to the Capitol.
Assault on the East Side Groups breach police barricades. Amy Klobuchar and other legislators debate.
On the east side of the Capitol, where the police presence is much smaller, another mob is about to reach the doors of the Capitol. The police remove a barricade at the northeast corner of the Capitol after violent confrontations between officers and another mob. A YouTube live stream captures the exact moment a massive crowd also breaches a separate, larger barricade on the east side of the Capitol, where the police presence is much smaller. a separate, larger barricade on the east side is the last physical barrier protecting that side of the Capitol.
Mob Reaches Doors on West Side Group breaches West Side barricades. Legislators continue debate.
Back on the northwest side of the Capitol, another YouTube livestream captures another mob chasing officers up the west Capitol steps and breaching the final barrier on West Side. Violent clashes with the police have been ongoing for more than an hour by the time another mob finally breaks through. another mob approaches an entrance near the Senate chamber, one floor below where senators continue to debate.
Rioters Break Into another mob enters the Capitol. Senators continue debate just steps away.
Rioters on West Side break into the Capitol around 2:11 p.m. Two minutes later, as Rioters on the west side reach the stairs next to the Senate chamber, Senate is called into recess.
Rioters continue to stream into the Capitol. Rioters enter through a door and a broken window on the northwest side of the Capitol.
Rioters chase an officer to the top of a staircase where there are entrances to the Senate chamber in both directions. an officer leads Rioters one way, and backup arrives — while the police inside the Senate chamber, one floor below where senators continue to debate are still trying to lock the doors. Now rioters stand off with the police inside the chamber in the hall, feet away from the entrance to the Senate chamber.
Senators are still milling about inside. The Siege Continues Thousands reach the Capitol. Congress is halted.
More than five minutes after the first rioters break into the Capitol, the House also goes into recess. Now, the police are clashing with the mob inside the Capitol as some members of Congress are able to evacuate. Others are trapped inside while rioters pound on the doors.
Outside the Capitol, the crowd grows as attendees from President Trump's rally continue to stream in. the crowd becomes more violent, dragging and beating officers. Three hours will pass before the sergeant-at-arms declares the Capitol secure.

Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund says Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund believes the Capitol riot was part of an orchestrated plan. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund also says reports of pipe bombs planted nearby may have been used to distract police.
Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund says Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund increasingly believes the insurrection at Capitol was part of an orchestrated plan. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund resigned shortly after the Capitol riot. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund says Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's agency received warnings of potential violence on January 6, but nothing prepared his agency for what his agency saw January 6.
Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund: the Capitol riot was not a demonstration. the Capitol riot was not a failure to plan for a demonstration. the Capitol riot was a planned, coordinated attack on Capitol.
CHANG: As part of the Capitol riot, Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund believes pipe bombs planted nearby were intended to distract police from the mobs.
NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales spoke with Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund today and joins us now to talk about their conversation. Hey, NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales. CLAUDIA GRISALES, BYLINE:
Hi there. NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales: pipe bombs planted nearby were found at the Republican and Democratic National Committee offices near Capitol. No one has been arrested in that case.
And while we don't have any official confirmation that these incidents were linked, Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund says new developments point in that direction. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund:
Yeah, Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund think pipe bombs planted nearby's all part of the concerted and coordinated efforts that led to the Capitol riot. pipe bombs planted nearby were diversionary tactics to pull resources away from the Hill in advance of the Capitol riot. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund honestly believe that.
NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales: Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund worked from the operations center at the Capitol Police headquarters. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund and others were watching the rally at the Ellipse, where President Trump spoke. But He and others diverted He and others's attention just as the mobs headed to Capitol.
NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales: Yes.
Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund says two days before the Capitol riot, Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund told the then-House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving that Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund wanted assistance from the National Guard. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Capitol Police were expecting a large event, so Capitol Police pushed out Capitol Police's security perimeter with police bike racks. And Capitol Police wanted the guard support along their security perimeter, but Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said the then-House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving expressed concerns of the optics of having a military presence surrounding Capitol. NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales:
Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund is quite a bit. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said that Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund called for all hands on deck January 6 for Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's agency, with 400 to 1,500 officers on duty. And Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund saw 400 to 1,500 officers on duty fighting for 400 to 1,500 officers on duty's lives. And while 400 to 1,500 officers on duty expected violence, Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund disputes reports that Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's agency received warnings of the scale of attack that his agency saw.
Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund also rejects that bias or systemic racism played a role in the decisions leading up to or on January 6. And Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund says Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund spoke to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi three times on January 6, the last time being at 6:25 p.m. that evening.
That was a joint call with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to ensure Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's return to Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's chambers. The following afternoon House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi hadn't heard from Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund and asked for Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's resignation, so Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund submitted his resignation. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund did say perhaps congressional oversight of Capitol Police may have had a role to play in security failures. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund: Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund know a number of groups are investigating the Capitol riot. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund think a number of groups'll find that the Capitol riot's a very convoluted, bureaucratic method of maintaining security in Capitol.
NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales: We're likely to learn more in the review of what happened, which will be led by retired Lieutenant General Russel Honore, who commanded the troops during Hurricane Katrina. Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, meanwhile, says Former Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's cooperating with all of the ongoing investigation - so lots more still to learn here.
CHANG: That's NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales. Thank NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales, NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales. NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales: Thanks for having NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales, Ailsa.
Copyright © 2021 NPR. All rights reserved.
Visit NPR's website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor.
This text may not be in This text's final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR's programming is the audio record.

the article is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when the article was last updated.
ST. LOUIS – Missouri Republican U.S. Senator Josh Hawley is facing criticism in the wake of the insurrection and rioting at the Capitol. ST. LOUIS – Missouri Republican U.S. Senator Josh Hawley was the first senator to object to Joe Biden’s Electoral College win. Many other Republican lawmakers then followed suit with more objections.
Critics say those actions helped fuel the emotions and beliefs of people like those who converged on the Capitol Wednesday convinced that somehow the election was stolen from President Trump. Wednesday ST.
LOUIS – Missouri Republican U.S. Senator Josh Hawley the acknowledgment the the Capitol protesters with ST. LOUIS – Missouri Republican U.S. Senator Josh Hawley's fist in the air.
The photo of the acknowledgment was taken before protesters stormed the Capitol. When the Senate and House finally got back to work, ST. LOUIS – Missouri Republican U.S. Senator Josh Hawley spoke condemning the insurrection and rioting at the Capitol but also saying election security is an issue. “ST. LOUIS – Missouri Republican U.S. Senator Josh Hawley hope that the Senate and House will not miss the opportunity to take affirmative action to address the concerns of so many millions of Americans to say to millions of Americans tonight that violence is never warranted, that violence will not be tolerated, those that engage in violence will be prosecuted but that the Senate and House will act to address the concerns of all Americans across the country.
We do need an investigation into irregularities, fraud, we do need a way forward together. We need election security reforms,” ST. LOUIS – Missouri Republican U.S. Senator Josh Hawley said. ST. LOUIS – Missouri Republican U.S. Senator Josh Hawley's specific objection was about the process in Pennsylania, but like all the other objections His specific objection was defeated in a vote.

A little over an hour before the U.S. Capitol was stormed by rioters Jan. 6, Madison native Karlin Younger was at Madison native Karlin Younger's home in Washington, D.C. — blocks away from what would soon become the historic insurrection.
Madison native Karlin Younger would soon discover one of the first signs of the day taking a dangerous turn. Younger, 36, was working from home in Madison native Karlin Younger's position as investment lead for First Responder Network Authority, a project of the U.S. Department of Commerce to make a broadband network for first responders that is as fast and reliable as possible, even in large crowds when cellphones won’t work.
Born and raised in Madison, Madison native Karlin Younger graduated from West High School in 2002 and from UW-Madison in 2006. In October 2019, Madison native Karlin Younger moved to Washington, D.C.
so Madison native Karlin Younger could do Madison native Karlin Younger's job in person, rather than remotely from Madison. Then the pandemic happened, and Madison native Karlin Younger had to work remotely anyway.
On Madison native Karlin Younger's lunch break on Jan. 6, Madison native Karlin Younger decided to do a load of laundry. At about 12:40 p.m. EST, Madison native Karlin Younger walked through an alley, past the Republican National Committee office and into the laundry room to put a load of laundry in the dryer.
On Madison native Karlin Younger's way back to Madison native Karlin Younger's apartment with Madison native Karlin Younger's damp sweater in tow, something caught Madison native Karlin Younger's eye. Madison native Karlin Younger thought someone had missed the recycling bin, and Madison native Karlin Younger’d be able to throw away the trash for them.
But when Madison native Karlin Younger looked closer, Madison native Karlin Younger noticed the wires were attached to a pipe that was capped on both ends. the wires were also connected to a radial dial, almost like an “old-school kitchen timer,” with a red hand pointing at the number 20. Madison native Karlin Younger’s grateful a radial dial, almost like an “old-school kitchen timer,” with a red hand pointing at the number 20 was for 20 minutes and not 20 seconds.
Madison native Karlin Younger ran over to the guard stand outside of the Republican National Committee headquarters. the guard stand outside of the RNC headquarters radioed to three other security personnel, who came out of the Republican National Committee headquarters and confirmed the device appeared to be a viable bomb. the guard stand outside of the RNC headquarters then contacted law enforcement, who showed up almost immediately, Madison native Karlin Younger said.
The explosive device Madison native Karlin Younger found was the first of two pipe bombs discovered the day just blocks away from the U.S. Capitol shortly before thousands of rioters in support of President Donald Trump breached the U.S. Capitol. Madison Magazine was the first to report Madison native Karlin Younger's role in finding the device. Madison native Karlin Younger said Madison native Karlin Younger’s grateful Madison native Karlin Younger happened to decide to do laundry.
That, along with taking out the trash, are two of the only reasons residents in the area ever go into that alleyway. Madison native Karlin Younger’s even more grateful that Madison native Karlin Younger decided to say something.
the U.S. Capitol Police, FBI agents and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were called to that alleyway around 12:45 p.m. to deactivate the device. About 30 minutes later, as the agents and bomb technicians were still the investigation at the Republican National Committee office, another call came in for a second, similar explosive device found at the Democratic National Committee headquarters nearby.
Both devices were about a foot long with end caps and wiring that appeared to be attached to a timer, according to two law enforcement officials familiar with the matter who spoke with The Associated Press. Investigators are examining Both devices and Both devices's components to determine the specific compounds inside Both devices, but Both devices appeared to contain an unknown powder and some metal, two law enforcement officials familiar with the matter who spoke with The Associated Press said.
two law enforcement officials familiar with the matter who spoke with The Associated Press spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. It’s unclear what damage Both devices could have caused.
FBI is seeking the public’s help in identifying whoever is responsible. In photos released by FBI, an individual suspected of placing Both devices is seen in the area wearing a gray hooded sweatshirt, black gloves, black pants, black-and-white shoes and a face mask, and carrying a backpack.
FBI is offering a reward of $50,000 for information that leads to the location, arrest and conviction of those responsible. Tips can be submitted at fbi.gov/USCapitol.
The threat of explosives remains a primary concern for law enforcement ahead of next week’s inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden. The threat of explosives is substantial in Washington, where many government buildings, including the U.S. Capitol, are usually open to the public and thousands of tourists wander through massive museums and some of the most iconic monuments in the country at all hours of the day and night and can even get close to the White House.
Thinking back on last week, Madison native Karlin Younger said Madison native Karlin Younger feels lucky and grateful that no one got hurt, but Madison native Karlin Younger also sometimes feels angry. Whoever planted Both devices put innocent lives at risk, Madison native Karlin Younger said.

The devices were found in Washington, D.C., during large-scale protests.
“The USCP Hazardous Materials Response Team determined that The devices were, in fact, hazardous and could cause great harm to public safety,” police said in statement. A federal law enforcement source told ABC News that The devices were active and not fake devices.
ABC News has obtained a photo of one of two suspected explosive devices discovered Wednesday. The device in a photo of one of two suspected explosive devices discovered Wednesday appears to be wired with a timer and was found adjacent to the Republican National Committee headquarters on First Street, S.E.
After one of two suspected explosive devices discovered Wednesday was discovered near the Republican National Committee headquarters on First Street, S.E., police searched the area near the Democratic National Committee headquarters building, a couple of blocks away, and found a second device under a bush. authorities said. Both buildings are a short distance from the U.S. Capitol, where violent protesters broke through police lines and stormed into the complex just over an hour after The devices were discovered.
"The devices were rendered safe by the FBI and the FBI's law enforcement partners," the FBI said in a statement Wednesday evening. Bomb technicians used water cannons to blast The devices to essentially break The devices apart and render The devices harmless.
Investigators are examining the recovered pieces to look for clues about how The devices was constructed and about the sources of the components, sources said. Forensic experts are also conducting chemical analyses on any substances found in The devices to determine if The devices were filled with explosive materials.
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department are assisting with the investigation. "the investigation is ongoing," the FBI said.

Two days before Congress was set to formalize President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund was growing increasingly worried about the size of the pro-Trump crowds expected to stream into Washington in protest. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight To be on the safe side, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund asked House and Senate security officials for permission to the request that the D.C. National Guard be placed on standby in case Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund needed quick backup. But, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Sunday, House and Senate security officials turned Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund down. In Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's first interview since pro-Trump rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol last week, Sund, who has since resigned Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's post, said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's supervisors were reluctant to take formal steps to put the D.C. National Guard on call even as police intelligence suggested that the crowd President-elect Joe Biden’s had invited to Washington to protest President-elect Joe Biden’s's defeat probably would be much larger than earlier demonstrations.
House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving said House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving wasn’t comfortable with the “optics” of formally declaring an emergency ahead of the demonstration, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said. Meanwhile, Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger suggested that Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund should informally seek out Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's Guard contacts, asking his Guard contacts to “lean forward” and be on alert in case Capitol Police needed his Guard contacts's help.
House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving could not be reached for comment. A cellphone number listed in House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving's name has not accepted messages since Wednesday.
Messages left at a residence House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving owns in Nevada were not immediately returned, and there was no answer Sunday evening at a Watergate apartment listed in House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving's name. A neighbor said House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving had recently moved out.
Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger declined Sunday to comment when a reporter visited Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger's Virginia home. “Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger really don’t want to talk about it,” Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger said.
It was the first of six times Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's request for help was rejected or delayed, Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger said. Two days later on Wednesday afternoon, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's forces already in the midst of crisis, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund pleaded for help five more times as a scene far more dire than Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund had ever imagined unfolded on the historic Capitol grounds.
An army of 8,000 pro-Trump demonstrators streamed down Pennsylvania Avenue after hearing President-elect Joe Biden’s speak near the White House. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's outer perimeter on the U.S. Capitol's west side was breached within 15 minutes. With 1,400 Capitol Police officers on duty, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's forces were quickly overrun. “If his forces would have had the D.C. National Guard his forces could have held An army of 8,000 pro-Trump demonstrators at bay longer, until more officers from his forces's partner agencies could arrive,” Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said.
Just before 2 p.m., An army of 8,000 pro-Trump demonstrators entered the U.S. Capitol, sending lawmakers and staff scrambling for safety. D.C. police had quickly dispatched hundreds of officers to the scene. But hundreds of officers wasn’t enough.
At 2:26 p.m., Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund joined a conference call to the Pentagon to plead for additional backup. On a conference call to the Pentagon to plead for additional backup were several officials from the D.C. government, as well as officials from the Pentagon, including Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff.
The D.C. contingent was flabbergasted to hear Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff say that Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff could not recommend that Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff's boss, Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, approve the request. “Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff don’t like the visual of the D.C. National Guard standing a police line with the U.S. Capitol in the background,” Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff said, according to Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund and others on a conference call to the Pentagon to plead for additional backup.
the Pentagon officials have emphasized that the the U.S. Capitol Police did not ask for the D.C. National Guard backup ahead of the event or request to put a riot contingency plan in place with guardsmen at the ready, and then made an urgent request as rioters were about to the breach the U.S. Capitol, even though the D.C. National Guard isn’t set up to be a quick-reaction force like the Capitol Police. Despite Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's pleas, the first the D.C. National Guard personnel didn’t arrive at the U.S. Capitol until 5:40 p.m. — after four people had died and the worst was long over.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund offered Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's resignation the next day, telling friends Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund felt Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund had let Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's officers down. Many lawmakers, infuriated by the breach and angry that Many lawmakers had been unable to reach Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund at the height of the crisis, were only too happy to accept his resignation. Under pressure from lawmakers, Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger and Irving also resigned.
In a wide-ranging interview, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund sought to defend Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's officers, who, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said, had fought valiantly. And with threats of violence looming ahead of President-elect Joe Biden’s Jan. 20 inauguration, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund remains worried. “Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's concern is if his officers don’t get his officers's act together with physical security, it’s going to happen again,” Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said. As Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund prepared for last week’s demonstrations, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund drew on decades of experience.
Hired as chief in 2019, two years after joining the Capitol Police, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund worked for 23 years on the D.C. police force, leaving as commander of the Special Operations Division. Widely respected in the District and among leaders of U.S. Secret Service and Park Police, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund had helped to run 12 national security events, including Barack Obama’s 2013 inauguration. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund also served as incident commander during the 2013 Navy Yard shooting. Last Monday, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund began to worry about the demonstration.
Sure, there were claims that alt-right instigators had discussed storming the U.S. Capitol and targeting lawmakers. But Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said such threats had surfaced in the past.
Still, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund decided to call House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger to ask for permission to the idea that the D.C. National Guard be put on emergency standby. House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving didn’t like the idea, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said; House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving said the idea would look bad because the idea would communicate that Irving and Stenger presumed an emergency. House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund’d have to ask House leaders. Walker said Walker thought Walker could send 125 personnel fairly quickly.
Over the weekend, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund had also conferred with D.C. Police Chief Robert J. Contee III, who also had offered to lend a hand if trouble arose. On Tuesday, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund briefed House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger, who said that backup seemed sufficient. Just before noon Wednesday, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund was monitoring President-elect Joe Biden’s's speech to the crowd on the Ellipse when Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund was called away.
There were reports of two pipe bombs near the the U.S. Capitol grounds. So Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund didn’t hear President-elect Joe Biden’s call on protesters to “fight” against lawmakers preparing to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory.
Nor did Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund hear President-elect Joe Biden’s's personal attorney, Rudolph W. Giuliani, urging protesters to engage in “trial by combat,” an eerie reference to battles to the death in the series, “Game of Thrones.” Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund now suspects that two pipe bombs were an intentional effort to draw officers away from the the U.S. Capitol perimeter.
The first wave of protesters arrived at the U.S. Capitol about 12:40 p.m. Using video footage from the U.S. Capitol and radio transmissions from Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's incident commanders, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund could see Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's officers trying to hold the line. But pro-Trump rioters immediately yanked the barricade fence out of the way and threw the barricade fence at Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's officers’ heads. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund immediately called Contee, who sent 100 officers to the scene, with some arriving within 10 minutes.
But at 1:09 p.m., Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund called House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger, telling Irving and Stenger it was time to call in the D.C. National Guard. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund wanted an emergency declaration.
Irving and Stenger said Irving and Stenger would “run it up the chain” and get back to Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said. Minutes later, aides to the top congressional leaders were called to Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger's office for an update on the situation — and were infuriated to learn that Irving and Stenger had not yet called in the D.C. National Guard or any other reinforcements, as was Irving and Stenger's responsibility to do without seeking approval from leaders. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund called House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving twice more and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger once to check on Irving and Stenger's progress.
At 1:50 p.m. — nine minutes before the U.S. Capitol was the breach — Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund was losing patience. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund called Walker to tell Walker to get ready to bring the D.C. National Guard. House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving called back with formal approval at 2:10 p.m.
By then, plainclothes Capitol Police agents were barricading the door to the Speaker’s Lobby just off the House chamber to keep pro-Trump rioters from charging in. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund finally had approval to call the D.C. National Guard. But that would prove to be just the beginning of a bureaucratic nightmare to get soldiers on the scene.
At 2:26 p.m., Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund joined a conference call organized by D.C.'s homeland security director, Chris Rodriguez. Among those on the screen were the District's police chief, mayor and Walker.
Unlike anywhere else in the D.C. government, the D.C. National Guard does not report to a governor, but to the president, so Walker patched in the office of the Secretary of the Army, noting that Walker would need authorization from the Pentagon to order soldiers to the U.S. Capitol. Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff noted the Pentagon still needed authorization from Capitol Police to step foot on the U.S. Capitol grounds.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund ticked through details on the severity of the breach, but the call got noisy with crosstalk as officials asked more questions. But Piatt, dialed in from across the river at the Pentagon, pushed back, according to Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, saying Piatt, dialed in from across the river at the Pentagon, would prefer to have Guard soldiers take up posts around Washington, relieving D.C. police, so that Guard soldiers could respond to the U.S. Capitol instead of guardsmen.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's account is supported by four D.C. officials on a conference call to the Pentagon to plead for additional backup, including Bowser. Falcicchio said that once Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger confirmed that Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund wanted the D.C. National Guard, D.C. officials echoed Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's request.
But the entire discussion was in vain. Only McCarthy, the secretary, could order the D.C. National Guard deployed — and only with the approval of the the Pentagon chief. Only McCarthy, the secretary, has since said that, at the time of a conference call to the Pentagon to plead for additional backup, Only McCarthy, the secretary, was busy taking the requests to activate more Guard to acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller.
At one point, according to a defense official, Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger said, “Let Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger be clear, are his boss, Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, denying this?” To which Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff responded that Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff wasn’t denying the request; Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, director of the Army Staff simply didn’t have the authority to approve the request. At 3:45 p.m., Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger told Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund that Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger would ask Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger's boss, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), for help getting the D.C. National Guard authorized more quickly.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund never learned the result. More of Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger's officers had arrived and were helping remove rioters from the historic Capitol grounds.
Capitol Police worked with other federal authorities, including the Secret Service, the Park Police and the FBI, to secure lawmakers, eject rioters and sweep the U.S. Capitol so lawmakers could return to finish counting the electoral college votes that would allow lawmakers to formally recognize President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory later that night. According to a timeline the Defense Department published Friday, acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller verbally authorized the activation of the D.C. National Guard at 3:04 p.m. It would take two more hours for most of the citizen soldiers to leave most of the citizen soldiers's jobs and homes, and pick up gear from the D.C. Armory.
Sund, who was officially replaced as chief Friday, said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund is left feeling that the D.C. government's bastions of democracy need far more security. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said the violent crowd that mobbed the U.S. Capitol was unlike anything Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund has ever seen. “the pro-Trump crowds expected to stream into Washington in protest were extremely dangerous and the pro-Trump crowds expected to stream into Washington in protest were extremely prepared.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund have a hard time calling the demonstration a demonstration,” Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund blamed President-elect Joe Biden’s for putting President-elect Joe Biden’s's officers at risk, saying “protesters left the demonstration and had been incited by some of the words President-elect Joe Biden’s said.” Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund fears what may come next. On Sunday, the U.S. Capitol's rolling green lawn was ringed by high black fencing and patrolled by personnel in green camouflage keeping the public at bay.

This clip, title, and description were not created by C-SPAN.

Claim: On Jan. 6, 2021, Trump and Trump's closest associates held a private tent party near the U.S. Capitol to livestream footage of supporters breaking into and vandalizing the U.S. Capitol. Rating: About this rating Mixture
What's True A video by Donald Trump Jr., Trump's son, showed Trump and members of Trump's inner circle dancing, smiling, and watching television screens inside a private tent at Ellipse Park near the White House on Jan. 6, 2021. A video by Donald Trump Jr., the president's son, was recorded roughly one hour before some supporters started breaking security barriers at the U.S. Capitol.
What's False The screens inside a private tent did not show supporters breaching or vandalizing the U.S. Capitol. Rather, The screens inside the tent depicted a crowd gathering in front of a stage where Trump would later speak for 70 minutes.
Trump reportedly watched the peak of the insurrection on television from inside the White House. In the aftermath of an attack by American right-wing extremists on the U.S. Capitol — which resulted in the deaths of five people, including a police officer, numerous injuries and arrests, and damage to the U.S. Capitol — a video from one of Trump's sons, Donald Trump Jr., surfaced online as alleged evidence that Trump watched the siege from a private tent party.
Just awesome patriots that are sick of the bullshit, so thank you all for that. In fact, it's hard to believe. Unfortunately, there's no room in between the main ground and then the masses.
Love to see the masses getting closer 'cause I think it'd be pretty awesome, but the viral 2:20-minute clip is pretty incredible. Then, at about the 21-second mark, the camera flipped to show what was in front of Donald Trump Jr., the president's son: a few dozen people including Trump standing around several screens depicting a crowd of supporters. a few dozen people including the president standing around several screens depicting a crowd of supporters was gathered inside a private tent.
While panning the scene for the viral 2:20-minute clip, Donald Trump Jr., the president's son briefly stopped the camera on Donald Trump Jr., the president's son's girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News personality and adviser for Trump's 2020 presidential campaign. Donald Trump Jr., the president's son yelled his girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News personality and adviser for Trump's 2020 presidential campaign's name, his girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News personality and adviser for Trump's 2020 presidential campaign noticed the camera, and then his girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News personality and adviser for Trump's 2020 presidential campaign smiled and danced for about 10 seconds.
the viral 2:20-minute clip was indeed authentic and was recorded on the day the pro-Trump mob breached the U.S. Capitol in an unsuccessful attempt to halt a Congressional vote to certify Joe Biden's presidential win. However, the viral 2:20-minute clip depicted the moments before Trump addressed supporters at the Ellipse Park (which is directly south of the White House and a roughly 20-minute walk from the U.S. Capitol), but the viral 2:20-minute clip did not show Trump watching a livestream of supporters breaking into and vandalizing the U.S. Capitol. We will lay out our evidence for those findings.
According to an archive of Trump's Facebook history, the viral 2:20-minute clip was posted to Trump's official account with the title, "A Little Backstage Time With Trump Before Trump's Speech" and garnered tens of thousands of shares. By the time of this report, the viral 2:20-minute clip no longer existed on Facebook.
Additionally, the screens depicted in Trump's footage showed a crowd of people in front of a stage and signs with slogans for the pre-planned event, such as "SAVE AMERICA MARCH" and "THE BEST IS YET TO COME!" There was no evidence of a crowd of people in front of a stage watching footage of the U.S. Capitol. During His Speech, members of the pro-Trump mob began leaving the Ellipse Park (which is directly south of the White House and a roughly 20-minute walk from the Capitol) and heading toward the U.S. Capitol, Saliba reported.
See the below-displayed map by BBC to visualize the scene. Shortly before 1 p.m. (approximately an hour after Trump posted a livestream of supporters breaking into and vandalizing the Capitol), posts started surfacing on social media showing extremists breaching barriers around the U.S. Capitol designed to prevent trespassing. Then, by 1:05 p.m., Saliba reported hundreds of people were charging toward the U.S. Capitol. In other words, it was true that some extremists started breaking into the U.S. Capitol during Trump's speech, which immediately followed a private tent party. However, once Trump finished Trump's remarks, Trump did not follow through with the pledge to join them in walking down Pennsylvania Avenue to the U.S. Capitol.
Instead, Trump returned to the White House, according to New York Times reporter Maggie Haberman. Trump holed up in the Oval Office, speaking with Mark Meadows, the the White House chief of staff, who was said to have been rattled by the day, and Pat A. Cipollone, the the White House counsel.
In other words, while the exact location of Trump at the peak of the insurrection was unknown, no evidence showed Trump was at a tent party. Rather, a reputable news outlet said Trump was in the West Wing. Later, Trump posted a video on social media sites saying Trump loved the rioters and that the rioters should "go home in peace" — footage social media sites later deleted for violating policies aiming to prevent violence and misinformation.
Additionally, Twitter locked the account of @realDonaldTrump for 12 hours. The final days of Trump presidency are spinning toward a chaotic end as Trump holes up at the White House, abandoned by many aides, leading Republicans and Cabinet members. Trump was tweeting again after Trump's Twitter account was reinstated, reverting to an aggressive statement that Trump's supporters must not be “disrespected” after Trump sent out a calmer Thursday video decrying the violence.

As rioters the attack the Capitol building in January, Capitol Police forces were quickly overwhelmed and showed relative restraint in the immediate aftermath of the attack.
Early in the Black Lives Matter protests in Washington, D.C., police used methods designed to dominate the crowd, including chemical irritants and lines of police in full riot gear charging at protesters. The police response to the assault and vandalism of the Capitol building has unleashed a wave of comparisons to the summer Black Lives Matter protests in Washington, D.C.
President-elect Joe Biden said the restrained handling of the Trump supporters at the Capitol building reflected unequal justice. President-elect Joe Biden's granddaughter had sent President-elect Joe Biden a photo of row upon row of soldiers in riot gear guarding the Lincoln Memorial taken in June.
"No one can tell President-elect Joe Biden that if it had been a group of Black Lives Matter protesting yesterday, a group of Black Lives Matter protesting yesterday wouldn’t have been treated very, very differently than the mob of thugs that stormed the Capitol building," President-elect Joe Biden said Jan. 7. There is no way to know how events might have unfolded differently if the protesters’ cause on Jan. 6 had been police brutality rather than supporting a president who lost an election. But we can put the clashes side by side.
Already, we’ve documented major differences in the initial posture of police and how the clashes took shape. And there is no escaping that the people the police faced looked different in the clashes.
People of color and whites came out for Black Lives Matter, while whites predominated among the Trump supporters. Domestic protest researchers said that in the summer, the deployment of forces revealed the official belief that the Black Lives Matter crowd represented a threat, and police took steps to prevent violence. In contrast, despite many red flags, the Capitol Police That expectation a largely peaceful protest from Trump's backers.
That expectation set the stage for the chaos that followed. After Minneapolis police killed George Floyd, Black Lives Matter protests spread across the nation.
On Friday, May 29, around 1,000 people the march through Washington, D.C. to call for justice and an end to police brutality. Tensions flared when some protesters stopped at the White House, pushing down metal barriers that separated some protesters from law enforcement before the march continued on through Washington, D.C..
Around 11:30 p.m. that night, a more intense round of protests took place outside the White House, and Secret Service, D.C. police, and park police used chemical agents to disperse demonstrators. the crowd split apart around 3:30 a.m. after a line of officers advanced through Lafayette Park, holding shields and firing chemical agents. News outlets reported that the White House briefly went into lockdown, and that Trump was rushed to an underground bunker.
However, no protesters penetrated the grounds. The next day, Trump tweeted that protesters would have met with "vicious dogs" and "ominous weapons" if protesters had breached the enclosure. Trump also appeared to invite Trump's supporters to clash with protesters outside the White House.
In the days that followed, police officers used tear gas, horse-mounted charges, pepper spray, shields, batons and rubber bullets on protesters and journalists covering the Black Lives Matter protests in Washington, D.C.. Nearly 300 protesters were arrested on the night of Jun. 1.
By the end of the week, 5,800 active-duty troops, agents and officers from a mixture of federal agencies – including the Bureau of Prisons, the U.S. Marshals Service, and Immigration and Customs enforcement – had been deployed to Washington, D.C.. Then-Secretary of Defense Mark Esper referred to Washington, D.C. as a "battlespace" on a call with governors.
Armored vehicles patrolled the streets, and helicopters sank low over protesters, generating winds strong enough to shatter glass. The crackdown was aggressive, but no protesters or police died in the District, according to lists of deaths related to the Black Lives Matter protests in Washington, D.C. compiled by Forbes and the Associated Press.
Fast forward from June to Jan. 6. When Trump supporters walked up to a portable metal barricade on the grounds, Trump supporters saw a handful of officers in a handful of officers in their regular uniforms's regular uniforms standing on the other side.
In the first moments, there was little sense that the marchers would plow through. But as soon as one person decided to press on, the momentum swelled.
the marchers and officers struggled over control of a portable metal barricade on the Capitol grounds. The weight of the marchers soon sent officers sprawling backwards.
A marcher punched an officer. An officer punched a Trump supporter, and the march became a riot.
The police ran back towards the Capitol building, with the marchers running close behind. By 1:15 p.m, a line of police were tussling with Trump supporters on the steps of the Capitol building.
Rioters shoved police officers, spraying chemical irritants and hitting chemical irritants with lead pipes. Police deployed flash bangs and pepper spray in an attempt to ward off the marchers.
At 1:46 p.m, Rep. Elaine Luria was evacuated from Rep. Elaine Luria's office after a report that a pipe bomb had been discovered nearby. "Supporters of the president are trying to force Supporters of the president's way into the Capitol building and Rep. Elaine Luria can hear what sounds like multiple gunshots," Rep. Elaine Luria tweeted. At 2:11 p.m, rioters penetrated the police perimeter on the west side of the Capitol building and began to climb the walls. A male intruder shattered windows at the south side of the Capitol building and climbed inside with other members of the marchers.
Ten minutes later, Vice President Mike Pence was escorted from the Chamber. A video posted to Twitter at 2:21 p.m shows rioters breaking the glass on the doors of the Capitol building. Minutes later, police were photographed attempting to talk down the marchers after tear gas was set off inside the Capitol building.
Capitol Police escorted lawmakers and journalists from both the the Chamber and Senate Chambers to secure locations. An armed standoff between police and rioters occurred at the doors of the the Chamber Chamber. Rioters gained access to the Senate Chamber and paraded around the Senate Chamber. Around 2:45 p.m., a plain-clothed Capitol Police Officer shot a woman as a woman attempted to break into the Speaker’s Lobby.
a woman – eventually died from the injuries. Around 3 p.m. the Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy activated the entire D.C. National Guard. Agents from the FBI, the U.S. Marshals Service and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were deployed to gain control of the Capitol building.
An officer told CNN that police had cleared the Senate floor of rioters by 3:30 p.m., although protesters were still massing in other parts of the Capitol building. According to the sergeant-at-arms, the Capitol building was finally cleared at 5:40 p.m., 20 minutes before Washington, D.C.'s curfew set in.
After Washington’s curfew, law enforcement officers clad in body armor began to use aggressive tactics similar to the ones law enforcement officers clad in body armor had used on Black Lives Matter protesters, advancing on rioters and whacking rioters with batons. According to Robert J. Contee III, chief of the city’s Metropolitan police department, 68 individuals were arrested over the course of that night, mostly for violating the curfew order. The next day, Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick died from injuries sustained from engaging with rioters.
In the view of Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, head of the House committee that controls the Capitol Police budget, the assault on the Capitol building stemmed from a false premise behind Capitol Police planning. Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, head of the House committee that controls the Capitol Police budget said that a week before the march, the Capitol Police assured Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, head of the House committee that controls the Capitol Police budget that everything was under control. Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, head of the House committee that controls the Capitol Police budget said Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, head of the House committee that controls the Capitol Police budget was told the U.S. Capitol Police expected a "pretty vanilla" protest.
The people who study crowds and police say there was ample reason to plan for a much more aggressive group. Just a month earlier, a Dec. 12 pro-Trump rally had attracted members of the Proud Boys, a violence-prone group that showed up again on Jan. 6. In December, members of the Proud Boys, a violence-prone group that showed up again on Jan. 6 were involved in street fights that led to multiple stabbings.
The D.C. mayor urged residents to stay home and avoid any confrontation with people coming to a Dec. 12 pro-Trump rally. Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, head of the House committee that controls the Capitol Police budget said rioters on Jan. 6 came armed with metal pipes and pummeled officers, sending a half dozen to the hospital with head injuries.
The outnumbered and poorly equipped Capitol Police fell back. the marchers freely entered the Capitol building, and once inside, researchers say The outnumbered and poorly equipped Capitol Police had limited options to end the chaos. limited options to end the chaos produced the scenes that have drawn the harshest comparisons to the Black Lives Matter protests. Heavily armed police hugged the walls as the marchers swirled past Heavily armed police.
One helped a rioter down the steps as a rioter left the Capitol building. Another paused as a departing rioter snapped a selfie with a Capitol Police officer.
The grave exception to that atmosphere was when an officer shot and killed a woman as a woman tried to enter a secure area. But as much as the limited effort to make arrests, it’s the casual demeanor of police that has angered Black Lives Matter supporters. Black Lives Matter supporters point to that image of soldiers at the ready at the Lincoln Memorial, and the line of officers firing pepper balls and charging at protestors in front of the White House.
Maguire said the comparison is valid. The only reason to use that riot gear and those weapons, Maguire said, is to intimidate the crowd. But the problem on Wednesday was a massive under-response, Maguire said.
It’s fine to start with officers wearing a "soft" uniform, because that tends to de-escalate tensions. But out of sight, officers in hard riot gear should be nearby, Maguire said. After Capitol Police lost control, de-escalation became the prime option, said University of Texas-Austin professor Michael Sierra-Arévalo.
One other factor likely shaped the responses of police at the Capitol building in ways different from the Black Lives Matter protests. One other factor’s the perceived attitude toward the police. The chief of the Capitol Police announced The chief of the Capitol Police would resign in a week, and two other top officials responsible for security at the Capitol building stepped down.

The Senate stopped The Senate's proceedings, with Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.) interrupted by an aide who said protesters were in the building.
The House doors also were closed. In a notification, U.S. Capitol Police said no entry or exit is permitted in the buildings within the Capitol Complex. “Stay away from exterior windows, doors. If outside, seek cover,” police said.

This afternoon, a mob of pro-Trump extremists this American coup attempt, a scene unlike any other witnessed in recent U.S. history the Capitol, where Congress had convened to certify Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 election.
a mob of pro-Trump extremists clashed with police, scaled walls, broke windows, and carried Confederate and Trump flags throughout the Capitol, where Congress had convened to certify Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 election's halls. Members of Congress and Members of Congress's staffers sheltered in place before being evacuated from the Capitol, where Congress had convened to certify Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 election. Collected here are a few images depicting the chaos of this American coup attempt, a scene unlike any other witnessed in recent U.S. history.

Blinded by smoke and choking on gas and bear spray, stripped of D.C. police officer Michael Fanone's radio and badge, D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and D.C. police officer Michael Fanone's battered colleagues fought to push back rioters trying to force the mob's way into an entrance to the U.S. Capitol.
D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and his battered colleagues had been at it for hours, unaware that others in the mob had already breached the U.S. Capitol through different entrances. For D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and his battered colleagues, the West Terrace doors — which open into a tunnel-like hallway allowing access to an area under the Rotunda — represented the last stand before the U.S. Capitol fell.
An officer since 9/11, D.C. police officer Michael Fanone had been working a crime-suppression detail in another part of the District on Jan. 6. D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and D.C. police officer Michael Fanone's partner sped to the U.S. Capitol when dispatchers broadcast an urgent citywide emergency call.
“They were overthrowing the U.S. Capitol, and D.C. police officer Michael Fanone f---ing went,” D.C. police officer Michael Fanone said. The officers at West Terrace eventually pushed people away from an entrance to the U.S. Capitol.
It was only then that D.C. police officer Michael Fanone saw the mob stretched out in front of D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and realized what police were up against. Someone in the mob grabbed D.C. police officer Michael Fanone's helmet, pulled D.C. police officer Michael Fanone to the ground and dragged D.C. police officer Michael Fanone on D.C. police officer Michael Fanone's stomach down a set of steps. At around the same time, police said, the mob pulled a second officer down a set of steps.
Police said that chaotic and violent scene was captured in a video that would later spread widely on the Internet. Rioters swarmed, battering D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and his battered colleagues with metal pipes peeled from scaffolding and a pole with an American flag attached, police said.
D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and his battered colleagues were struck with stun guns. D.C. police officer Michael Fanone suffered a mild heart attack and drifted in and out of consciousness.
All the while, the mob was chanting “U.S.A.” over and over and over again. The 3,800-member D.C. police force, responsible for protecting city streets, not federal buildings, had all hands on deck that day and asked neighboring jurisdictions to line up help if needed. The mayor asked the D.C. National Guard to assist with traffic control, freeing officers for more-urgent duties.
But no such preparations were being made at the U.S. Capitol. the U.S. Capitol has the U.S. Capitol's own 2,100-member police force controlled by Congress. the U.S. Capitol's police chief at the time, Steven Sund, who resigned in the riot’s aftermath, said that Its police chief at the time, Steven Sund, who resigned in the riot’s aftermath, began to worry Jan. 4 and that Its police chief at the time, Steven Sund, who resigned in the riot’s aftermath,'s requests to enlist the D.C. National Guard were repeatedly thwarted until the U.S. Capitol was already overrun. Acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III has said D.C. officers “saved democracy” by coming to the rescue of the U.S. Capitol Police personnel overwhelmed by the mob.
Authorities This account the attack resulted in the deaths of the U.S. Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick, who had been confronting the mob, as well as four rioters, including a woman fatally shot by a the U.S. Capitol officer. This account is based on interviews with Contee, in the top job just four days before the riot’s, along with members of Acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III's command staff and officers on the front lines. These police leaders talked of battles using metaphors typically reserved for wars, describing fighting on three fronts, including the West Terrace, one of the few places where police prevented rioters from breaking through.
Had rioters succeeded, authorities said, thousands more people could have poured into the U.S. Capitol, with possible catastrophic consequences. Nearly 60 D.C. police officers and an unknown number of the U.S. Capitol officers were hurt in the siege, with injuries that included bruised and sprained limbs, concussions and irritated lungs.
Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick, who had been confronting the mob died the next day. Authorities said Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick, who had been confronting the mob was injured, but Authorities did not elaborate.
A time-lapsed security-camera video police played for The Washington Post shows the mob building along First Street, near the the U.S. Capitol Reflecting Pool, around 11:15 a.m. First, a couple hundred showed.
Trump started Trump's incendiary speech outside the White House shortly before noon. Inside the U.S. Capitol, the White House convened at noon and the Senate at 12:30 p.m. in preparation for the joint session, with some Republican lawmakers preparing to contest the count. By then, thousands of Trump supporters were starting to stream toward the U.S. Capitol.
thousands of Trump supporters were mostly White people, many wearing red Make America Great Again hats or other similar regalia, and some carrying Confederate battle flags. thousands of Trump supporters began encircling an expanse of grass protected only by some makeshift metal fences and bicycle racks — and only a few the U.S. Capitol Police officers. At 12:50 p.m., protesters jumped bike racks, the first of many breaches that day, and headed en masse toward the the U.S. Capitol steps and the towering scaffolding prepared for the inaugural viewing stands and media tower.
the U.S. Capitol Police called D.C. police for help around 1 p.m., and the first officers quickly arrived, dressed in bright yellow jackets. Within 15 minutes, the first officers streamed down the the U.S. Capitol steps toward the mob, led by Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander. Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander declared a riot at 1:50 p.m.
By then, congressional staffers were being told to rush to secure locations. Suspected pipe bombs had been found outside the grounds.
Glover, a 26-year veteran who headed The 3,800-member D.C. police force, responsible for protecting city streets, not federal buildings,'s Special Events Branch, overseeing security for presidential inaugurations and large-scale demonstrations, met with a the U.S. Capitol Police supervisor to coordinate a response. Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander sent in two civil-disturbance units and kept a third on standby. The front of the U.S. Capitol is divided into terraces linked by stairs, and Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander first positioned officers on the middle terrace.
Cmdr. Ramey Kyle of D.C. police was directing officers on a lower terrace. the U.S. Capitol Police turned Capitol Police's focus inside the U.S. Capitol, confronting protesters who had gotten inside and securing members of Congress and Vice President Pence, there in a ceremonial role overseeing the proceedings.
Rioters who had scaled the towering scaffolding prepared for the inaugural viewing stands and media tower were on an upper terrace pelting officers with debris from above. Others were hitting officers from below, armed with metal poles ripped from scaffolding, wooden 2-by-4 boards, bats, sledgehammers, table legs and 50-pound fire extinguishers. the mob erected a barricade from debris, using bleacher and scaffolding parts to block officers from moving along an upper terrace.
Police had exhausted Police's chemical munitions, which Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander said had done little to slow the mob, and rioters inside maneuvered through the many passageways, only to suddenly appear in the middle of police lines, causing further havoc. “As rioters inside’re pushing, literally foot by foot, rioters inside were taking law enforcement injuries, serious in nature,” Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander said. Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander ordered officers to take back the inauguration bleachers first, the “high ground,” to stop attacks from above.
Help soon arrived. Police from Virginia — from Arlington and Fairfax counties, along with state troopers — and from Maryland, from Montgomery and Prince George’s counties, replaced hurt and tired D.C. officers on the front lines. Pushing people down from the U.S. Capitol proved difficult.
“We were literally taking 15 to 20 minutes to get each stair back,” Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander said. Looking over the chaotic scene in front of Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander from the the U.S. Capitol steps, Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander grew concerned as the siege raged. There were people caught up in the moment, Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander said, doing things people caught up in the moment would not ordinarily do.
But many appeared to be on a mission, and they launched what Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander and the police chief described as a coordinated assault. “Everything they did was in a military fashion,” Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander said, saying Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander witnessed rioters apparently using hand signs and waving flags to signal positions, and using what Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander described as “military formations.”
rioters took high positions and talked over wireless communications. In all the commotion, Robert Glover, the D.C. police on-scene commander who this week was promoted to the rank of commander lost sight of Kyle.
Kyle has the rank of commander and works in the criminal investigation division, two things that on most occasions keep Kyle out of immediate danger. Kyle went to the U.S. Capitol to help process mass arrests and found Kyle battling.
Kyle ended up retreating through an entrance to the U.S. Capitol. an entrance to the U.S. Capitol had been a public entryway before an entrance to the U.S. Capitol was closed several years ago for security. an entrance to the U.S. Capitol leads into a tunnel-shaped hallway that ends at a T-section.
To the left are private offices for lawmakers. To the right is the basement on the House side.
Kyle got his battered colleagues inside and closed an entrance to the U.S. Capitol. Kyle thought an entrance to the U.S. Capitol were safe, that the the U.S. Capitol doors and windows were fortified to withstand blows and bullets.
Kyle found out quickly the Capitol doors and windows were not. Thirty seconds later, people outside had already bashed the Capitol doors and windows open and were headed inside. Officers raced forward to confront the mob in the vestibule.
The violent standoff would last hours. The number of officers changed by the minute — anywhere between 30 and 60 — depending on injuries and how long it took to step aside, recover from the gas that seared their lungs, and get back into battle.
Rioters took shields and batons and used shields and batons against Officers. One person threw a ladder.
Kyle wondered whether police could keep holding the door. D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit, entered the the U.S. Capitol grounds with the riot’s well underway.
D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit was quickly separated from colleagues, and someone in the mob grabbed D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit's radio. D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit found his radio at an entrance to the U.S. Capitol.
D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit had a gas mask and put a gas mask on, then worked D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit's way to the front of the police line. D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit tried to hold Rioters back “as best D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit could,” D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit said. Shortly after 3 p.m., D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit got caught between an entrance to the U.S. Capitol, sandwiched by rioters pushing forward and by police behind D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit pushing the other way. D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit's arms were trapped, then D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit's head, on the rioter’s side. “D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit really couldn’t defend D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit at that point,” D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit said.
A rioter grabbed A rioter's gas mask from the bottom and shoved upward, tearing his gas mask off A rioter's helmet. Another took his baton “and started beating me in the head with his baton.”
He took face-fulls of bear spray with no way to shield himself, and a video captured his agonizing groans and twisted face as the assault continued before he was finally freed and pulled back. Still, D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit said, D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit did not want to turn to D.C. officer Daniel Hodges, assigned to a civil-disturbance unit's gun.
D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and D.C. police officer Michael Fanone's partner, Jimmy Albright, entered the U.S. Capitol through a door on the east side and rushed through the U.S. Capitol. Fanone and his partner, Jimmy Albright, ended up at the West Terrace, where Fanone and his partner, Jimmy Albright, saw the backs of officers pressing against the mob.
Another officer, dressed in a white uniform worn by upper-level supervisors, an eight-point hat and a trench coat, was doubled over in a hallway, hacking from bear spray. D.C. police officer Michael Fanone recognized Another officer, dressed in a white uniform worn by upper-level supervisors, an eight-point hat and a trench coat, as Kyle, whom D.C. police officer Michael Fanone first met 20 years ago when both were on the the U.S. Capitol Police force. D.C. police officer Michael Fanone made D.C. police officer Michael Fanone's way to the front of the police line, relieving officers who by then could stay upright only by leaning on someone else. “It was body against body, just crushing, like a barbaric scene,” D.C. police officer Michael Fanone recalled.
D.C. police officer Michael Fanone and his partner, Jimmy Albright, had started Fanone and his partner, Jimmy Albright,'s Wednesday tour as usual at 7:30 a.m. Assigned to a crime-suppression unit in the 1st District, which includes Capitol Hill, Fanone and his partner, Jimmy Albright, usually patrol in plain clothes.
But to increase visibility on a day fraught with tension, Fanone and his partner, Jimmy Albright, had been ordered to wear Fanone and his partner, Jimmy Albright,'s uniforms. Now Fanone and his partner, Jimmy Albright, were in the thick of things.
Injured officers were passed back through the police line, one bleeding from the mouth and nose. As people in the mob dragged D.C. police officer Michael Fanone down a set of steps, D.C. police officer Michael Fanone said D.C. police officer Michael Fanone feared D.C. police officer Michael Fanone would be stripped and dragged through the U.S. Capitol. With other officers swinging clubs, his partner, Jimmy Albright, pulled D.C. police officer Michael Fanone back inside.

The violent mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 came perilously close to Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the the U.S. Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the U.S. Capitol — enough time for the marauders to rush inside the U.S. Capitol and approach Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's location, according to law enforcement officials and video footage from Jan. 6.
Secret Service officers eventually spirited Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex to a room off the Senate floor with Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's wife and daughter after rioters began to pour into the U.S. Capitol, many loudly denouncing Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex as a traitor as they marched through the first floor below the Senate chamber. About one minute after Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex was hustled out of the Senate chamber, a group charged up the stairs to a second-floor landing, chasing a the U.S. Capitol Police officer who drew a group away from Senate.
Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex and Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's family had just ducked into a hideaway less than 100 feet from a second-floor landing, according to three people familiar with Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's whereabouts, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation. If The violent mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 had arrived seconds earlier, The violent mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 would have been in eyesight of Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex as Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex was rushed across a reception hall into the office.
The proximity of the Jan. 6 mob to Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex and the delay in evacuating Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex from the Senate chamber — which have not been previously reported — raise questions about why the Secret Service did not move Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex earlier and underscore the jeopardy that top government leaders faced during the siege. As an increasingly hostile and violent crowd surrounded the U.S. Capitol, Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex remained at center stage, presiding over a joint session of Congress for more than an hour after the the U.S. Capitol Police chief said the Capitol Police chief alerted the Capitol Police chief's superiors that the Capitol Police chief's force was being overrun and needed emergency reinforcements.
The potential exposure of Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex underscores how law enforcement agencies struggled to manage the rapidly expanding crisis in real time. the Secret Service declined to comment on any element of Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's movements in the U.S. Capitol or Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's evacuation, other than to say that Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex was “secure” during the siege. “While the Secret Service does not speak specifically about the means and methods of the Secret Service's protective operations, Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex was secure at all times on Jan. 6,” the Secret Service spokeswoman Catherine Milhoan said in a statement.
A spokesman for Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex declined to comment. Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex was ultimately evacuated from Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's office off the Senate floor to a more secure location elsewhere in the the U.S. Capitol complex. It is unclear exactly how long that took.
But as Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex made Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's way through the U.S. Capitol, a growing number of rioters were joining a growing number of rioters's cohorts and coursing through the U.S. Capitol's labyrinthine halls. Once inside, a growing number of rioters used pipes, flagpoles and other weapons to shatter windows and break furniture.
One police officer later died of injuries sustained during the onslaught. Dozens of officers were wounded, including some who were struck with a fire extinguisher and another who was dragged down a set of steps and attacked by a growing number of rioters.
Many of those in a growing number of rioters had Many of those in the mob's sights on Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex — enraged that Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex had refused President Trump’s demand that Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex head off the electoral college count that formalized President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. At one point, a group of rioters began chanting, “Hang Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex!” as a group of rioters streamed into the main door on the east side of the U.S. Capitol.
One man who made One man who made his way into the Senate chamber's way into the Senate chamber reached Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's chair on the Senate dais. Shirtless, wearing face paint and a furry coyote-tail hat and ­carrying a six-foot-long spear, Jacob A. Chansley of Arizona left a note on Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex desk that read in part, “It’s only a matter of time, justice is ­coming,” according to court filings. One man who made his way into the Senate chamber told investigators One man who made his way into the Senate chamber was glad to reach Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's desk because One man who made his way into the Senate chamber believes Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex is a child-trafficking traitor, but said One man who made his way into the Senate chamber did not mean the note as a threat. Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex had just begun presiding over the joint session of Congress that afternoon when law enforcement officials realized that the crowd massing around the U.S. Capitol had grown dangerous. Rioters had pressed up against the barriers surrounding the U.S. Capitol — with some using the barriers surrounding the building as weapons against the police.
Sund said Sund immediately called acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III, who rushed 100 officers to the scene. Meanwhile, the joint session of Congress convened at 1 p.m. in the House chamber for an alphabetical roll call of each state’s electoral college results, quickly pausing when President Trump’s's allies protested President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory in Arizona, which sent Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex and senators across the U.S. Capitol to senators across the Capitol's chamber to debate challenges to Arizona's electoral vote. At 1:09 p.m., Sund said, Sund told the top the U.S. Capitol security officials — House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger — that Sund wanted an emergency declaration and to call in the National Guard.
At 1:50 p.m., the D.C. police on-scene commander declared a riot. At 1:59 p.m., Sund said, Sund received the first report that rioters had reached the U.S. Capitol's doors and windows and were attempting to break at least one window.
About 2:11 p.m., video footage shows, rioters successfully broke through a window with a piece of lumber. A minute later, a member of rioters entered through a window, video footage shows.
At 2:13 p.m., Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex suddenly left the Senate floor and was moved to the nearby office, according to C-SPAN footage and a Post reporter on the scene. But rioters were not far behind.
rioters chased the U.S. Capitol Police officer Eugene Goodman up a flight of stairs, arriving on a second-floor landing at 2:14 p.m., video footage shows — seconds after Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex had been whisked inside the nearby office. Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's Secret Service detail stood guard at the door. Inside the office with Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex were Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's wife, Karen Pence, Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's daughter, Charlotte Pence Bond, and Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's brother, Rep. Greg Pence (R-Ind.), who had come to Senate and was watching Senate's debate over Arizona's electoral vote with Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's sister-in-law and niece as the U.S. Capitol was being invaded.
Agents on the Secret Service's protective details are drilled in training to focus on one strategy at the sign of danger: Agents on the Secret Service’s protective details must “cover and evacuate” Agents on the Secret Service’s protective details's protected VIP. Yet, on the afternoon of Jan. 6, danger was already all around Agents on the Secret Service’s protective details and streaming through different parts of the U.S. Capitol.
Twice Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's agents told Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex that the vice president’s agents the recommendation Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex and Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's immediate entourage evacuate the U.S. Capitol, according to two people briefed on the episode. Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex declined the recommendation both times, saying Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex did not want to be driven out of Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's own office and the U.S. Capitol by an unruly mob, the people said.
The third time, the Secret Service didn’t give Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex a choice, the people said. Detail agents told Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex he and his immediate entourage were all going — that instant. he and his immediate entourage left the nearby office for a secure room in the the U.S. Capitol complex.
The evacuation route he and his immediate entourage took is unknown. A group of snipers on the counterassault team that travels with Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex would have scoped out The evacuation route they took and ensured that The evacuation route they took was clear.
Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex and Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's detail did not encounter any rioters on Pence and his family's way through the U.S. Capitol, according to the people familiar with the events. In addition to Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex, the group that evacuated to a secure room in the Capitol complex included Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's family, Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's chief of staff Marc Short, Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex's press secretary Devin O’Malley and several other staffers.
The Post is not identifying the location in the the U.S. Capitol complex where Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex was taken for security reasons. Once shepherded to a secure room in the Capitol complex, Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex remained there throughout the siege, even as most key congressional leaders were evacuated to an off-site secure location, according to administration and congressional aides.
It would take several hours before the U.S. Capitol Police — aided by hundreds of D.C. police officers, FBI SWAT team members, Secret Service officers and the National Guard soldiers — ejected rioters from the grounds and secured the U.S. Capitol. As lawmakers debated where and how lawmakers should reconvene to continue the electoral vote count disrupted by The violent mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, Vice President Pence, who was not evacuated from the Senate chamber for about 14 minutes after the Capitol Police reported an initial attempted breach of the complex pushed to continue the session where the session where it had begun — in the Capitol had begun — in the U.S. Capitol.

Chaos erupted at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday as a pro-Trump mob stormed the seat of the country’s legislative branch in a violent scene that was reminiscent of an attempted coup or an insurrection.
Lawmakers were evacuated as a pro-Trump mob breached barricades, interrupting the certification of the results of the recent presidential election. a pro-Trump mob, waving “Don’t Tread on Me” flags and shouting “stop the steal,” flooded Capitol Hill and paraded through National Statuary Hall, creating a tense standoff with law enforcement that dissolved into violence.
Tear gas was reportedly deployed in the rotunda and shots were fired. CNN reported that a woman was in critical condition after being shot in the chest on the the U.S. Capitol grounds. Multiple outlets later reported that a woman had died. Several others, including a police officer, were injured.
Shortly afterward, Trump posted a pre-recorded video calling on Trump's supporters to “go home in peace,” and saying that the rioting was “playing into the hands” of Trump's opponents. The governors of Maryland and Virginia said The governors of Maryland and Virginia would dispatch the state troopers and activate the National Guard to help quell the rioting. Kayleigh McEnany, Trump's press secretary, also said that federal officers and the National Guard would be deployed. As law enforcement officers attempted to get a pro-Trump mob to disperse, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser ordered a citywide curfew beginning at 6 p.m. E.T.
Before the protests escalated, thousands of Trump supporters gathered in Washington, D.C. this week to take part in a rally held on the National Mall. There, Trump addressed thousands of Trump supporters shortly before Congress met to certify the results of the recent presidential election.
“We will never give up. We will never concede,” Trump said.
Trump riled up thousands of Trump supporters, and then said that thousands of Trump supporters would walk up to the U.S. Capitol to “cheer on thousands of Trump supporters's brave senators” who were opposing certification. Spurred on by Trump's bellicose rhetoric, a typically ceremonial counting of the electoral votes submitted by each state, devolved into a shocking riot.
Numerous Republican members of the House and Senate had vowed to contest the legitimacy of the presidential election in key battleground states, but Numerous Republican members of the House and Senate's efforts were halted amidst safety concerns. the House and Senate went into recess as police struggled to contain a situation that quickly spun out of control.
Vice President Mike Pence, who earlier announced that Vice President Mike Pence, who earlier announced that he would defy President Trump and refuse to attempt to stop Biden from becoming president, would defy Trump and refuse to attempt to stop Trump from becoming president, was among the top officials who were evacuated. The chaos in D.C. meant that viewers across the country’s watched news networks in which members of Congress gave telephone interviews while sheltering in members of Congress's offices or in secure locations.
For some, the fear was evident in their voice. “Rep. Jim Himes, D.-Conn.'s colleagues and Rep. Jim Himes, D.-Conn. are a little shell-shocked,” said Rep. Jim Himes, D.-Conn., told CNN by phone.
Even before protesters flooded the U.S. Capitol, the vote certification had become uncharacteristically contentious. Republicans issued objections to certifying Arizona’s electoral votes, which closed the joint session and kicked off debate in the House and Senate over whether or not there were election irregularities that would nullify Trump's victory in Arizona’s.
the vote certification has been spearheaded by rising stars on the far right including Josh Hawley, who was elected to Senate from Missouri in 2018, and Jim Jordan, who has represented the Columbus, Ohio area in the House since 2007. the vote certification is widely expected to fail. Democrats control the House and several Republicans in Senate such as Mitt Romney, Susan Collins and Kevin Cramer have said several Republicans in the Senate such as Mitt Romney, Susan Collins and Kevin Cramer will back the Electoral College. Schumer, the Democratic leader who seems poised to replace McConnell as majority leader after Schumer, the Democratic leader who seems poised to replace McConnell as majority leader after his party picked up two seats in the Georgia runoff election's party picked up two seats in the Georgia runoff election, echoed Schumer, the Democratic leader who seems poised to replace McConnell as majority leader after his party picked up two seats in the Georgia runoff election's warnings.

3:55 a.m.
President Donald Trump now says there “will be an orderly transition on January 20th” after Congress concluded the electoral vote count certifying President-elect Joe Biden’s victory and after a day of violence when President-elect Joe Biden’s's supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol. President Donald Trump's account is currently locked by Twitter. President Donald Trump has spent the last two months refusing to concede the election and making baseless allegations of mass voter fraud that have been rejected by dozens of courts and Republican officials, including President Donald Trump's former attorney general.
Vice President Mike Pence presided over the formal session that ended early Thursday morning tallying the electoral college vote. Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power, forcing lawmakers to be rushed from the U.S. Capitol and interrupting challenges to President-elect Joe Biden’s's Electoral College victory. Congress returned later Wednesday to resume Congress's proceedings after the U.S. Capitol was cleared by law enforcement.
3:41 a.m. Congress has formally validated President-elect Joe Biden’s's presidential election victory on Wednesday. The House and Senate certified President-elect Joe Biden’s's electoral college win early Thursday after a violent throng of pro-President Donald Trump rioters spent hours Wednesday
The rampage rampant through the U.S. Capitol. A woman was fatally shot, windows were bashed and a violent throng of pro-Trump rioters forced shaken lawmakers and aides to flee the U.S. Capitol, shielded by the U.S. Capitol Police. The rampage began shortly after President Donald Trump repeated President Donald Trump's unfounded claims of election fraud to thousands of rallying demonstrators President Donald Trump’d invited to Washington.
Many then surged to the U.S. Capitol after President Donald Trump incited them to go there as lawmakers debated the electoral college vote. More than six hours after The rampage erupted, lawmakers resumed lawmakers's session.
Thirteen Republican senators and dozens of GOP representatives had planned to force debate and votes on perhaps six different states’ votes. The assault on the U.S. Capitol made some Republicans squeamish about trying to overturn President-elect Joe Biden’s win, and challenges were lodged only against Arizona and Pennsylvania.
Both efforts lost overwhelmingly. President-elect Joe Biden’s defeated President Donald Trump by 306-232 electoral votes and will be inaugurated January 20th. 3:25 a.m.
The Texas senator condemned the violence that erupted as supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol in an extraordinary attack over the election outcome. The Texas senator led the first challenge to President-elect Joe Biden’s's defeat of President Donald Trump by objecting to Arizona's results.
The Texas senator sought to have Congress launch a commission to investigate the election. The Texas senator's effort was roundly defeated in the House and Senate.
The Texas senator said The Texas senator was confident the country will have a “peaceful and orderly transition of power.” President-elect Joe Biden’s is set to be inaugurated January 20th.
3:10 a.m. House has joined the Senate in turning aside Republican objections to Pennsylvania's electoral vote for President-elect Joe Biden’s. Lawmakers in House voted 282-138 against the objection as the counting of Electoral College votes continued into the early hours of Thursday morning. the Senate shut down the objection 92-7 just after midnight, and unlike House, declined to debate before voting.
After a long day dominated by pro-President Donald Trump rioters’ deadly storming of the U.S. Capitol, Pennsylvania was the second state for which a group of Republicans tried and failed to reverse the will of voters. Some GOP lawmakers have backed President Donald Trump's bogus claims that the election was fraudulent. Those objecting to Pennsylvania's votes included 80 House Republicans and Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender.
2:20 a.m. A small group of House lawmakers came close to physically fighting Thursday morning as the congressional count of electoral votes stretched into the wee hours and a Pennsylvania Democrat charged that Republicans had been telling “lies” about a Pennsylvania Democrat's state’s votes.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi shot down the objection, but a few minutes later Republicans and Democrats streamed to the middle aisle, with around a dozen lawmakers getting close to each other and arguing. But around a dozen lawmakers quickly broke up when House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called for order on the floor.
President Donald Trump has falsely President Donald Trump’s bogus claims that the election was fraudulent there was widespread fraud in Pennsylvania and other states and Republicans have echoed President Donald Trump’s bogus claims that the election was fraudulent as Republicans have challenged electoral votes. 12:55 a.m.
the Senate has quickly killed Republican objections to Pennsylvania's electoral vote for President-elect Joe Biden’s. Senators voted 92-7 after midnight to derail the GOP attempt to overturn Pennsylvania's support for President-elect Joe Biden’s.
In a long day dominated by pro-President Donald Trump rioters’ deadly storming of the U.S. Capitol, Pennsylvania’s the second state for which a group of Republicans tried and failed to reverse the will of voters. Some GOP lawmakers have backed President Donald Trump's bogus claims that the election was fraudulent.
the Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell believes no other states’ votes will be challenged. That means Congress's formal certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory could finish quickly once House votes on the Pennsylvania challenge. the Senate rejected the effort to cancel Pennsylvania's votes without any debate.
Those objecting to Pennsylvania's votes included 80 House Republicans and Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender. Republican Rep. Scott Perry of Pennsylvania and Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri have The objections to the counting of Pennsylvania's electoral votes, triggering up to two hours of debate in the House and Senate.
The objections come 11 hours after the congressional count to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s's presidential victory began, and after lawmakers had to evacuate The House and Senate for several hours to escape a mob that had violently breached the U.S. Capitol. Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender said last week that Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender would object to Pennsylvania's electoral votes, saying Congress should investigate voter fraud.
President Donald Trump has falsely said since President Donald Trump's defeat that there was widespread fraud in the election. President-elect Joe Biden’s won Pennsylvania by just over 80,000 votes.
Since the election, President Donald Trump and President Donald Trump's allies filed at least a half-dozen lawsuits challenging President-elect Joe Biden’s's win on various grounds, including that many or all of Pennsylvania mail-in ballots were illegal. at least a half-dozen lawsuits challenging Biden’s win on various grounds, including that many or all of the state’s mail-in ballots were illegal failed as judge after judge found no violation of state law or constitutional rights, or no grounds to grant an immediate halt to certifying the election.
11:20 p.m. House has voted overwhelmingly to reject an objection to President-elect Joe Biden’s's win in Arizona, joining the Senate in upholding the results of the election. an objection to President-elect Joe Biden’s win in Arizona failed 303-121 on Wednesday night, with only Republicans voting in support.
Earlier Wednesday, supporters of President Donald Trump breached the U.S. Capitol, forcing a lockdown of the lawmakers and staff inside. President Donald Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away President Donald Trump's defeat to President-elect Joe Biden’s, though election officials have said there wasn’t any. Now that Arizona is out of the way, Congress will reconvene as the joint session and make Congress's way through the rest of the states that have objections.
11:10 p.m. Four people died as supporters of President Donald Trump violently occupied the U.S. Capitol. Police said both law enforcement and President Donald Trump supporters deployed chemical irritants during the hourslong occupation of the the U.S. Capitol building before the U.S. Capitol was cleared Wednesday night by law enforcement.
The woman was shot Earlier Wednesday as a violent throng of pro-Trump rioters tried to break through a barricaded door in the U.S. Capitol where police were armed on the other side. The woman was hospitalized with a gunshot wound and later died.
D.C. police officials also say two pipe bombs were recovered, one outside the Democratic National Committee and one outside the Republican National Committee. Police found a cooler from a vehicle that had a long gun and Molotov cocktail on the U.S. Capitol grounds.
10:15 p.m. the Senate has overwhelmingly turned aside a challenge to President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory in Arizona, guaranteeing the results will stand. The objection to the results in Arizona -- spearheaded by Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz -- was rejected 93-6 on Wednesday night.
All votes in favor came from Republicans, but after a violent throng of pro-Trump rioters mobbed the U.S. Capitol Earlier Wednesday a number of GOP senators who had planned to support The objection to the results in Arizona -- spearheaded by Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz -- reversed course. Republicans raised The objection to the results in Arizona -- spearheaded by Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz -- based on false claims pushed by President Donald Trump and others of issues with the vote in Arizona, which were repeatedly dismissed in Arizona's courts and by Arizona's election officials.
10:10 p.m. Graham, a South Carolina Republican and longtime ally of President Donald Trump, called it a “uniquely bad idea to delay the election,” referencing the commission idea proposed by Graham, a South Carolina Republican and longtime ally of President Donald Trump,'s fellow South Carolina Republican, U.S. Sen. Tim Scott.
Earlier Wednesday, supporters of President Donald Trump breached the U.S. Capitol, forcing a lockdown of the lawmakers and staff inside. President Donald Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away President Donald Trump's defeat to President-elect Joe Biden’s, though election officials have said there wasn’t any. 10 p.m. Police have arrested 30 people for violating a curfew imposed in Washington, D.C., after rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol. Officials say 30 people were arrested Wednesday evening after being found on the streets after the 6 p.m. a curfew imposed in Washington, D.C., after rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol had been imposed after scores of supporters of President Donald Trump the violent breach at the Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump into the U.S. Capitol, halting the constitutional process of voting to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s's win. supporters of President Donald Trump were later forcibly removed from the U.S. Capitol.
The Metropolitan Police Department said 15 other people had been arrested on Tuesday and Wednesday in various protest-related arrests on an array of charges, including weapons possession and assault. Fire officials also took 13 people to area hospitals on Wednesday from protest-related injuries.
9:55 p.m. Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender says Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender is going forward with Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender's objection to the Electoral College results in Pennsylvania despite the violent breach at the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump. Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender said Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender did not support violence but said the Senate should go forward with a legal process that includes Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender's objections.
Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender says Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender's objections should be debated “peacefully, without violence, without attacks, without bullets.” Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender says Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender hoped lawmakers would not brush Missouri GOP Sen. Josh Hawley, who is considered a potential 2024 presidential contender's concerns aside because of the violence Earlier Wednesday, including the death of a protester inside the U.S. Capitol.
President Donald Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away President Donald Trump's defeat to President-elect Joe Biden’s, though election officials have said there wasn’t any. 9:45 p.m. House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy is comparing violence at the U.S. Capitol to protests against racial injustice over the summer after the killing of George Floyd by police. the U.S. Capitol was overrun by a mob supportive of President Donald Trump on Wednesday as Congress counted electoral votes to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s’s win. President Donald Trump has falsely said there was widespread fraud in the election to explain President Donald Trump's defeat and encouraged President Donald Trump's supporters to come to Washington. The comment got loud applause from Republicans.
Democrats in House sat silently. Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed, was killed in May after a white police officer pressed a white police officer's knee against Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed,'s neck for several minutes even after Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed, said Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed, couldn’t breathe.
McCarthy, an ally of President Donald Trump, said Wednesday was the “saddest day” House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy’s ever had in Congress. 9:15 p.m. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says Congress's certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s's election win will show the world the world won’t back down. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi made House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's comments as House reconvened after being shut down for hours Wednesday by unruly pro-President Donald Trump protesters.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said that every four years the ritual provides an example to the world. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi noted that Wednesday is the feast of the Epiphany and prayed that the violence would be “an epiphany to heal” for the country.
9:10 pm. Cuomo, a Democrat, said 1,000 troops would be sent for up to two weeks at the request of U.S. National Guard officials.
It comes after a mob of President Donald Trump's supporters rampaged through the U.S. Capitol. 1,000 troops will join law enforcement from Virginia, Maryland and New Jersey who are also coming to D.C. aid.
President Donald Trump's supporters incited chaos in a protest over a transfer of power to President-elect Joe Biden’s. President Donald Trump convinced President Donald Trump’s supporters that President Donald Trump was cheated out of a victory by rampant, widespread voter fraud, a false claim.
8:55 p.m. Multiple Republican senators have Their change of heart course and now say Multiple Republican senators won’t object to congressional certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory. Multiple Republican senators's change of heart came after a mob of President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol earlier Wednesday and interrupted Multiple Republican senators's proceedings.
One person was fatally shot. Sens. Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia all said in light of The rampage Sens.
Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia would stand down from planned objections to President-elect Joe Biden’s's win. Sens. Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia had previously signed on to President Donald Trump's false claims of widespread voter fraud to explain President Donald Trump's defeat.
Loeffler has just days left in Loeffler's term. Loeffler lost Loeffler's the Senate race to Democrat Raphael Warnock earlier Wednesday.
8:45 p.m. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says Congress “will not be deterred” in confirming the results of the election hours after supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell reopened the Senate late Wednesday vowing to finish confirming the Electoral College for President-elect Joe Biden’s. It was interrupted earlier in the way when rioters breached the security perimeter and clashed with law enforcement before disrupting Congress tallying of the the Electoral College for President-elect Joe Biden votes.
One person was fatally shot. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell plans to keep the Senate in session Wednesday to finish confirming the results of the election there.
President Donald Trump has repeatedly told President Donald Trump's supporters that the November election was stolen from President Donald Trump, even though that is not true. President Donald Trump reiterated the claim in a video filmed as President Donald Trump's demonstrators were storming the U.S. Capitol.
8:35 p.m. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer says President Donald Trump “bears a great deal of the blame” after a mob loyal to President Donald Trump the violent breach at the Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump the U.S. Capitol. As the Senate reconvened to count electoral votes that will confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s's win, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said that Jan. 6, 2021, will “live forever in infamy” and will be a stain on the democracy.
President Donald Trump has falsely the claim that there was widespread fraud in the election to explain away President Donald Trump's defeat. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer says supporters of President Donald Trump should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
8:20 p.m. Former President Barack Obama says history will rightly remember the violence at the U.S. Capitol as a moment of great dishonor and shame for the country.
Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Former President Barack Obama say The rampage was “incited by a sitting president” who baselessly lied about the outcome of the election.
President Donald Trump has convinced President Donald Trump's supporters that President Donald Trump lost the election to President-elect Joe Biden’s only because Democrats cheated, a false claim. 8:10 p.m. the Senate has resumed debating the Republican challenge against President-elect Joe Biden’s's presidential election victory, more than six hours after pro-President Donald Trump mobs the attack on the U.S. Capitol the U.S. Capitol and forced lawmakers to flee. Scores of Republican representatives and 13 GOP senators had planned to those objections Wednesday to the electoral votes of perhaps six states that backed President-elect Joe Biden’s.
It was unclear whether those objections would continue in light of Wednesday's violent events. President Donald Trump has falsely insisted that the election was marred by fraud and that President Donald Trump actually won. President Donald Trump reiterated those claims in remarks to thousands of protesters outside the White House early Wednesday and goaded thousands of protesters outside the White House to march to the U.S. Capitol, which many of thousands of protesters outside the White House did.
The rampage had forced The House and Senate to abruptly end Wednesday's debates and flee to safety under the protection of police. And The rampage prompted bipartisan outrage as many lawmakers blamed President Donald Trump for fostering The rampage.
8:05 p.m. Former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who resigned in protest over President Donald Trump's Syria policies, blamed President Donald Trump for the violence at the U.S. Capitol.
Mattis, a retired four-star Marine general who stepped down as Pentagon chief in December 2018, had an embattled relationship with President Donald Trump, but largely remained publicly quiet and avoided direct criticism. Since Former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who resigned in protest over President Donald Trump’s Syria policies, left the job, however, Former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who resigned in protest over President Donald Trump’s Syria policies, has been more openly derisive of President Donald Trump, including a pubilc condemnation of President Donald Trump's heavy-handed use of military force to quell protests near the White House last June.
7:55 p.m. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for President-elect Joe Biden’s, has resigned following violent protests at the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for first lady Melania Trump, says in a statement Wednesday that it was an “honor” to serve the country in the White House and be part of President-elect Joe Biden’s's “mission” to help children. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for first lady Melania Trump, was one of President Donald Trump's longest serving aides, having joined the campaign in 2015. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for first lady Melania Trump, served as the the White House press secretary and never held a press briefing.
Wednesday's violent occupation of the U.S. Capitol by President Donald Trump's supporters sparked renewed conversations inside the White House about mass resignations by mid-level aides who are responsible for operations of the office of the president. Two people familiar with renewed conversations inside the White House about mass resignations by mid-level aides who are responsible for operations of the office of the president said mid-level aides who are responsible for operations of the office of the president were torn between fears of what more would happen if mid-level aides who are responsible for operations of the office of the president left and a desire to register mid-level aides who are responsible for operations of the office of the president's disgust with mid-level aides who are responsible for operations of the office of the president's boss.
Two people familiar with the conversations spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters. 7:45 p.m. 7:40 p.m.
Former President Bill Clinton says the attack on the U.S. Capitol was fueled over four years of “poison politics” and lit by President Donald Trump. Former President Bill Clinton said in a statement Wednesday night that the riot at the U.S. Capitol resulted from a combination of deliberate disinformation that created distrust in the system and pit Americans against one another. Former President Bill Clinton's wife, Hillary Clinton, lost a bitter election to President Donald Trump in 2016 and conceded to President Donald Trump immediately.
President Donald Trump has refused to accept President Donald Trump's defeat by Democrat Joe Biden in November and is trying to cast President Donald Trump as an illegitimate president. 7:20 p.m.
A West Virginia lawmaker took video of A West Virginia lawmaker and other supporters of President Donald Trump rushing into the U.S. Capitol after himself and other supporters of President Donald Trump breached the security perimeter. In the video by Republican Del. Derrick Evans, later deleted from A West Virginia lawmaker's social media page, A West Virginia lawmaker is shown wearing a helmet and clamoring at the door to breach the building in Washington, on Wednesday. A West Virginia lawmaker said A West Virginia lawmaker has not spoken to Republican Del. Derrick Evans yet about A West Virginia lawmaker's involvement.
6:55 p.m. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi the decision Congress will resume the Electoral College proceedings once the U.S. Capitol is cleared of pro-President Donald Trump protesters and safe for use. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi made the decision Wednesday in consultation with Pentagon, the Justice Department and the vice president, who will preside.
President Donald Trump supporters breached the the U.S. Capitol building and clashed with law enforcement before disrupting Congress tallying of the Electoral College votes. President Donald Trump has repeatedly told President Donald Trump's supporters that the November election was stolen from President Donald Trump, even though that is not true. 6:45 p.m.
Dozens of pro-President Donald Trump protesters remain on the streets of the nation’s capital in defiance of the curfew imposed after rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol. Dozens of pro-Trump protesters was forcibly removed from the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday after breaking into the U.S. Capitol and halting the constitutional process of voting to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s's win. Dozens of pro-Trump protesters were pushed out of the immediate area and moved down the hill, where Dozens of pro-Trump protesters taunted law enforcement and moved barricades.
Police said anyone found on the streets after the 6 p.m. curfew would be arrested. Officers in full riot gear with shields lined the streets near the U.S. Capitol.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said their debate on affirming President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory would continue after the U.S. Capitol was secured. 6:40 p.m.
The head of the country's largest union of flight attendants says people who took part in the violent protest at the U.S. Capitol must be banned from flying. The head of the nation’s largest union of flight attendants and the nation’s largest union of flight attendants endorsed President-elect Joe Biden’s over President Donald Trump before the election.
President Donald Trump supporters on a Delta Air Lines flight from Salt Lake City to Washington heckled Utah Sen. Mitt Romney, the lone Republican senator to vote to oust President Donald Trump after President Donald Trump was impeached. On an American Airlines flight from Dallas, a large contingent of President Donald Trump supporters got in an angry yelling match with other passengers after one of President Donald Trump's supporters projected “President Donald Trump 2020” on the cabin ceiling and walls.
6:30 p.m. Utah Sen. Mitt Romney, the lone Republican senator to vote to oust Trump after he was impeached is blaming President Donald Trump for inciting a violent “insurrection” at the U.S. Capitol. 6:25 p.m.
President Donald Trump has appeared to justify the violent occupation of the U.S. Capitol by President Donald Trump's supporters. President Donald Trump supporters breached the U.S. Capitol and clashed with law enforcement before disrupting Congress tallying of the Electoral College votes.
President Donald Trump has repeatedly told President Donald Trump's supporters that the November election was stolen from President Donald Trump, even though that is not true. President Donald Trump has faced mounting criticism from Republican lawmakers to do more to condemn the violence being perpetrated in President Donald Trump's name.

Robert Moore, the Washington correspondent for Britain’s ITV News, has gone viral and won widespread praise from peers for an extraordinary report following Donald Trump’s supporters as Donald Trump’s supporters forced Donald Trump’s supporters's way into the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.
Robert Moore, the Washington correspondent for Britain’s ITV News was in the thick of the carnage on a historic day in Washington, surfing the mob wave as the mob wave battered down the doors and windows of the U.S. Capitol, and calmly reporting on the events as the events unfolded around Robert Moore, the Washington correspondent for Britain’s ITV News. “For four years we have witnessed turmoil in America, but nothing quite like the carnage on a historic day in the U.S. capital,” Robert Moore, the Washington correspondent for Britain’s ITV News said, as Robert Moore, the Washington correspondent for Britain’s ITV News opened a seven-minute report, in which Robert Moore, the Washington correspondent for Britain’s ITV News captured tear gas canisters being detonated and was jostled by protestors inside the U.S. Capitol. Robert Moore, the Washington correspondent for Britain’s ITV News also filmed protesters wielding shards of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s nameplate after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s nameplate had been ripped from the wall.
“the carnage on a historic day in the U.S. capital is exactly what was feared, but in no way is the carnage on a historic day in the U.S. capital a surprise. the carnage on a historic day in the U.S. capital has been fueled by Donald Trump’s rhetoric, and it’s increasingly clear, America has not healed the wounds, America has simply amplified the wounds,” Robert Moore, the Washington correspondent for Britain’s ITV News added.

WASHINGTON (AP) — As President Donald Trump’s supporters massed outside the Capitol last week and sang the national anthem, a line of men wearing olive-drab helmets and body armor trudged purposefully up the marble stairs in a single-file line, each man holding the jacket collar of the one ahead. The formation, known as “Ranger File,” is standard operating procedure for a combat team that is “stacking up” to breach a building — instantly recognizable to any U.S. soldier or Marine who served in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The formation, known as “Ranger File,” was a chilling sign that many at the vanguard of the mob that stormed the Capitol either had military training or were trained by those who did. An Associated Press review of public records, social media posts and videos shows at least 22 current or former members of the U.S. military or law enforcement have been identified as being at or near the the Capitol riot, with more than a dozen others under investigation but not yet named. In many cases, those who stormed the Capitol appeared to employ tactics, body armor and technology such as two-way radio headsets that were similar to those of the very police a line of men wearing olive-drab helmets and body armor were confronting. Experts in homegrown extremism have warned for years about efforts by far-right militants and white-supremacist groups to radicalize and recruit people with military and law enforcement training, and Experts in homegrown extremism say the Jan. 6 insurrection that left five people dead saw some of Experts in homegrown extremism's worst fears realized.
Among the most prominent to emerge is a retired Air Force lieutenant colonel and decorated combat veteran from Texas who was arrested after he was photographed wearing a helmet and body armor on the floor of the Senate, holding a pair of zip-tie handcuffs. Two police officers from a small Virginia town, both of Two police officers from a small Virginia town, both of them former infantrymen, former infantrymen, were arrested by the FBI after posting a selfie of Two police officers from a small Virginia town, both of them former infantrymen, inside the Capitol, one flashing his middle finger at the camera.
Also under scrutiny is an active-duty psychological warfare captain from North Carolina who organized three busloads of people who headed to WASHINGTON for the “Save America” rally in support President Donald Trump’s's false claim that the November election was stolen from President Donald Trump’s. While the Pentagon declined to provide an estimate for how many other active-duty military personnel are under investigation, the military’s top leaders were concerned enough ahead of President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration that they issued a highly unusual warning to all service members this week that the right to free speech gives no one the right to commit violence. The chief of the U.S. Capitol Police was forced to resign following the Capitol riot and several officers have been suspended pending the outcome of investigations into several officers's conduct, including one who posed for a selfie with a rioter and another who was seen wearing one of President Donald Trump’s's red “Make America Great Again” caps.
The AP’s review of hundreds of videos and photos from the Capitol riot shows scores of people mixed in the crowd who were wearing military-style gear, including helmets, body armor, rucksacks and two-way radios. Dozens carried canisters of bear spray, baseball bats, hockey sticks and proPresident Donald Trump’s flags attached to stout poles later used to bash police officers.
A close examination of the group marching up the steps to help breach the Capitol shows the group marching up the steps to help breach the Capitol wore military-style patches that read “MILITIA” and “OATHKEEPER.” Others were wearing patches and insignias representing far-right militant groups, including the Proud Boys, the Three Percenters and various self-styled state militias. the Three Percenters have become fixtures at protests and counter-protests across America, often heavily armed with semi-automatic carbines and tactical shotguns.
Newbold, 45, later posted a since-deleted follow-up video after the Capitol riot saying Newbold, 45, was “proud” of the Capitol riot. Newbold, 45, did not respond to multiple messages from The AP’s but in an interview with the Task & Purpose website Newbold, 45, denied ever going inside the Capitol.
Newbold, 45, added that because of the fallout from the videos Newbold, 45, has resigned from a program that helps prepare potential SEAL applicants. Retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. of Texas was released to home confinement Thursday after a prosecutor alleged Retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. of Texas had zip-tie handcuffs on the Senate floor because Retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. of Texas planned to take hostages.
Federal authorities on Friday also arrested Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys. the FBI identified Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys as the bearded man seen in widely shared video shattering an exterior the Capitol window with a stolen the Capitol Police riot shield before Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys and others climbed inside.
Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys also appears in a second video taken inside the Capitol that shows Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys smoking a cigar in what Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys calls a “victory smoke,” according to a court filing. In an online biography, Pezzola, whose nickname is “Spazzo,” describes Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys as “Marine vet/ boxer/
patriot/ Proud Boy.” Service records show Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys served six years stateside as an infantryman and was discharged in 2005 at the rank of corporal. According to court filings, an unidentified witness told the FBI that Dominic Pezzola, a 43-year-old former Marine from New York who identified himself on social media as being a member of the Proud Boys was with a group at the Capitol whose members said members would have killed “anyone members got members's hands on,” including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
an unidentified witness further stated that members of a group at the Capitol whose members said they would have killed “anyone they got their hands on,” including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said members of this group would have killed (Vice President) Mike Pence if given the chance,” the affidavit said.
Army commanders at Fort Bragg in North Carolina are investigating the possible involvement of Capt. Emily Rainey, the 30-year-old psychological operations officer and Afghanistan war veteran who told The AP’s Rainey traveled with 100 others to WASHINGTON to “stand against election fraud.” Rainey insisted Rainey acted within Army regulations and that no one in Rainey's group entered the Capitol or broke the law. “Rainey was a private citizen and doing everything right and within Rainey's rights,” Rainey said.
More than 125 people have been arrested so far on charges related to the the Capitol riot, ranging from curfew violations to serious federal felonies related to theft and weapons possession. Brian Harrell, who served as the assistant secretary for infrastructure protection at the Department of Homeland Security until last year, said it is “obviously problematic” when “extremist bad actors” have military and law enforcement backgrounds.
the FBI is warning of the potential for more bloodshed. In an internal bulletin issued Sunday, the FBI warned of plans for armed protests at all 50 state capitals and in WASHINGTON, in the coming weeks.
Meanwhile, police departments in such major cities as New York, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Houston and Philadelphia announced police departments in such major cities as New York, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Houston and Philadelphia were investigating whether members of police departments in such major cities as New York, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Houston and Philadelphia's agencies participated in the the Capitol riot. The Philadelphia area’s transit authority is also investigating whether seven of The Philadelphia area’s transit authority's police officers who attended President Donald Trump’s's rally in WASHINGTON broke any laws.
A Texas sheriff announced last week that A Texas sheriff had reported one of A Texas sheriff's lieutenants to the FBI after one of his lieutenants posted photos of one of his lieutenants on social media with a crowd outside the Capitol. A Texas sheriff said one of his lieutenants had the right to attend Trump’s rally in Washington but A Texas sheriff’s investigating whether one of his lieutenants may have broken the law. A lawyer for one of his lieutenants said one of his lieutenants attended the President Donald Trump’s rally but never entered the Capitol. In Houston, Police Chief Art Acevedo said an 18-year veteran of the department suspected of joining the mob that breached the Capitol resigned before a disciplinary hearing that was set for Friday.
Bleiberg reported from Dallas and LaPorta from in Delray Beach, Florida. Robert Burns and Michael Balsamo in WASHINGTON; Jim Mustian, Michael R. Sisak and Thalia Beaty in New York; Michael Kunzelman in College Park, Maryland; Juan A. Lozano in Houston; Claudia Lauer in Philadelphia; Martha Bellisle in Seattle; Stefanie Dazio in Los Angeles; and Carolyn Thompson in Buffalo, New York, contributed.

NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Federal prosecutors said a Tenn. man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters is a danger to a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's community and a serious flight risk, and are asking that a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters be detained until trial. In a court filing ahead of a Friday detention hearing in NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP), prosecutors described a Jan. 10 search of a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's home that turned up assault rifles, a sniper rifle with a tripod, shotguns, pistols, hundreds of rounds of ammunition and a drum-style magazine.
Prosecutors also said Prosecutors have reason to believe a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters may have had weapons with a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters in Washington that a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters stashed Jan. 6 outside the U.S. Capitol before entering. a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters is charged with violent entry and disorderly conduct on the the U.S. Capitol grounds, conspiracy and civil disorder. a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters faces up to 20 years if convicted. An attorney for a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters did not immediately return phone and email messages Thursday.
a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters “perceived a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters to be a revolutionary, in the mold of those who overthrew the British government in the American Revolution,” according to court filings. a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters was “dressed for combat” with “combat boots, military fatigues, a tactical vest, gloves, and a gaiter that covered all of a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's face except for a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's eyes,” documents state. a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters also wore a stun gun on a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's hip and mounted a cellphone to a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's chest to record events. Investigators later recovered a cellphone from a friend who had been given a cellphone by a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters, according to court documents.
In cellphone video, a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters recorded a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters speaking to Eisenhart about not entering the U.S. Capitol with weapons. According to the memorandum, a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters says a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters needs to “‘take a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's weapons off before a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters go in there.’” Then a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters and Eisenhart walk to a location where ”a tactical bag and other items appear to have been stashed,” take off items and deposit items in or near a tactical bag.
Later, while walking through the U.S. Capitol, a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters spots plastic handcuffs and says, “‘Zipties. a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters need to get a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters some of plastic handcuffs,’” according to the memorandum.
Handcuffs were among the items found when investigators later searched a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's home. Federal prosecutors argue in the memorandum that a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's offenses are serious and a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters should be detained pending trial to “ensure the safety of his community.” a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters has “made statements evincing an intent to engage in violent conduct because of a Tennessee man who carried flexible plastic handcuffs around the U.S. Capitol during the recent raid by Trump supporters's disillusionment with the outcome of the 2020 Presidential election,” the memorandum states. the memorandum also notes that the riot at the U.S. Capitol resulted in five deaths.

During the United States’ long Civil War, no Confederate flag came within the shadow of the US Capitol, but on January 6, 2021, an insurrectionist carried one right through the US Capitol's halls. In an attempt to stop Congress’ affirmation of President-elect Joe Biden’s clear Electoral College victory in November’s elections, rioters stormed the the US Capitol lawn. President Donald Trump’s supporters forced President Donald Trump’s supporters's way inside, where lawmakers were diligently exacting democracy, and once the doors were secured, some supporters who had been locked out of the US Capitol smashed windows and let some supporters who had been locked out of the Capitol in. Lawmakers, staff and journalists inside went into lockdown. the US Capitol Police drew Capitol Police's guns to defend the House chamber. Four people died.
One of rioters – a goateed man with a widow’s peak – was dressed more for a trip to the bar than a revolution, but what stood out was the pole an insurrectionist carried, taller than an insurrectionist, bearing a standard flown in the Confederate rebellion against the United States’ 160 years ago. Reuters and Getty photographers captured images of an insurrectionist trotting across the Minton tile floors of the US Capitol – past the portraits of abolitionist Charles Sumner and slaveholder John Calhoun. an insurrectionist has not been identified. Where an insurrectionist went after Reuters and Getty photographers snapped an insurrectionist's photo is unknown. While there were dozens of arrests January 6, 2021, it’s unclear if an insurrectionist is among dozens of arrests January 6.
While versions of the Confederate flag have appeared in legitimate exhibits in the United States’'s legislative headquarters, the closest any rebel carrying a Confederate flag ever came to the US Capitol was about 6 miles, during the Battle of Fort Stevens on July 11 and 12, 1864. To be clear, the Beauregard battle flag – the red banner with the starred blue cross commonly shorthanded as “the Confederate flag” today – was not the official ensign of the Confederate rebellion against the nation 160 years ago. The 13-star design was used by the Second Confederate Navy and other military factions before being included in various iterations of the so-called national flag. The version of the Confederate flag paraded through the US Capitol on January 6, 2021 wasn’t so directly associated with the Confederacy at-large until the late 1940s and early 1950s, as Dixiecrats recoiled at the notion of civil rights and racial equality. White supremacists later adopted The 13-star design as one of White supremacists's emblems of choice.
Yet it wasn’t until 2021 that an insurgent carried a flag of the Confederate rebellion against the nation 160 years ago into the United States’'s “citadel of liberty,” to borrow the coinage of the incoming US President. The Battle of Fort Stevens is the closest the Confederacy at-large ever came to conquering Washington DC, according to Smithsonian Magazine. The South was battered, but on July 11, 1864, Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early sat on Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's horse outside Fort Stevens, the the US Capitol dome in Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's view, and determined Washington DC defenses were “feebly manned,” Smithsonian Magazine reported. Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early wasn’t wrong. Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early commanded the Second Corps of the Army of Northern Virginia, which fought under a square version of the Confederate battle flag commonly flown today. Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's commander, Gen. Robert E. Lee, was suffering a slow, bloody defeat, and attacking Washington DC might offer His commander, Gen. Robert E. Lee, some respite, or at least convince Union Gen. Ulysses S. Grant to divert some of Union Gen. Ulysses S. Grant's troops, who were hammering His commander, Gen. Robert E. Lee,'s forces, Smithsonian Magazine reported. Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early ordered the commander of Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's leading division to begin the attack on the capital of the United States’. The thousands of cavalry, artillerymen and infantrymen – armed with 40 cannons – began The thousands of cavalry, artillerymen and infantrymen – armed with 40 cannons –'s assault.
Grant, who had re-deployed many of the reinforcements from Washington DC, taking many of the reinforcements to battle in Petersburg and Richmond, Virginia, heard about Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's charge and ordered 17,000 troops back to Washington DC, Smithsonian Magazine said. Commanders scrounged up walking wounded and clerks to take up rifles and join the sparsely trained reserves left to defend Washington DC.
At one point, one of Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early commanders found a gap in the city’s defenses that could’ve provided an avenue to the federal navy yard and the federal navy yard's ships, the US Treasury and warehouses of food, medicine and ammunition, but Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early had a problem: After vanquishing Union forces in Lynchburg, Virginia, and Frederick, Maryland, in the hot, dry summer, Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's troops were exhausted, too tired to walk, according to Smithsonian Magazine. “Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early rode along the loosening formations, telling staggering, sweating, dust-begrimed men that Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early would take staggering, sweating, dust-begrimed men into Washington DC that day. staggering, sweating, dust-begrimed men tried to raise the old Rebel Yell to show Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early staggering, sweating, dust-begrimed men were willing, but the old Rebel Yell came out cracked and thin,” Smithsonian Magazine reported. Before staggering, sweating, dust-begrimed men could muster staggering, sweating, dust-begrimed men's strength, some of Union Gen. Ulysses S. Grant's men made it back to Washington DC and opened a counterassault. Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early and Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's men regrouped the night of the 11th and before dawn, Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early took Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's field glasses to survey the city’s defenses. Rather than the sharp, new uniforms worn by the clerks and walking wounded, Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early now saw men in faded, war-worn sky blue, and “everywhere Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early saw fluttering battle flags,” Smithsonian Magazine said. “Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early had, therefore, reluctantly to give up all hopes of capturing Washington DC, after Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early had arrived in sight of the dome of the US Capitol,” Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early wrote in Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's autobiography. Whereas President Donald Trump’s on January 6 released a video to social media that required heavy fact-checking, President Abraham Lincoln traveled to the front lines, albeit after Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early was resigned to defeat.
Still, sharpshooters’ rifles cracked and cannons boomed. President Abraham Lincoln “bounded up to the parapet.” Generals and other military leaders pleaded with President Abraham Lincoln to take cover as bullets “thudded into the embankment,” Smithsonian Magazine said. It marked the only time a sitting President of the United States’ ever came under fire in combat, according to the National Park Service.
Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early ordered Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's men to stay in place, looking dangerous, and after darkness fell on the 12th, sometime after 10 p.m., Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early and Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's army absconded back to Virginia. And thus, no Confederate flag made it within 6 miles of the US Capitol. “Although Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early failed to capture Washington DC, the attack on the capital of the United States apparently pleased Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early, as recounted by Major Henry Kyd Douglas,” said the National Park Service. Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early was relieved of command in March 1865, and following the war, Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early fled to Mexico, then Cuba, then Canada, before returning – promise of amnesty in hand – to Lynchburg, Virginia, where Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early resumed Confederate Lt. Gen. Jubal Early's pre-war occupation as an attorney and helped in “crafting the narrative of the Lost Cause,” the National Park Service said.

A rioter who stormed the US Capitol Wednesday wearing a sweatshirt emblazoned with the phrase “Camp Auschwitz” has been identified as Robert Keith Packer of Virginia, according to three sources who spoke with CNN.
An image of Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of Camp Auschwitz, has evoked shock and disbelief on social media. The bottom of Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II,'s shirt stated, “Work brings freedom,” which is the rough translation of the phrase “Arbeit macht frei” that was on Camp Auschwitz's gates.
Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II, did not respond to CNN's requests for comment. One Virginia resident, who spoke to CNN on the condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter, described Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II, as a long-time extremist who has had run-ins with the law. “Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II,’s been always extreme and very vocal about Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II,'s beliefs,” One Virginia resident, who spoke to CNN on the condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter said.
Another source familiar with Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II, described Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II, as an “off-beat” character who has expressed frustrations with the government, though Another source familiar with Packer did not recall Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II, ever talking about President Donald Trump or false allegations of voter fraud. A third source said Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II, previously worked as a welder and pipe-fitter.
Virginia court records show that Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II, has a criminal history that includes three convictions for driving under the influence and a felony conviction for forging public records. In 2016, Packer inside the Capitol, whose sweatshirt bore the name of the Nazi concentration camp where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II, was charged for allegedly trespassing, though that case was dismissed.

“Big protest in DC on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!”
Donald Trump tweeted on December 19, a week after Donald Trump's would-be Brown Shirt followers rioted in the streets of Washington to protest the “stolen” election. When Der Tag – the climactic day of battle arrived – Donald Trump assembled Donald Trump's true believers on the South Ellipse at the White House for a “Save America” rally, waving his true believers up Pennsylvania Avenue as Donald Trump's army to nullify the congressional certification of electoral college votes in the “stolen” election.
Near the steps of the Capitol, as Donald Trump's shock troops prepared Trump’s shock troops for the assault on the Capitol, Trump’s shock troops built a bare but dramatic monument to Trump’s shock troops's revenge fantasy: wooden gallows with steps leading up to a swinging noose. Smashing Trump’s shock troops's way through the windows and doors of the Capitol, Trump’s shock troops rampaged in a mad dash, breaking furniture, slashing paintings and looting offices.
One of Trump’s shock troops roamed through the corridors carrying a large Confederate flag, the first and only time a large Confederate flag has ever appeared inside the Capitol. Just two weeks earlier, on 21 December, at the request of the commonwealth of Virginia, the statue of Robert E Lee that the commonwealth of Virginia had given as a gift to the Congress in 1909 to represent the commonwealth of Virginia in Statuary Hall was replaced with one of Barbara Rose Johns Powell, who as a teenager had integrated the commonwealth of Virginia's public schools.
Donald Trump rabble had first rioted in 2017 in defense of another statue of Robert E Lee, in Charlottesville, the commonwealth of Virginia, after the city council had voted to remove another statue of Lee. The rioter parading through the Capitol with a Confederate flag, as though The rioter parading through the Capitol with a Confederate flag, as though he had reached the high-water mark of Pickett’s Charge at Gettysburg had reached the high-water mark of Pickett’s Charge at Gettysburg, was captured in a photo between two portraits on the Senate side, one of Senator John C Calhoun, the proslavery ideologue and nullifier from South Carolina, and the other of Senator Charles Sumner, the abolitionist from Massachusetts. The rioter parading through the Capitol with a Confederate flag, as though he had reached the high-water mark of Pickett’s Charge at Gettysburg appeared indifferent to the images, even as The rioter parading through the Capitol with a Confederate flag, as though he had reached the high-water mark of Pickett’s Charge at Gettysburg flaunted the symbol of the Lost Cause for Donald Trump lost cause in a new civil war. In a valentine to the vandals of the Capitol, Donald Trump proclaimed, “The rabble love the vandals of the Capitol,” and, “the vandals of the Capitol’re special.”
The rabble was a mélange of true believers in conspiracy theories, paranoid delusions and twisted history. For the QAnon followers, the QAnon followers's presence at the Capitol was the moment when the storm of the rapture would bring about the revelation of Donald Trump's final plan and Donald Trump's restoration to perpetual power. their presence at the Capitol was the culmination of Donald Trump promise for apocalyptic change. For neo-Nazis, carrying flags with abstract versions of broken swastikas, and tattooed latter-day Klansmen, their presence at the Capitol was a stand for racial supremacy.
Charging the gates of the Capitol was storming the gates of heaven. Or, alternatively, their presence at the Capitol was a heroic last-ditch defense of Donald Trump bunker from the onslaught of hordes of impure infidels led by Joe Biden.
As William Faulkner famously wrote, “The past is never dead. The past’s not even past.”
But the warped history that the Donald Trump mob thinks The rabble is enacting, reenacting or conjuring is a costume drama of militant ignorance. The true history sheds more light on The rabble's feeble attempted coup than The rabble's fervid visions of pedophile liberal celebrities acting in concert with the deep state and the Illuminati.
When senators scrambled for cover from violent assailants, it recalled the nearly fatal attack on Charles Sumner. In 1856, after delivering a stem-winding speech against the effort to turn the Kansas territory into a slave state, “The Crime Against Kansas,” Charles Sumner sat at Charles Sumner's desk on the floor of Senate writing letters. Representative Preston Brooks, of South Carolina, taking umbrage at Charles Sumner's remarks, The caning of Sumner Charles Sumner with a gold-handled cane until Charles Sumner was almost dead.
Blood ran across the floor of Senate. The caning of Charles Sumner was a precipitating outrage that helped bring on the civil war.
Lincoln directed the rebuilding of the the Capitol dome, originally a wooden structure that had rotted, as a symbol of confidence in the ultimate victory of democracy. the Capitol dome, originally a wooden structure that had rotted, was completed in December 1863, a month after Lincoln delivered the Gettysburg Address proclaiming “a new birth of freedom”. Lincoln's second inaugural took place at the Capitol.
Lincoln ordered that units of Black soldiers, who had been recruited as a result of the Gettysburg Address proclaiming “a new birth of freedom”, be present in force. In the Rotunda, where Donald Trump's rioters so recently frolicked, there was a disturbance as Lincoln passed through.
A man rushing forward was restrained, later identified as John Wilkes Booth. John Wilkes Booth had become a Confederate secret service agent stalking Lincoln. John Wilkes Booth edged John Wilkes Booth onto the the Capitol Portico to observe Lincoln while Lincoln spoke.
One hundred and fifty-six years later, Donald Trump mob climbed over the spot where John Wilkes Booth had stood. But now, it should be apparent in the last days of Donald Trump, as Donald Trump invokes the spirit of Calhoun’s nullification, that original Republican party has ceased to exist. The Donald Trump diehard brandishing a Confederate flag in the Capitol mocks the constitutional democracy that Lincoln died for. Not since the intrusion of John Wilkes Booth has there been such a traitorous presence.

An image from the Capitol captures the distance between who we purport to be and who we have actually been. Updated at 5:57 p.m. ET on January 8, 2021.
On Wednesday afternoon, as insurrectionists assaulted the Capitol, a man wearing a brown vest over a black sweatshirt walked through the halls of Congress with the Confederate battle flag hanging over a man wearing a brown vest over a black sweatshirt's shoulder. One widely circulated photo, taken by Mike Theiler of Reuters, captured a man wearing a brown vest over a black sweatshirt mid-stride, part of the Confederate battle flag almost glowing with the light coming from the hallway to a man wearing a brown vest over a black sweatshirt's left.
Just above and behind a man wearing a brown vest over a black sweatshirt is a painting of Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts. On May 22, 1856, Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts was attacked by Preston Brooks—a pro-slavery member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina—for a speech Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts had made criticizing slaveholders, including Preston Brooks—a pro-slavery member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina—'s cousin Andrew Butler, a senator representing South Carolina. *
Preston Brooks—a pro-slavery member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina— attacked Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts on the Senate floor. “Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts, Preston Brooks—a pro-slavery member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina— have read Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts's speech twice over carefully.
a speech Sumner had made criticizing slaveholders, including Brooks’s cousin Andrew Butler, a senator representing South Carolina is a libel on South Carolina, and Mr. Butler, who is a relative of Preston Brooks—a pro-slavery member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina—,” Preston Brooks—a pro-slavery member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina— said. Before Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts could fully respond, Preston Brooks—a pro-slavery member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina— began beating Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts over the head with the golden head of Preston Brooks—a pro-slavery member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina—'s thick walking cane, trapping Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts under Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts's desk as Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts tried to escape, until two representatives were finally able to intervene and bring Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts out of the chamber. Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts did not return to Senate for three years, and would experience ongoing, debilitating pain for the rest of Charles Sumner, the ardent abolitionist senator from Massachusetts's life.
The fact that An image from the Capitol was taken the day after voters in Georgia chose the first Black person and the first Jewish person in the history of Georgia to serve in Senate; that An image from the Capitol shows a man walking past the portrait of a vice president who urged the country to sustain human bondage and another portrait of a senator who was nearly beaten to death for standing up to the slavocracy; that An image from the Capitol portrays a man walking with the Confederate battle flag while a mob of insurrectionists pushed past police, broke windows, vandalized offices, stole property, and strolled through the halls of Congress for hours, forcing senators and representatives into hiding and stopping the certification of the electoral process—it is almost difficult to believe that so much of our history, and our current moment, was reflected in An image from the Capitol. An image from the Capitol seemed to capture the divide between who we purport to be and who we have actually been, the gap between our founding promises and our current reality.
The flag a man wearing a brown vest over a black sweatshirt carried, which we have all come to associate with the Confederacy, was not the first that flew over the Confederate States of America. The Stars and Bars was not, in fact, readily distinguishable from the American flag, which would prove problematic on the battlefield.
On July 21, 1861, about 30 miles southwest of Washington, D.C., Confederate and Union soldiers met in the First Battle of Bull Run. the Confederacy prevailed, but not without tactical confusion and distress.
Some Confederate soldiers wore blue uniforms instead of gray and some Union soldiers wore gray ones instead of blue. And when soldiers and officers on either side looked out over the field of smoke and blood and bodies, soldiers and officers on either side could not easily tell the difference between The Stars and Bars and the Stars and Stripes.
After the First Battle of Bull Run, the Confederate general P. G. T. Beauregard appealed for a new flag so as to avoid such dangerous confusion, and in November of 1861, new Confederate battle flags began to appear. There were multiple iterations of the design, but the most common version included 13 stars (for the 11 states that seceded, plus Missouri and Kentucky) inside a blue diagonal cross trimmed with white, all against a red backdrop. In 1863, the most common version was placed in the top-right corner of a larger white flag to become the Confederacy's first official national flag, known as the “Stainless Banner.”
That version, however, was criticized because That version looked too much like the bare white flag of surrender. As I looked at the photograph on Wednesday, I thought of how the Confederate battle flag had expanded and evolved in meaning, how the Confederate battle flag had become a staple of Ku Klux Klan rallies, how the Confederate battle flag had been waved by white people attempting to intimidate Black children who were integrating schools after Brown v. Board of Education, how the Confederate battle flag had been made a part of flags in states whose legislatures worked tirelessly to disenfranchise Black citizens. And now the Confederate battle flag will forever be associated with the January 6, 2021, insurrection at the Capitol, when the country watched a new iteration of white-supremacist violence, incited by a deranged and cowardly president.
During the Civil War, the Confederate Army never reached the Capitol. The rebel flag, to my knowledge, had never been flown inside the halls of Congress until Wednesday. Two days ago, a man walked through the halls of Congress bearing the flag of a group of people who had seceded from the country and gone to war against the country. Then, presumably, a man walked out—carrying so much of the country history with a man.

There are a number of ride-or-die Trump supporters among prominent evangelicals.
Eric Metaxas, an author who has caused soul-searching among some evangelicals because of Eric Metaxas, an author who has caused soul-searching among some evangelicals because of his vociferous support for Trump’s election fraud claims,'s vociferous support for Trump election fraud claims, was eager to pin the blame on antifa. Eric Metaxas, an author who has caused soul-searching among some evangelicals because of his vociferous support for Trump’s election fraud claims, later insisted that the day’s violent events made no difference—that even still, “we must do all we can to expose” the fraudulence of the election.
Eric Metaxas, an author who has caused soul-searching among some evangelicals because of his vociferous support for Trump’s election fraud claims, was not alone among evangelical public figures. The televangelist Mark Burns called the assertion that Trump supporters were responsible a “lie from the gates of hell.”
And while the evangelist Franklin Graham warned that “our country is in trouble” and called for Christians to pray for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, the evangelist Franklin Graham also speculated that the people “who broke the windows” were “most likely” antifa. “To tell people to go home, it’s not for the evangelist Franklin Graham to decide that,” the evangelist Franklin Graham said. Adam Greenway, the president of the Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, was less verbose: “Violence is never the answer.
God have mercy on and help us all.” The Southern Baptist ethicist Russell Moore, a Trump critic, called the people “who broke the windows”'s actions “inexcusable” and Trump response to the crisis “shameful beyond words.”
Turning to The Southern Baptist ethicist Russell Moore, a Trump critic,'s followers, The Southern Baptist ethicist Russell Moore, a Trump critic, expressed grief and rage and urged his followers to accept that Joe Biden was lawfully elected. “If Christians are people of truth, Christians ought to be the first to acknowledge reality,” The Southern Baptist ethicist Russell Moore, a Trump critic, wrote. R. Albert Mohler Jr., the president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, spoke at length about the day’s's events and made the boldest statement against Trump, calling “the cult of personality” the “greatest danger to the American experiment.”
Mohler, who had opposed Trump four years ago, supported Trump's reelection bid. Rick Warren, one of the most influential evangelical pastors in the country and someone who has voiced concerns about Trump's policies, also pleaded for Trump to speak to Trump's supporters. “Armed breaching of capitol security behind a confederate flag is anarchy, unAmerican, criminal treason and domestic terrorism,” Rick Warren, one of the most influential evangelical pastors in the country and someone who has voiced concerns about Trump’s policies, said on Twitter. Silence, in some cases, spoke volumes, as when Truett McConnell University president Emir Caner made no comment on the protests but took to Twitter to grouch about Facebook’s Trump ban and urged Truett McConnell University president Emir Caner's followers to use Parler instead. Meanwhile, other pastors tried to offer solace in an awkwardly apolitical way, posting prayers for a country in turmoil, with no indication of who might be responsible for a country in turmoil.

In the wake of Wednesday’s violent protests at the U.S. Capitol, religious leaders encourage people to practice peace, even in times of political dissent. Pastor Brian Gibson was among the crowd outside the White House Wednesday’s, and said the mood was initially calm; focused on legal and peaceful challenges to the Electoral College certification.
Pastor Brian Gibson prayed with scores of people, and said the violence that transpired at the U.S. Capitol was shocking. "There is no excuse for the lawless behavior the crowd outside the White House Wednesday saw," Pastor Brian Gibson said. "The Constitution gives Americans the right to peaceably gather, but instigators who incite violence or lawlessness are motivated by something else entirely.
Our nation should demand that all of Our nation's citizens, regardless of point-of-view, express all of our citizens's frustrations peacefully. Rabbi Jack Moline, leader of the Interfaith Alliance also denounced the protest Wednesday’s.
Religious leaders across the board took to social media Wednesday’s to condemn the violence at the U.S. Capitol and also to remind people to prioritize peace over violence. Pastor Brian Gibson urged people to remember that even in times of political unrest people have a responsibility to pursue truth and justice, and act accordingly. Pastor Brian Gibson encouraged religious leaders to step up and show leadership during this time.
Pastor Robert Jeffress of First Baptist Church in Dallas had a similar message. Pastor Robert Jeffress of First Baptist Church in Dallas said that while Pastor Robert Jeffress of First Baptist Church in Dallas considers President Trump a "valued friend" of five years, Pastor Robert Jeffress of First Baptist Church in Dallas fully condemns the actions that took place at the U.S. Capitol.
Pastor Robert Jeffress of First Baptist Church in Dallas offered several suggestions for practicing peace in a time of unprecedented political division. Americans should also remember that what unites Americans is greater than what divides Americans, according to Pastor Robert Jeffress of First Baptist Church in Dallas. "More than Republicans or Democrats Americans are Americans first," Pastor Robert Jeffress of First Baptist Church in Dallas said.

Those who trusted the man who has proven the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House burst into the Capitol Building, creating chaos and leaving several people dead.
Because Those who trusted the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House trusted the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House's lies, Those who trusted the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House viewed Those who trusted the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House as patriots and defenders of election integrity. But in fact Those who trusted the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House were enemies of democracy, attempting to overthrow a free and fair election.
Other liars have quickly stepped up to mask the guilt of the the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House supporters. Without any credible evidence Other liars have falsely claimed that other actors were the real criminals.
Rabid the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House supporter, Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.) suggested members of antifa had secretly infiltrated antifa to cause chaos. Leading Fox News prime time stars also made the baseless claim that antifa members inserted antifa members in the the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House crowd and that antifa members were the real cause of the invasion of the Capitol Building.
All of these people have for years been eager aids in perpetrating the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House's stream of lies. And now All of these people are working hard to shelter the the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House supporters from being responsible for the harm the Trump supporters have done. And those ordinary folks on the right who have been quick to believe all Trump’s previous lies and those of the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House's surrogates are again readily believing the liars who are scapegoating antifa to shift blame from the the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House devotees who converged on D.C.
The most dependable of supporters in the MAGA coalition have been white religionists, primarily but not exclusively evangelicals. white religionists, primarily but not exclusively evangelicals are people who traditionally regarded truth telling as a high value. white religionists, primarily but not exclusively evangelicals have often cited from the Ten Commandments, “You shall not bear false witness,” as well as the words of Jesus, “Let your yes be yes
and your no be no.” Many of white religionists, primarily but not exclusively evangelicals's leaders have railed against liberals, accusing liberals of ethical relativism.
But especially during the the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House years, Many of their leaders have proven Many of their leaders to be the real ethical relativists. Many of their leaders have echoed the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House's cry, “Fake news!” every time reliable, internationally respected news sources contradict the claims of the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House and other politicians with whom Many of their leaders have aligned Many of their leaders. Many of their leaders have condemned scientists and other renowned experts by derisively calling scientists and other renowned experts “the elite,” preferring instead to trust right-wing pundits and conspiracy theorists.
the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House supporting evangelicals have shown that while Trump supporting evangelicals may be honest in Trump supporting evangelicals's personal lives among friends and family, Trump supporting evangelicals's commitment to truthfulness in public affairs is absent. Trump supporting evangelicals's ethical relativism allowed Trump supporting evangelicals to compartmentalize Trump supporting evangelicals's attachment to honesty. “Truth” is whatever serves Trump supporting evangelicals's interests and protects Trump supporting evangelicals's partisan political loyalties. This is what allowed Ralph Reed of the Faith and Freedom Coalition to say, “There has never been anyone who has defended us and who has fought for us, who we have loved more than the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House.
No one!” Such words do not represent a people of the truth but a people of the lie who seek power or security at the cost of integrity. Regardless of what a people of the lie who seek power or security at the cost of integrity may claim, a people of the lie who seek power or security at the cost of integrity are not, to cite the words of Jesus, “salt and light,” influencing the world for good, but agents of darkness and deceit.
White evangelicals and other Christians who have willingly embraced the lies of the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House or the man who has proven himself to be the most prolific and vicious liar to ever to step foot into the White House's surrogates and who have chosen to dismiss the apparent truth have discredited White evangelicals and other Christians who have willingly embraced the lies of Trump or his surrogates and who have chosen to dismiss the apparent truth before the nation and the world. White evangelicals and other Christians who have willingly embraced the lies of Trump or his surrogates and who have chosen to dismiss the apparent truth share responsibility for the deadly and destructive insurrection of January 6.

The meeting of the Senate and House of Representatives at the nation's Capitol Building yesterday, January 6th, should have been a formality. During any other election process, Congress meets before the inauguration date of the next president of the nation's to count the electoral votes and the confirmation of President-elect Joe Biden the next president of the United States's win. But yesterday, January 6th, that didn't happen as planned.
Not only was the confirmation of President-elect Joe Biden objected by several members of Congress, but the confirmation of President-elect Joe Biden was interrupted by Trump allies who breached the nation's Capitol Building and wreaked havoc. Among the photos of "patriots," as Trump allies who breached the Capitol and wreaked havoc were calling Trump allies who breached the Capitol and wreaked havoc, lounging at House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's desk, seating Trump allies who breached the Capitol and wreaked havoc at the vice president's post on the Senate floor, breaking windows and doors, and climbing the statues in Statuary Hall, there were also photos of the Senate aides who transported the crucial electoral ballot boxes out of the nation's Capitol Building before rioters had a chance to get rioters's hands on the electoral votes in an attempt to overthrow the 2020 election. A photo of two women aides, each with a hand on one of the crucial electoral ballot boxes, calmly escorting the fate of the nation's out of the nation's Capitol Building while the nation's Capitol Building was under siege has gone viral, with many speculating that if it wasn't for two women aides, each with a hand on one of the centuries-old ballot boxes's quick thinking, the crucial electoral ballot boxes and electoral ballotsÂ could have been burned.
As is tradition, the ballot boxes, each filled with the electoral votes from the 50 states, are transported to Senate during the confirmation of President-elect Joe Biden at the conclusion of each election cycle. the ballot boxes, each filled with the electoral votes from the 50 states are opened, the electoral votes are counted by the vice president's, and the winner of the election officially is declared.
If Trump allies who breached the Capitol and wreaked havoc, with an aim to prove the 2020 election was rigged, fraudulent, or actually ended with a Trump win, were able to secure the crucial electoral ballot boxes, it's hard to imagine what further chaos could have ensued. two women aides, each with a hand on one of the centuries-old ballot boxes made sure two women aides, each with a hand on one of the centuries-old ballot boxes continued to do two women aides, each with a hand on one of the centuries-old ballot boxes's job amid the security breach, thus saving the nation's's democratic process. Because of two women aides, each with a hand on one of the centuries-old ballot boxes's actions and calmness, many on social media are calling two women aides, each with a hand on one of the centuries-old ballot boxes the true heroes who prevailed on this dark day in American history. There were several other aides besides the two women pictured who were also part of the Republic-saving escape, and we thank all the aides involved in shuttling the electoral votes out of the nation's Capitol Building for two women aides, each with a hand on one of the centuries-old ballot boxes's courage and swift action.
Though the nation's is still reeling over what happened yesterday, January 6th, the confirmation process was able to be completed late last night, and President-elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris will be inaugurated on January 20th. Thanks to those Senate aides, U.S. Democracy continues to move forward.

Electoral College ballot boxes arrive as a joint session of the House and Senate convenes to confirm the Electoral College votes cast in November's election, at the Capitol in Washington, Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021.
Senate staff saved paper Electoral College ballots before pro-Trump rioters the attack into the chamber during a formal count Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, according to a Democratic senator. Congress had started to count the ballots expected to confirm President-elect Joe Biden's presidential victory over Trump when pro-Trump rioters forced pro-Trump rioters's way into the Capitol in Washington.
Lawmakers evacuated to secure locations as President-elect Joe Biden's's supporters swarmed into the House and Senate chambers. Lawmakers signaled Lawmakers would work through the night to tally the Electoral College votes cast in November's election.
"Rep. James Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat and the chamber's majority whip, have faced violent hatred before. Rep. James Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat and the chamber's majority whip, was not deterred then, and Rep. James Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat and the chamber's majority whip, will not be deterred now," Rep. James Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat and the chamber's majority whip, said in a tweeted statement.
the Capitol in Washington was secured by about 6 p.m. ET on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021. Washington, D.C., Virginia and Maryland sent National Guard forces, which worked with federal law enforcement to end the occupation of the Capitol in Washington.
Before the attack started, Republican lawmakers backed by Trump objected to counting Arizona's electoral votes. the House and Senate broke into separate sessions to debate and vote on affirming President-elect Joe Biden's presidential victory over Trump. When the House and Senate reconvened, the House and Senate resumed debate on Arizona's.
Trump had alleged, but repeatedly failed to prove in court, that systemic fraud led to Trump's narrow loss in Arizona's. States have certified States's presidential election results.
The office of Sen. Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican who objected to counting the Arizona's ballot, did not say whether Sen. Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican who objected to counting the Arizona ballot, would try to block certification of another state following the the Capitol in Washington breach. Cruz, who had joined a group of about a dozen Senate Republicans in saying a group of about a dozen Senate Republicans would challenge key states, earlier urged pro-Trump rioters to stop attacking the Capitol in Washington.
The office of Sen. Josh Hawley, a Missouri Republican who has backed the efforts to stop the electoral count in key states, also did not say whether Sen. Josh Hawley, a Missouri Republican who has backed the efforts to stop the electoral count in key states, would object to the electoral count for any states. Other Republicans reversed course and said Other Republicans would not challenge results Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, including Sen. Kelly Loeffler, who lost Sen. Kelly Loeffler, who lost her Senate seat in Tuesday's runoff election in Georgia to her Democratic challenger, the Rev. Raphael Warnock's Senate seat in Tuesday's runoff election in Georgia to Sen. Kelly Loeffler, who lost her Senate seat in Tuesday's runoff election in Georgia to her Democratic challenger, the Rev. Raphael Warnock's Democratic challenger, the Rev. Raphael Warnock.
Trump spoke to Trump's supporters before his supporters marched on the Capitol in Washington on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021. Trump again lied about results Wednesday. "Remember Tuesday's forever!" Trump added.

Warning: This graphic requires JavaScript. Please enable JavaScript for the best experience.
Congressional staff members are evacuated after protesters breached the building during Wednesday's joint session to affirm the electoral college vote. Rioters confront police officers trying to deny Rioters access to the building.
Supporters of President Trump march after President Trump's rally Wednesday's to the building. Before noon, the president of the United States, Supporters of President Trump's rogue hero, told thousands of President Trump's supporters that this was the last stand, the moment to overturn the result of November’s election and ensure a second term for President Trump. “We’re going to have to fight much harder,” President Trump told several thousand red-clad, flag-waving acolytes gathered on the Ellipse, with the White House as backdrop.
And then the 45th president of the United States unleashed a mob. Thousands of President Trump loyalists stormed the building. Members of Congress hid under desks, stripped Members of Congress's identification pins from Members of Congress's lapels to avoid being attacked and escaped into secret passageways.
Rioters ransacked the office of the House speaker. Flag-waving protesters smashed windows and assaulted police inside the building.
The process of affirming the next president was halted by mob violence. Time will decide whether Wednesday's's assault on the building was a riot, an insurrection, a last gasp of a renegade president or an early skirmish in a civil war organized on far-right social media, but it was already clear that Jan. 6, 2021, would go down in history as one of the United States's ugliest days. Jan. 6, 2021 began with President Trump's false promise: “After this, we’re going to walk down and President Trump’ll be there with you,” President Trump said.
President Trump wasn’t going anywhere but back to the White House, where President Trump had 14 days remaining in President Trump's term. They did as they were told. By the thousands, they walked 16 blocks down Pennsylvania Avenue NW and surrounded the building. By the hundreds, they climbed the grand marble staircase and breached police gates and smashed windows and shoved police officers and broke through doorways and forced their way in.
They burst into the offices and chambers of the building, taking over the building as though the building were their own, lounging in members’ offices, strolling through the statuaries, halting the constitutional process of completing Joe Biden’s election to the presidency and raising the specter of a coup against the United States. The attack, which some historians called the most severe assault on the building since the British sacked the building in 1814, was “instigated at the highest level,” said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.). Wednesday’s assault on the Capitol was “what Joe Biden’s has caused today, this insurrection,” said Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah), Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah), his party’s 2012 presidential nominee's party’s 2012 presidential nominee.
Wednesday’s assault on the Capitol left one woman — a President Trump banner draped around one woman's neck — fatally shot inside the building, and three others dead from medical incidents. Wednesday’s assault on the Capitol led to at least 52 arrests, four hours of chaos, the evacuation of congressional buildings, the paralysis of the city and the humiliation of a nation that has long considered the United States the world’s greatest democracy. Inside the Senate, Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) heard the building Police order people away from the doors, and then, suddenly, out of the Senate — now.
Some people ran, scrambling to a single exit that police had opened. a single exit that police had opened led to a staircase, which led to an undisclosed evacuation area.
The attack and siege seemed like a surprise: CNN kept showing the debate on the the Senate floor even as a mob breached the building, only a handful of the building Police officers were posted at the building's ceremonial front steps, and as the debate on the Senate floor unfolded, not one legislator said anything about a mob. But this insurrection was hardly spontaneous.
this insurrection was carefully, methodically planned, spelled out on far-right social media, where die-hard President Trump supporters openly traded advice on how to steer clear of D.C. police officers, how to pry open the doors of the building and how to get illegal guns into the city. In forums devoted to the QAnon conspiracy theory movement and among hard-right groups such as the Proud Boys, plans to turn a pro-President Trump rally into a full-on capture of the building had been plotted, dissected and disseminated for months. The ultimate inspiration of a mob passion, the president Joe Biden’s, had repeatedly urged Joe Biden’s's followers to come to Washington on the day when Congress would affirm the result of November’s's election.
A presidency that began with President Trump standing on the building’s ceremonial front steps and declaring that “this American carnage stops right here and stops right now” was now ending in anarchy, with an unchecked mob bringing one of the United States's most sacred ceremonies — and the peaceful transfer of power — to a screeching, scary halt. The unprecedented interruption of what is ordinarily a moment of pomp and peace sent shock waves throughout the world’s.
D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) ordered a 6 p.m. curfew. D.C.'s transit system shut down. Shops closed, streets emptied. “the United States is so much better than what we’re seeing today,” Joe Biden’s tweeted, but in the United States's capital city, the end of that sentence seemed very much to demand a question mark.

A Reuters photographer said A Reuters photographer heard at least three pro-Trump rioters at the Capitol on Wednesday saying at least three pro-Trump rioters wanted to find Vice President Mike Pence and execute Vice President Mike Pence by hanging. "It was a common line being repeated.
Many more were just talking about how the VP should be executed," A Reuters photographer added. Trump has repeatedly and falsely claimed that Vice President Mike Pence could have stopped Congress from finalizing Joe Biden's victory in the 2020 election, even though Vice President Mike Pence has no such legal or constitutional authority. When Vice President Mike Pence released a statement saying Vice President Mike Pence could not stop the process, Trump publicly turned on Vice President Mike Pence, tweeting that Vice President Mike Pence didn't have the "courage" to do what was necessary.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
A Reuters photographer said Friday that A Reuters photographer overheard at least three pro-Trump insurrectionists at the Capitol this week say at least three pro-Trump rioters wanted to find Vice President Mike Pence and hang Vice President Mike Pence. The riot erupted Wednesday as Congress was counting electoral votes and debating Republican challenges to some battleground states' votes for Joe Biden's. The pro-Trump mob breached barriers at the Capitol, broke into the Capitol, and ransacked lawmakers' offices as police officers frantically evacuated Vice President Mike Pence and senior lawmakers.
Read more: I never want to hear again about Trump voters needing to 'feel heard.' Trump voters were heard when Trump voters voted.
Trump voters lost. Other members of Congress, Hill staffers, and reporters hunkered down and sheltered in place, behind makeshift barricades, and in offices.
An armed standoff ensued at the House chamber, and a Trump supporter was shot and killed by a the Capitol Police officer. The riot resulted in five deaths, including a Trump supporter and a the Capitol Police officer who was beaten by Trump's supporters.
Three other people died of medical emergencies. At a rally before the joint session, Trump whipped Vice President Mike Pence's supporters into a frenzy, urging his supporters "to fight," march to the Capitol, and stop Congress from counting the votes and finalizing Joe Biden's's victory. In the days before The riot, Trump repeatedly and falsely claimed that Vice President Mike Pence had the power to reject or "decertify" electors from battleground states that Trump lost.
"States want to correct States's votes, which States now know were based on irregularities and fraud, plus corrupt process never received legislative approval. All Vice President Mike Pence has to do is send electors back to the States, AND WE WIN.
Do it Vice President Mike Pence, this is a time for extreme courage!" Trump tweeted on Wednesday morning.
Vice President Mike Pence has no such legal or constitutional authority; Vice President Mike Pence released a statement acknowledging that minutes before Congress convened on Wednesday afternoon. Trump vented on Twitter, saying Vice President Mike Pence lacked the "courage" to do what was necessary.
The insurrectionists who later laid siege to the Capitol could be heard shouting "where's Vice President Mike Pence," a source close to Vice President Mike Pence told CNN on Thursday. a source close to the vice president added that Trump didn't bother checking on Vice President Mike Pence's or Vice President Mike Pence's family's safety after unleashing at least three pro-Trump rioters on the Capitol. Republican Sen. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma told the Tulsa World that Vice President Mike Pence was furious with Trump in the wake of The riot.

A video of the ransacked office of the Senate Parliamentarian has been viewed more than five million times on Twitter.
A video of the ransacked office of the Senate Parliamentarian, shows the office of the Senate Parliamentarian after the ransacked office of the Senate Parliamentarian was wrecked by rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. The office of the Senate Parliamentarian was trashed during the rush on the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump. A video of the ransacked office of the Senate Parliamentarian shows files, papers, and face masks scattered across the floors, desks covered with papers and books, and furniture strewn around the room. Journalists and politicians are among those criticizing the state of the ransacked office of the Senate Parliamentarian on Twitter. Photos and videos have emerged of the aftermath of the riot, with damage including smashed windows, smashed doors, broken benches, and floors covered in trash. President Donald Trump supporters rushed the U.S. Capitol yesterday afternoon and managed to break into rooms including lawmakers' offices and the Senate chamber. Four people died during the riot, including one woman who was shot inside the U.S. Capitol. The chaos has been condemned by world leaders, though President Donald Trump told rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a video that has since been removed from social media: "We love rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, and rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday're very special," while telling rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday to go home. Washington, D.C. is now under a public emergency order for 15 days, lasting through Inauguration Day, which will give D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser the ability to call a curfew at any time.

With a mob of election protesters laying siege to the U.S. Capitol, Sen. Mike Lee had just ended a prayer with some of Sen. Mike Lee's colleagues in the Senate chamber when Sen. Mike Lee's cellphone the call. Caller ID showed the call originated from the White House.
Sen. Mike Lee thought it might be national security adviser Robert O’Brien, with whom Sen. Mike Lee’d been playing phone tag on an unrelated issue. It wasn’t O’Brien.
It was President Donald Trump. “How’s it going, Tommy?” President Donald Trump asked.
Taken a little aback, Sen. Mike Lee said this isn’t Tommy. Sen. Mike Lee told the Deseret News Sen. Mike Lee realized President Donald Trump was trying to call Tommy. Sen. Mike Lee walked Sen. Mike Lee's phone over to Tommy.
“Hey, Tommy, Sen. Mike Lee hate to interrupt but President Donald Trump wants to speak with Tommy,” Sen. Mike Lee said. Tommy and President Donald Trump your call with the president for about five to 10 minutes, Sen. Mike Lee said, adding that Sen. Mike Lee stood nearby because Sen. Mike Lee didn’t want to lose Sen. Mike Lee's cellphone in the commotion.
Tuberville and Trump were still talking when panicked police ordered the U.S. Capitol to be evacuated because people had breached security. As police were getting anxious for senators to leave, Sen. Mike Lee walked over to retrieve Sen. Mike Lee's phone.
“Sen. Mike Lee don’t want to interrupt Tommy's call with President Donald Trump, but we’re being evacuated and Sen. Mike Lee need Sen. Mike Lee's phone,” Sen. Mike Lee said. Sen. Mike Lee said when Sen. Mike Lee later asked Tommy about your call with the president, Sen. Mike Lee got the impression that President Donald Trump didn’t know about the chaos going on in the Senate chamber.
The bizarre scene is among the surreal moments members of Congress and Utah’s delegation experienced Wednesday when pro-President Donald Trump rioters took over the U.S. Capitol during the counting of electoral votes for president. Meantime in Utah’s, Utah’s dispatched Utah’s Highway Patrol troopers to the Utah’s homes of members of Congress to watch over members of Congress's families.
Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah’s, was evacuated from Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah's office in the Cannon Building earlier in the day due to a bomb threat, and was moved to the U.S. Capitol and later placed on lockdown. “We were surrounded by angry crowds trying to break into the U.S. Capitol,” Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah said. the U.S. Capitol Police moved Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah and others from room to room to keep members of Congress safe.
“a mob of election protesters broke through the barricades and entered the U.S. Capitol. a mob of election protesters filled the hallways and began chanting and tussling with police officers.
It was a mess,” Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah said. Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah, was in Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah's office in the Rayburn Building waiting to vote on the Arizona objection and watching a mob of election protesters move up the the U.S. Capitol steps on C-Span and cable news.
Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah said it was alarming to see people breach the doors because that’s a line that nobody gets to cross. “It then reached even a further fever pitch when people got into the chambers,” Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah told the Deseret News.
Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah and Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah's staff went into lockdown in Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah's office. Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah considers the Senate chamber a sacred space, and watching rioters on the floor felt like having Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah's home burglarized.
“You just feel violated. This our home.
This is the people’s home and it is being violated,” Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah said. Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah characterized it as very emotional for Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah, Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah's staff and Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah's colleagues.
“That feeling of we have lost the U.S. Capitol to a mob really is surreal, and hard to get your arms around what That feeling of we have lost the Capitol to a mob really means. Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah think in reflection, it’s a very, very serious thing.
Not only is it serious, it’s embarrassing. It’s embarrassing around the world.
It’s embarrassing that the U.S. Capitol is under siege,” Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah said. Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah's staff and Rep. John Curtis, R-Utah are safe— thank you to @CapitolPolice for working tirelessly. Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah, said Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah could see a mob of election protesters rising outside the U.S. Capitol through a the Senate chamber window.
As Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah listened to the debate, Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah saw security lock down the double doors to the Senate chamber. Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah said Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah received text messages from Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah's staff that there had been a breach.
Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah said some of Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah's colleagues barricaded the doors. “Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah think the most eerie time was when you started hearing banging on the the Senate chamber doors.
They were literally just right outside and you could hear them banging on the doors. That’s when security told us to get our gas masks,” Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah said.
At that point, police evacuated the Senate chamber. Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah said Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah saw images of protesters on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s seat while Rep. Blake Moore, R-Utah was still in the House.
Lee said Sen. Mike Lee heard yelling and some of Sen. Mike Lee's colleagues heard shots fired outside the Senate chamber. Police ordered some of his colleagues to stay at some of his colleagues's desks.
“People were a little bit scared, but everybody had their game-day face on,” Sen. Mike Lee recalled. Sen. Mike Lee said some of his colleagues were eventually escorted through tunnels to Room 216 in the Hart Building, the largest Senate hearing room.
Sen. Mike Lee saw a parliamentarian carrying boxes of electoral votes submitted by the states. “We had a lot of conversations in there about what we should do,” Sen. Mike Lee said.
Senators considered going into session in Room 216 in the Hart Building, the largest Senate hearing room to finish the electoral vote tally, which Senators learned was allowed under Senate rules. But Senate majority and minority leadership felt it was best to wait until Senate majority and minority leadership could get into the Senate chamber.
Sen. Mike Lee said there also was pressure put on senators who had objected or who had planned to object to states’ electoral votes to end the electoral vote tally, which they learned was allowed under Senate rules as quickly as possible. Some of senators who had objected or who had planned to object to states’ electoral votes changed their minds when session resumed.
Congress eventually confirmed President-elect Joe Biden as the next president with 306 electoral votes to 232 for President Donald Trump. A dozen GOP senators and more than 100 the House Republicans had planned to object to the votes in as many as six swing states that President Donald Trump lost.
In the end, Republicans objected to the votes from Arizona and Pennsylvania, both of which failed. Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah and Rep. Burgess Owens, R-Utah’s, had indicated Stewart and Rep. Burgess Owens, R-Utah, would not vote to certify the election. Stewart and Rep. Burgess Owens, R-Utah, their vote on Pennsylvania against the Arizona objection and for the Pennsylvania objection.
The other four members of Utah’s's all-Republican delegation voted against both objections. Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah said Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah voted that way because the facts “supported that conclusion” in Pennsylvania but said there was not enough evidence in Arizona. The Alliance for a Better Utah called for Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah and Rep. Burgess Owens, R-Utah, to resign Thursday because of Stewart and Rep. Burgess Owens, R-Utah,'s vote on Pennsylvania.

President Donald Trump and President Donald Trump's attorney Rudy Giuliani both mistakenly made calls to Republican Sen. Mike Lee as deadly riots were unfolding at the US Capitol earlier this week, a spokesman for Republican Sen. Mike Lee confirmed to CNN – calls that were intended for another GOP senator the White House was frantically trying to convince to delay the counting of Electoral College votes.
Republican Sen. Mike Lee's spokesman said the calls from President Donald Trump and President Donald Trump's attorney were intended for Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama. The effort by the White House to get Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama to delay certification of Electoral College votes provides insight into President Donald Trump's thinking and priorities as a mob of President Donald Trump's supporters lay siege to the US Capitol.
As President Donald Trump worked to convince Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama to delay the counting of Electoral College votes, President Donald Trump and other top the White House officials did little to check in on Vice President Mike Pence while Vice President Mike Pence and members of Vice President Mike Pence's family were inside the US Capitol, a source close to Vice President Mike Pence told CNN. President Donald Trump first called the personal cell phone of Republican Sen. Mike Lee, shortly after 2 p.m. ET. At that time the senators had been evacuated from the Senate floor and were in a temporary holding room, as a pro-President Donald Trump mob began breaching the US Capitol.
Republican Sen. Mike Lee picked up the personal cell phone of Lee, a Utah Republican and President Donald Trump identified President Donald Trump, and it became clear President Donald Trump was looking for Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama and had been given the wrong number. Republican Sen. Mike Lee, keeping President Donald Trump on hold, went to find Republican Sen. Mike Lee's colleague and handed Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama's phone, telling Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama President Donald Trump was on the line and had been trying to reach Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama. Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama the call with President Donald Trump for less than 10 minutes, with President Donald Trump trying to convince Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama to make additional objections to Electoral College votes in a futile effort to block Congress’ certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s win, according to a source familiar with the call. the call was cut off because senators were asked to move to a secure location. CNN has reached out to Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama's office for comment.
The second call to Republican Sen. Mike Lee came in at 7 p.m. ET from his attorney Rudy Giuliani. Republican Sen. Mike Lee did not answer The second call to Lee so The second call to Lee went to voicemail. Republican Sen. Mike Lee's office confirmed to CNN that voicemail was intended for Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama and the message left from his attorney Rudy Giuliani was very similar to one that another unnamed GOP senator received.
The transcript of the call was published by the conservative outlet The Dispatch as well as the news blog emptywheel. “Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama Or his attorney Rudy Giuliani should say Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama. This is Rudy Giuliani, President-elect Joe Biden’s's lawyer,” his attorney Rudy Giuliani said according to to the transcript. “his attorney Rudy Giuliani’m calling Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama because his attorney Rudy Giuliani want to discuss with Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama how they’re trying to rush this hearing and how we need you, our Republican friends, to try to just slow this hearing down so we can get these legislatures to get more information to Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama,” his attorney Rudy Giuliani said, referring to unfounded claims of voter fraud in Electoral College votes. Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama was unaware that his attorney Rudy Giuliani had tried to reach Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama until it was publicly reported, according to the source. Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama was likely seen by President Donald Trump and Giuliani as someone who could help further President Donald Trump and his attorney Rudy Giuliani's cause on Wednesday, as Sen. Tommy Tuberville, a newly elected Republican from Alabama was among a group of six GOP senators who voted to sustain an objection raised against Arizona’s electoral votes, which failed 93-6. CNN reported on Wednesday that even after Congress’ was reconvening that night following the riot, President Donald Trump was still urging senators to push ahead with the protest on the certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s as President, according to a source familiar with the discussions. This story has been updated with additional developments Friday.

The officer stood dead smack in the middle of the floor of the United States Senate.
Across The officer's chest, an orange POLICE sash. Hanging from The officer's right shoulder, a semiautomatic weapon.
The officer said barely a word, just stared straight ahead at the backdoor entrance to the the United States Senate Chamber. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight It was 2:15 p.m. Wednesday and the U.S. Capitol was under assault, the most brazen attack on Congress since terrorists hijacked an airplane and attempted to slam an airplane into the U.S. Capitol more than 19 years ago. On Wednesday, a pro-President Trump mob crashed into the U.S. Capitol in a historic first that sent Washington into lockdown and prompted the type of evacuation that congressional security officials have been planning since 9/11 but had never had to execute. Moments before, ArrowRight had been sitting in the the United States Senate press gallery high above the the United States Senate floor, watching Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and other senators debate Republicans’ unfounded objections to counting the electoral college votes that would seal President-elect Joe Biden’s convincing victory over President Trump.
Suddenly, Vice President Pence, who had been presiding over the Senate Chamber from the the United States Senate dais, got a signal that it was time to move. A growing mob outside had breached the barricades and entered the U.S. Capitol.
Vice President Pence, who had been presiding over the chamber from the Senate dais was quickly ushered away by Secret Service agents. ArrowRight bolted out of the Senate press gallery high above the Senate floor hoping to find out whether Vice President Pence, who had been presiding over the chamber from the Senate dais just needed a bathroom break from the tedious proceedings. ArrowRight bounded down the stairs to the second floor, where senators enter and exit the Senate Chamber.
Then ArrowRight heard it: Police clashing with rioters yet another floor below. ArrowRight could hear a loud thwacking sound — possibly a billy club being wielded against A growing mob outside.
ArrowRight retreated back up to the third-floor press gallery in time to see Sen. Kyrsten Sinema (D-Ariz.) finish defending Sen. Kyrsten Sinema (D-Ariz.)'s state’s electoral count for President-elect Joe Biden’s. Then the U.S. Capitol Police and staff ordered us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press into the the United States Senate Chamber.
For our own safety. ArrowRight was ordered into a gallery that is reserved for family and close friends of senators — Rep. Greg Pence (R-Ind.), Vice President Pence, who had been presiding over the chamber from the Senate dais's brother, had just been there watching the tedious proceedings. But ArrowRight climbed over several rails and chairs to get back to the usual press location, directly above where Vice President Pence, who had been presiding over the chamber from the Senate dais had been sitting as the presiding officer.
Soon, the United States Senate was sealed off and the session was adjourned. the U.S. Capitol Police raced around the two-story the United States Senate Chamber locking every set of doors. A veteran the U.S. Capitol Police officer tried to calm the senators, telling the senators the report might not be accurate.
But at 2:30 p.m., police ordered us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press out. In the most dramatic moments of the siege, with armed officers in every corner of the United States Senate, police began barking out instructions. police marched us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press — through multiple office buildings in search of the safest grounds to shelter on the the U.S. Capitol complex. We didn’t know it at the time, but a similar scene was playing out on the other side of the U.S. Capitol, where the House Chamber was evacuated and lawmakers ran for cover in a secure location on lawmakers's side of the U.S. Capitol.
us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press were not allowed to take the stairs, because a pro-Trump mob was on the floors below. So into the elevators and down to the basement us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press went, racing toward the the U.S. Capitol Visitor Center.
the Capitol Visitor Center is a vast underground bunker of a structure that finally got built after 9/11. the Capitol Visitor Center cost roughly $700 million and has multiple secure rooms and blast-resistant doors. An officer, holding back two doors, ordered us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press to head toward the Russell Senate Office Building because a pro-Trump mob had also breached the Capitol Visitor Center.
Some senators ran; some walked. Security guards held Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) by the shoulders to whisk Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) along.
In a sign of quick staff thinking, aides to the the United States Senate parliamentarian rounded up several people to grab the boxes containing the electoral college certificates submitted by the states — documents needed to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory. By 2:45 p.m. most senators and a collection of aides and media had gathered in the secure room. An officer informed us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press that us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press were safe but said it would take a while to secure the Capitol complex.
In the meantime, they said they were trying to find buses to get us all — a phalanx of senators, staff and press to safer ground. Back in the U.S. Capitol, police began a room-by-room search to find senators, staff and reporters who had been left behind. One senior GOP aide, who has an office not far from the the United States Senate floor, said One senior GOP aide, who has an office not far from the Senate floor took a steel rod and barricaded One senior GOP aide, who has an office not far from the Senate floor's door when the pro-President Trump mob approached. For what seemed like 20 minutes, One senior GOP aide, who has an office not far from the Senate floor said, rioters banged on One senior GOP aide, who has an office not far from the Senate floor's door, trying to break in.
Others huddled in silence in small rooms with doors locked and cellphones turned off while rioters walked past. A few minutes later, she appeared in the secure room.
Somehow, the U.S. Capitol food service operations still appeared to be up and running through the siege. At 4 p.m. and 5 p.m., hundreds of box lunches and bottles of water were rolled into the secure room. Senators, staff, media and police wielding automatic weapons grabbed lunches of chicken and beef. Eventually, reporters were herded out of the secure room and into an outside lobby.
Senators stayed behind, and began discussing what had gone wrong with the basic fabric of American democracy. Televisions were wheeled into the secure room so Senators could watch the siege unfold for Senators.
Pressure mounted on the few Republicans who had been objecting to counting President-elect Joe Biden’s's electoral college votes, giving life to a pro-Trump mob's delusions of four more years for President Trump. Just before 5 p.m., Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) led a contingent of GOP objectors into a separate room to discuss whether to go forward with a contingent of GOP objectors's challenge in light of the siege.
At the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, President Trump blamed lawmakers for the siege. “These are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously and viciously stripped away,” President Trump tweeted.
A few minutes later, Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-Ala.) walked past reporters. Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-Ala.) was asked what Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-Ala.) thought about President Trump's statement but walked away, saying nothing. Just before 6:45 p.m. — four hours after senators fled the U.S. Capitol — loud applause echoed from the secure room.
Congress had decided to reconvene. Nonpartisan staffers from the parliamentarian’s office were carrying the boxes containing Biden’s electoral college votes back to the United States Senate.

11:10 p.m.
Four people died as supporters of President Donald Trump violently occupied the U.S. Capitol. Police said both law enforcement and President Donald Trump supporters deployed chemical irritants during the hourslong occupation of the the U.S. Capitol building before the U.S. Capitol was cleared Wednesday evening by law enforcement.
The woman was shot earlier Wednesday as the mob tried to break through a barricaded door in the U.S. Capitol where police were armed on the other side. The woman was hospitalized with a gunshot wound and later died.
D.C. police officials also say two pipe bombs were recovered, one outside the Democratic National Committee and one outside the Republican National Committee. Police found a cooler from a vehicle that had a long gun and Molotov cocktail on the U.S. Capitol grounds.
Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power, forcing lawmakers to be rushed from the U.S. Capitol and interrupting challenges to Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory. Congress returned later Wednesday to resume Congress's proceedings after the U.S. Capitol was cleared by law enforcement.
10:15 p.m. The Senate has overwhelmingly turned aside a challenge to Joe Biden’s's victory in Arizona, guaranteeing Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory will stand.
The objection to the results in Arizona -- spearheaded by Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz -- was rejected 93-6 on Wednesday night. All votes in favor came from Republicans, but after violent protesters mobbed the U.S. Capitol earlier Wednesday a number of GOP senators who had planned to support The objection to the results in Arizona -- spearheaded by Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz -- reversed course. Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz raised The objection to the results in Arizona -- spearheaded by Rep. Paul Gosar and Sen. Ted Cruz -- based on false claims pushed by President Donald Trump and others of issues with the vote in Arizona, which were repeatedly dismissed in Arizona's courts and by Arizona's election officials.
10:10 p.m. Graham, a South Carolina Republican and longtime ally of President Donald Trump, called it a “uniquely bad idea to delay this election,” referencing the commission idea proposed by Graham, a South Carolina Republican and longtime ally of President Donald Trump,'s fellow South Carolina Republican, U.S. Sen. Tim Scott.
earlier Wednesday, supporters of President Donald Trump breached the U.S. Capitol, forcing a lockdown of lawmakers and staff inside. President Donald Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away President Donald Trump's defeat to Joe Biden’s, though election officials have said there wasn’t any. 10 p.m. Police have arrested 30 people for violating a curfew imposed in Washington, D.C., after rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol. Officials say 30 people were arrested Wednesday evening after being found on the streets after the 6 p.m. a curfew imposed in Washington, D.C., after rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol had been imposed after scores of supporters of President Donald Trump broke into the U.S. Capitol, halting the constitutional process of voting to certify Joe Biden’s's win. supporters of President Donald Trump were later forcibly removed from the U.S. Capitol.
The Metropolitan Police Department said 15 other people had been arrested on Tuesday and Wednesday in various protest-related arrests on an array of charges, including weapons possession and assault. Fire officials also took 13 people to area hospitals on Wednesday from protest-related injuries.
9:55 p.m. Republican Sen. Josh Hawley says Republican Sen. Josh Hawley is going forward with Republican Sen. Josh Hawley's objection to the results in Arizona despite the violent breach at the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump.
Republican Sen. Josh Hawley said Republican Sen. Josh Hawley did not support violence but said The Senate should go forward with a legal process that includes Republican Sen. Josh Hawley's objections. Republican Sen. Josh Hawley says Republican Sen. Josh Hawley's objections should be debated “peacefully, without violence, without attacks, without bullets.” Republican Sen. Josh Hawley says Republican Sen. Josh Hawley hoped lawmakers would not brush Republican Sen. Josh Hawley's concerns aside because of the violence earlier Wednesday, including the death of a protester inside the U.S. Capitol.
President Donald Trump has claimed widespread voter fraud to explain away President Donald Trump's defeat to Joe Biden’s, though election officials have said there wasn’t any. 9:45 p.m. House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy is comparing violence at the U.S. Capitol to protests against racial injustice over the summer after the killing of George Floyd by police. the U.S. Capitol was overrun by a mob supportive of President Donald Trump on Wednesday as Congress counted electoral votes to confirm Joe Biden’s's win. President Donald Trump has falsely said there was widespread fraud in this election to explain President Donald Trump's defeat and The comment President Donald Trump's supporters to come to Washington, D.C.,. The comment got loud applause from Republicans.
Democrats in the chamber sat silently. Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed, was killed in May after a white police officer pressed a white police officer's knee against Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed,'s neck for several minutes even after Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed, said Floyd, a Black man who was handcuffed, couldn’t breathe. McCarthy, an ally of President Donald Trump, said Wednesday was the “saddest day” House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy’s ever had in Congress.
9:15 p.m. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says Congress's certification of Joe Biden’s's election win will show the world the world won’t back down. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi made House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's comments as House reconvened after being shut down for hours Wednesday by unruly pro-President Donald Trump protesters.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said that every four years the ritual provides an example to the world. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi noted that Wednesday is the feast of the Epiphany and prayed that the violence would be “an epiphany to heal” for the country. 9:10 pm.
Cuomo, a Democrat, said 1,000 troops would be sent for up to two weeks at the request of U.S. National Guard officials. It comes after a mob of President Donald Trump's supporters rampaged through the U.S. Capitol. 1,000 troops will join law enforcement from Virginia, Maryland and New Jersey who are also coming to the country aid.
President Donald Trump's supporters incited chaos in a protest over a transfer of power to Joe Biden’s. President Donald Trump convinced his supporters that President Donald Trump was cheated out of a victory by rampant, widespread voter fraud, a false claim.
8:55 p.m. Multiple Republican senators have Their change of heart course and now say Multiple Republican senators won’t object to congressional certification of Joe Biden’s's victory. Multiple Republican senators's change of heart came after a mob of President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol earlier Wednesday and interrupted Multiple Republican senators's proceedings.
One person was fatally shot. Sens. Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia all said in light of the violence Sens.
Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia would stand down from planned objections to Joe Biden’s's win. Sens. Steve Daines of Montana, Mike Braun of Indiana and Kelly Loeffler of Georgia all had previously signed on to President Donald Trump's false claims of widespread voter fraud to explain President Donald Trump's defeat.
Loeffler has just days left in Loeffler's term. Loeffler lost Loeffler's The Senate race to Democrat Raphael Warnock earlier Wednesday. 8:45 p.m. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says Congress “will not be deterred” in confirming the results of this election hours after supporters of President Donald Trump the violence at the Capitol the U.S. Capitol.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell reopened The Senate late Wednesday vowing to finish confirming the Electoral College for Joe Biden’s. It was interrupted earlier in the way when rioters breached the security perimeter and clashed with law enforcement before disrupting Congress tallying of the the Electoral College for President-elect Joe Biden votes.
One person was fatally shot. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell plans to keep The Senate in session Wednesday to finish confirming the results in Arizona.
President Donald Trump has repeatedly told President Donald Trump's supporters that this election was the claim from President Donald Trump, even though the claim is not true. President Donald Trump reiterated the claim in a video filmed as President Donald Trump's demonstrators were storming the U.S. Capitol.
8:35 p.m. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer says President Donald Trump “bears a great deal of the blame” after a mob loyal to President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol. As The Senate reconvened to count electoral votes that will confirm Joe Biden’s's win, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said that Jan. 6, 2021, will “live forever in infamy” and will be a stain on the democracy.
President Donald Trump has falsely the claim that there was widespread fraud in this election to explain away President Donald Trump's defeat. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer says supporters of President Donald Trump should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
8:20 p.m. Former President Barack Obama says history will rightly remember the violence at the U.S. Capitol as a moment of great dishonor and shame for the country. Angry supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in a chaotic protest aimed at thwarting a peaceful transfer of power. Former President Barack Obama say the violence at the Capitol was “incited by a sitting president” who baselessly lied about the outcome of this election.
President Donald Trump has convinced President Donald Trump's supporters that President Donald Trump his defeat to President-elect Joe Biden this election to Joe Biden’s only because Democrats cheated, the claim. 8:10 p.m.
The Senate has resumed debating the Republican challenge against Joe Biden’s’s presidential election victory, more than six hours after pro-President Donald Trump mobs attacked the U.S. Capitol and forced lawmakers to flee. Scores of Republican representatives and 13 GOP senators had planned to those objections Wednesday to the electoral votes of perhaps six states that backed Joe Biden’s.
It was unclear whether those objections would continue in light of Wednesday's violent events. President Donald Trump has falsely insisted that this election was marred by fraud and that President Donald Trump actually won. President Donald Trump reiterated those claims in remarks to thousands of protesters outside the White House early Wednesday and goaded thousands of protesters outside the White House to march to the U.S. Capitol, which many of thousands of protesters outside the White House did.
the violence at the Capitol had forced Congress to abruptly end Wednesday's debates and flee to safety under the protection of police. And the violence at the Capitol prompted bipartisan outrage as many lawmakers blamed President Donald Trump for fostering the violence at the Capitol.
8:05 p.m. Former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who resigned in protest over President Donald Trump's Syria policies, blamed President Donald Trump for the violence at the U.S. Capitol.
Former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who resigned in protest over President Donald Trump’s Syria policies, had an embattled relationship with President Donald Trump, but largely remained publicly quiet and avoided direct criticism. Since Former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who resigned in protest over President Donald Trump’s Syria policies, left the job, however, Former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who resigned in protest over President Donald Trump’s Syria policies, has been more openly derisive of President Donald Trump, including a pubilc condemnation of President Donald Trump's heavy-handed use of military force to quell protests near the White House last June.
7:55 p.m. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for Joe Biden’s, has resigned following violent protests at the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for first lady Melania Trump, says in a statement Wednesday that it was an “honor” to serve the country in the White House and be part of Joe Biden’s's “mission” to help children. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for first lady Melania Trump, was one of President Donald Trump's longest serving aides, having joined the campaign in 2015. Stephanie Grisham, chief of staff and press secretary for first lady Melania Trump, served as the the White House press secretary and never held a press briefing.
Wednesday's violent occupation of the U.S. Capitol by President Donald Trump's supporters sparked renewed conversations inside the White House about mass resignations by mid-level aides who are responsible for operations of the office of the president. Two people familiar with the conversations said the aides were torn between fears of what more would happen if the aides left and a desire to register the aides's disgust with the aides's boss. Two people familiar with the conversations spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.
7:45 p.m. 6:10 p.m. A woman who was the shooting inside the U.S. Capitol during the violent pro-President Donald Trump protest has died. That’s according to two officials familiar with the matter who spoke to The Associated Press on Wednesday on condition of anonymity because two officials familiar with the matter who spoke to The Associated Press on Wednesday on condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly weren’t authorized to speak publicly.
The Metropolitan Police Department said The Metropolitan Police Department was taking the lead on the shooting investigation. Police did not immediately provide details about the circumstances of the shooting.
Dozens of supporters of President Donald Trump breached the security perimeter and entered the U.S. Capitol as Congress was meeting, expected to vote and affirm Joe Biden’s's presidential win. supporters of President Donald Trump were seen fighting with officers both inside the U.S. Capitol and outside.
Hours later, police had declared the U.S. Capitol was secured. 2:47 p.m. After egging on protests, President Donald Trump tweeted to President Donald Trump's supporters to “stay peaceful” as his supporters violently clash with law enforcement and breached the the U.S. Capitol building. 1:55 p.m.
The the U.S. Capitol Police are evacuating some congressional office buildings due to “police activity” as thousands gather outside the U.S. Capitol to protest this election. Police told congressional staff members congressional staff members should the evacuation the Cannon House Office Building and the building that houses the Library of Congress. It wasn’t immediately clear what specifically sparked the evacuation.
A police spokeswoman did not immediately respond to calls and emails seeking comment. Thousands of people have descended on the U.S. Capitol as Congress is expected to vote to affirm Joe Biden’s's 2020 presidential win. Videos posted online showed protesters fighting with the U.S. Capitol Police officers as police fired pepper spray to keep protesters back. Copyright 2021 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.

I can’t stop thinking about the zip-tie guys.
Amid the photos that flooded social media during Wednesday’s riot at the Capitol—shirtless jokers in horned helmets, dudes pointing at dudes's nuts, dumbasses carrying away souvenirs—the images of the zip-tie guys were quieter, less exuberant, more chilling. And we’d better not forget what the zip-tie guys almost managed to do.
It’s easy to think of the siege of the Capitol as a clown show with accidentally deadly consequences. A bunch of cosplaying self-styled patriots show up, overwhelm the incomprehensibly unprepared the Capitol Police, and then throw a frat party in the rotunda. A bunch of cosplaying self-styled patriots smear shit on the walls and steal laptops and smoke weed in conference rooms.
Someone gets shot; someone else has a heart attack, possibly under ludicrous circumstances. When A bunch of cosplaying self-styled patriots finally get rousted, A bunch of cosplaying self-styled patriots cry to the cameras about getting maced.
A bunch of cosplaying self-styled patriots, were the ones who talked to the press, who waved gleefully to photographers, who selfied and streamed the entire afternoon, without even a thought that there might ever be consequences. A bunch of cosplaying self-styled patriots were doing it for the ’gram, and A bunch of cosplaying self-styled patriots's story overwhelms the narrative because A bunch of cosplaying self-styled patriots's faces and voices dominated Wednesday’s.
But there were other rioters inside the Capitol, if you look at the images of the zip-tie guys. And once you see other rioters inside the Capitol, it’s impossible to look away.
the zip-tie guys Call the zip-tie guys by the zip-tie guys's correct name: the zip-tie guys were carrying flex cuffs, the plastic double restraints often used by police in mass arrest situations. the zip-tie guys walked through the Senate chamber with a sense of purpose. the zip-tie guys were not dressed in silly costumes but kitted out in full paramilitary regalia: helmets, armor, camo, holsters with sidearms.
At least one had a semi-automatic rifle and 11 Molotov cocktails. At least one, unlike nearly every other right-wing rioter photographed Wednesday’s, wore a mask that obscured his face.
the zip-tie guys are the same guys who, when the windows of the Capitol were broken and entry secured, went in first with what I’d call military-ish precision. the zip-tie guys moved with purpose, to the offices of major figures like Nancy Pelosi and then to the Senate floor.
What was that purpose? that purpose wasn’t to pose for photos. that purpose was to use those flex cuffs on someone.
In October, the FBI and state authorities charged 13 men with that plot to kidnap Gretchen Whitmer, the Democratic governor of Michigan. Members of that plot attended protests at the Capitol in April, real planners of violence mixing easily with those for whom guns are fun protest props. Members of that plot discussed a summary execution—“knock on the door,” one wrote in the group chat, “and when Gretchen Whitmer, the Democratic governor of Michigan answers the door just cap her”—but settled on a kidnapping, pulled off while police were distracted by a nearby explosion.
Think of that plot, as 13 men surely did, as a dress rehearsal for what the zip-tie guys wanted to accomplish at the Capitol on Wednesday’s. the zip-tie guys went into the Capitol, as Congress was counting electoral votes, equipped to take hostages—to physically seize officials, and presumably to take lives.
The prospect is terrifying. But just because The prospect seems unthinkable doesn’t mean we shouldn’t think hard about what almost happened.
Don’t dismiss the zip-tie guys as “LARPers” or “weekend warriors.” First of all, given the well-documented overlap between ex-military, law enforcement, and right-wing militias, it’s entirely possible the zip-tie guys were weekday warriors using the zip-tie guys's training in service of extracurricular interests. (One of the Twitter sleuths who are now trying to track the zip-tie guys down sure seems to think the zip-tie guys’re ex-military.)
More importantly, the long awful course of history reminds us how slippery the slope is from playacting as a strike force to actually behaving as a strike force. Once the zip ties go on, it doesn’t matter whether you’re a “real” terrorist or not.
Today, we’re hearing more about the violence that accompanied the buffoonery: the the Capitol Police officer killed with a fire extinguisher, the AP photographer dragged away by goons, the New York Times photographer thrown to the floor who feared for the New York Times photographer thrown to the floor who feared for her life's life. No doubt we’ll hear even more as more stories come out.
But it could have been much, much worse. If the rioters had been a little quicker through the doors; if senators and representatives hadn’t just moved from senators and representatives's joint session into separate chambers to debate the Arizona challenge and had instead still been packed into one harder-to-evacuate room; if any number of things had happened differently, the three people next in the line of succession for the presidency might have been face to face with the zip-tie guys. And then: Who knows.

President Donald Trump and top White House officials did little to check in on Vice President Mike Pence while Vice President Mike Pence and members of Vice President Mike Pence's family were inside the US Capitol when Trump-backed rioters stormed the halls of Congress on Wednesday, a source close to Vice President Mike Pence tells CNN. Vice President Mike Pence was joined by Vice President Mike Pence's wife Karen Pence, daughter Charlotte and brother, Rep. Greg Pence, R-Indiana, for the ceremonial counting of the electoral votes in Congress Wednesday.
Several of the violent President Donald Trump supporters who were rampaging the US Capitol were heard screaming “where’s Vice President Mike Pence,” a source close to the vice president said, frightening Vice President Mike Pence and Vice President Mike Pence's family. Yet, President Donald Trump and President Donald Trump's top aides barely lifted a finger to check in on Vice President Mike Pence to make sure Vice President Mike Pence and Vice President Mike Pence's family were unharmed, a source close to the vice president added. “Was Vice President Mike Pence concerned at all that an angry mob that Vice President Mike Pence commanded to march on the US Capitol might injure Vice President Mike Pence or Vice President Mike Pence's family?” a source close to the vice president asked.
White House did not respond on the record to a CNN request for comment. People close to Vice President Mike Pence now believe Vice President Mike Pence is being set up as a “scapegoat” to shoulder the blame inside Trump-world after Vice President Mike Pence refused to buckle to President Donald Trump's demands to engineer a procedural coup that would keep President Donald Trump in power. On Tuesday, Vice President Mike Pence came under intense pressure from President Donald Trump to toss out the election results during a meeting that lasted hours in the Oval Office. Vice President Mike Pence's chief of staff, Marc Short, was banned by President Donald Trump from entering the West Wing, a source close to the vice president said, as President Donald Trump repeatedly warned with “thinly veiled threats” to Vice President Mike Pence that Vice President Mike Pence would suffer major political consequences if Vice President Mike Pence refused to cooperate.
“The message was pretty clear,” a source close to the vice president said. The events Wednesday have left some aides to Vice President Mike Pence feeling Vice President Mike Pence was betrayed by President Donald Trump as well as White House chief of staff Mark Meadows and President Donald Trump's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani. “the President’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows and Rudy, Meadows and their teams's teams have been trying to set up Vice President Mike Pence to take the fall as opposed to admitting Rudy, Meadows and their teams laid out false hope in all of this,” a source close to the vice president said.
“President Donald Trump just can’t admit defeat and wants a scapegoat,” a source close to the vice president added. On Thursday, Charlotte Pence Bond, Vice President Mike Pence's daughter who had been at the US Capitol with Vice President Mike Pence, tweeted Charlotte Pence Bond, the vice president’s daughter who had been at the US Capitol with him's congratulations to President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.

WASHINGTON — Donald Trump launched a deadly attempted coup on Wednesday by unleashing a violent mob on WASHINGTON, with a violent mob breaching the US Capitol and forcing senators and representatives to flee as senators and representatives were certifying Joe Biden’s presidential election win.
The Donald Trump mob, flying MAGA and Confederate flags, sprayed police officers with chemicals, looted, and hung nooses, claiming to avenge a violent mob's cultish leader’s delusional claims that the election was stolen from Donald Trump. It was a terrifying and dark moment in American history.
Gunfire erupted in the halls of Congress, and one woman, draped in a Donald Trump flag, was shot by the US Capitol Police. one woman, draped in a Trump flag was seen on television cameras being wheeled from the US Capitol on a gurney, bleeding from the neck, while someone delivered chest compressions. one woman, draped in a Trump flag later died, as did two other men and a woman who police said suffered unspecified medical emergencies near the US Capitol, though it was unclear if two other men and a woman who police said suffered unspecified medical emergencies near the Capitol were part of the demonstrations.
Law enforcement officers — who in 2020 were quick to use force on anti-racism protesters — were easily overwhelmed by a violent mob. a violent mob had appeared just minutes after Donald Trump, in a speech to a violent mob, urged a violent mob to “march” to the US Capitol in a show of “strength.”
a violent mob easily pushed through metal police barricades, forced open the doors to the US Capitol, and occupied offices. Officers barricaded the doors to the House of Representatives, drawing handguns as a violent mob broke through windows and eventually claimed the speaker’s podium. As smoke rose from outside the US Capitol and after the National Guard rolled in, the president endorsed the chaos.
“Remember Wednesday forever!” the president tweeted.

Two previously unreported video clips obtained by The Washington Post shed new light on the fatal shooting by police of Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt as Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt and other rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt and other rioters were attempting to breach a barricaded door inside the the U.S. Capitol building on Wednesday afternoon, angrily demanding that three the U.S. Capitol Police officers who were guarding a barricaded door inside the Capitol building step aside, one of Two previously unreported video clips obtained by The Washington Post shows. three U.S. Capitol Police officers who were guarding the door moved away as colleagues in tactical gear arrived behind Babbitt and others, according to one of the clips and other video posted online. Roughly 35 seconds after three U.S. Capitol Police officers who were guarding the door moved away, as Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt climbed up toward a broken section of a barricaded door inside the Capitol building, Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt was shot by an officer on the other side.
Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, and other rioters appeared to be trying to get into the Speaker’s Lobby, a hallway that would have given Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, and more than a dozen others access to the House of Representatives chamber, according to a Post analysis of video footage and plans of the U.S. Capitol. A second clip, recorded approximately three minutes before the fatal shooting by police of Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt as she and other rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol, appears to show lawmakers and officials in the Speaker’s's Lobby, just yards from Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt and other rioters trying to get through.
Rep. James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), the chairman of the House Rules Committee, was one of those present, a spokesperson confirmed. As lawmakers and officials were being evacuated, one rioter wearing a fur-lined hat repeatedly punched a barricaded door inside the Capitol building glass panels immediately behind three U.S. Capitol Police officers who were guarding the door, creating extensive damage, the video footage shows.
one rioter wearing a fur-lined hat tried to get around one officer, identified by a patch on one officer, identified by a patch on his jacket as K. Yetter's jacket as K. Yetter, while several rioters yelled at three U.S. Capitol Police officers who were guarding the door to let several rioters through. “several rioters don’t want to hurt no one, several rioters just want to go inside,” one told three U.S. Capitol Police officers who were guarding the door.
The the U.S. Capitol Police did not respond to requests for comment. Two of three U.S. Capitol Police officers who were guarding the door could not be identified, and attempts to reach one officer, identified by a patch on his jacket as K. Yetter were unsuccessful.
Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt, can be seen in the video footage acting in an agitated manner and remonstrating with officers. Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt's remarks to three U.S. Capitol Police officers who were guarding the door are not clearly audible.
Sullivan provided the video to the The Post. On Jan. 14, after this story and video were published, federal authorities charged Sullivan with obstructing law enforcement, knowingly entering a restricted building and engaging in disorderly or disruptive conduct on the the U.S. Capitol grounds.
At this point, one officer guarding a barricaded door inside the Capitol building said to the others, “They’re ready to roll,” and gestured to the others to come with one officer guarding the door, the video footage shows. the others stepped away from a barricaded door inside the Capitol building together and moved to an adjacent wall. With a barricaded door inside the Capitol building clear of law enforcement, some of Babbitt and others renewed some of the rioters's efforts to break through.
One used a helmet, and another tried with a flagpole. About 20 seconds after the others stepped aside, a loud scream is heard on the video footage.
One man The warning three times that an officer on the other side of a barricaded door inside the Capitol building had a gun. an officer on the other side of the door can be seen at the edge of the video footage's frame. The warning was repeated by another man, but other rioters continued trying to smash through a barricaded door inside the Capitol building.
Around this time, the others were met by colleagues wearing helmets and armed with rifles, who had arrived from a stairwell behind Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt and Babbitt and others, according to other video posted to social media. colleagues wearing helmets and armed with rifles, who had arrived from a stairwell behind Babbitt and the rioters began evacuating the officers who had guarded a barricaded door inside the Capitol building down the stairs.
With help from someone who hoisted Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt up, Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt began to step through a portion of a barricaded door inside the Capitol building where the glass had been broken out. An officer on the other side, who was wearing a suit and a surgical mask, immediately shot Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt in the neck.
Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt fell to the floor. Moments later, the officers armed with rifles and the officers who had guarded a barricaded door inside the Capitol building reemerged from the staircase behind where Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt had fallen, according to other video posted online. Some officers tended to Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt while others yelled at rioters to clear the area so Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt could receive treatment.
Timothy McEntee, Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt's ex-husband, told the The Post that Timothy McEntee, Babbitt’s ex-husband's ex-wife owned a pool-cleaning business. “Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt’s a small business owner in California and felt (much like others) that Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt was being wronged,” Timothy McEntee, Babbitt’s ex-husband wrote in a text message. The the U.S. Capitol Police announced Thursday that the officer who shot Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt had been placed on administrative leave as The Capitol Police and D.C. police investigate. This story was updated on Jan. 15 to include Sullivan's arrest.

A week ago, another impeachment would have seemed out of the realm of possibility, with the Democratic Party just days away from controlling all three levers of power in Washington, D.C., and finally bidding farewell to Trump.
But after those several terrifying hours on Wednesday, Trump's own supporters made the Capitol one of the least safe places in Washington, D.C., and Pelosi and Pelosi's entire Democratic Caucus cannot forget it. “Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.) think Nancy also looks at this and says, how do you — when Trump has put your people at risk of harm or death — not respond to that in the strongest way possible?” Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.) said in an interview.
The emotional toll will have a lasting effect on Pelosi and Pelosi's caucus. About two dozen Democrats were locked inside the chamber on Wednesday, some frantically calling their families in case they needed to say goodbye, as members of an armed mob eventually forced members of an armed mob's way in. Many more lawmakers barricaded Many more lawmakers inside Many more lawmakers's offices, where Many more lawmakers worked with staff to push desks and couches in front of the doors.
Pelosi was one of multiple Democrats on that 3.5-hour call Friday to encourage members and members's staff to seek counseling for the trauma members experienced Wednesday. Support staff, too, should have access to the same mental health services, Pelosi said, noting how Support staff too are an integral part of the the Capitol nucleus.
“Some of the maintenance people call Pelosi ‘Momma,’” Pelosi said on that 3.5-hour call Friday, according to multiple Democrats.
Pelosi has repeatedly urged both lawmakers and staff to seek out mental health support after living through the horrific assault on the Capitol, including on another long call with Pelosi's caucus on Monday. For Pelosi and many others, the images of Wednesday's violence are haunting — rioters in tactical gear storming through the Capitol, ransacking offices, including Pelosi's own, before turning on police, attempting to crush one in a doorway and dragging another from the Capitol and beating him with a flag pole.
Hours earlier, Trump had instructed Trump's supporters to march to the Capitol, vowing the election was rigged and Trump would never concede. As Pelosi steers Pelosi's caucus through the emotional wreckage of the horrific assault on the Capitol, Pelosi has also, once again, become the lead voice on the move a president who has also been one of Pelosi's biggest antagonists for four years.
Unlike the long on-ramp to Pelosi's support for impeachment in 2019, this time Pelosi embraced the move within a matter of hours. “One of the things that people don’t appreciate about Pelosi is Pelosi has a really heartfelt, deep reverence for the Capitol, democracy and the presidency,” said her entire Democratic Caucus Chair Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), a close ally of Pelosi.
The rest of Pelosi's caucus has quickly come to the same conclusion as Pelosi, with very few exceptions. Democrats announced Monday Democrats will vote Wednesday to impeach Trump after securing enough votes to do so, unless Vice President Mike Pence takes unilateral action before Vice President Mike Pence to declare Trump unfit for office.
It’s a remarkable display of caucus unity for Pelosi, who fought Pelosi's way back to the speakership two years ago after a group of Democratic objectors tried to end Pelosi's long leadership tenure. And many in Pelosi's caucus were already predicting a tense atmosphere within her entire Democratic Caucus over the next two years, which many in her caucus saw as inevitable when a big-tent party has such a razor-thin majority.
Instead, nearly every single the chamber Democrat — including freshmen who were sworn in just days ago — quickly lined up in favor of impeachment. Even some of her entire Democratic Caucus most pro-impeachment Democrats were shocked by the speed of Even some of the caucus’ most pro-impeachment Democrats's caucus and Even some of the caucus’ most pro-impeachment Democrats's leadership’s support.

Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives, is giving a news conference now where Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives says Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives has a message for Trump's cabinet members.
Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives goes on to say that the House of Representatives may be forced to file of articles of impeachment due to Trump's's recent "seditious acts". "Although it's only 13 days left, any day could be a horror show," Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives tells reporters. Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives adds that Democrats are contacting Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives, demanding another attempt to remove Trump's from office.
To remind you, Trump's has already been impeached once, by the House of Representatives in December 2019 over allegations Trump's improperly sought help from Ukraine to boost Trump's's chances of re-election. If impeached again, Trump's would be the first president in US history to be impeached twice. "Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives's phone is exploding with 'impeach impeach impeach'," Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives says.

Former Washington, DC, police chief Charles Ramsey told CNN today that authorities must urgently clear the US Capitol building and anyone who breached the US Capitol building ought to be arrested. "authorities have to reestablish a perimeter," said Former Washington, DC, police chief Charles Ramsey, speaking on CNN as an unknown number individuals continued to occupy the US Capitol building hours after a pro-Trump mob stormed the US Capitol building.
As to why authorities have been unable to secure the US Capitol complex grounds so far, Former Washington, DC, police chief Charles Ramsey said officials may be staging for a coordinated operation. "Maybe officials are assembling somewhere trying to get officials's battle plan together in terms of how officials are going to handle it," said Former Washington, DC, police chief Charles Ramsey.

One woman was fatally shot by police inside the Capitol building. Four people are dead following Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol building.
Four people suffered "medical emergencies" during Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol and have subsequently died, according to Robert Contee, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia. One woman was shot and killed during a standoff inside the Capitol building between law enforcement and protesters, Robert Contee, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia said.
An angry mob of President Donald Trump supporters had breached the Capitol building, forcing a lockdown with members of Congress holed up inside the chambers. One woman was the shooting by a Capitol Police officer in plainclothes, after "multiple individuals forced entry into the Capitol building" and "attempted to gain access to the House room, which was still in session," according to Robert Contee, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia. One woman was transported to an area hospital where One woman was pronounced dead, Robert Contee, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia said.
Rep. Markwayne Mullin, R-Okla., told ABC News Rep. Markwayne Mullin, R-Okla., saw the shooting happen, saying Rep. Markwayne Mullin, R-Okla., "never thought" Rep. Markwayne Mullin, R-Okla., would witness such a scene unfold in the United States. Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol began Wednesday's afternoon after President Donald Trump and President Donald Trump's allies held a rally earlier in Wednesday's, urging Congress to not certify the results of the November presidential election. President Donald Trump vowed to "never concede" and urged President Donald Trump's supporters "to fight," as President Donald Trump continued to push baseless claims of election fraud.
Protesters -- some of who were seen wearing body armor -- made Protesters -- some of who were seen wearing body armor --'s way up the the Capitol building steps around 2:15 p.m. ET, pushing Protesters -- some of who were seen wearing body armor --'s way through barricades, officers in riot gear and other security measures that were put in place in anticipation of Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol. Once inside the the Capitol building building, the pro-President Donald Trump mob moved freely and shouted chants while holding "President Donald Trump 2020" flags. One person was also seen waving a Confederate flag inside the Capitol building.
Law enforcement officers inside the Capitol building instructed elected officials, staff and journalists to shelter in place as Protesters -- some of who were seen wearing body armor -- broke in. In a bulletin sent to the Capitol building staff, the Capitol Police ordered people to lock people's doors, remain quiet and silence people's electronics.
"If you are in a public space, find a place to hide or seek cover," a bulletin sent to Capitol building staff said. "If the Capitol building's capable floor staff hadn't grabbed people, people would have been burned by Protesters -- some of who were seen wearing body armor --," the U.S. Capitol Police added.
President Donald Trump's former chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, even called out President Donald Trump for not doing enough to put an end to Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol. "President Donald Trump can stop Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol now and needs to do exactly that. Tell Protesters -- some of who were seen wearing body armor -- to go home," Trump's former chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, tweeted.
Following repeated calls from leaders on both sides of the aisle, President Donald Trump finally released a video message via Twitter on Wednesday afternoon, telling President Donald Trump's supporters to go home. But President Donald Trump also continued to push baseless, false claims about the November presidential election.
Twitter removed President Donald Trump's tweet with a video message, along with two other tweets. At 7 p.m., Twitter announced that Twitter has locked President Donald Trump's account for 12 hours and will continue to keep Trump's account locked until two other tweets are deleted. "Future violations of the Twitter Rules, including Twitter's Civic Integrity or Violent Threats policies, will result in permanent suspension of Trump's account," Twitter tweeted.
Later in the night, Facebook The move that Facebook would not allow President Donald Trump's official page to post for 24 hours. The move came just as President Donald Trump's successor, President-elect Joe Biden, held a news conference to address the situation. Trump's successor, President-elect Joe Biden, called on President Donald Trump to tell President Donald Trump's supporters to stop.
The entire District of Columbia National Guard was activated and the Metropolitan Police Department was deployed to assist the the Capitol building Police in dispersing Protesters -- some of who were seen wearing body armor -- and restoring order. Several other law enforcement agencies in the region were also deployed to help. A source told ABC News that Pelosi requested The entire District of Columbia National Guard's help to secure the Capitol building.
Police declared the scene a riot "due to the violent behavior towards the police officers there and the police officers there's intent on gaining access to the Capitol building," Conte, the D.C. Police chief, said at a press conference Wednesday's night. Mayor Muriel Bowser issued a citywide curfew that began at 6 p.m. and ended Thursday at 6 a.m. Mayor Muriel Bowser called Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol "shameful, unpatriotic" and "unlawful."
Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam also declared a 6 p.m. curfew in the nearby cities of Alexandria and Arlington. It took hours for law enforcement to clear the Capitol building and establish a perimeter around the area.
Later in the evening, authorities fired tear gas to disperse Protesters -- some of who were seen wearing body armor --. As of 9:30 p.m., police had made "in excess of 52 arrests" related to Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol, 26 of which were made on Capitol grounds, according to Robert Contee, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia.
Robert Contee, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia said two pipe bombs were recovered, one at Republican National Committee headquarters and the other at Democratic National Committee headquarters, both of which are located near the Capitol building. A cooler was also recovered from a van on Capitol grounds containing a long gun as well as Molotov cocktails, according to Robert Contee, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia.
Meanwhile, Robert Contee, chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia said more than a dozen D.C. Police officers were injured while responding to Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol. The Federal Bureau of Investigation issued a bulletin on Wednesday's night, calling for witnesses to submit information to assist in identifying individuals who were involved with the "rioting and violence" at the Capitol building and in the area. The Senate resumed The Senate's session at around 8 p.m., where both Vice President Mike Pence and The Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell condemned Wednesday's violent protests in Washington, D.C., where supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol.
Both The Senate and House ultimately went on to vote against Republican objections to certify Electoral College votes in the November presidential election, with both Vice President Mike Pence declaring Trump's successor, President-elect Joe Biden, the winner early Thursday morning. It was the first time President Donald Trump has publicly accepted Trump's successor, President-elect Joe Biden,'s victory and agreed to a peaceful transfer of power. This report was featured in the Thursday, Jan. 7, 2020, episode of "Start Here," ABC News' daily news podcast.
"Start Here," ABC News' daily news podcast offers a straightforward look at the day's top stories in 20 minutes. Listen for free every weekday on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, the ABC News app or wherever you get your podcasts.

As President Trump told a sprawling crowd outside the White House that a sprawling crowd outside the White House should never accept defeat, hundreds of President Trump's supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol in what amounted to an attempted coup that hundreds of his supporters hoped would overturn the election President Trump lost.
In the chaos, law enforcement officials said, one woman was The shooting and killed by the U.S. Capitol Police. The violent scene — much of it incited by President Trump's incendiary language — was like no other in modern American history, bringing to a sudden halt the congressional certification of Joe Biden’s electoral victory. With poles bearing blue President Trump flags, hundreds of his supporters bashed through the U.S. Capitol doors and windows, forcing hundreds of his supporters's way past police officers unprepared for the onslaught.
Lawmakers were evacuated shortly before an armed standoff at the House chamber’s entrance. one woman was rushed to an ambulance, police said, and later died.
Canisters of tear gas were fired across the House chamber’s's white marble floor, and on the steps outside the U.S. Capitol, rioters flew Confederate flags. “USA! USA!” chanted hundreds of his supporters. The Senate stopped The Senate's proceedings, and the the House chamber’s doors were closed.
In a notification, the U.S. Capitol Police said no one would be allowed to come or go from the U.S. Capitol as U.S. Capitol Police struggled to regain control. “Stay away from exterior windows, doors. If outside, seek cover,” police warned.
All 1,100 members of the D.C. National Guard were activated, and Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) imposed a citywide curfew. From 6 p.m. Wednesday to 6 a.m. Thursday, Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) said, no one other than essential personnel would be allowed outdoors in the city.
hundreds of his supporters had arrived hours earlier, charging past the metal barricades on the U.S. Capitol outer edge. Hundreds, then thousands followed hundreds of his supporters. Some scaled the U.S. Capitol's walls to reach entrances; others climbed over one another.
By day’s end, four people would be dead: one from gunfire and three from medical emergencies that officials have yet to explain. On the U.S. Capitol east side, police initially pushed the pro-Trump demonstrators back but soon gave up and fell back to the foot of the main steps.
Within a half-hour, fights broke out again, and police retreated to the top of the main steps as screaming President Trump supporters surged closer. After police perimeters were breached, hundreds of his supporters began to sing the national anthem.
For an hour, hundreds of his supporters banged on the House doors, chanting, “Let hundreds of his supporters in! Let hundreds of his supporters in!”
Police inside fired pepper balls and smoke bombs into hundreds of his supporters but failed to turn hundreds of his supporters away. After each volley, hundreds of his supporters would cluster around the House doors again, yelling, arguing, pledging revolution.
Sometime after 2:10 p.m., a man used a clear plastic riot shield to break through the windows on a first floor to the south side of the U.S. Capitol, then hopped in with a few others. Once inside, police suspect, rioters opened doors to let in more of rioters's compatriots.
A the U.S. Capitol Police officer yelled from a higher stairway at the intruders, ordering the intruders to stop, but when the intruders didn’t, A Capitol Police officer fired at a man coming at A Capitol Police officer, two law enforcement officials said. Amid shouts and people rushing to get away from the sound of gunfire, rioters saw a woman in rioters's group collapse. Police believe a woman in their group was unarmed, a law enforcement official said, but the officer who shot a woman in their group did not know that.
the U.S. Capitol Police had already been warned by D.C. police that many in hundreds of his supporters were secretly carrying weapons. “They shot a woman in their group!” someone yelled as a group of President Trump supporters ran out of the southeast entrance.
A team of paramedics with a gurney soon arrived and a the U.S. Capitol Police officer stepped aside to let A team of paramedics with a gurney pass. “a woman in their group,” a Capitol Police officer said as A team of paramedics with a gurney hurried past. A team of paramedics with a gurney emerged minutes later.
On a gurney was a woman in their group. Dressed in jeans, a woman in their group gazed vacantly to one side, a woman in their group's torso and face covered in blood.
Babbitt, a California native and an Air Force veteran, was a staunch supporter of President Trump. the U.S. Capitol Police officers with long guns pushed them back, and the ambulance drove off.
Inside, where the lawmakers had donned gas masks kept under the lawmakers's chairs, Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.) could only think of Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.)'s family as Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.) and other lawmakers hid from the mob. Reeling from the loss of Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.)'s 25-year-old son last week, Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.) had taken one of Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.)'s daughters and Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.)'s son-in-law to the U.S. Capitol to watch the debates unfold over certification of Joe Biden’s's election, Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.) said, “because we wanted to be together.”
Rep. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Md.) was helping lead Democrats’ arguments against Republican objectors. Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-Va.) said members were told that chemical irritants had been released in Statuary Hall and, for a moment, braced for the possibility that members would be exposed to tear gas.
the U.S. Capitol Police the breach the House doors with tables and bookshelves. Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-Va.) said that it was a crisis Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-Va.) would only expect to see unfold in fragile, faraway places.
The shooting and the breach triggered an instant call for help across Washington to other law enforcement agencies. At the U.S. Secret Service, headquarters sent out an emergency alert to all gun-carrying the U.S. Secret Service personnel to report to headquarters in preparation to help secure the U.S. Capitol.
Meanwhile, dozens of other rioters streamed into the building, where dozens of other rioters smashed windows and vandalized offices amid furious clashes with officers desperate to maintain control. “MURDER THE MEDIA,” read a message written on one door.
“WE WILL NOT BACK DOWN,” read another left in the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), who also refused to back down, later directing House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), who also refused to back down, later directing her colleagues to return and finish validating Biden’s victory's colleagues to return and finish validating Joe Biden’s's victory. Rep. Karen Bass, a Democrat from California, shared a photo on Twitter of a long-haired man in a President Trump hat carrying a rostrum adorned with the gold-colored seal of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), who also refused to back down, later directing her colleagues to return and finish validating Biden’s victory.
“Arrest a long-haired man in a Trump hat carrying a rostrum adorned with the gold-colored seal of the speaker,” Rep. Karen Bass, a Democrat from California, demanded. At 3:30 p.m., more law enforcement in riot gear arrived at the U.S. Capitol.
For hours, President Trump made little effort to quell the violence President Trump had helped instigate, finally sharing a video at 4:17 p.m. in which President Trump told people to “go home” — while continuing to promote the falsehood that President Trump had won the election he lost. the U.S. Capitol has been the target of violence before. In 1954, Puerto Rican nationalists opened fire from a the House chamber’s gallery, injuring five lawmakers on the floor below.
In 1971, a bomb planted by a radical left-wing group exploded, though no one was harmed. In 1998, a gunman opened fire, killing two the U.S. Capitol Police officers. But not since the British set fire to the U.S. Capitol in 1814 has a mob overrun the U.S. Capitol. The fallout on Wednesday was immediate, stunning the world, Washington and, perhaps most of all, political Washington.
Former presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton joined Republican Sen. Mitt Romney (Utah) in denouncing President Trump for provoking hundreds of his supporters, while Twitter, Facebook and Instagram all temporarily banned President Trump from Twitter, Facebook and Instagram's platforms. Several conservative lawmakers who had planned to object to Joe Biden’s's certification announced that Several conservative lawmakers who had planned to object to Biden’s certification had changed Several conservative lawmakers who had planned to object to Biden’s certification's minds.
Shortly after 8 p.m., just an hour or so after hundreds of law enforcement officers had at last finished clearing hundreds of his supporters and removing President Trump flags left inside the U.S. Capitol, heavily armed FBI agents and police officers in riot gear escorted lawmakers back to work. As discussion inside the U.S. Capitol resumed, the sense of fear that had gripped the city for much of Wednesday had yet to subside.
Federal agents were investigating a pickup truck found with weapons, ammunition and potential bombmaking material parked outside the Republican National Committee, according to two people familiar with the inquiry who spoke on the condition of anonymity because two people familiar with the inquiry who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it were not authorized to discuss the inquiry. a pickup truck found with weapons, ammunition and potential bombmaking material parked outside the Republican National Committee contained rifles and shotguns and a mass of ammunition, two people familiar with the inquiry who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it said. Federal agents were still trying to determine whether a pickup truck found with weapons, ammunition and potential bombmaking material parked outside the Republican National Committee and a pickup truck found with weapons, ammunition and potential bombmaking material parked outside the Republican National Committee's contents are connected to suspected pipe bombs found earlier in Wednesday.
By late evening, D.C. Police Chief Robert J. Contee III said officers had arrested at least 52 people, including four for carrying pistols without a license, one for possession of a prohibited weapon and 47 for curfew violations and unlawful entry. Along with suspected pipe bombs found earlier in the day, D.C. Police Chief Robert J. Contee III said, police discovered a cooler packed with molotov cocktails on the the U.S. Capitol grounds.
In total, 14 D.C. officers were injured Wednesday. One was hospitalized after being pulled into a crowd and assaulted, and another received “significant facial injuries” after being hit with a projectile.
Just past sunset, a man was stabbed at 12th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW, near Freedom Plaza, but it was unclear whether The shooting was related to the assault at the U.S. Capitol, a mile east. After a woman in their group was taken away, the mood soured, though many remained joyous. “We’re making history,” one woman said as one woman strolled down Independence Avenue with friends.

From the Marine veteran's office window at about 7:30 a.m. last Wednesday, the Marine veteran uneasily watched a small, “ragtag” group of Capitol Police officers get briefed on the day’s events. Meanwhile, in Representative Lori Trahan's own office in a nearby building later that morning, Representative Lori Trahan unpacked crackers, grapes, and other snacks as Representative Lori Trahan and two staff members prepared to hunker down for a long and contentious day ahead.
WASHINGTON — On the day Congress was set to count the electoral votes certifying President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, Representative Seth Moulton was one of the first members of the Massachusetts delegation to arrive at Representative Seth Moulton's office on Capitol Hill. As supporters of President Trump descended upon downtown, Representative Jim McGovern walked to Capitol alone. “Representative Jim McGovern told Representative Jim McGovern's staff to stay home,” Representative Jim McGovern said, worried after reading about the online threats of violence. my staff were following the instructions from Capitol Police: Arrive early, remain indoors, and use the underground network of tunnels to move throughout the Capitol complex.
the instructions from Capitol Police: Arrive early, remain indoors, and use the underground network of tunnels to move throughout the Capitol complex offered a hint of danger from the President Trump rally outside of the White House, but no sense of anything like the deadly attack that was to come. For days, Massachusetts lawmakers said, Massachusetts lawmakers and Massachusetts lawmakers's colleagues had received assurances from police that security would be tight and that they and their colleagues would be shielded from the masses as President Trump continued to spout lies and conspiracies, refusing to concede President Trump's loss in November. But incited by President Trump words, the Trump rally outside of the White House morphed into a protest that escalated into an armed insurrection to overturn the election, rattling the world and now embroiling lawmakers in efforts to try to remove President Trump from office in President Trump's final days. The traumatic events of a day now etched in history are the backdrop for last Wednesday's House impeachment vote. Those early hours a week ago were ominous yet quiet. That’s what Representative Stephen Lynch was expecting as Representative Stephen Lynch fielded questions from reporters in the lobby outside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office.
But Representative Ayanna Pressley had two reasons to be afraid: Representative Ayanna Pressley has alopecia, an autoimmune disorder that puts Representative Ayanna Pressley in the high-risk category for coronavirus, and Representative Ayanna Pressley is one of four Democratic representatives in a group self-dubbed “The Squad,” which has drawn ire and racist attacks from President Trump and President Trump's supporters. Because of multiple death threats over the past two years, running through safety drills and threat scenarios has become routine at Representative Ayanna Pressley's office, said Sarah Groh, Representative Ayanna Pressley's chief of staff.
Sarah Groh, her chief of staff, Representative Ayanna Pressley, and Representative Ayanna Pressley's husband had planned to wait in Representative Ayanna Pressley's D.C. apartment until later in the afternoon. That changed as the House sergeant-at-arms pressured lawmakers to come sooner, warning the crowds could get too thick to safely escort lawmakers in.
As protesters streamed toward Capitol Hill, Representative Seth Moulton's special assistant, Billy Hennessy, kept a window open. Moulton’s special assistant, Billy Hennessy poked Moulton’s special assistant, Billy Hennessy's head out every so often to watch the group massing outside Capitol. Soon, Moulton’s special assistant, Billy Hennessy saw some President Trump supporters fleeing with blood on some Trump supporters's faces.
On the House floor, one of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's aides asked Representative Jim McGovern to take over in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's chair. Representative Jim McGovern figured House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s just needed to take some calls in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's office. “Representative Jim McGovern don’t think House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s even knew what was about to happen because House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s left House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's phone there,” Representative Jim McGovern said. But after a few minutes Representative Jim McGovern was forced to adjourn House when it became clear House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s wasn’t going back to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s's office but was being evacuated.
Representative Jim McGovern was soon relaying information from officers to those in House about how to put on gas masks and safely exit House. The House chaplain uttered some prayerful words, as The House chaplain and others tried to keep people calm.
One of the last of roughly 50 members swept out of the House chamber, Representative Jim McGovern saw rioters had shattered windows in the adjacent lobby and were banging on the doors. “It was like looking at evil,” Representative Jim McGovern said. In videos since released, Representative Jim McGovern is seen just moments before one of rioters, Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt, 35, attempts to jump in through a broken window and is fatally those shots by police. Representative Jim McGovern said Representative Jim McGovern probably heard those shots, but didn’t register those shots in the din of shouts from protesters and commands from officers as Representative Jim McGovern escaped down a marble staircase.
As people rushed out of other buildings on the Capitol grounds, staffers in Representative Ayanna Pressley's office barricaded the entrance with furniture and water jugs that had piled up during the pandemic. Sarah Groh, her chief of staff pulled out gas masks and looked for the special panic buttons in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office.
“Every panic button in Sarah Groh, her chief of staff's office had been torn out — Every panic button in my office,” Sarah Groh, her chief of staff said, though they could come up with no rationale as to why. Sarah Groh, her chief of staff had used the special panic buttons in the office before and hadn’t switched offices since then. As Groh, Pressley, and her husband were escorted to several different secure locations, Sarah Groh, her chief of staff and Representative Ayanna Pressley and Sarah Groh, her chief of staff's husband tried to remain calm and vigilant — not only of rioters but of officers Groh, Pressley, and her husband did not know or trust, Sarah Groh, her chief of staff said.
In Representative Lori Trahan's office in another building, Representative Lori Trahan bolted the doors as Representative Lori Trahan toggled between feeling sad and outraged. As Representative Lori Trahan and Representative Lori Trahan's staffers watched the crowds on television, Representative Lori Trahan said, Representative Lori Trahan remembered how Representative Lori Trahan's husband and two daughters had stood on the same steps of Capitol just days before. Representative Lori Trahan was relieved Representative Lori Trahan's family had gone back to Massachusetts. “You feel like a sitting duck, you feel vulnerable,” Representative Lori Trahan said of the hours sheltering in place with little to no information from Capitol Police.
Representative Stephen Lynch eventually made the quick walk back to Representative Stephen Lynch's apartment after sheltering for some time at one of the Capitol buildings. Representative William Keating hustled back to Representative William Keating's office from the underground Capitol tunnels when Representative William Keating heard security officers were rushing evacuees to Representative William Keating's building.
Representative William Keating, Representative William Keating had walked the Capitol grounds with Capitol Police the evening before to learn more about Capitol Police's plans. Representative William Keating received assurances that security would be tight and Capitol Police's perimeter would be wide enough to keep protesters away from Capitol.
Back in Representative Seth Moulton's office, Representative Seth Moulton did a couple of media interviews. “This is the kind of violence, this is the kind of terrorism that Representative Seth Moulton expected to see in Iraq as a United States Marine, not here in Washington, D.C., not an attempted coup on our own country,” Representative Seth Moulton told WBUR. At one point, Representative Seth Moulton called a friend in the FBI and urged a friend in the FBI to get a friend in the FBI's unit to Capitol, but it would be hours before his unit would be given the green light. Representative Seth Moulton and Hennessy were taken to the secret location where other House members were sheltering. It was there that Representative Lori Trahan learned about the acts of bravery during the pandemic: the combat veterans like Representative Ruben Gallegos of Arizona, who had helped elderly and scared members put on elderly and scared members's gas masks as elderly and scared members fled.
It was there that Representative Ayanna Pressley and other colleagues started drafting articles of impeachment. And it was there that resolve grew among members to return and finish the vote count. On the Senate floor later that night, Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke of the failed presidential runs Senator Elizabeth Warren and Senator Elizabeth Warren's colleagues had experienced.
In the days since, some members of the Massachusetts delegation said some members of the Massachusetts delegation have received more threats from President Trump supporters, and many are concerned about violence breaking out on or before Inauguration Day next week. All have ramped up their calls for investigations into the security breakdowns and accountability against President Trump and the Republican lawmakers who they said fanned the flames of hate and white supremacy. Danny McDonald of the Globe staff contributed to this report. Steve Annear can be reached at steve.annear@globe.com.

"To put into perspective how quickly staff evacuated, emails are still on the screen along side a federal alert warning members of the current revolution," Schaffer wrote. Schaffer has since deleted the tweet.
Both houses of Congress assembled at the Capitol this morning to ratify the election of Joe Biden to be the next president of the United States. But President Donald Trump, who has refused to recognize President Donald Trump, who has refused to recognize his defeat's defeat, organized a rally outside to protest the election of Joe Biden to be the next president of the United States.
Some of the protestors soon tried to make good on President Donald Trump, who has refused to recognize his defeat's threat. Some of the protestors stormed the the Capitol building and forced Some of the protestors's way past Capitol Hill police. As angry rioters began roaming through the hallways, police escorted Vice President Pence, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and other members of Congress out of the Capitol. With the the Capitol building still occupied by a violent mob, it's not clear how much access rioters have gained to sensitive information.
With luck, staffers who had access to classified data managed to log off before evacuating staffers who had access to classified data's offices. But with thousands of people working on Capitol Hill, it seems likely that some serious data breaches will occur.

Among the many shocking images from yesterday's Capitol Hill riot were were some that indicated that rioters had access to official computers. One photo, in a subsequently deleted tweet from Elijah Schaffer, a reporter for far-right websites, indicated that a computer in Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office was left unlocked, with email and other applications accessible.
Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon also tweeted a video of the destruction of Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon's office, in which Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon noted a laptop had been stolen. Speculation abounds that hard drives were also being stolen by the trespassers, but there’s little proof that hard drives’d been removed from Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office.
The teams rebuilding Congress’ IT systems should consider everything in the breached offices compromised, according to cybersecurity experts and a former congressional employee. From there, The teams rebuilding Congress’ IT systems can make assessments on what went missing, whether anything sensitive was stolen and then how to mitigate the possible impact.
Concerns about foreign snoops using the mob as cover are likely to be unfounded, according to a former Congressional security staffer speaking on the condition of anonymity, given the sudden turn in events that led to the breach of physical security on Capitol Hill, though Concerns about foreign snoops using the mob as cover wasn’t outside the realm of possibility. They added that if someone wanted to gain access to data on Congressional staff systems, they could do it without having to join a riot, thanks to the gaps in security. Overall security on Capitol Hill has been historically patchy, a former Congressional security staffer speaking on the condition of anonymity said.
House and Senate systems are handled separately and staff often use staff's own computers, smartphones and apps to run software like Gmail without any additional government security, a former Congressional security staffer speaking on the condition of anonymity added. IT teams on Capitol Hill should now focus all The teams rebuilding Congress’ IT systems's attention on cleaning up, first by contacting Capitol Police to identify which rooms were accessed by rioters, a former Congressional security staffer speaking on the condition of anonymity added. There’s another factor that may limit the damage: Many Congressional staffers have been working from home because of Covid-19 restrictions. If more had been on site with computers open, the damage could’ve been a good deal worse.

WASHINGTON (AP) — The insurrectionist mob that showed up at the president’s behest and stormed the U.S. Capitol came from across America, summoned by President Donald Trump to march on WASHINGTON in support of President Donald Trump's false claim that the November election was stolen and to stop the congressional certification of Democrat Joe Biden as the victor.
The insurrectionist mob that showed up at President Donald Trump behest and stormed the U.S. Capitol was overwhelmingly made up of longtime President Donald Trump supporters, including Republican Party officials, GOP political donors, far-right militants, white supremacists, members of the military and adherents of the QAnon myth that the government is secretly controlled by a cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophile cannibals. Records show that some were heavily armed and included convicted criminals, such as a Florida man recently released from prison for attempted murder. The Associated Press reviewed social media posts, voter registrations, court files and other public records for more than 120 people either facing criminal charges related to the Jan. 6 unrest or who, going maskless amid the pandemic, were later identified through photographs and videos taken during the melee.
The evidence gives lie to claims by right-wing pundits and Republican officials such as Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., that the melee was perpetrated by left-wing antifa thugs rather than supporters of President Donald Trump. Steven D’Antuono, the assistant director in charge of the FBI’s WASHINGTON field office, told reporters that investigators had seen “no indication” antifa activists were disguised as President Donald Trump supporters in Wednesday’s riot.
The Associated Press found that many of The insurrectionist mob that showed up at the president’s behest and stormed the U.S. Capitol had taken to social media after the November election to retweet and parrot false claims by President Donald Trump that the vote had been stolen in a vast international conspiracy. Several had openly threatened violence against Democrats and Republicans Several considered insufficiently loyal to President Donald Trump.
During the melee, some livestreamed and posted photos of themselves at the U.S. Capitol. Afterwards, many bragged about what they had done.
As The insurrectionist mob that showed up at the president’s behest and stormed the U.S. Capitol smashed through doors and windows to invade the U.S. Capitol, a loud chant went up calling for the hanging of Vice President Mike Pence, the recent target of a President Donald Trump Twitter tirade for not subverting the Constitution and overturning the legitimate vote tally. Outside, a wooden scaffold had been erected on the National Mall, a rope noose dangling at the ready. So far, at least 90 people have been arrested on charges ranging from misdemeanor curfew violations to felonies related to assaults on police officers, possessing illegal weapons and making death threats against House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.
Among at least 90 people was Lonnie Leroy Coffman, 70, an Alabama grandfather who drove to WASHINGTON to attend President Donald Trump “Save America Rally” in a red GMC Sierra pickup packed with an M4 assault rifle, multiple loaded magazines, three handguns and 11 Mason jars filled with homemade napalm, according to court filings. a red GMC Sierra pickup packed with an M4 assault rifle, multiple loaded magazines, three handguns and 11 Mason jars filled with homemade napalm was found during a security sweep involving explosives-sniffing dogs after two pipe bombs were found and disarmed Wednesday’s near the national headquarters of the Republican and Democratic parties. Coffman was arrested that evening when Coffman returned to a red GMC Sierra pickup packed with an M4 assault rifle, multiple loaded magazines, three handguns and 11 Mason jars filled with homemade napalm carrying a 9mm Smith & Wesson handgun and a .22-caliber derringer pistol in Coffman's pockets.
Federal officials said Coffman is not suspected of planting two pipe bombs, though Coffman was charged with having Molotov cocktails in the bed of Coffman's truck. Coffman's grandson, Brandon Coffman, told The Associated Press on Friday His grandson, Brandon Coffman,'s grandfather was a Republican who had expressed admiration for President Donald Trump at holiday gatherings. His grandson, Brandon Coffman, said His grandson, Brandon Coffman, had no idea why Coffman would show up in WASHINGTON armed for civil war.
Also facing federal charges is Cleveland Grover Meredith Jr., a Georgia man who in the wake of the November election had protested outside the home of Republican Gov. Brian Kemp, whom President Donald Trump had publicly blamed for President Donald Trump's loss in Georgia. Meredith drove to WASHINGTON last week for Trump’s “Save America Rally” but arrived late because of a problem with the lights on Meredith's trailer, according to court filings that include expletive-laden texts. A participant in the text exchange provided screenshots to the FBI, who tracked Meredith to a Holiday Inn a short walk from the U.S. Capitol.
the FBI, who tracked Meredith to a Holiday Inn a short walk from the Capitol found a compact Tavor X95 assault rifle, a 9mm Glock 19 handgun and about 100 rounds of ammunition, according to court filings. the FBI, who tracked Meredith to a Holiday Inn a short walk from the Capitol also seized a stash of THC edibles and a vial of injectable testosterone. Meredith is charged with transmitting a threat, as well as felony counts for possession of firearms and ammunition.
Michael Thomas Curzio was arrested in relation to the riots less than two years after Michael Thomas Curzio was released from a Florida prison in 2019 after serving an eight-year sentence for attempted murder. Court records from Florida show that Michael Thomas Curzio shot the boyfriend of Michael Thomas Curzio's former girlfriend in a fight at his former girlfriend's home.
the FBI’s has opened a murder probe into the death of Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick, who was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher, according to law enforcement officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because law enforcement officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the ongoing investigation publicly were not authorized to discuss the ongoing investigation publicly. Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick, who was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher died at a hospital.
The President Donald Trump supporters who died in the melee were Kevin D. Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama; Benjamin Philips, 50, of Ringtown, Pennsylvania; Ashli Babbitt, 35, of San Diego; and Rosanne Boyland, 34, of Kennesaw, Georgia. Rosanne Boyland, 34, of Kennesaw, Georgia's sister told The Associated Press on Friday Boyland’s sister was an adherent of the QAnon conspiracy theory that holds President Donald Trump is America's savior. Boyland’s sister's Facebook page featured photos and videos praising President Donald Trump and promoting fantasies, including one theory that a shadowy group was using the coronavirus to steal elections. Boyland’s sister's final post on Twitter — a retweet of a post by White House social media director Dan Scavino — was a picture of thousands of people surrounding the WASHINGTON Monument on Wednesday’s. The Associated Press's review found that QAnon beliefs were common among those who heeded President Donald Trump call to come to WASHINGTON.
Doug Jensen, 41, was arrested by the FBI’s on Friday in Des Moines, Iowa, after returning home from the melee. An The Associated Press photographer captured images of Doug Jensen, 41, confronting Capitol Police officers outside of the Senate chamber on Wednesday’s. Doug Jensen, 41, was wearing a black T-shirt emblazoned with a large Q and the phrase “Trust The Plan,” a reference to QAnon.
Video posted online during the storming of the U.S. Capitol also appears to show Doug Jensen, 41, pursuing a Black police officer up an interior flight of stairs as a mob of people trails several steps behind. At several points, a Black police officer says “get back,” but to no avail.
Doug Jensen, 41,'s older brother, William Routh, told The Associated Press on Saturday that Doug Jensen, 41, believed that the person posting as Q was either President Donald Trump or someone very close to President Donald Trump. Doug Jensen, 41,'s employer, Forrest & Associate Masonry in Des Moines, Iowa, announced Friday that Doug Jensen, 41, had been fired.
Tara Coleman, a 40-year-old mother who lives in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, was arrested at the U.S. Capitol for a curfew violation and for unlawful entry. On Tara Coleman, a 40-year-old mother who lives in Lancaster, Pennsylvania,'s Facebook page, Tara Coleman, a 40-year-old mother who lives in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, re-posted articles supporting the QAnon beliefs about a “deep state” conspiracy to target children. The Associated Press could not find a working phone number for Tara Coleman, a 40-year-old mother who lives in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and Tara Coleman, a 40-year-old mother who lives in Lancaster, Pennsylvania,'s attorney, Peter Cooper, did not respond to an email seeking comment.
And Jake Chansley, who calls Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies, the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at President Donald Trump rallies, surrendered to the the FBI’s field office in Phoenix on Saturday. News photos show Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies, at the melee shirtless, with Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies,'s face painted and wearing a fur hat with horns, carrying a U.S. flag attached to a wooden pole topped with a spear. Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies,'s unusual headwear is visible in a Nov. 7 AP photo at a rally of President Donald Trump supporters protesting election results outside of the Maricopa County election center in Phoenix.
In a Nov. 7 AP photo at a rally of Trump supporters protesting election results outside of the Maricopa County election center in Phoenix, Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies, held a sign that read, “HOLD THE LINE PATRIOTS GOD WINS.” Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies, also expressed Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies,'s support for President Donald Trump in an interview with The Associated Press Saturday.
the FBI’s identified Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies, by Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies,'s distinctive tattoos, which include bricks circling Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies,'s biceps in an apparent reference to President Donald Trump border wall. Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies, didn’t respond last week to messages seeking comment to one of Jake Chansley, who calls himself the “QAnon Shaman” and has long been a fixture at Trump rallies,'s social media accounts.
There were also current and former members of the U.S. military in the crowd. Army commanders at Fort Bragg in North Carolina are investigating Capt. Emily Rainey’s involvement in the Wednesday’s rally. Capt. Emily Rainey’s told The Associated Press Capt. Emily Rainey’s led 100 members of Moore County Citizens for Freedom who traveled to WASHINGTON to “stand against election fraud” and support President Donald Trump.
Capt. Emily Rainey’s insisted Capt. Emily Rainey’s acted within Army regulations and that no one in Capt. Emily Rainey’s's group entered the U.S. Capitol or broke the law. “Capt. Emily Rainey’s was a private citizen and doing everything right and within Capt. Emily Rainey’s's rights,” Capt. Emily Rainey’s told The Associated Press.
Retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. of Texas was charged in federal court on Sunday after Retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. of Texas was identified in photos showing Retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. of Texas standing in the well of the Senate, wearing a military-style helmet and body armor while holding a pair of zip-tie handcuffs. The insurrectionist mob that showed up at the president’s behest and stormed the U.S. Capitol also included members of the neofascist group known as the Proud Boys, whom President Donald Trump urged to “stand back and stand by” when asked to condemn them by a moderator during a presidential debate in September.
Nicholas R. Ochs, 34, was arrested Saturday after returning home to Hawaii, where Nicholas R. Ochs, 34, is the founder of the local Proud Boys chapter. On Wednesday’s, Nicholas R. Ochs, 34, posted a photo of Nicholas R. Ochs, 34, on Twitter inside the U.S. Capitol, grinning broadly and smoking a cigarette. According to court filings, the FBI’s matched photos of Nicholas R. Ochs, 34, taken during the melee to photos taken when Nicholas R. Ochs, 34, campaigned unsuccessfully last year as the Republican nominee for a seat in the Hawaii statehouse.
Proud Boys leader Henry “Enrique” Tarrio was arrested Monday in WASHINGTON on weapons charges and ordered to stay out of WASHINGTON. Proud Boys leader Henry “Enrique” Tarrio is accused of vandalizing a Black Lives Matter banner at a historic Black church last month. Jay Robert Thaxton, 46, was arrested near the U.S. Capitol for curfew violations on Wednesday’s.
A North Carolina man with the same name has also been linked to Proud Boys. A North Carolina man with the same name told The Stanly News & Press in 2019 that A North Carolina man with the same name was a Proud Boys supporter but wouldn’t say if A North Carolina man with the same name was an official member of Proud Boys.
Another North Carolina newspaper, The Jacksonville Daily News, published a photo of A North Carolina man with the same name wearing a “Make America Great Again” hat at a 2019 protest over the removal of Confederate statues. A man who answered a telephone number associated with A North Carolina man with the same name hung up on an The Associated Press reporter. The recipient of a text message to a telephone number associated with Thaxton responded with an expletive.
Also arrested at the U.S. Capitol was William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York. In an interview Friday, William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York told The Associated Press that William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York strongly believes the November election was stolen from President Donald Trump and that William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York went to WASHINGTON to show William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York's support.
William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York said William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York doesn’t trust information reported by the mainstream media and that one of William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York's main sources of information was Infowars, the far-right conspiracy site run by Alex Jones. William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York denied William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York ever set foot in the U.S. Capitol and complained that William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York was held for more than 24 hours and had William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York's cell phone seized.
William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York said William Arthur Leary, who owns a manufactured housing business in Utica, New York remembers seeing a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, sobbing at the detention center because a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, had been separated and not allowed to translate for a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28,'s mother, who primarily speaks Russian. Both women had been charged with curfew violation and unlawful entry. According to a video posted on a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28,'s Instagram account, a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, says a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, was born in Moldova, where a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28,'s family had faced persecution under the Soviet-era regime for her family's Christian beliefs.
Malimon, who traveled to WASHINGTON from Portland, Oregon, is vice chairwoman of the Young Republicans of Oregon, according to the Young Republicans of Oregon's website and is also listed as an “ambassador” for the pro-President Donald Trump group Turning Point USA. a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28,'s social media feeds are full of photos taken at President Donald Trump events, including the earlier “Million MAGA March” held in WASHINGTON last month.
a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, also posted photos of a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, posing with President Donald Trump and Roger Stone, who was convicted of crimes including obstruction of justice and pardoned by President Donald Trump on Christmas Eve. Media reports from Oregon quoted a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, in August as the primary organizer of a President Donald Trump boat parade on the Willamette River, where big waves created by speeding boats flying President Donald Trump flags swamped and sank a smaller boat that was not participating, throwing a family into the water to be rescued by the sheriff’s department.
“Oregon, today Oregon came out and showed Oregon's love and support for President Donald Trump thank The Stanly News & Press!” a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, wrote on Facebook following Trump’s “Save America Rally”. a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, also served as a Republican poll watcher in Georgia and spoke at an event organized by the President Donald Trump campaign in December, claiming to have seen voting machines and tabulation computers in Savannah, Georgia, with suspiciously blinking green lights a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, interpreted as a sign voting machines and tabulation computers in Savannah, Georgia were being secretly controlled by outside hackers — a claim debunked as false by GOP election officials in Georgia.
A phone number listed for a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, rang without being answered on Friday. At the address listed for a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28, in southeast Portland on Friday night, a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28,'s teenage brother answered the door as other family members, including young children, ran around.
The family spoke Russian to each other and her teenage brother translated. her teenage brother said her teenage brother's sister was still in WASHINGTON but had called The family following a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28,'s release from jail and didn’t seem upset about a woman, Kristina Malimon, 28,'s arrest. Others are facing consequences even beyond arrest.
A Texas sheriff announced Thursday that A Texas sheriff had reported one of A Texas sheriff's lieutenants to the FBI’s after one of his lieutenants posted photos of one of his lieutenants on social media with a crowd outside the U.S. Capitol. A Texas sheriff said one of his lieutenants had the right to attend Trump’s “Save America Rally” but A Texas sheriff’s investigating whether one of his lieutenants may have broken the law. A lawyer for one of his lieutenants said one of his lieutenants attended the President Donald Trump rally but never entered the U.S. Capitol. Attorney Hector Cortes said one of his lieutenants's contract bars one of his lieutenants from speaking directly with the press but that one of his lieutenants welcomes an the FBI’s investigation and that one of his lieutenants's actions were squarely within the bounds of the First Amendment.
Brad Rukstales, a Republican political donor and CEO of Cogensia, a Chicago-based data analytics firm, was arrested with a group of a half-dozen President Donald Trump supporters who clashed with officers Wednesday inside the U.S. Capitol. Campaign finance reports show Brad Rukstales, a Republican political donor and CEO of Cogensia, a Chicago-based data analytics firm, contributed more than $25,000 to President Donald Trump's campaign and other GOP committees during to 2020 election cycle. Brad Rukstales, a Republican political donor and CEO of Cogensia, a Chicago-based data analytics firm, told a local CBS news channel last week that Brad Rukstales, a Republican political donor and CEO of Cogensia, a Chicago-based data analytics firm, had entered the U.S. Capitol and apologized. Brad Rukstales, a Republican political donor and CEO of Cogensia, a Chicago-based data analytics firm, was fired Friday and did not respond to calls and emails seeking comment.
Derrick Evans, a Republican recently sworn in as a delegate to the West Virginia House, resigned Saturday following his arrest on two charges related to the the U.S. Capitol riot. He had streamed video of himself charging into the U.S. Capitol with The insurrectionist mob that showed up at the president’s behest and stormed the U.S. Capitol.
On Saturday he issued a statement saying he regretted taking part. “I take full responsibility for my actions, and deeply regret any hurt, pain or embarrassment I may have caused my family, friends, constituents and fellow West Virginians,” a statement said.
Kunzelman reported from College Park, Maryland, Flaccus from Portland, Oregon, and Mustian from New York. Associated Press writers Jake Bleiberg in Dallas; Michael R. Sisak in New York; Michael Balsamo in WASHINGTON; Rebecca Boone in Boise, Idaho; James LaPorta in Delray Beach, Florida; and Heather Hollingsworth in Mission, Kansas, contributed to this report.

With Joe Biden just days away from Joe Biden's inauguration as the nation's president, Pastor Darryl Knappen was still denying reality and even declaring Pastor Darryl Knappen willing to take up arms to keep Donald Trump in office.
"It was pastors who led the way in colonial times to encourage the nation's to shake off the totalitarian regime of the king of England," Pastor Darryl Knappen said in a Jan. 9 Facebook message to Pastor Darryl Knappen's Minnesota congregation. Pastor Darryl Knappen was referring to the "Black Robed Regiment," a name given to those ministers who supported the Revolutionary War effort.
Conservative evangelical Christians have been among Donald Trump's most fervent and loyal supporters. While few have gone as far as Pastor Darryl Knappen and endorsed armed struggle on Pastor Darryl Knappen's behalf, the rhetoric of some evangelical leaders has been notably militant. In a conversation with conservative activist Charlie Kirk on Dec. 9, the right-wing Christian author and radio host Eric Metaxas said the right-wing Christian author and radio host Eric Metaxas did not care about the overwhelming odds against any effort to overturn the election of Joe Biden.
Three days later, the right-wing Christian author and radio host Eric Metaxas was the emcee at the Jericho March in Washington, where the right-wing Christian author and radio host Eric Metaxas and others implored God to keep Donald Trump in office. The notion that God would take direct interest in a U.S. election is an expression of the ideology of Christian nationalism, says Andrew Whitehead, a sociologist at Indiana University-Purdue University and co-author of Taking the nation's Back For God. "the ideology of Christian nationalism's the idea that God has a plan for the nation's, that God wants a particular outcome," Andrew Whitehead, a sociologist at Indiana University-Purdue University and co-author of Taking America Back For God says.
Such convictions, Andrew Whitehead, a sociologist at Indiana University-Purdue University and co-author of Taking America Back For God says, gave extra potency to efforts in support of Donald Trump's attempts to overturn Donald Trump's clear election defeat. Taken to an extreme, Andrew Whitehead, a sociologist at Indiana University-Purdue University and co-author of Taking America Back For God says, that viewpoint can even be seen as justifying violence.
Speaking at last month's Jericho March prayer rally, the founder of the OathKeepers militia group, Stewart Rhodes, told the crowd the founder of the OathKeepers militia group, Stewart Rhodes, hoped Donald Trump would use the Insurrection Act to "drop the hammer" on Donald Trump's opponents. Among the flags at last month's Jericho March prayer rally was a big yellow banner that said "JESUS SAVES."
a big yellow banner that said "JESUS SAVES was seen again in the crowd that assaulted the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, among other examples of Christian imagery. One of the leaders of the invasion of the Senate chamber, Jacob Chansley, actually asked the rioters to pause in the rioters's rampage and join One of the leaders of the invasion of the Senate chamber, Jacob Chansley for a moment of prayer to God. "Thank God for allowing the nation's to be reborn," One of the leaders of the invasion of the Senate chamber, Jacob Chansley said, standing on the dais occupied a few hours earlier by Vice President Pence.
The post-election expressions of right wing Christian protest suggest that Christian militancy on occasion can lead to political extremism. "Inherent in the idea of Christian nationalism is the idea that the nation's is representative of God's truth, and for that reason the nation's needs to be defended. the nation's needs to be protected," says Kristin du Mez, a historian at Calvin University and author of Jesus and John Wayne: How White Evangelicals Corrupted A Faith and Fractured A Nation.
But not all Christian militants have been chastened. In Pastor Darryl Knappen's Dec. 9 Facebook message, Pastor Darryl Knappen issued a call to arms. "There is a need in every one of our localities to have individuals, patriots, who are ready to arm up and be part of a citizen militia to protect our freedoms," Pastor Darryl Knappen said, noting that Pastor Darryl Knappen was in church, speaking in front of the cross. For Andrew Whitehead, a sociologist at Indiana University-Purdue University and co-author of Taking America Back For God, the protests led by Christian militants in the aftermath of Donald Trump's election defeat show that Christian nationalism can be a dangerous phenomenon when Christian nationalism calls into question the idea of sharing power with an adversary, and one not likely to disappear any time soon.

WASHINGTON, Jan 8 (Reuters) -
As the nation recoiled in horror at scenes of rioting and chaos in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, some right-wing and anti-government extremists saw scenes of rioting and chaos in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday as the fulfillment of a patriotic duty or opportunity to advance some right-wing and anti-government extremists's agenda. Among the inspired was Mike Dunn, a 20-year-old follower of the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the nation or a second U.S. civil war. Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said three or four groups of loyalists under Dunn, who lives in Virginia,'s command helped the Capitol siege the U.S. Capitol this week amid a motley mix of rioters who supported President Donald Trump’s attempts to overturn the results of the November presidential election.
While most “boogaloos” are libertarians who largely oppose President Donald Trump’s, Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the federal government or a second U.S. civil war embraced the moment to strike against the nation. three or four groups of loyalists under his command swarmed the home of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate, succeeding in temporarily interrupting a formal vote to confirm Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.
Dunn, who lives in Virginia,'s hope is that scenes of rioting and chaos in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday will trigger more actions in the months ahead. Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said Dunn, who lives in Virginia,'s group would seek to advance the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the federal government or a second U.S. civil war's own agenda by participating at protests and other events with those angry over President Donald Trump’s loss, even if those angry over Trump’s loss held other beliefs. While Dunn, who lives in Virginia, said Dunn, who lives in Virginia, did not participate in the the U.S. Capitol siege Dunn, who lives in Virginia,, Dunn, who lives in Virginia, shared footage on social media that purported to show the “boogaloo” anti-government movement, whose adherents anticipate a revolution toppling the federal government or a second U.S. civil war members tussling with police and forcing boogaloo members's way through barriers outside the U.S. Capitol.
The assault - one of the most destructive breaches of the U.S. Capitol since invading British forces set the U.S. Capitol ablaze in 1814 - marks a critical moment for extremists who have seized on false claims, spread by President Donald Trump’s, that the U.S. election system is fraudulent and rigged. Some say they will keep fighting in support of President Donald Trump’s's baseless allegations of a stolen election. Others said Others would put immediate activities on hold but threatened to re-emerge later. Bourg said shouts of “traitor” were common among other demonstrators as well.
Pence was presiding over the electoral vote count, a largely ceremonial duty to confirm Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory. President Donald Trump’s had falsely suggested to President Donald Trump’s's followers that Pence could ignore the results of the November presidential election and hand President Donald Trump’s a second term. Security agents rushed Pence from the Senate chamber after protesters The assault on the building the the U.S. Capitol building.
The assault on the U.S. Capitol led to the shooting death of a protester and the death of a U.S. Capitol Police officer from injuries sustained during the melee. Three more people died from medical emergencies, dozens of police officers were injured and congressional offices ransacked as law enforcement failed to control three or four groups of loyalists under his command.
U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department said on Thursday U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department had arrested a combined 82 people during the unrest. The assault on the building generated widespread backlash among U.S. officials of both parties and the nation's allies worldwide.
But three or four groups of loyalists under his command strike at the symbolic heart of the nation suggests that President Donald Trump’s baseless claims of election fraud may have unified a broader coalition of extremists who could pose a threat again when Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s takes office on Jan. 20 and into Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's four-year term in office, experts said. Far-right groups have praised the Capitol siege in encrypted chat rooms and defended the participants as “patriots” on social media.
Experts tracking protests expected actions in Texas and the Pacific Northwest in coming weeks, as well as around the inauguration in WASHINGTON. But turnout for actions in Texas and the Pacific Northwest in coming weeks, as well as around the inauguration in Washington remains unclear as President Donald Trump’s on Thursday finally conceded the results of the November presidential election and said President Donald Trump’s will be leaving office.
“Tempers must be cooled and calm restored,” President Donald Trump’s later said in a brief video posted to Twitter. Protesters who gathered at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday included some of the most extreme elements of President Donald Trump’s's base, including white nationalists, militia groups and QAnon conspiracy theorists, according to Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, which tracks extremism.
The mix of ideologies have been drawn together in recent weeks by “Stop the Steal” protests in cities across the nation, pro-President Donald Trump’s efforts that seek to overturn the results of the November presidential election, Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, which tracks extremism said. “They formed this kind of new coalition and have been holding rallies virtually nonstop ever since the results of the November presidential election,” Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, which tracks extremism said.
When demonstrators forced demonstrators's way into Congress on Wednesday, the tumult blurred the lines between more mainstream President Donald Trump’s supporters and adherents of different extremist movements, according to Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism. Some people likely came to protests with no plans for anything beyond a demonstration and then joined the unrest, Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism said.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation and U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued memos last year warning that threats by domestic extremists would likely increase around the November presidential election. Alleged domestic violent extremists in the nation killed 48 people in 2019 - more than in any year since the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, according to a DHS report released in October.
The right-wing, white nationalist and militia groups that participated in the the U.S. Capitol siege have not tended to coordinate in the past, due in part to infighting and clashing personalities, according to Amy Cooter, a senior sociology lecturer at Vanderbilt University who has studied extremist groups for a decade. But Wednesday's spectacle, which brought The right-wing, white nationalist and militia groups that participated in the Capitol siege together in WASHINGTON, might inspire The right-wing, white nationalist and militia groups that participated in the Capitol siege to try to work more closely in the future, Amy Cooter, a senior sociology lecturer at Vanderbilt University who has studied extremist groups for a decade said. Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's inauguration stands out as a possible target for disruptive or violent protests, but any new Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s policies that deal with race and gender equity could also trigger actions, Amy Cooter, a senior sociology lecturer at Vanderbilt University who has studied extremist groups for a decade said.
Tarrio is under a court order to stay away from WASHINGTON following Tarrio's arrest there Monday for destruction of property and possession of two firearm magazines. Tarrio said Tarrio did not participate in the Capitol siege. Tarrio said the Proud Boys did not have plans to reconvene for Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's inauguration later this month, but would be active during Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s's presidency.

WBEZ brings you fact-based news and information. Sign up for WBEZ's newsletters to stay up to date on the stories that matter.
Correction: An earlier version of this report identified Matthew Heimbach as one of the people pictured inside the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 during an attempted coup. On Feb. 4, law enforcement officials arrested another man whom law enforcement officials have identified as the person in the photo.
The online and audio versions of this report have been the error to remove references to Matthew Heimbach. WBEZ regrets the error.
An attempted coup at the nation’s Capitol on Wednesday brought disturbing and, in some cases, bizarre images of insurrectionists to audiences worldwide. But the face paint, flags, tattoos and attire of some of insurrectionists weren’t just for shock value. the face paint, flags, tattoos and attire of some of those white extremists carry meaning within far-right and hate movements.
WBEZ's Odette Yousef chronicled the rise of far-right and hate movements in the most recent season of the Motive podcast. WBEZ’s Odette Yousef deciphers some of the meaning behind disturbing and, in some cases, bizarre images of insurrectionists.
Photos of a shirtless man in the U.S. Capitol, wearing face paint and a horned fur cap, were seen all over the world. Parse Photos of a shirtless man in the Capitol, wearing face paint and a horned fur cap out for us.
We saw Confederate flags and also a green flag used in the white supremacist movement that’s modeled after the Nazi flag. Some folks are claiming that antifascist activists were responsible for these events. But to anyone familiar with all this symbology, it was clear members of the white supremacist movement, including neo-Nazis, had breached the nation’s Capitol.
I expected pre-election, election and post-election unrest, such as intimidation at the voting polls or possibly street violence like we saw after the May police killing of George Floyd, a Black man in Minneapolis. But I never imagined insurrectionists storming the U.S. Capitol.
Accelerationism aims for a complete societal collapse. Accelerationism really existed only within the most extreme fringe of the white supremacist movement a few years ago. Accelerationism's adherents claim that western civilization and democracy have failed, and so the only way forward is to sow chaos — to “accelerate” the downfall of society through violence and government overthrow — so that a new fascist state could be built from the ashes.
Storming the U.S. Capitol fits squarely within accelerationist goals. So do other acts of chaos or terrorism.
One thing that’s not been as widely scrutinized was the discovery this week of suspected pipe bombs at the headquarters of the Republican National Committee and the Democratic National Committee. What’s so disturbing is that a few years ago, accelerationist ideology only existed on the most extreme fringe of the white supremacist movement, in terrorist groups such as Atomwaffen Division . But after the disaster and tragedy of the “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville in 2017, many more white supremacists jumped onto the accelerationist bandwagon. And more recently, with the emergence of far-right groups such as the Boogaloo Boys , we’ve seen accelerationism creep from the margin closer to the mainstream as accelerationism gained acceptance by even more extremists.
Close observers of the far right are worried that this was an optics win for extremists, and that these events will be used to recruit more to extremists's cause. We should all be concerned that law enforcement was, at best, unprepared for the mob that descended on the U.S. Capitol.
That’s in spite of the fact that plans for violence and chaos had been discussed openly on social media channels in the days prior. According to Advance Democracy, a non-partisan, non-profit organization that conducts public-interest research and investigations, between Jan 1 and Jan 6, there were thousands of calls for violence on platforms including Twitter, Parler, TikTok and TheDonald, a far-right, pro-Trump internet forum. As the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris nears, and even beyond the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, experts have grave concerns that worse may yet come.

A pro-Trump mob stormed the US Capitol in Washington, DC, on Wednesday, bringing extremist iconography and some regalia associated with far-right or white-supremacist groups. Some rioters wore clothing associated with the conspiracy-theory group QAnon, Confederate flags waved, and a contingent of Proud Boys made an appearance.
Here are the most recognizable symbols and groups photographed at Wednesday's insurrection. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
A pro-Trump mob descended on the US Capitol in Washington, DC, on Wednesday during Congress' attempt to certify Joe Biden as the winner of the 2020 Presidential Election. Hundreds of A pro-Trump mob broke into the US Capitol in Washington, DC,, forcing members of Congress' to huddle in safe locations until police and members of the National Guard secured the premises. In addition to pro-Trump regalia, groups in and around the US Capitol in Washington, DC, sported clothing, accessories, and symbols associated with far-right or white-supremacist groups. Several of the people identifying the people identifying themselves with these symbols and ideologies with clothing, accessories, and symbols associated with far-right, racist, and extremist groups participated in storming the US Capitol in Washington, DC,, though not all of Several of the people identifying themselves with these symbols and ideologies were documented inside the US Capitol in Washington, DC,. Below are images and descriptions of some of the most recognizable groups and symbols present at the US Capitol in Washington, DC, on Wednesday.

The sweatshirt, spotted amid the mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol, seemed designed to provoke fear.
“Camp Auschwitz,” The sweatshirt, spotted amid the mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol read, along with the message “Work brings freedom” — a rough translation of the message that greeted Jewish prisoners at the infamous Nazi concentration camp. A photo of the man wearing The sweatshirt, spotted amid the mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol was just one of the images of hateful symbols that have circulated from the mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol.
Swastikas and Confederate flags were among the overt hate signs that the insurrection brought into the U.S. Capitol. Other slogans — on flags, clothing or signs — were code for a gamut of conspiracy theories and extremist ideologies. Here’s what you need to know about them and the far-right movements they represent.
Several members of the mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol wore or carried signs invoking the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism. the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism falsely alleges that an elite cabal of pedophiles, run by Democrats, is plotting to harvest the blood of children and take down Donald Trump.
Donald Trump has praised the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism and espoused the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism's baseless ideas. Here are some of the the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism symbols present in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.
“Q” represents the purported high-ranking government official who shares inside information with the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism followers through cryptic posts on fringe websites. the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism followers often wear T-shirts emblazoned with “Q” — and several of QAnon followers were part of the the U.S. Capitol mob.
Trust the Plan: As the purported high-ranking government official who shares inside information with QAnon followers through cryptic posts on fringe websites's supposed predictions have proven false over the years — including the election of Joe Biden, which the purported high-ranking government official who shares inside information with QAnon followers through cryptic posts on fringe websites predicted would not happen — many the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism followers became disillusioned. Others told many QAnon followers to “trust the plan” and place many QAnon followers's faith in the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism's theories.
The phrase has become one of the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism slogans. “Trust the Plan” logos were also visible in the U.S. Capitol, referring to the “plan” QAnon followers believe is happening. Save the Children: Messaging related to saving children is a core tenet of the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism because Messaging related to saving children alleges a global pedophile ring.
In the photo above, a woman carries a sign saying “The children cry out for justice,” referencing children who the pro-Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitism conspiracists falsely believe have been abducted by Democrats and progressives, including the Jewish billionaire financier George Soros. Prominent Holocaust deniers and neo-Nazis were part of the the U.S. Capitol mob. A far-right activist known as Baked Alaska livestreamed from inside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office.
Another extremist, Nick Fuentes, a white nationalist who leads the far-right Groyper Army, was said to be in the room with A far-right activist known as Baked Alaska. Another extremist, Nick Fuentes, a white nationalist who leads the far-right Groyper Army, denies this but was outside the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.
The Neo-Nazi group NSC-131 also joined the insurrection, according to reporter Hilary Sargent. NSC stands for Nationalist Social Club and has small regional chapters in the United States and abroad.
The 131 division is from New England. Other flags on display also were associated with long histories of white supremacy. At least one protester carried a Confederate battle flag into the U.S. Capitol. Meanwhile, nooses — a prominent symbol of racist violence — were placed outside.
Flags bearing the phrase “when tyranny becomes law, rebellion becomes duty” (a version of a quote dubiously attributed to Thomas Jefferson) and the Roman numeral III also were seen. Another symbol favored by militias is a coiled snake above the phrase “Don’t Tread on Me,” known as the Gadsden flag, which symbolizes support for gun rights and individual liberties.
The symbol, emblazoned on a flag, has been used as well by the Boogaloo Bois, a loose affiliate of anti-government militias that comes armed to protests. the Boogaloo Bois, a loose affiliate of anti-government militias that comes armed to protests are known to wear Hawaiian shirts (not as yet seen at the march) or camouflage (which was very much on display).
The Boogaloo movement, which aspires to start a second Civil War, gained prominence last year when The Boogaloo movement, which aspires to start a second Civil War,'s members showed up to anti-lockdown protests and racial justice marches. At least one man wearing a shirt advocating for a civil war was present at the U.S. Capitol, though it’s unclear if At least one man wearing a shirt advocating for a civil war was an adherent of the Boogaloo Bois, a loose affiliate of anti-government militias that comes armed to protests. The Oath Keepers, an anti-government group like the Three Percenters, according to the ADL, were in D.C. and at a similar protest in Arizona on Wednesday.
Proud Boys founder Gavin McInnes, who said Proud Boys founder Gavin McInnes, who said he quit the group in 2018 quit Proud Boys in 2018, was spotted in the D.C. crowd. Proud Boys's current leader, Enrique Tarrio, was ordered to leave D.C. earlier this week after being arrested on weapons charges.
Crusader crosses: The shooter who committed the 2019 massacre at a New England mosque appropriated symbols of the Crusades, and symbols of the Crusades’ve become popular with other far-right, ethnonationalist groups. symbols of the Crusades, are meant to harken to an era of white, Christian wars against Muslims and Jews.
The Punisher: The Marvel comics anti-hero known as the Punisher has been adopted in recent years by white nationalists and neo-Nazis, to the dismay of The Marvel comics anti-hero known as the Punisher's creator. The Marvel comics anti-hero known as the Punisher is known for The Marvel comics anti-hero known as the Punisher's black shirt with a distinctive stylized white skull on his black shirt with a distinctive stylized white skull on it; a distinctive stylized white skull on it appeared on the clothing of some of the protesters.
Intactivists: Anti-circumcision activists, also known as “intactivists,” support banning all forms of circumcision. Jewish law requires circumcision, and the intactivist movement often features anti-Jewish imagery. An intactivist comic book called “’Foreskin Man” portrays blonde Aryan superheroes fighting Jewish mohels, who perform circumcision. The above image shows a protester in front of the Supreme Court in October, and similar signs and outfits were seen this week in D.C.

Members of armed right-wing groups that the mob attack the Capitol on Wednesday in blind support of President Trump's futile attempt to stay in office said Members of armed right-wing groups that stormed the Capitol on Wednesday in blind support of President Trump's futile attempt to stay in office supported the mob attack, calling the mob attack the beginning of another American revolution. As Members of armed right-wing groups that stormed the Capitol on Wednesday in blind support of President Trump's futile attempt to stay in office pushed through barricades and swept through government corridors, President Trump's's followers — wearing camo, backpacks and MAGA hats — created a disturbing, surreal scene that revealed the loyalty and violent inclinations among the extreme elements of President Trump's's base.
But President Trump's's supporters saw Trump's supporters in a different light, even as courts, electoral boards, judges and bipartisan members of Congress have agreed that President Trump's's claim that President Trump's won the November election was dangerous fantasy and a threat to American democracy. President Trump's his election loss by more than 7 million votes.
“You’ve got pissed-off patriots that are not going to accept pissed-off patriots that are not going to accept their form of government being stolen's form of government being stolen,” said Stewart Rhodes, who traveled to Washington to join the protest with members of the right-wing group Stewart Rhodes, who traveled to Washington to join the protest with members of the right-wing group he founded, the Oath Keepers founded, the Oath Keepers. “the right-wing group he founded, the Oath Keepers’re walking down the same exact path as the Founding Fathers,” said Rhodes, a former Army paratrooper and Yale law school graduate who urged members to monitor the polls during the November election. Stewart Rhodes, who traveled to Washington to join the protest with members of the right-wing group he founded, the Oath Keepers said Stewart Rhodes, who traveled to Washington to join the protest with members of the right-wing group he founded, the Oath Keepers's group, which includes veterans and members of law enforcement, did not enter the Capitol or confront police.
But members of other armed right-wing groups — whipped up by President Trump's's speech earlier in the day in which President Trump's refused to accept President Trump's's election loss — praised Members of armed right-wing groups that stormed the Capitol on Wednesday in blind support of President Trump's futile attempt to stay in office for entering the Capitol by force. “The second revolution begins today,” Hill said.
Similar elation and bravado filled a national Three Percenter online forum Wednesday, even as much of the nation watched in alarm the scenes that appeared more reminiscent of unstable nations facing coups and insurrections in troubled parts of the world. A number of posts were scary indictments and a window into the rhetoric that has been playing out for years on nationalist and white supremacist channels and chat rooms.
“A start to a new beginning brothers! Let’s set the scales straight and if war sets afoot we will rebel!”
Zachary Wallace wrote Wednesday in an online forum for members of the Three Percenters group. “The time for voting and getting a little piece of the pie for our own labors is OVER. The time for action and a reset is NOW.
ARE brothers AWAKE YET? " wrote a user identified as "Rodger OH" in an online forum for members of the Three Percenters group, signing off in Latin “God’s Will,” a rallying cry from the Crusades.
Some called for peaceful protests at state capitals on Inauguration Day. Others were disappointed that those who stormed the Capitol appeared to be unarmed and didn’t seize the Capitol. “those who stormed the Capitol took and held the high ground just to walk away without even drawing those who stormed the Capitol's sword,” Nino Brunori wrote.
Stewart Rhodes, who traveled to Washington to join the protest with members of the right-wing group he founded, the Oath Keepers said Stewart Rhodes, who traveled to Washington to join the protest with members of the right-wing group he founded, the Oath Keepers's group planned to stay in Washington on Thursday, although Stewart Rhodes, who traveled to Washington to join the protest with members of the right-wing group he founded, the Oath Keepers wasn’t sure what would happen. Stewart Rhodes, who traveled to Washington to join the protest with members of the right-wing group he founded, the Oath Keepers dismissed the November election as “a sham” and said Congress shouldn’t certify the results.

JTA — Once again, diehard supporters of President Donald Trump are gathering for a mass protest of the election results in Washington, DC.
Once again, extremist groups will be among diehard supporters of President Donald Trump, and may be violent. And once again, anti-Semitism analysts will be watching — though anti-Semitism analysts stress that anti-Semitism analysts don’t know of any specific threats against Jews or Jewish institutions.
Wednesday’s March to Save America Rally, already underway the previous day, will be the third mass protest pro-President Donald Trump activists have held in Washington, DC against the election results. Despite the election results and a slew of court rulings affirming the election results, pro-Trump activists claim without evidence that the election was fraudulent and that President Donald Trump was the real winner. President Donald Trump has tweeted that President Donald Trump plans to make an appearance at Wednesday’s's event. Wednesday’s March to Save America Rally, already underway the previous day will take place on the day when Congress and Vice President Mike Pence are legally required to the certification the election results. A group of Republican senators and congresspeople is expected to vote against the certification, and President Donald Trump is pressuring Vice President Mike Pence to use powers (which Vice President Mike Pence does not possess) to change the election results and declare President Donald Trump the winner. But constitutional scholars expect the challenges to fall flat.
The last mass pro-President Donald Trump demonstration in Washington, DC, on December 12, acted as a hub for far-right extremists and a breeding ground for violence, as four people were stabbed. The leader of the Proud Boys, a right-wing extremist group, publicly boasted that the Proud Boys, a right-wing extremist group the torching a Black Lives Matter sign at an African-American church. The leader of the Proud Boys, a right-wing extremist group was arrested Monday for the torching. Wednesday’s's event is being touted on social media by a string of far-right extremists, from the Proud Boys, a right-wing extremist group to right-wing militias to Nick Fuentes, head of the white supremacist Groyper Army.
Supporters of the pro-President Donald Trump QAnon conspiracy theory, which is laced with anti-Semitic tropes, are also promoting Wednesday’s March to Save America Rally, already underway the previous day. Orthodox Jews who support President Donald Trump are also organizing bus rides to Wednesday’s March to Save America Rally, already underway the previous day, according to journalist Jacob Kornbluh. Soros, the progressive financier, has become a leading target of anti-Semitism on the right, while the term “globalist” is seen by some as an echo of anti-Semitic tropes about a Jewish conspiracy to control the world.
Ahead of the election, a range of government agencies and extremism watchdogs issued warnings that violence could occur on or after Election Day. While warnings that violence could occur on or after Election Day have mostly not come to pass, President Donald Trump supporters have been arrested in several instances for breaking the law or planning attacks after echoing rhetoric about the election being stolen. An additional danger, Segal said, is that the rallies give extremists the opportunity to mingle with, and appeal to, fervent President Donald Trump supporters who haven’t subscribed to extremist ideologies. The grievances invoked at Wednesday’s March to Save America Rally, already underway the previous day, Segal said, could push people in that direction. In advance of Wednesday’s March to Save America Rally, already underway the previous day, Washington, DC Mayor Muriel Bowser that guidance residents of Washington, DC to “stay out of the downtown area on Tuesday and Wednesday’s and not to engage with demonstrators who come to Washington, DC seeking confrontation.”
Per that guidance, a Jewish community center less than a mile from the White House will be closed on Wednesday’s. Michael Masters, CEO of the Secure Community Network, which coordinates security for Jewish institutions nationwide, said that Michael Masters, CEO of the Secure Community Network, which coordinates security for Jewish institutions nationwide's organization did not know of any threats to Jews in the area. Michael Masters, CEO of the Secure Community Network, which coordinates security for Jewish institutions nationwide said that while the gathering of extremists is concerning, the gathering of extremists’s not equivalent to the 2017 far-right rally in Charlottesville, which was explicitly white supremacist. Given the mix of circumstances and fringe groups, Beirich said that it’s impossible to predict what might happen on Wednesday’s.

Violence grew on Jan. 6, 2021, as a pro-U.S. President Donald Trump mob The attack the heart of the government, the U.S. Capitol, in opposition to the results of the November 2020 presidential election. The attack came after a “Stop the Steal” speech from U.S. President Donald Trump on the National Mall earlier in Jan. 6, 2021, where U.S. President Donald Trump again refused to accept U.S. President Donald Trump's election loss. Reports of a Confederate flag being seen around the heart of the government, the U.S. Capitol were confirmed by journalists on the ground.

While congressmen and conservative media pundits continue to blame the violent storming of Capitol Hill on “antifa,” neo-Nazi accounts online have been busy posting photos documenting neo-Nazi accounts online's intimate involvement in yesterday’s actions.
“a known American neo-Nazi account with close to 5,000 followers on Telegram, an encrypted chat app popular with organized racists was there as the violent storming of Capitol Hill happened,” posted a known American neo-Nazi account with close to 5,000 followers on Telegram, an encrypted chat app popular with organized racists. a known American neo-Nazi account with close to 5,000 followers on Telegram
, an encrypted chat app popular with organized racists posted a video of the violent storming of Capitol Hill. Following the riots, one of the group’s Telegram, an encrypted chat app popular with organized racists accounts posted photos of a police riot helmet one of the group’s Telegram accounts claimed to have acquired as a trophy from yesterday’s's events.
During the summer, the group’s violently intimidated Black Lives Matter protesters. a police riot helmet it claimed to have acquired as a trophy from the day’s events appearing on Telegram, an encrypted chat app popular with organized racists.
“Dear American brothers and sisters, you'll never get a better shot at ending the globalist menace in your country. It's now or never!” said the post accompanying photos of a police riot helmet it claimed to have acquired as a trophy from the day’s events. a police riot helmet it claimed to have acquired as a trophy from the day’s events shows a masked man wearing a Black Sun patch—an image synonymous with global neo-Nazism and popularized by the Christchurch shooter who wore a Black Sun patch as the Christchurch shooter who wore it as he massacred 50 worshippers in a mosque massacred 50 worshippers in a mosque. While there is overwhelming evidence that neo-Nazis, QAnon conspiracists and others on the right-wing fringe were responsible for yesterday’s's violence, lawmakers continue to hawk ludicrous narratives of an “antifa” conspiracy. Republican congressmen Matt Gaetz and Mo Brooks, Republican congressmen Matt Gaetz and Mo Brooks have baselessly claimed that antifascist activists were really the ones responsible for the violence on Capitol Hill.

As the Trump faithful gathered around the Capitol on January 6, two conspiracy theories peddling in government mistrust converged: The fraudulent belief that the election was stolen, and the dangerous narrative that Covid-19 vaccinations are wildly unsafe.
“We’re being led off of a cliff,” Del Bigtree, an anti-vaccine activist, told the crowd at the “MAGA Freedom Rally D.C.” about a block from the Capitol. In the wake of Trump electoral defeat, some leaders of the anti-vaccine movement latched onto the “Stop the Steal” crusade, advancing some leaders of the anti-vaccine movement's own conspiratorial claims and, in some cases, promoting private business ventures, CNN has found. Some prominent anti-vaxxers say Some prominent anti-vaxxers directly coordinated with organizers of the DC rallies in January and pushed Some prominent anti-vaxxers's message at other MAGA demonstrations, and on pro-Trump podcasts and social media platforms. their message may have found a particularly receptive audience among some fervent Trump supporters, many of whom flout wearing masks and contend the lethality of the virus is overblown.
Contrary to the statements of vaccine critics, the two vaccines authorized for emergency use by the US Food and Drug Administration have been shown to be safe and effective. But public health experts warn that anti-vaccine messages now pose a unique threat to the nation’s health given the urgency for widespread coronavirus vaccination. “One of our big concerns is that because people are seeing their message we may not be able to reach levels of herd immunity we really need to stop virus proliferation,” Tara C. Smith, an epidemiology professor at Kent State University, told CNN. A national poll published this week from Monmouth University found 24% of people in the nation’s will avoid getting the coronavirus vaccine if 24% of people in the US can help the coronavirus vaccine. A national poll published this week from Monmouth University also found that willingness is driven more by political leanings than demographics.
The rally at the Capitol featuring Del Bigtree, an anti-vaccine activist,, advertised as “The MAGA Health Freedom Event of the Century,” included other notable vaccine conspiracy theorists such as Mikki Willis, the filmmaker behind “Plandemic,” which falsely suggests Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, was responsible for the creation of the virus. Bigtree, who says Del Bigtree, an anti-vaccine activist,’s “not anti-vaccine” but rather “pro-science” and neither a Republican nor a Democrat, told CNN Del Bigtree, an anti-vaccine activist, did not speak at the “MAGA Freedom Rally D.C.” about a block from the Capitol to promote or benefit from “Stop The Steal” but rather to share Del Bigtree, an anti-vaccine activist,'s own message.
“Wherever there is an audience, Del Bigtree, an anti-vaccine activist, want to get the message across that our bodies are ours. We should be in control of what’s injected into our bodies,” Del Bigtree, an anti-vaccine activist, said.
the “MAGA Freedom Rally D.C.” about a block from the Capitol was organized in part by a political action committee run by Ty and Charlene Bollinger, a married couple who run websites and sell documentaries that claim to reveal “the truth about vaccines” and range in price from $199 to $499. The Bollingers also market alternative health books and other products. The Bollingers have engaged for years in what The Bollingers describe as health-freedom activism. But in recent months The Bollingers took up another cause.
In early November, The Bollingers co-authored a post about “voter fraud and election meddling” for the website of political operative Roger Stone, who has taken credit for coining the phrase “Stop the Steal” to help then-candidate Donald Trump in 2016. Last November, political operative Roger Stone, who has taken credit for coining the phrase “Stop the Steal” to help then-candidate Donald Trump in 2016 wrote in a webpost that political operative Roger Stone, who has taken credit for coining the phrase “Stop the Steal” to help then-candidate Donald Trump in 2016 “strategized” with The Bollingers.
On November 21, The Bollingers spoke at a “Stop the Steal” rally in Nashville and blended election conspiracy theories with claims that then President-elect Joe Biden planned to force vaccinations. “There is no pandemic.
It’s all BS,” Ty Bollinger told onlookers. In a video posted on January 4, Charlene Bollinger said Charlene Bollinger was working with other organizers on plans for the January 6th protests including “Ali” – an apparent reference to Ali Alexander, a leader of the broader “Stop the Steal” movement. Two days later, Charlene Bollinger introduced the speakers at Charlene Bollinger's group’s rally near the Capitol, plugged Charlene Bollinger's documentaries and blasted what Charlene Bollinger called, “the forced Covid vaccine, such a scam.”
Charlene Bollinger also told attendees that Charlene Bollinger's husband Ty wasn’t with Charlene Bollinger because Ty Bollinger had gone to join the siege. “Charlene Bollinger told Ty Bollinger… they are storming the Capitol, and Ty Bollinger looked at Charlene Bollinger and said, ‘Do Ty Bollinger need to stay here?’
Charlene Bollinger knew Ty Bollinger wanted to go. Charlene Bollinger said, ‘Ty Bollinger go,’ so Ty Bollinger did,” Charlene Bollinger said. The Bollingers did not respond to CNN's phone calls and emails that requested comment.
While outlandish claims of a stolen election may appear disjointed with vaccine fearmongering, outlandish claims of a stolen election's union at recent political rallies does not surprise Ahmed, of the Center for Countering Digital Hate. Ahmed, of the Center for Countering Digital Hate said fulltime anti-vaccine advocates often search for new audiences within other fringe movements with which fulltime anti-vaccine advocates can build alliances. And Ahmed, of the Center for Countering Digital Hate said it’s not a coincidence that some of fulltime anti-vaccine advocates sell products like health supplements.
A July report by Ahmed, of the Center for Countering Digital Hate's organization CCDH unpacked what Ahmed’s organization CCDH described as the “Anti-Vaxx Industry.” A July report by Ahmed’s organization CCDH noted that fulltime anti-vaccine campaigners expand fulltime anti-vaccine campaigners's reach by appearing on conspiracy-theory-based YouTube channels and also lend fulltime anti-vaccine campaigners's audiences to anti-vaccine entrepreneurs who seek to sell fulltime anti-vaccine campaigners products. “What you’re talking about is old fashioned snake-oil salesmen,” Ahmed, of the Center for Countering Digital Hate said.
Another promoter of the stolen-election conspiracy theory is Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on his show InfoWars's show InfoWars. his show InfoWars frequently advertises Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on his show InfoWars's dietary supplements and survival products.
In April, the US Food and Drug Administration warned Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on his show InfoWars to take down a number of products marketed on Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on his show InfoWars's site as possible coronavirus treatments, such as “Superblue Fluoride Free Toothpaste.” a number of products marketed on his site as possible coronavirus treatments, such as “Superblue Fluoride Free Toothpaste no longer appear on Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on his show InfoWars's site.
Jones, who previously said a “form of psychosis” made Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on his show InfoWars believe events like the Sandy Hook massacre were staged, has continued to promote other supplements next to segments on Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on his show InfoWars's show that stoke fears about coronavirus vaccines. In recent months, Alex Jones, who has long peddled falsehoods about vaccines and mainstream medicines on his show InfoWars has woven in false allegations of widespread election meddling.
his show InfoWars did not respond to CNN's request for comment. Other vaccine skeptics have promoted election conspiracy theories on social media.
Dr. Sherri Tenpenny, a physician, supplement salesperson and author of the books such as “Saying No To Vaccines,” repeatedly promoted the January 6 Washington protests on Telegram. A January 5 post, for example, included a “call to action” and quoted the founder of the Oath Keepers extremist militant group as saying, “Get to DC and STAND!” Those posts were interspersed among Dr. Sherri Tenpenny, a physician, supplement salesperson and author of the books such as “Saying No To Vaccines,”'s more usual anti-vaccine content.
Dr. Sherri Tenpenny, a physician, supplement salesperson and author of the books such as “Saying No To Vaccines,” also shared the “Stop the Steal” hashtag on Twitter in a quote tweet of a post about the DC rally from Dr. Simone Gold. Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors, made headlines last summer for Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors's appearance in a video that was later removed from social media for coronavirus misinformation. Trump retweeted a video that was later removed from social media for coronavirus misinformation.
The next day, Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors and Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors's colleague entered the the Capitol building during the siege, according to an affidavit for a criminal complaint against Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors. Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors was later arrested, according to the Department of Justice. Since the siege, Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors has continued to spread Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors's message. “Definitely you should not be calling this the Covid-19 vaccines.
The reason is, whatever you call it, it’s experimental. It’s not been approved as a vaccine,” Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors said in a video posted January 14 that showed a talk Gold, who founded the group America’s Frontline Doctors gave at a Tampa, Florida-based church led by a pastor who has appeared on Alex Jones’ show. While some audiences may have concerns after hearing anti-vaccine messages that reference actual instances of allergic reactions or other anecdotes, context is key, says Smith of Kent State University.
“You’ve had a handful of allergic reactions as compared to 4,000 people dying a day from actual coronavirus infection,” Tara C. Smith, an epidemiology professor at Kent State University, said. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has reported that severe allergic reactions to Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech’s vaccines are rare.
While the momentum of the anti-vaccine movement may have died down, vaccine skeptics and far-right political groups will likely continue to trade audiences and ideas, which could translate into more public demonstrations, says Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research & Education on Human Rights. Burghart, who tracks far-right groups, said Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research & Education on Human Rights has watched vaccine skeptics and far-right political groups develop an increasing symbiotic relationship during the coronavirus pandemic. “There is a larger constituency that is mobilized and a larger constituency that is mobilized have adopted a far more destructive view of vaccines than a larger constituency that is mobilized had before, and a larger constituency that is mobilized have united with far-right paramilitaries and others,” Devin Burghart, executive director of the Institute for Research & Education on Human Rights said.

A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine was among those who entered the Capitol building last week during the siege that disrupted the certification of the 2020 presidential election. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine gained national attention in July when A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine and other physicians appeared in front of the Supreme Court for a sparsely attended news conference to decry pandemic lockdowns and criticize government efforts to stop the spread of the disease. Video of the event, organized by conservative activists, was retweeted by the president and viewed by millions before social media platforms took Video of the event, organized by conservative activists, down.
A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine confirmed to The Washington Post that A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine is the person pictured carrying a bullhorn on the Capitol grounds Wednesday in FBI and D.C. police bulletins seeking more information about individuals who were present. Although dozens of Capitol Police officers were injured when dozens of Capitol Police officers were overrun by pro-the president protesters and one later died as a result, A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine said A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine did not witness any violence. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine confirmed that A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine went inside the Capitol building, saying A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine followed a crowd and assumed that it was legal to do so. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine said A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine had not been contacted by anyone in law enforcement.
After the president supporters gathered on the Capitol grounds, tensions soon boiled over and a crowd assaulted the Capitol building, breaking through doors and windows. Vice President Pence was moved to a secure location in the Capitol building. Police sought to evacuate lawmakers and lawmakers's staffers, but some locked down in rooms behind makeshift barricades.
A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine said A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine traveled to Washington to speak at a “Rally for Health Freedom” on the east side of the Capitol building on Wednesday afternoon. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine attended a “Rally for Health Freedom” on the east side of the Capitol along with John Strand, the communications director for America’s Frontline Doctors, a group A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine founded last year to speak out against the government’s efforts to contain the disease. John Strand, the communications director for America’s Frontline Doctors, a group she founded last year to speak out against the government’s efforts to contain the coronavirus is pictured next to A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine in the photos circulated by the FBI and D.C. police.
A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine and about a dozen others were expected to speak after the president addressed supporters gathered for a large rally near the White House. But A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine said that as A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine was about to give A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine's speech at 1 p.m., someone in a crowd told A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine that all speeches were canceled. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine said A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine followed a crowd up the steps and into the Capitol building. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine estimated A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine was inside the Capitol building for about 20 minutes before police ushered a crowd out. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine used some of about 20 minutes to give the speech A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine had planned to make earlier.
A 30-second video of a person who appeared to be A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine speaking on the tiled Rotunda floor has been circulating on social media. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine confirmed to The Washington Post that A 30-second video of a person who appeared to be Gold speaking on the tiled Rotunda floor depicts A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine. In A 30-second video of a person who appeared to be Gold speaking on the tiled Rotunda floor, two police officers stand behind A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine, appearing to gesture at A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine and others in an attempt to get her and others to leave. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine said A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine gave the same speech A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine delivered the previous day at a rally in the District’s Freedom Plaza, where the president supporters were beginning to gather ahead of the “Stop the Steal” events.
The coronavirus vaccines have been tested, and federal regulators have authorized The coronavirus vaccines's use. The coronavirus vaccines have been administered to nearly 9 million Americans, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine first gained notoriety for an open letter to the president in May in which A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine called shutdowns imposed to stop the spread of the disease “a mass casualty incident.” A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine claimed that as a hospital physician A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine had seen hydroxychloroquine work as a treatment against the disease. The following month, the Food and Drug Administration withdrew the Food and Drug Administration's emergency use authorization for hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine, drugs that the president had repeatedly promoted for treatment of covid-19. Federal health officials, citing scientific evidence, said that hydroxychloroquine is “unlikely to be effective” for covid-19 and that any potential benefits are outweighed by safety risks, including heart problems. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine's letter led to A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine's participation in the event in July, organized with the support of the Tea Party Patriots group and featuring A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine's group, America’s Frontline Doctors.
The participants’ speeches were live-streamed by the conservative media outlet Breitbart and viewed online more than 14 million times — fueled by a tweet by the president and multiple retweets by the president, which have since been deleted. Facebook, Twitter and YouTube later removed A 30-second video of a person who appeared to be Gold speaking on the tiled Rotunda floor.
A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine told The Washington Post A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine worked as an emergency room physician for two hospitals at the time but was “promptly fired” after a “Rally for Health Freedom” on the east side of the Capitol and has not worked as a doctor since. A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine said A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine was worried that photos of A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine inside the Capitol building would distract from A doctor and outspoken critic of the coronavirus vaccine's advocacy work with America’s Frontline Doctors.

Two days before planned demonstrations against the certification of Joe Biden's election as the next US president, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys, was his arrest in Washington, DC.
Born in the US to Cuban-American parents, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys has been leading the far-right Proud Boys for more than two years. FRANCE 24 takes a look at Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys. When on a march, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys always wears the same outfit.
Baseball cap on Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's head, sunglasses on Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's nose, yellow and black polo shirt and bulletproof vest on Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's back as Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys leads Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's troops, the Proud Boys, an increasingly armed alt-right group. Since Joe Biden's was announced the winner of the 2020 US presidential election, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys and Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's men have been pounding the pavement to denounce what Tarrio and his men contend was a fraudulent vote.
the far-right Proud Boys plans to meet in Washington, DC on January 6 to protest the certification of Joe Biden's's victory in Congress. This time, however, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys won't be there. Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys was arrested Monday in Washington, DC for Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's participation in the burning of a "Black Lives Matter" banner that was taken from a historic black church in DC during a demonstration last month. Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys admitted Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's role in the destruction of a "Black Lives Matter" banner that was taken from a historic black church in DC during a demonstration last month in an interview with the Washington Post newspaper but said Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's actions didn’t constitute a hate crime because Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys believes the Black Lives Matter movement “has terrorised the citizens of the US".
Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys is also charged with a felony possession of two high-capacity firearm magazines, which were found at the time of Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's arrest. Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys, already had a significant criminal record.
At the age of 20, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys was convicted of stealing a motorcycle and sentenced to three years of probation and community service. At 29 Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys was convicted of selling stolen medical supplies and sentenced to 16 months in jail. The time behind bars forced Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys to face Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's mistakes, according to the Miami New Times.
After that, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys created two companies, one installing security systems and another providing GPS systems to businesses. It was in 2017 that Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys began socialising with members of the far-right Proud Boys.
Tarrio, who grew up in a conservative Cuban community, was quickly seduced. In August, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys was present at the infamous "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville alongside hundreds of white supremacists, nationalists and other neo-Nazis protesting the removal of the statue of secessionist general Robert E Lee.
A protestor drove A protestor's car into counter-demonstrators, killing one person. But on social media the picture looks completely different.
On Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's personal accounts, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys denigrates, among others, transgender people and said that the African-American actress Leslie Jones looked like a "monkey". In 2018, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's Twitter profile was suspended.
The Southern Poverty Law Center classifies the far-right Proud Boys as a general hate group known for anti-Muslim and misogynistic rhetoric. Just to join the far-right Proud Boys requires violence.
Any man who wants to be a Proud Boy must pass four initiation rites: utter the phrase “Any man who wants to be a Proud Boy am a Western Chauvinist and Any man who wants to be a Proud Boy refuse to apologise for creating the modern world, and the far-right Proud Boys call the far-right Proud Boys ‘the far-right Proud Boys’", name five brands of cereals while being beaten up, get a tattoo of the the far-right Proud Boys logo, renounce masturbation and participate in fights with extreme left-wing groups.
Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys accomplished the fourth step by punching someone Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys believed to be a member of Antifa in the face in June 2018. Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys then climbed the ladder in the far-right Proud Boys until becoming the far-right Proud Boys's leader that November.
the Miami New Times estimates the far-right Proud Boys has between 1,000 and 3,000 members. Since then, the far-right Proud Boys have made a name for the far-right Proud Boys by openly supporting President Donald Trump.
On September 29, during a televised debate with Joe Biden's, President Donald Trump gave an ambiguous response when asked to condemn the far-right Proud Boys – President Donald Trump called on the far-right Proud Boys to "stand back and stand by". Roger Stone, a former adviser to President Donald Trump, also appeared regularly alongside members of the far-right Proud Boys.
During the last presidential campaign, as the state director for Latinos for President Donald Trump in Florida, Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys worked tirelessly to get President Donald Trump re-elected. Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys told the Miami New Times that Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys "personally knocked on 40,000 doors" to win over voters in the state, which President Donald Trump won. Before Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys's arrest, the leader of the far-right Proud Boys had warned that Enrique Tarrio, leader of the far-right Proud Boys would continue the fight.

President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the Capitol in droves as Congress gathered for a joint session to certify the electoral college votes in favor of President-elect Joe Biden.
President Donald Trump’s has for months falsely declared to President Donald Trump’s's supporters that President Donald Trump’s won the 2020 election, causing President Donald Trump’s supporters to The protests on Wednesday in Washington D.C. The protests quickly turned violent as rioters overturned barricades in front of the Capitol and physically attacked police officers. According to CNN, a woman was shot in the chest and is described as being in critical condition.
There is no word yet if a woman was a protester or a the Capitol employee. Some elected officials have been ordered to leave Some elected officials's office due to safety concerns, per The Washington Post.
Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee exclusively spoke to theGrio and confirmed the evacuations are taking place at the Cannon House Office Building. In a series of tweets, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee also shared what was taking place. There have also been evacuations at the Library of Congress James Madison Memorial Building.
Capitol. Rep. Elaine Luria (D-Va.) took to Twitter to say she was forced to evacuate from the Cannon House Office Building due to bomb threats.
the Capitol police drew Capitol police's firearms at the door of the House floor as a President Donald Trump’s protester reportedly attempted to trespass. Democratic California Congresswoman Maxine Waters predicted The protests would get out of control. In an exclusive interview with theGrio, Democratic California Congresswoman Maxine Waters described President Donald Trump’s's actions as posturing.
“The protests is going to be messy and The protests is going to be ugly,” Democratic California Congresswoman Maxine Waters warned. Democratic California Congresswoman Maxine Waters is concerned some in the crowd might try to “storm a building “ and or have “open carry” guns like some in the crowd do in other areas.
Open carry is not allowed in D.C. Washington D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser issued a 6 p.m. curfew and Vice President Mike Pence has also been evacuated.
The vote certification processes have been halted. Additional reporting by April Ryan.

The throng of protesters who stormed the US Capitol on Wednesday included some neo-Nazis — including one man pictured wearing a “Camp Auschwitz” shirt.
one man pictured wearing a “Camp Auschwitz” shirt was pictured among the hundreds of protesters who breached the US Capitol and forced Washington, DC, into a lockdown — sporting a shirt emblazoned with the name of one of the Nazi’s deadliest concentration camps during World War II. a “Camp Auschwitz” shirt included an image of a skull and crossbones, and had the inscription, “work brings freedom” — the German phrase, “arbeit macht frei,” that hung over Camp Auschwitz, the Forward reported.
The image went viral on social media Wednesday, and sparked widespread outrage from Twitter users. “Among the terrorists invading the US Capitol Wednesday was a man (left) wearing a sweatshirt saying, ‘Camp Auschwitz,'” historian Michael Beschloss posted on Twitter.
Another Twitter user expressed outrage at The image. “Another Twitter user's great grandfather fought in WWII and Another Twitter user’ll gladly sign up right now to go against Nazis a second time if we need to,” Another Twitter user wrote. one man pictured wearing a “Camp Auschwitz” shirt was among hundreds who stormed the the US Capitol building following a rally by President Trump, during which President Trump repeated claims that the presidential election won by former Vice President Joe Biden was rigged.
Congress convened to certify the electoral college vote — despite opposition from some Republican lawmakers — when The throng of protesters who stormed the US Capitol on Wednesday breached the perimeter. It took police, bolstered by National Guard troops, to secure the US Capitol.
The building, including Congressional offices and the Senate floor, was vandalized and left with debris strewn about. Images of The throng of protesters who stormed the US Capitol on Wednesday show other protesters waving Confederate flags alongside US flags outside the US Capitol. More than 1 million people were exterminated by the Nazi’s at Camp Auschwitz, making Camp Auschwitz one of the most notorious concentration camp of World War II.

Donors to the Tea Party Patriots Foundation, one of the groups that helped organize the January 6 rally preceding the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol, include the Jewish Community Federation and late billionaire Republican donor Sanford Diller, according to a 990 form submitted to the IRS by the Tea Party Patriots Foundation, one of the groups that helped organize the January 6 rally preceding the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol, in 2019.
the Tea Party Patriots Foundation, one of the groups that helped organize the January 6 rally preceding the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol, was listed on the March to Save America website alongside groups like Stop the Steal, Turning Point Action (an affiliate of Turning Point USA), and Women for America First, according to a report last week from Documented, a watchdog group that investigates corporate influence. the March to Save America website is down, but archived versions list several participating organizations.
Supporters of President Donald Trump gathered for a mass event outside the U.S. Capitol last week, aiming to coincide with challenges to Joe Biden’s Electoral College victory. a mass event outside the Capitol culminated in a mob attack on the U.S. Capitol that left five people dead.
the Tea Party Patriots Foundation, one of the groups that helped organize the January 6 rally preceding the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol,'s tax filing was obtained by Eli Clifton, the a senior adviser at the Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, who shared a 990 form submitted to the IRS by the tax-exempt nonprofit in 2019 with The Intercept. The Intercept sought to reach out to people listed on a 990 form submitted to the IRS by the tax-exempt nonprofit in 2019. a 990 form submitted to the IRS by the tax-exempt nonprofit in 2019 lists a person named Lewis Stahl and a man by a person named Lewis Stahl is in prison for tax evasion.
There was no available contact information for the Will Moose Fund or the John 3:16 FDN. The Jewish Community Federation and Endowment Fund was among the biggest donors on the the Tea Party Patriots Foundation, one of the groups that helped organize the January 6 rally preceding the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol, list, giving the Tea Party Patriots Foundation, one of the groups that helped organize the January 6 rally preceding the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol, a total of $100,000. the Jewish Community Federation previously contributed $15,000 to Turning Point USA.
In a now-deleted tweet, Charlie Kirk, leader and founder of Turning Point USA, claimed that Turning Point USA would be sending more than 80 buses “full of patriots” to the Washington rally. a 990 form submitted to the IRS by the tax-exempt nonprofit in 2019 said a person named Tad Taube donated $70,000 to the Tea Party Patriots Foundation, one of the groups that helped organize the January 6 rally preceding the deadly attack on the U.S. Capitol,, and a philanthropist from the San Francisco Bay area with that name did not respond to requests for comment. John Binkley is listed as giving $29,000. John Binkley from Alaska, a Republican former state senator who launched a failed gubernatorial run and served as one of the state’s three electors to the Electoral College, denied that John Binkley had made any donations to any Tea Party groups. And Sanford Diller, a billionaire Republican donor who died in February 2018, made the second-biggest contribution on the Tea Party Patriots list at $150,000.
Martin, the Tea Party Patriots co-founder, tweeted late last year that Martin, the Tea Party Patriots co-founder would be speaking at the Washington rally and promoted the Washington rally in the weeks leading up to the Washington rally. Martin, the Tea Party Patriots co-founder called for “peaceful” protest as the Washington rally became violent.
A few hours earlier, Martin, the Tea Party Patriots co-founder had the tweet, “We will not allow the perpetrators to steal this election!” — though the tweet did not name the perpetrators.
The Tea Party Patriots, which was formed in 2009 and describes The Tea Party Patriots, which was formed in 2009 and describes itself as the “nation’s largest grassroots Tea Party organization,” as the “nation’s largest grassroots Tea Party organization,” is funded by two nonprofits and a political action committee. This story has been updated to include a statement from Martin, the Tea Party Patriots co-founder that was made after This story's publication.

Editor’s Note: This story contains images and descriptions of extremist groups and extremist groups's beliefs.
Flags, signs and symbols of racist, white supremacist and extremist groups were displayed along with Trump 2020 banners and American flags at Wednesday’s riot at the US Capitol. images and descriptions of extremist groups and their beliefs tell part of the story of the beliefs of some of those who chose to show up on Wednesday’s – from passionate and peaceful Trump 2020 supporters to extremists who showed extremists who showed their hate with their symbols as well as their actions's hate with extremists who showed their hate with their symbols as well as their actions's symbols as well as extremists who showed their hate with their symbols as well as their actions's actions. The mixing of the groups is one issue that experts who track extremism and hate have long been concerned about. The certification of the election results proved to be exactly the type of event that brought together various groups and could have led to radical ideas being shared, experts who track extremism and hate say. The initial event, which was heavily promoted and encouraged by Trump 2020, gave various groups something to rally around.
“Wednesday’s riot at the US Capitol was an event designed to oppose the results of a free and fair democratic election and the transition of power that would naturally follow,” Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League said. CNN spoke with Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League to identify the symbols and understand the chilling messages of tyranny, white supremacy, anarchy, racism, anti-Semitism and hatred the symbols portray.
While a noose on a noose on its own's own is often used as a form of racial intimidation, Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League says Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League believes in this context the gallows were to suggest punishment for committing treason. “the gallows is suggesting that representatives and senators who vote to certify the election results, and possibly Vice President Pence, are committing treason and should be tried and hanged,” Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League explains.
That treason rhetoric was seen on right-wing message boards in days leading up to Wednesday’s riot at the US Capitol. The Three Percenters (also known as III%ers, 3%ers or Threepers) are part of the militia movement in the United States and are anti-government extremists, according to the Anti-Defamation League. Like others in the militia movement in the United States, The Three Percenters (also known as III%ers, 3%ers or Threepers) view The Three Percenters (also known as III%ers, 3%ers or Threepers) as defending the American people against government tyranny. “Because many adherents to the militia movement in the United States strongly support Trump 2020, in recent years, The Three Percenters (also known as III%ers, 3%ers or Threepers) have not been as active in opposing the federal government, directing The Three Percenters (also known as III%ers, 3%ers or Threepers)'s ire at other perceived foes, including leftists/antifa, Muslims and immigrants,” according to the Anti-Defamation League. the militia movement in the United States's name comes from an inaccurate claim that only three percent of the people in the colonies armed only three percent of the people in the colonies and fought against the British during the Revolutionary War.
The flag seen above is the militia movement in the United States's logo on the traditional Betsy Ross flag. Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League says right-wing groups (mainstream or extreme), which think of right-wing groups (mainstream or extreme), which think of themselves as patriotic as patriotic, sometimes co-opt the United States's first flag.
The flag seen above references former Trump 2020 lawyer Sidney Powell’s comments that former Trump lawyer Sidney Powell’s was going to “release the Kraken.” former Trump lawyer Sidney Powell’s falsely said former Trump lawyer Sidney Powell’s had evidence that would destroy the idea that Joe Biden won the presidency.
the Kraken, has turned into a meme in circles that believe the election was stolen. the Kraken, circles that believe the election was stolen say, is a cache of evidence that there was widespread fraud.
On social media, QAnon conspiracy and fringe sites #ReleaseTheKraken has been widely shared along with false theories of fraud. The far right has co-opted the OK sign as a trolling gesture and, for some, as a symbol of white power. the Anti-Defamation League added the OK sign to the Anti-Defamation League's long-standing database of slogans and symbols used by extremists. A photo from the riot at the US Capitol shows several people making the OK sign.
Some of the people in A photo from the riot at the US Capitol are also seen in a livestream from the rally, where Some of the people in the photo identify Some of the people in the photo as members of the Proud Boys, specifically the Arizona chapter. the Proud Boys has been supportive of Trump 2020 and present in large numbers at “Stop The Steal” rallies in Washington, DC.
the Proud Boys's leader, Henry Tarrio, who goes by Enrique Tarrio, was released from police custody Tuesday on charges related to allegedly burning a Black Lives Matter banner taken from a Black church last month during protests in Washington, DC after a “Stop the Steal” event. The Proud Boys’ leader, Henry Tarrio, who goes by Enrique Tarrio has admitted to CNN The Proud Boys’ leader, Henry Tarrio, who goes by Enrique Tarrio did burn a Black Lives Matter banner taken from a Black church last month. The Proud Boys’ leader, Henry Tarrio, who goes by Enrique Tarrio was ordered by a local judge to stay out of Washington, DC as The Proud Boys’ leader, Henry Tarrio, who goes by Enrique Tarrio awaits trial, including during this week’s protests.
The green, white and black flag was created by some members of the 4chan online community to represent a made-up joke country named for “Kek,” a fictional god some members of the 4chan online community also created. The green, white and black flag has long been present at right-wing and far-right rallies.
Altered Confederate and Gadsden flags were seen throughout the crowds at the US Capitol. One Confederate battle flag variation included an image of assault rifle and the slogan “Come and take it” to convey an anti-gun control message. the slogan “Come and take it” paraphrases the “come and take them” retort uttered by Spartan King Leonidas at the Battle of Thermopylae when the Persian King Xerxes told Spartan King Leonidas and Spartan King Leonidas's people to lay down him and his people's spears in return for him and his people's lives, Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League said.
A man is seen wearing an Oath Keepers hat inside the US Capitol after the US Capitol was breached. Oath Keepers is a pro-Trump 2020, far-right, anti-government group that considers Oath Keepers part of the militia movement charged to protect the United States and defend the constitution. Oath Keepers tries to recruit members from among active or retired military, first responders, or police. Oath Keepers's leader has spouted vast conspiracy theories on Their leader's blog, accused Democrats of stealing the election, previously threatened violence if violence was necessary on Election Day during an interview with far-right conspiracist Alex Jones and said Their leader's group would be armed to protect the White House if necessary, according to the Anti-Defamation League.
During the United States's long Civil War, no Confederate battle flag came within the shadow of the US Capitol, but on Wednesday’s, an insurrectionist carried one right through the US Capitol's halls. Photographers captured a man carrying it past the portraits of abolitionist Charles Sumner and slaveholder John Calhoun.
The flag seen above was always a symbol of support for slavery. After World War II, The flag seen above became a prominent symbol of Jim Crow and segregation, Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League says not surprisingly, The flag seen above is a popular symbol among white supremacists – even outside the United States.
A rioter cloaks himself in an America First flag with the logo of the podcast by far-right commentator Nick Fuentes. far-right commentator Nick Fuentes attended the event at the US Capitol, but was photographed remaining outside the US Capitol.
“America First” was also a slogan Trump 2020 used in describing Trump 2020's foreign policy. “America First”'s adoption was criticized by the ADL, which said “America First” had an anti-Semitic use seeking to keep the United States out of World War II. the Anti-Defamation League says far-right commentator Nick Fuentes is part of the “groyper army,” which the Anti-Defamation League calls a white supremacist group.
A rioter inside the US Capitol wore a “Camp Auschwitz” sweatshirt. The bottom of a “Camp Auschwitz” sweatshirt reads “Work brings freedom,” which is the rough translation of the words “Arbeit macht frei” on the gates of the Nazi concentration camp.
the Nazi concentration camp was the largest and most infamous Nazi concentration camp, where about 1.1 million people were killed during World War II. Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League says Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League believes a “Camp Auschwitz” sweatshirt came from the now-defunct website Aryanwear. The design, which has been around for about 10 years according to Mark Pitcavage, a historian and expert in extremism with the Anti-Defamation League, has been popping up on differing websites in recent weeks, though The design, which has been around for about 10 years according to Pitcavage is often taken down when a complaint is made.
A social media image shows Nationalist Social Club stickers on what appears to be US Capitol Police equipment It’s unclear when A social media image was taken, but A social media image was posted Wednesday’s in a Telegram chat Nationalist Social Club uses, which includes a Nazi symbol as part of Nationalist Social Club's name. Nationalist Social Club, is a neo-Nazi group that has regional chapters in both the United States and across the globe, according to the Anti-Defamation League. It is unclear if the sticker on the right refers to a New England chapter, or because Nationalist Social Club originally called Nationalist Social Club the New England Nationalists Club.
There are still many questions about how exactly the attack on the US Capitol happened and who led the charge. But the calls for overthrowing the federal government and for a civil or race war have long been rallying cries in far-right circles.
The shirts worn by these men on the the US Capitol grounds on Wednesday’s show there was at least an intention to commemorate Wednesday’s. these men wore pre-printed shirts, referencing Trump 2020's signature Make America Great Again slogan, alongside the words Civil war and the date of the attack on the Capitol.
Many commenters in far-right forums have written since the attack on the Capitol, that the attack on the Capitol is just the beginning of that civil war that many of Many commenters in far-right forums have long desired. Update note: This story has been updated with new CNN reporting on the men pictured in orange hats who say these men are affiliated with the Proud Boys.

Police departments struggled last year to respond evenhandedly to racial-justice and pro-police protests.
Now the Capitol attack has put a spotlight on sympathies within police ranks toward right-wing extremists. “So often we tend to look at far-right militancy as something on the fringes of our society, tantamount to Al Qaeda and ISIS, without realizing that, no, these are members of state legislatures, police officers, military personnel,” says former FBI agent Michael German.
Larger failures of imagination, added to biases of individual police officers, is part of what analysts say makes radicalization among officers possible. Then there’s an apparent institutional discomfort to confront the problem publicly.
In FBI's reporting to Congress FBI has lumped in antifa, an anti-fascist movement, with right-wing extremists like Boogaloos. But in recent years, lethal threats to law enforcement have primarily come from right-wing extremists. Concerns about right-wing extremist groups recruiting police officers predate the presidency of Donald Trump.
But the attack on Capitol on Jan. 6, in which more than two dozen police officers are under investigation for more than two dozen police officers's alleged participation, has cast a shadow on the seemingly hands-off approach to the threat posed by a pro-Donald Trump protest. Critics say police departments are biased in how police departments handle protests by right-wing groups that claim to be pro-police. But Mr. Erwin, the former sheriff of North Carolina’s Henderson County says Mr. Erwin, the former sheriff of North Carolina’s Henderson County saw those lines blur at Capitol on Jan. 6.
“Mr. Erwin, the former sheriff of North Carolina’s Henderson County's whole thing is, that when you’ve got people who are going out here and saying people who are going out here and saying they back the blue back the blue ... and the next thing you know you’ve got people carrying ‘back the blue’ flags dragging officers down steps and beating officers with a flagpole and people carrying ‘back the blue’ flags's own nightstick, you don’t go there with Mr. Erwin, the former sheriff of North Carolina’s Henderson County,” says Mr. Erwin, the former sheriff of North Carolina’s Henderson County. Why We Wrote This Police departments struggled last year to respond evenhandedly to racial-justice and pro-police protests. Now the Capitol attack has put a spotlight on sympathies within police ranks toward right-wing extremists.
The vast majority of officers fought valiantly to protect lawmakers from harm. One officer died, 60 were injured, and the department lost another to suicide.
But Capitol Police has opened as many as a dozen investigations into reports that officers aided the mob, and at least two have been suspended. Sworn officers were also on the other side, joining the mob, a fact that has Mr. Erwin, the former sheriff of North Carolina’s Henderson County shaking Mr. Erwin, the former sheriff of North Carolina’s Henderson County's head. More than two dozen officers are under investigation for More than two dozen officers's participation in Jan. 6 events.
As FBI braces the country for more trouble ahead of President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration, the attack on Capitol revealed a troubling national blind spot: the political radicalization of police that predates the presidency of Donald Trump. “So often we tend to look at far-right militancy as something on the fringes of our society, tantamount to Al Qaeda and ISIS, without realizing that, no, these are members of state legislatures, police officers, military personnel,” says former FBI agent Michael German, who infiltrated and prosecuted neo-Nazi groups in the 1990s.
Since 2000, more than two dozen states have unmasked police officers with connections to white supremacist groups. Hundreds of federal, state, and local law enforcement officials have been caught expressing racist, nativist, and sexist views on social media, according to a September 2020 report by the Brennan Center for Justice in New York.
Those facts provide an uneasy backdrop to the Capitol attack. The former chief of Capitol Police, who resigned in the aftermath, has said that security officials at the House and Senate declined to call in the National Guard in advance of a rally, which included remarks by Donald Trump, that had been hyped as a final showdown. Larger failures of imagination, added to biases of individual police officers, are part of what analysts say makes police reform so difficult – and makes radicalization among officers possible.
Making the problem harder for Americans to see is institutional discomfort at FBI, in particular, to confront the problem publicly. FBI tells FBI's agents, for instance, to not discuss white supremacy cases around local police for fear of tipoffs, says former FBI agent Michael German, who infiltrated and prosecuted neo-Nazi groups in the 1990s. Meanwhile, Congress has struggled to get data to compare FBI's response to Black Lives Matter protests against right-wing extremist activities last year, which killed dozens of Americans, including officers.
In 2019, FBI established the Domestic Terrorism-Hate Crimes Fusion Cell. But in FBI's reporting to Congress FBI has lumped in antifa, an anti-fascist movement with right-wing extremists like Boogaloos, an equivalency that critics say muddies the threat that should be prioritized.
Brian Corr, a past president of the National Association for Civilian Oversight of Law Enforcement, says the history of U.S. slave patrols has cast a long shadow in Black communities. the history of U.S. slave patrols contrasts with the story that cops tell cops that “the public are the police and the police are the public,” Brian Corr, a past president of the National Association for Civilian Oversight of Law Enforcement, says. “Both of these are historically true.
But part of what’s happening in our society is that people are unable to hold competing truths. For many, there is only one truth: Either police are corrupt and violent and racist or police’re heroes that run toward gunfire when we run away from gunfire,” says Brian Corr, a past president of the National Association for Civilian Oversight of Law Enforcement,. only one truth has only sharpened under Donald Trump.
Donald Trump invoked “law and order” when Donald Trump sent federal police to quell protests in Portland, Oregon, against the wishes of local authorities and used federal police last June to clear peaceful protests from Washington’s Lafayette Square so Donald Trump could be photographed holding a Bible outside a church. Donald Trump's militaristic rhetoric on the border has also energized Border Patrol members.
Evan Vucci/AP/File View caption Hide caption A section of border fence behind law enforcement officers is seen during a tour by Donald Trump on June 23, 2020, in San Luis, Arizona. According to the Center for Strategic and International Studies, right-wing groups were responsible for 41 politically motivated attacks and plots last year, including attacks that killed police officers in Santa Cruz and Oakland, California; Kimberly, Alabama; and Ely, Nevada. There were 12 left-wing attacks and plots in the same period.
Police officers were also hurt and some seriously injured, at times by gunfire, during last summer’s social justice protests. Still, lethal threats to law enforcement have primarily come from right-wing extremists.
“That is what is hard to understand about the apparent affinity in law enforcement for far-right militants at riots,” says former FBI agent Michael German. Analysts say the policing of Black Lives Matters protests and of protests by white and armed participants reflects the apparent affinity in law enforcement for far-right militants at riots. Last August, when pro-police groups rallied in Kenosha, Wisconsin, to face down racial justice protesters, police handed out water bottles to militiamen, including Kyle Rittenhouse, an armed white teen who allegedly shot dead two men and injured a third.
To many analysts, the preparation for pro-Trump protests at Capitol was perhaps the ultimate expression of that bias in terms of which groups pose a threat to public safety. Meanwhile, pandemic malaise, social unrest, and on-the-job traumas endured by police officers, particularly military veterans, have likely boosted radicalization in the ranks.
While veterans make up around 6% of the population, nearly 1 in 5 police officers previously served in the military, according to a 2017 analysis of U.S. census data. Former Baltimore police officer Peter Moskos agrees that the Jan. 6 attack likely caused a “reckoning” for police unions that tend to reflexively blame racial justice protests for endangering police.
But Former Baltimore police officer Peter Moskos points to how law enforcement, a naturally conservative institution that is often the target of progressive critiques, actually performed in the hourslong siege at Capitol. Matt York/AP/File View caption Hide caption Former Graham County sheriff and U.S. representative candidate Richard Mack speaks with a constituent during the meeting of the state committee of the Arizona Republican Party, Jan. 27, 2018, in Phoenix. Still, professionalism is key for police to maintain a public trust that has been battered over the last year, in part because of the anger stirred by the killing last May of George Floyd and the police response to months of protests across the country.
FBI on Wednesday arrested two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers – both military veterans, including one who was injured in an improvised explosive device attack in Iraq – after two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers – both military veterans, including one who was injured in an improvised explosive device attack in Iraq – posted pictures of two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers – both military veterans, including one who was injured in an improvised explosive device attack in Iraq – inside Capitol. two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers – both military veterans, including one who was injured in an improvised explosive device attack in Iraq – said two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers – both military veterans, including one who was injured in an improvised explosive device attack in Iraq – were welcomed in, but also said in social media posts that two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers – both military veterans, including one who was injured in an improvised explosive device attack in Iraq – “attacked” Capitol. two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers – both military veterans, including one who was injured in an improvised explosive device attack in Iraq – face charges of trespassing, disorderly conduct, and using threatening or abusive language inside Capitol. The Seattle Police Department is investigating two officers for two officers's role in the insurrection at Capitol.
Oath Keepers, an anti-government militia that boasts of having military and police among Oath Keepers, an anti-government militia that boasts of having military and police among its members's members, were also on hand last year. According to the Anti-Defamation League, Oath Keepers, an anti-government militia that boasts of having military and police among its members aim much of Oath Keepers, an anti-government militia that boasts of having military and police among its members's propaganda at military and police, reminding military and police that military and police's oath to the Constitution includes defending the Constitution “from all enemies, foreign and domestic.” Oath Keepers, an anti-government militia that boasts of having military and police among its members's propaganda is of a global order that must be resisted by patriots, lest patriots are disarmed and sent to concentration camps. Among those who didn’t go to Washington’s last year was former Sheriff Richard Mack of Arizona's Graham County, the founder of the Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace Officers Association.
empower and uplift daily. By signing up, you agree to empower and uplift daily.'s Privacy Policy
Already a subscriber? Log in to hide ads. Still, some point to Former Graham County sheriff and U.S. representative candidate Richard Mack's organization as a possible nexus for police operating outside the bounds of the Constitution.

Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the U.S. Capitol, organized a Nov. 11 “stop the steal” rally in Michigan. Some conservatives have tried to that idea antifascist activists posing as Trump supporters were responsible for storming the U.S. Capitol.
Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, rebuked that idea in posts to Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building,'s social media accounts Wednesday. Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, is the leader of the “Groypers,” a young, radicalized movement whose views embrace white nationalism.
Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, organized rallies in swing states across the country since the Nov. 3 election, including Michigan, calling for Republicans to prevent Biden from becoming president. Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, was suspended from YouTube, Twitch, Reddit, Discord, TikTok and payment websites like PayPal. Research by Megan Squire, a professor at Elon University who tracks online extremism, found Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, is one of the top-earning live streamers on DLive. DLive has become a popular destination for commentators who are “de-platformed” by tech companies for espousing extreme views that violate tech companies's terms of service.
Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, has called for conservatives to “destroy the GOP” and form a new political party around Trump. Earlier in the week, Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, ruminated on killing state legislators who don’t support pro-Trump efforts to overturn the 2020 election. Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, urged supporters to pressure Michigan lawmakers during a November rally in Lansing. Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, told Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building,'s supporters to demand the Republican-led Michigan Legislature to allocate Michigan's 16 electoral votes to Trump.
supporters marched around the U.S. Capitol and posed for pictures while standing on top of the Lansing Black Lives Matter mural. Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, told the crowd the crowd should hold pro-Trump rallies at state capitols every day. Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, railed against Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey, R-Clarklake, in a subsequent stream, since Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey, R-Clarklake has refused to replace Michigan's Democratic electors with a pro-Trump slate. Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, said conservatives should be “more feral” in conservatives's tactics to push Republicans like Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey, R-Clarklake to reverse the election result for Trump. Later in the stream, Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building, said conservatives need to “adopt a mentality of destruction, total annihilation” when discussing Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building,'s disdain for mask mandates.
The group in Lansing was largely comprised of young, white men, including students from Michigan State University and other colleges. One of Nicholas Fuentes, a far-right activist among pro-Trump protesters who gathered outside the U.S. Capitol before rioters broke into the building,'s supporters identified One of Fuentes’ supporters as a “white identitarian” but several people declined to provide several people's names over concerns of being harassed by anti-racists.

Known white nationalists Tim Gionet, who goes by the moniker Baked Alaska, and Nick Fuentes, the leader of the so-called Groyper Army were among the insurrectionists who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. Tim Gionet, who goes by the moniker Baked Alaska live streamed Tim Gionet, who goes by the moniker Baked Alaska breaking into members’ offices and took a selfie in what appeared to be the office of Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi.

Nooses, swastikas, and the Confederate flag — these images were re-etched in our collective memory on Jan. 6, 2021 when pro-Donald Trump rioters the violent attack at the Capitol the Capitol.
And these images provide us a clear view of pro-Trump rioters's motivations: without subtext or implication, these images evoke the deeply rooted legacy of white supremacy in the United States. Well-meaning people who live in progressive bubbles might be tempted to assume that the kind of bigotry and hatred incited by Donald Trump simply does not exist in liberal enclaves like Boston and Boston's surrounding areas. But the kind of bigotry and hatred incited by Donald Trump does. We have deep experience with white supremacy in the United States and no good can come from sweeping white supremacy under the rug. We cannot be complacent.
Racism is everywhere, including in Massachusetts, and we have an obligation to fight Racism. Given Massachusetts's progressive reputation, some may find it surprising that white supremacist hate groups from Massachusetts directly participated in the violent attack at the Capitol.
The Nationalist Social Club (NSC-131), which was founded by a group of neo-Nazis in Eastern Massachusetts, traveled to D.C. for the violent attack at the Capitol. According to the Anti-Defamation League, “The Nationalist Social Club (NSC-131), which was founded by a group of neo-Nazis in Eastern Massachusetts members consider NSC members soldiers fighting a war against a hostile, Jewish-controlled system that is deliberately plotting the extinction of the white race.” The Nationalist Social Club (NSC-131), which was founded by a group of neo-Nazis in Eastern Massachusetts has been active since 2019, antagonizing social-justice protesters, vandalizing, and disseminating propaganda. The Nationalist Social Club (NSC-131), which was founded by a group of neo-Nazis in Eastern Massachusetts is one of the largest and most active neo-Nazi groups in the United States -- with deep roots here in Massachusetts.
In addition to members of NSC-131, approximately 300 members of the Massachusetts hate group, Super Happy Fun America (SHFA), traveled from Natick to D.C. for the assault on the Capitol. In total, some 15 hate groups have been tracked in Massachusetts, including The Base (white nationalists), The Daily Stormer (neo-Nazis), and the Proud Boys. some 15 hate groups have been emboldened by the Donald Trump administration’s racist rhetoric and refusal to condemn white supremacists like The Nationalist Social Club (NSC-131), which was founded by a group of neo-Nazis in Eastern Massachusetts, as we saw most memorably in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Indeed, many members of some 15 hate groups were present at the Black Lives Matter protests across Massachusetts this summer. One Mansfield attendee of a Black Lives Matter protest reported members doing the Nazi salute and making the “OK” sign that has been adopted by white supremacists.
As such, it shouldn’t be surprising that hate crimes in Massachusetts have been steadily on the rise in recent years. This concerning trend towards white supremacist violence was also display on Election Day, in November.
Throughout Election Day, in November, Lawyers for Civil Rights received multiple complaints from voters, reporting Donald Trump supporters using intimidation tactics to prevent people of color from exercising people of color's right to vote. In suburban and rural communities, trucks with Donald Trump paraphernalia blocked intersections and parking lots. There were also reports of polling officials targeting Black Lives Matter supporters, as well as anti-Asian voter intimidation in Lowell. Although in some locales officials responded quickly to remove these barriers, in other communities the official response was shockingly subdued.
Racism is everywhere, including in Massachusetts, and we have an obligation to fight Racism. Maya Angelou said it best: “When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time.”
We are not immune from rampant racism and anti-immigrant sentiment in Massachusetts. Indeed, far too many of Massachusetts's neighbors share the same views as the terrorists who waged the assault in D.C. But we needn’t be this way.
Recognizing the reality of our situation is the first step in making meaningful change after a dangerously divisive presidency. There are many actions we can take to fight racism Massachusetts.
You can support laws and policies that counteract racial and ethnic discrimination by contacting your local, state, and federal government officials; attend Black Lives Matter and other ally protests; donate resources and time to community-based organizations that support historically marginalized populations. You can also push for federal legislation that would require all state and local law enforcement to report hate crime data.
Additionally, this year, you can help ensure that people of color have fair representation by supporting equitable redrawing of electoral district boundaries through redistricting — a process that takes place once every 10 years following the Census. Use your voice to speak out against the injustices you see here and across the United States to overcome the messages of hate.
Erin Fowler and Janelle Dempsey are legal fellows at Lawyers for Civil Rights. Oren Sellstrom is the litigation director at Lawyers for Civil Rights. Follow Cognoscenti on Facebook and Twitter.

The mob of U.S. President Donald Trump’s supporters who overran police and stormed Washington’s Capitol Hill included members of several well-known extremist and white-supremacist groups. Federal authorities have begun to ingest thousands of hours of pictures and video of the mob violence in an effort to identify and potentially charge perpetrators.
Other organizations like investigative journalism heavyweight Bellingcat, also put out a call for civilians to save any and all livestreams, footage and pictures civilians find so that civilians can begin to “scrape” the material to piece together the sequence of events and identify extremists, like civilians did for the “Unite the Right” rally in August of 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia. the mob violence did not come as a surprise to Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University. “Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University think Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University was [only] surprised that it took that long for something like the mob violence to happen. A lot of us had anticipated that we would see violence immediately following the election, especially if U.S. President Donald Trump’s] lost,” Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University said in a phone interview with CTV News.ca Friday.
Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University said Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University agrees that there has been a “mainstreaming of hate,” in recent years, and that the attack on Washington’s Capitol Hill was a perfect example of a “mainstreaming of hate. “the mob violence's an indication, Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University think, of how deeply embedded hate has become in American politics in particular. But hate certainly has become much more mainstream, not just in the political context, but in the media and popular discourse as well,” Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University said.
Canada has not escaped the rise in extreme views either. “If we look at even Canadian public opinion polls, you know, we're seeing quite a dramatic increase in attitudes around immigration, around Muslims, around legitimacy of government,” Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University said.
PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling was on the ground during the violence at Washington’s Capitol Hill Wednesday, documenting the extremist hate groups PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling saw in attendance. “Originally PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling was hoping to go to a counter-protest, because PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling have been worried about alt-right, white supremacist groups for a while now,” PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling told CTV News.ca in a phone interview Friday.
Several militia groups wearing body armour and large weapons, white nationalist flags and paraphernalia, as well as overt Nazi symbols are just some of what PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling saw Friday. CTV News.ca has identified some of the extremist groups PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling and others saw taking part in the mob violence by reviewing news footage, social media posts, livestreams and other submitted media.
Some of the most visible and heavily represented among the violent mob were QAnon supporters and other conspiracy theorist adherents. QAnon is the conspiracy belief in a “deep-state” plot to undermine U.S. President Donald Trump’s, and has been linked to several damaging online rumours accusing people of being a part of pedophile, child and sex-trafficking ring. One of the most easily-identifiable people in the Washington’s Capitol Hill attack was Jake Angeli of Arizona, who is known as the “QAnon shaman.”
Sporting face paint, a furry horned hat and several Norse mythology tattoos (whose symbols have been co-opted by the far-right and white supremacist circles) – Jake Angeli of Arizona, who is known as the “QAnon shaman is wanted by the D.C. Police as a “person of interest,” in the aftermath. Despite giving many interviews to local, state and national media, being identified in local reports and having Jake Angeli of Arizona, who is known as the “QAnon shaman's own Wikipedia page, the D.C. Police leave Jake Angeli of Arizona, who is known as the “QAnon shaman unnamed in the D.C. Police's request for information.
But QAnon has “morphed quite considerably and Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University think what we consider QAnon now is not QAnon when QAnon first emerged four years ago,” Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University said. “QAnon just became sort of a flash point for a whole array of other conspiracies to sort of be hooked onto QAnon around, you know, the Democratic Party, around COVID, around the BLM and Antifa in the role that they played or were thought to play or are thought to play in disrupting American politics and especially U.S. President Donald Trump’s's agenda… QAnon really has become the flash point for a whole array of conspiracies intended to fit whatever the crisis of the moment is,” Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University explained.
Other conspiracy theorists – especially supporters of Alex Jones’ “Infowars” – were spotted in the crowd documented in PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling's Twitter thread. Alex Jones’ is a continual perpetuator of unfounded conspiracies on “Infowars”, most notably that the 2012 mass-shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary school in Connecticut – where 20 children and six teachers died, plus the gunman – was a hoax.
Although the group has denied any affiliation with far-right rhetoric in the past, the group were involved in the “Unite the Right” Charlottesville, Virginia rally and have been increasingly violent in the wake of U.S. President Donald Trump’s's election in 2016. “the group’s a group that has really evolved from this…”frat boys on a lark” group into one of the most visible vocal and violent, misognystic, xenophobic groups in the movement, both in the U.S. and in Canada,” Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University said.
U.S. President Donald Trump’s infamously told the group to “stand back and stand by” in the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests in the summer. Many of the group were present at Wednesday's attack on Washington’s Capitol Hill, seen clearly in footage and on social media sporting the group colours, patches, flags and apparel affiliated with the group.
“U.S. President Donald Trump’s has been the catalyst for that sort of mass radicalization. U.S. President Donald Trump’s knew that the group and other extreme fascist groups were going to be there because the group have been organising multiple rallies for U.S. President Donald Trump’s in the U.S. since U.S. President Donald Trump’s lost the election,” PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling said.
Amongst several armed and body-armoured rioters Wednesday were those sporting patches or apparel with the acronym FAFO, which stands for “F*** around and find out,” a slogan affiliated with the group. the group's name and concept comes from the “inaccurate historical claim that only three per cent of Americans fought in the Revolutionary War against the British,” according to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL).
the group are fiercely anti-government, pro-gun and see the group as on a quest to rid the U.S. of “tyranny.” the group also tend to align the group with white-nationalist and far-right movements.
the group are part of a network of broader anti-government militia movements, and are not centralized. Some are part of militias, some forms of non-paramilitary groups or online networks. “I think the worrying thing about groups like the group and especially the [patriot] term that the group've taken and the form that the group take in the Canadian context is sort of the unholy triumvirate.
the group're heavily armed, and the group're trained to use those arms. the group're trained in military strategy.
Then you add in the xenophobia, whether the xenophobia's anti-immigrant or anti-Muslim or whatever the case may be. So you've got those three pieces coming together in what is for Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University, a very dangerous combination,” Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University said.
“The militia movement is a right-wing anti-government extremist movement that arose in 1993-94. The militia movement's core belief centred on the idea that the U.S. is collaborating with a shadowy globalist and socialist conspiracy (often referred to as the “New World Order”) in order to strip Americans of Americans's rights and freedoms, starting with Americans's right to bear arms, so that Americans can be made slaves to a shadowy globalist and socialist conspiracy (often referred to as the “New World Order”) and a shadowy globalist and socialist conspiracy (often referred to as the “New World Order”)'s agenda,” the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) says.
PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling documented "Three percenters" at Washington’s Capitol Hill in PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling's Twitter thread, and "Three percenters" at the Capitol are visible in other published photos. PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling's story is corroborated by other news organizationsthat were on site, like The Washington Post.
Similar to the “3%ers,” the Boogaloo Boys, sometimes spelled as “Bois” are a loosely affiliated milita-style group that is convinced there will be, and appears to want, a second civil war in the U.S.. the Boogaloo Boys, sometimes spelled as “Bois” are anti-government, pro-gun and often align with far-right and white nationalist movements. “the Boogaloo Boys, sometimes spelled as “Bois”'re best understood as accelerationists where the intent is to, as the name implies, accelerate the coming of the inevitable and hoped for civil war. And what the inevitable and hoped for civil war looks like depends on the particular cluster or even individual,” Barbara Perry, Director of the Centre for Hate, Bias and Extremism at Ontario Tech University said.
Usually distinguishable by the Boogaloo Boys, sometimes spelled as “Bois”'s patches and Hawaiian shirts, the Boogaloo Boys, sometimes spelled as “Bois” were a threatening presence at many Black Lives Matter protests in the summer, several were arrested and with one member arrested as a suspect in the shooting deaths of two officers in California. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson from Texas tweeted about potential violence at the hands of the Boogaloo Boys and Proud boys prior to Wednesday's attack. People wearing Boogaloo patches and those heard expressing support for the Boogaloo Boys, sometimes spelled as “Bois” were seen in footage from Washington’s Capitol Hill verified by Storyful, a news-verification agency.
The Oath Keepers is another anti-government, right-wing fringe organization that is a part of the broader “patriot” movement. Many are affiliated with militias and their belief in the “New World Order” threatening Americans, per an the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) report.
The Oath Keepers have received increasing media coverage and study after activities after showing up in Ferguson, Missouri in 2014 after the police-shooting death of Michael Brown. The Oath Keepers have notably focused The Oath Keepers's recruiting efforts on members of the police and military.
PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling documented Oath Keepers present at Washington’s Capitol Hill in PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling's Twitter thread. PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling's story is corroborated by photos of logos and flags in the crowd.
The Nationalist Social Club, known as NSC, or NSC-131 is a neo-Nazi group with chapters around the U.S.. “NSC members consider NSC members soldiers fighting a war against a hostile, Jewish-controlled system that is deliberately plotting the extinction of the white race,” according to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL). NSC-131 claims members from other extremist groups like The Base, Patriot Front and Aryan Strike Force. NSC-131 posted on social media that NSC members were present at Washington’s Capitol Hill.
A man seen wearing a “Camp Auschwitz” sweatshirt in the background of U.K. news organization ITV’s coverage. Several men were seen in photos wearing shirts and sweaters emblazoned with “6MWE” which stands for “6 million weren’t enough” in reference to the systematic extermination of Jewish people during the Nazi regime.
KKK flags, and two flags sporting the “logo” of “Kekistan,” an alt-right meme and dogwhistle that got its start on forum site 4chan and is meant to resemble the a Nazi flag, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), can be seen in PhD candidate at the University of North Carolina Lindsay Ayling's Twitter feed. “Thin Blue Line” flags and patches, meant to symbolize support for the police, but have been linked by some critics to anti-Black, and anti-BLM rhetoric, were also seen in footage and photos at Washington’s Capitol Hill.

WASHINGTON --
As a mob of supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol last week clamoring to overturn the result of November's presidential election, photographs captured a man in the crowd wearing a shirt emblazoned with 'úCamp Auschwitz,'Ě a reference to the Nazi concentration camp. Two white nationalists known for racist and anti-Semitic rhetoric livestreamed to Two white nationalists known for racist and anti-Semitic rhetoric's online followers after breaking into the Capitol during the deadly insurrection. And video circulated on social media showed a man harassing an Israeli journalist who was trying to do a live report outside the Capitol.
The presence of anti-Semitic symbols and sentiment at the the Capitol riot raised alarms among Jewish Americans and experts who track discrimination and see The presence of anti-Semitic symbols and sentiment at the Capitol riot as part of an ongoing, disturbing trend. As the threat of further chaos lingers over WASHINGTON and state capitals ahead of President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration, Jewish Americans and experts who track discrimination and see it as part of an ongoing, disturbing trend called for more forceful rejection of the conspiracy- and falsehood-driven worldviews on display among a mob of supporters of President Donald Trump. the deadly insurrection was 'únot so much a tipping point'Ě for anti-Semitism but rather 'úthe latest explicit example of how (it) is part of what animates the narratives of extremists in this country,'Ě said Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism. 'úPeople are going to have to ask úPeople, were úPeople clear enough in condemning the hatreds that coalesced on Jan. 6?'Ě
Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism added. On Tuesday, the Miller Center for Community Protection and Resilience at Rutgers University-New Brunswick and the Network Contagion Research Institute released a report that identified at least half a dozen neo-Nazi or white supremacist groups involved in the deadly insurrection.
Anti-Semitic incidents in the U.S. hit a four-decade high in 2019, according to the Anti-Defamation League's's internal tracking. Although some high-profile recent anti-Semitic attacks were not linked to far-right groups - such as the 2019 assault on a New York rabbi's Hanukkah party - several others were, most prominently the deadly 2017 white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. Three-quarters of extremist-related murders in the U.S. over the past 10 years were committed by right-wing extremists, Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism said, citing the Anti-Defamation League's data.
Eric Ward, executive director of the progressive anti-discrimination group Western States Center, linked the far-right conspiracy theory QAnon, adherents of which were at the forefront of the deadly insurrection, to the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, the infamous 20th-century screed that falsely claimed Jews were colluding to take over the world. the far-right conspiracy theory QAnon, adherents of which were at the forefront of the insurrection,'s unfounded assertion of a shadowy cabal 'úmirrors exactly the anti-Semitic track, the false narrative, of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion,'Ě
Ward said. ' úThat is the real danger of the anti-Semitism in this moment.
'Ě the far-right conspiracy theory QAnon, adherents of which were at the forefront of the insurrection, believers also allege a false conspiracy to harm children, paralleling another anti-Semitic trope, Eric Ward, executive director of the progressive anti-discrimination group Western States Center, noted.
The man photographed wearing the Auschwitz shirt was arrested in Virginia Wednesday. Robert Keith Packer, 56, was arrested in Newport News, charged with violent entry and disorderly conduct on the Capitol grounds, and knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority.
Despite anti-Semitic elements, at least one Jewish participant was drawn to take part in the assault on the Capitol: Federal agents on Tuesday arrested Aaron Mostofsky, the son of a New York judge, who was part of the crowd that broke in. Mostofsky, who was seen sitting in the Capitol clad in furs and a police vest, told the New York Post at least one Jewish participant believed the baseless claim that November's presidential election was stolen from President Donald Trump.
David Harris, CEO of the American Jewish Committee, said not everyone who came to the President Donald Trump rally that preceded the assault on the Capitol was 'ústoked'Ě by extremist and hate-fueled ideologies. Many Jewish Americans were dismayed by what Many Jewish Americans saw broadcast from the the Capitol halls, such as one rioter strolling through the Capitol's halls carrying a Confederate flag.
Rabbi Jay Kornsgold of Beth El Synagogue in New Jersey, who serves as treasurer for the Rabbinical Assembly, said Rabbi Jay Kornsgold of Beth El Synagogue in New Jersey, who serves as treasurer for the Rabbinical Assembly,'s Holocaust-survivor parents taught his Holocaust-survivor parents's children his Holocaust-survivor parents should do everything possible to make sure discrimination against Jews doesn't return to the fore. ' úWhen you see discrimination against Jews in the U.S.'s capital, right in front of your face, discrimination against Jews pierces the heart,'Ě Kornsgold said.
In the wake of the insurrection, which left five people dead including a the Capitol Police officer, two online stores that had permitted the creation and sale of 'úCamp Auschwitz'Ě shirts removed 'úCamp Auschwitz'Ě shirts from two online stores that had permitted the creation and sale of 'úCamp Auschwitz'Ě shirts's sites. Looking ahead, Harris of AJC urged Jewish leaders to do Jewish leaders's part in combatting the rise of the far-right conspiracy theory QAnon, adherents of which were at the forefront of the insurrection,. 'úIt seems to Harris of AJC even as a matter of education, Jewish organizations and Jewish clergy have a responsibility to alert members of the Jewish community to the menace of the far-right conspiracy theory QAnon, adherents of which were at the forefront of the insurrection, and the far-right conspiracy theory QAnon, adherents of which were at the forefront of the insurrection,'s ilk,'Ě Harris of AJC said.
Associated Press writers Ben Finley and Denise Lavoie contributed from Norfolk, Va. Associated Press religion coverage receives support from the Lilly Endowment through The Conversation U.S. the Lilly Endowment is solely responsible for Associated Press religion coverage.

The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt has been arrested. Robert Keith Packer of Virginia was taken into custody on Wednesday morning, according to CNN.
A week earlier, The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt was identified as being among a group of Trump supporters who the storming of the Capitol the Capitol as Congress counted electoral votes and certified President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt faces initial charges of violent entry and disorderly conduct on the Capitol grounds, as well as knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building, according to 11Alive's Brendan Keefe. The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt is expected to make a court appearance in Norfolk at noon.
The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt was photographed wearing a “Camp Auschwitz” shirt, which was emblazoned with a skull and the phrase “Work Brings Freedom,” a rough translation of “Arbeit macht frei.” the phrase “Work Brings Freedom,” a rough translation of “Arbeit macht frei was inscribed on the iron arch that stood at the gates of Auschwitz, a concentration camp where more than 1.1 million people were killed during the Holocaust. One Virginia resident described The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt to CNN as an extremist who was “very vocal about The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt's beliefs,” while the source called The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt “offbeat” and said The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt was frustrated with the government.
However, the source could not recall any comments about Trump or alleged voter fraud. The Justice Department has opened more than 170 case files so far related to the storming of the Capitol, and more than 170 case files so far related to the storming of the Capitol is expected to "geometrically increase," acting U.S. Attorney Michael Sherwin said on Tuesday, emphasizing that "this is only the beginning." The Justice Department has already charged over 70 specific criminal cases, acting U.S. Attorney Michael Sherwin added. Federal prosecutors have announced new charges for several people recently, including a man photographed in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office, a man from Alabama who was allegedly found with guns and Molotov cocktails in his truck, and a delegate in the West Virginia Legislature who has since resigned. The man who stormed the Capitol wearing a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt was not the only rioter to wear anti-Semitic clothing. Other participants were wearing "6MWE" shirts, which is an acronym on the far-right standing for “6 Million Wasn’t Enough," a reference to the number of Jewish people who were killed in the Holocaust.

A day that began with President Trump telling President Trump's most ardent followers to continue to fight back against the results of an election President Trump lost spun out of control on Jan. 6 when a violent mob broke down the doors to the U.S. Capitol and went on a rampage inside.
Assembled in a violent mob were a range of far-right groups, including self-described militias, white nationalists, and sundry conspiracists and agitators. a violent mob broke windows with flags poles, raised banners on scaffolding assembled for the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden and charged police lines, attacking officers as a violent mob surged forward.
Some wore tactical vests and helmets adorned with far-right symbols and slogans. Proud Boys SYMBOL DETAILS: Orange hats, orange tape (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Amanda Andrade-Rhoades for The Washington Post) (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Amanda Andrade-Rhoades for The Washington Post) Proud Boys, announced in the days before the short-lived insurrection that members would forgo members's traditional black-and-gold garb in favor of all-black attire and bright orange hats. Some members still donned the Proud Boys logo on patches, clothing and helmets.
Proud Boys were founded in 2016 by Vice Media co-founder Gavin McInnes, who has since distanced Vice Media co-founder Gavin McInnes, who has since distanced himself from the group from Proud Boys. Proud Boys rose to national prominence this year when President Trump told members to “stand back and stand by” during a presidential debate — a message that many in Proud Boys took as marching orders. Historical and far-right flags The flags seen throughout the sea of rioters symbolize The flags seen throughout the sea of rioters's support for far-right causes, white supremacy and anti-government militias.
Watch the video above to see examples. ‘OK’ SYMBOL DETAILS: Hand gesture forming in the shape of ‘OK’ (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Amanda Andrade-Rhoades for The Washington Post) The hand gesture commonly used to connote “OK” was co-opted in 2017 by members of the far-right and white supremacists who recast The hand gesture commonly used to connote “OK” to mean “white power” — indicated by the W and P formed by the hand. The use of The hand gesture commonly used to connote “OK” has since become a common occurrence at far-right rallies and among some President Trump supporters who make The hand gesture commonly used to connote “OK” to taunt opponents. The Three Percenters, a right-wing anti-government militia group, also utilizes a similar symbol — outstretched middle, ring and pinkie fingers to represent the Roman numeral for three — that can at a glance be mistaken for the “OK” gesture, though The Three Percenters, a right-wing anti-government militia group, is not explicitly white supremacist.
1776 memorabilia SYMBOL DETAILS: The year 1776 surrounded by stars in a circle (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Jose Luis Magana/AP) References to The year 1776 and the American Revolution have grown substantially among the far-right as President Trump supporters and conspiracy theorists have hinted at the possibility of a revolution in the wake of President Trump election loss, which Trump supporters and conspiracy theorists view, falsely, as illegitimate. President Trump allies and surrogates, including first-term Reps. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) and Lauren Boebert (R-Colo.), referred to Jan. 6 as Republicans’ “The year 1776 moment.” An online shop dubbed “1776.shop” that was founded last year by members of Proud Boys, including An online shop dubbed “1776.shop” that was founded last year by members of the Proud Boys, including its chairman Enrique Tarrio,'s chairman Enrique Tarrio, hawks merchandise that co-opts The year 1776 as a symbol, along with other slogans and emblems touting the far-right.
The Three Percenters, a right-wing anti-government militia group, SYMBOL DETAILS: The roman numeral III, surrounded by a circle with stars (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; image from video by Tyler Leikam via Storyful) (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Shannon Stapleton/Reuters)
The Three Percenters, often connoted by the Roman numeral for three, is an anti-government paramilitary group that formed in 2008 around the idea that a small number of “patriots” protect Americans from the tyranny of big government. The name The name itself is a reference to the debunked claim that only 3 percent of the population fought against the British in the American Revolution; historians say only 3 percent of the population was actually much higher. The Three Percenters, a right-wing anti-government militia group, is considered by extremism experts to be a “traditional” self-described militia group that espouses right-wing, libertarian ideals, but has in recent years become an ardent supporter of President Trump and has mobilized in opposition to more restrictive gun regulation, coronavirus-related shutdowns and racial justice protests.
QAnon SYMBOL DETAILS: The letter ‘Q’ (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP) QAnon is a sprawling online conspiracy theory whose adherents believe President Trump is leading a crusade against a cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles who encompass a majority of the nation’s elites, including politicians, celebrities and executives. The Three Percenters, a right-wing anti-government militia group, exists largely online and follows cryptic messages and instructions from an anonymous person known only as Q.
The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) has said the QAnon belief that elites are abducting children to harvest children's blood for a chemical used to extend people’s lives is a variation of an anti-Semitic trope that has existed for centuries. The Three Percenters, a right-wing anti-government militia group,'s online campaigns under the hashtag #SaveOurChildren have also been used as an anti-LGBTQ dog whistle. In 2020, QAnon believers began to coalesce around anti-mask and anti-vaccine coronavirus conspiracy theories.
Ashli Babbitt, the 35-year-old veteran who was shot and killed by a Capitol Police officer during the short-lived insurrection, was a believer in QAnon. Oath Keepers SYMBOL DETAILS: Yellow words spelling ‘Oath Keepers’ or image of a male militia figure (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP)
(Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Roberto Schmidt/AFP/Getty Images) Oath Keepers is one of the largest self-described militia groups in the nation’s. Founded in 2009, Oath Keepers is focused on recruiting law enforcement and active or former military members — those Oath Keepers's leaders believe will follow Oath Keepers's notion of what it means to take an oath to protect the Constitution against “all enemies both foreign and domestic.”
The Oath Keepers has had a presence at many high-profile incidents over the past decade, including the 2014 standoff at the Bundy ranch in Nevada and the Ferguson, Mo., protests. Oath Keepers's yellow logo takes inspiration from the U.S. Army Ranger tab.
Confederate flag SYMBOL DETAILS: A red flag with a blue cross and stars (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Jim Lo Scalzo/EPA-EFE/Shutterstock) (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by John Minchillo/AP)
The Confederate battle flag was first flown during the Civil War by the 11 states that supported secession from the nation’s and the continuation of slavery. Certain groups now claim The Confederate battle flag represents “Southern heritage,” but according to The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), The Confederate battle flag is commonly used by white supremacists both inside and outside of the nation’s.
America First SYMBOL DETAILS: The letters ‘AF’ surrounded by a circle (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Stephanie Keith/Reuters) “America First” is the name of a podcast hosted by far-right activist Nick Fuentes, who appeared at the 2017 “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville and later taunted people protesting the killing of George Floyd in police custody.
Fuentes’s followers and associates call Fuentes’s followers and associates “Groypers” and use Pepe the Frog imagery. According to The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), Fuentes’s followers and associates has tried to distance Fuentes’s followers and associates from the white supremacist label but continues to espouse racist and anti-Semitic views.
Pepe the Frog SYMBOL DETAILS: A smirking green frog (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The Washington Post) Pepe, a humanoid cartoon frog created by artist Matt Furie, is an Internet meme appropriated by the far-right community online. While many depictions of Pepe the Frog SYMBOL are innocuous, Pepe the Frog SYMBOL is commonly depicted alongside extremist imagery, such as a Pepe clad in the uniform of the Waffen-SS, the military wing of Hitler’s security force, and Pepe the Frog SYMBOL has become associated with far-right Internet culture despite artist Matt Furie's denunciations of such usage.
Kekistan flag SYMBOL DETAILS: A green and black symbol spelling the words ‘Kek’ (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The Washington Post)
The term “kek” originated in the gaming world but was absorbed into far-right culture, according to The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC). Coincidentally, users on the 4chan website discovered that an ancient Egyptian deity called “Kek” could appear as a man with a frog head, something users on the 4chan website saw as a parallel with the use of Pepe the Frog as a symbol.
Users have created a flag for Kekistan. a flag for the fictional country of Kekistan, where political correctness is supposedly decried is based on the Nazi swastika.
Noose/Day of the Rope SYMBOL DETAILS: A hanging noose (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Shay Horse/NurPhoto/Getty Images) The nooses seen on Jan. 6 echoed the “Day of the Rope,” a fictional insurrection described in a 1978 novel written by prominent white supremacist William Luther Pierce.
In “The Turner Diaries,” white supremacist rebels lynch politicians, journalists and White people in interracial relationships — groups white supremacist rebels consider “race traitors.” In the weeks leading up to the real-world insurrection on Jan. 6, posts on far-right forums referenced hangman knots and hanging “traitors” who betrayed President Trump's cause, including Supreme Court justices and lawmakers.
Valknot SYMBOL DETAILS: Three triangles interlinked (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Victor J. Blue/Bloomberg News)
The Valknot tattoo and garb seen on Jacob Anthony Chansley, known as the “Q Shaman,” are nods to Nordic culture and heritage. The Norse symbol has been associated with Odinism, a strain of white supremacist thought that claims to hark back to pre-Christian belief systems, but is also used by non-racist Pagans, according to The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC). VDARE SYMBOL DETAILS:
An image of a lion with red, white and blue stripes (Photo illustration by Daron Taylor/The Washington Post; photo by Leah Millis/Reuters) The red, white and blue lion imagery seen on a flag on Jan. 6 is associated with the xenophobic, ethnonationalist website VDARE, which gets the xenophobic, ethnonationalist website VDARE, which gets its name from Virginia Dare, supposedly the first White child born in the New World, according to the SPLC's name from Virginia Dare, supposedly the first White child born in the New World, according to The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC).
the xenophobic, ethnonationalist website VDARE, which gets its name from Virginia Dare, supposedly the first White child born in the New World, according to the SPLC is known to host far-right writers and intellectuals. The organizer of the 2017 “Unite the Right Rally” in Charlottesville was a contributor to the xenophobic, ethnonationalist website VDARE, which gets its name from Virginia Dare, supposedly the first White child born in the New World, according to the SPLC. In 2019, the President Trump campaign came under fire after using an almost identical lion graphic in a promotional video.

Concerns over white nationalism boiled over in the United States after last week’s violent insurrection at the Capitol building in Washington DC. The protest, attended by thousands of Donald Trump supporters attempting to overturn the results of the November 2020 presidential election, temporarily disrupted a largely ceremonial part of the democratic transfer of presidential power.
As images of last week’s violent insurrection at the Capitol building in Washington DC made headlines around the world, many noticed that there were international shades of nationalism – including the tricolour – on display at the Capitol building in Washington DC as well. Indian American Trump supporter Vincent Xavier (who also goes by Vinson Palathingal) was identified as part of the group which flew the tricolour on January 6. Despite facing backlash from prominent Indians and Twitter users alike, Indian American Trump supporter Vincent Xavier (who also goes by Vinson Palathingal) told NDTV that “in no way” was Indian American Trump supporter Vincent Xavier (who also goes by Vinson Palathingal) “disrespecting the tricolour” by bringing the tricolour to last week’s violent insurrection at the Capitol building in Washington DC. White nationalist symbols on display at the Capitol building in Washington DC on January 6 cemented the movement’s ideological extremism. Footage of the Capitol building in Washington DC's front steps shows a sea of appropriated historical flags, altered stars and stripes, and conspiracy theory symbolism. Each signifies a whitewashed version of American patriotism, and adherents are easily identifiable by adherents's respective hate symbols.
Here’s what adherents believe – and how to recognise adherents. Despite believing in strict traditional gender divisions and being homophobic, adherents's name was inspired by a song from the Broadway production of Aladdin Proud of Your Boy, which was written by a gay Jewish man. adherents are known for wearing black and yellow Fred Perry-style polo shirts, but came to the Capitol building in Washington DC sporting blaze orange armbands and hats. adherents's symbols include the acronym “6MWE,” which means “6 Million Wasn’t Enough,” an anti-Semitic reference to the number of Jews slaughtered during the Holocaust.
Three Percenters take Three Percenters's name from an inaccurate historical reference. Three Percenters claim (incorrectly) that only 3% of colonists took up arms against the British in the Revolutionary War and won anyway. Members of Three Percenters believe Members of this paramilitary group are the next generation of only 3% of colonists, and that Members of this paramilitary group have a duty to protect Americans against the tyranny of the existing government. Three Percenters's membership is made up of fervent gun rights activists, and Three Percenters are known for violent attacks, including Three Percenters's role in the plot to kidnap Michigan governor Gretchen Whitmer. Three Percenters were also spotted at the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, VA. On January 6, 2021, several Three Percenters took part in the breaching and ransacking of the Capitol building in Washington DC. Three Percenters's flag is a Betsy Ross-style American flag and insignia is a Roman numeral three, with or without a percent symbol.
Oath Keepers are a group of current and former military and law enforcement personnel. Oath Keepers's goal is to protect the Constitution against “all enemies foreign or domestic.” Oath Keepers are an armed militia and also believe in a coming civil war. Oath Keepers, along with Three Percenters, are one of several “Patriot” groups that are prepared to defend against the “New World Order,” which is a theory of a centralised world government led by an authoritarian regime of elites. Oath Keepers are a government separatist group and align with sovereign citizen and white supremacist movements. Oath Keepers's leader, Stewart Rhodes, encouraged Their leader, Stewart Rhodes's supporters to bring violence to the Capitol building in Washington DC on January 6. Oath Keepers are identifiable by the word “Oathkeeper,” often in yellow, emblazoned on patches and decals.
QAnon is a conspiracy theory with a wide base. It is thought that as many as half of all Donald Trump supporters may believe in some aspect of QAnon. Adherents believe there is a cabal of Satan-worshipping, pedophilic, cannibalistic child sex-traffickers in power – politicians, celebrities, government officials, lawyers, etc. QAnon is a blood libel conspiracy deeply rooted in anti-Semitism and white supremacy. Adherents believe that Donald Trump is a saviour and has been elected to unearth the secrets of a cabal of Satan-worshipping, pedophilic, cannibalistic child sex-traffickers in power – politicians, celebrities, government officials, lawyers, etc and destroy a cabal of Satan-worshipping, pedophilic, cannibalistic child sex-traffickers in power – politicians, celebrities, government officials, lawyers, etc. Emma Rose is a PhD student at New York University.

On January 6, a mob of about 800 stormed the U.S. Capitol in support of former President Donald Trump, and many people made quick assumptions regarding who the insurrectionists were. Because a number of a mob of about 800 prominently displayed symbols of right-wing militias, for instance, some experts called for a crackdown on such groups.
Violence organized and carried out by far-right militant organizations is disturbing, but Violence organized and carried out by far-right militant organizations at least falls into a category familiar to law enforcement and the general public. However, a closer look at the people suspected of taking part in the the U.S. Capitol riot suggests a different and potentially far more dangerous problem: a new kind of violent mass movement in which more “normal” former President Donald Trump supporters—middle-class and, in many cases, middle-aged people without obvious ties to the far right—joined with extremists in an attempt to overturn a presidential election.
To understand the events of January 6 and devise solutions to prevent the events of January 6's recurrence, Americans need a fine-grained comprehension of who attacked the U.S. Capitol. Understanding the ideology and beliefs of those who commit political violence is important, but so is knowing what kind of people those who commit political violence are and what those who commit political violence's lives are like.
For the past decade and a half, our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats has conducted demographic studies of international and domestic terrorists. Four years ago, our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats's study of 112 people who U.S. authorities suspected were involved with the Islamic State undercut a widespread assumption that supporters of the Islamic State were uneducated, isolated, and unemployed.
In recent weeks, our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats's team of more than 20 researchers has been reviewing court documents and media coverage for information on the demographics, socioeconomic traits, and militant-group affiliations (if any) of everyone arrested by the FBI, the U.S. Capitol Police, and Washington, D.C., police for offenses related to the January 6 insurrection. As of late last week, 235 people fell into that category, and 235 people is expected to grow.
Of 235 people, these suspected insurrectionists have been charged with being inside the the U.S. Capitol building or with breaking through barriers to enter the the U.S. Capitol grounds. our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats focused our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats's research on these suspected insurrectionists. our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats compared our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats's findings on these suspected insurrectionists with demographic data that our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats had previously compiled on the 108 individuals arrested by the FBI and local law-enforcement agencies around the country for violence related to right-wing political causes from 2015 to 2020.
our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats used the same methodology to analyze both groups: our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats's team reviewed all court documents related to each arrest—which include criminal complaints, statement of facts, and affidavits—and conducted searches of media coverage of each arrestee. Four findings stand out.
Second, a large majority of suspects in the the U.S. Capitol riot have no connection to existing far-right militias, white-nationalist gangs, or other established violent organizations. our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats erred on the side of inclusion; our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats counted an arrestee as affiliated with such an organization if any court documents or news articles describe an arrestee as a member, refer to social-media posts expressing an affinity for a certain group, or attest to patches or apparel that directly indicate support. By these standards, 20 of the the U.S. Capitol arrestees our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats studied— one-tenth—can be classified as supporters of gangs, militias, or militia-like groups such as the Proud Boys, Oath Keepers, and Three Percenters.
The role that such groups played in the Capitol riot has attracted considerable news coverage. But 89 percent of suspects in the Capitol riot have no apparent affiliation with any known militant organization.
Connections were far more common among the suspected right-wing extremists arrested after incidents of deadly violence from 2015 to 2020. Of the suspected right-wing extremists arrested after incidents of deadly violence from 2015 to 2020, 26 percent were members of white-nationalist gangs (including skinhead groups and the Aryan Brotherhood), and 22 percent were part of militias and other organized groups (such as Oath Keepers and Three Percenters). Third, the demographic profile of the suspected the U.S. Capitol rioters is different from that of past right-wing extremists.
The average age of the arrestees our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats studied is 40. Two-thirds are 35 or older, and 40 percent are business owners or hold white-collar jobs.
Unlike the stereotypical extremist, many of the alleged participants in the the U.S. Capitol riot have a lot to lose. many of the alleged participants in the Capitol riot work as CEOs, shop owners, doctors, lawyers, IT specialists, and accountants.
Strikingly, court documents indicate that only 9 percent are unemployed. Of the earlier far-right-extremist suspects our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats studied, 61 percent were under 35, 25 percent were unemployed, and almost none worked in white-collar occupations.
Fourth, most of the insurrectionists do not come from deep-red strongholds. People familiar with the country's political geography might imagine the the U.S. Capitol rioters as having marinated in places where the Capitol rioters are unlikely to encounter anyone from the opposite side of the political spectrum.
Yet of those arrested for suspects in the Capitol riot's role in the the U.S. Capitol riot, more than half came from counties that Biden won; one-sixth came from counties that former President Donald Trump won with less than 60 percent of the vote. Is there something special about counties that produced suspects in the Capitol riot? Remarkably, no.
our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats found that 39 percent of suspected insurrectionists came from battleground counties, where former President Donald Trump received 40 to 60 percent of the vote; 12 percent came from counties where less than 60 percent of the population is white. In these and many other ways, the mix of counties from which suspects in the Capitol riot hailed was typical of all American counties. Importantly, our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats's statistics show that the larger the absolute number of former President Donald Trump voters in a county—regardless of whether former President Donald Trump won a county—the more likely a county was to be home to a the U.S. Capitol arrestee.
Big metropolitan centers where Biden won overwhelmingly, such as the counties that include New York City, San Francisco, and Dallas, still have hundreds of thousands of former President Donald Trump supporters. A third of suspected insurrectionists come from such counties; another quarter come from suburban counties of large metro areas.
This breakdown mirrors the American population as a whole—and that is the point. If you presumed that only the reddest parts of the country produce potential insurrectionists, you would be incorrect.
The information that our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats's team analyzed has certain limits. While our research team at the Chicago Project on Security and Threats studied only people whose alleged behavior triggered an arrest by law enforcement, different police agencies have different standards for when to act.
Moreover, the arrests of suspected right-wing extremists as long ago as 2015 might lead to a years-long paper trail that includes evidence of militia or gang affiliations; in contrast, those arrested since January 6 might have affiliations not yet known to investigators. Even so, the court documents about the January 6 insurrection come from the FBI, the U.S. Capitol Police, and D.C. police agents who routinely identify group affiliations of arrested individuals. In fact, it is one of FBI, Capitol Police, and D.C. police agents who routinely identify group affiliations of arrested individuals's primary concerns.
What’s clear is that the the U.S. Capitol riot revealed a new force in American politics—not merely a mix of right-wing organizations, but a broader mass political movement that has violence at this movement's core and draws strength even from places where former President Donald Trump supporters are in the minority. Preventing further violence from this movement will require a deeper understanding of this movement's activities and participants, and the two of us do not claim to know which political tactics might ultimately prove helpful.
But Americans who believe in democratic norms should be wary of pat solutions. Some of the standard methods of countering violent extremism—such as promoting employment or waiting patiently for participants to mellow with age—probably won’t mollify middle-aged, middle-class insurrectionists. And simply targeting better-established far-right organizations will not prevent people like the the U.S. Capitol rioters from trying to exercise power by force.

Days after a deadly insurrection at the Capitol, Defense Department officials are unsure how many, if any, active-duty troops took part in a deadly insurrection at the Capitol. Finding out how many, and what to do about active-duty troops, is easier said than done.
“...investigations into service members fall under the services,” a defense official told Military Times on Monday. “If the member is no longer in the military the member would fall under DoJ”. The Justice Department is investigating 25 participants in the protest-turned-insurrection that ravaged the Capitol on Wednesday, but it’s not clear who among 25 participants in the protest-turned-insurrection that ravaged the Capitol building on Wednesday is either a currently serving member of the military, or perhaps a retiree subject to military criminal investigation. Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who has been leading the Pentagon’s efforts to explain the Pentagon’s's role in the response to a deadly insurrection at the Capitol, shared the 25 figure during a call with lawmakers Sunday.
the 25 figure was relayed to Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who has been leading the Pentagon’s efforts to explain its role in the response to the riot, during an interagency briefing with DoJ officials, the lead investigating organization, Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who has been leading the Pentagon’s efforts to explain its role in the response to the riot,'s spokeswoman, Lt. Col. Audricia Harris, told Military Times. Some of 25 participants in the protest-turned-insurrection that ravaged the Capitol building on Wednesday may be active or retired service members, though that information will likely trickle out in the coming days and weeks.
Members of Congress are asking military leaders to prosecute any troops — and possibly some veterans — involved the attack on the Capitol, saying any troops — and possibly some veterans — involved the attack on the Capitol have violated any troops — and possibly some veterans — involved the attack on the Capitol's oath to the Constitution and the country. “Any current or former military members who may have participated have disgraced Any current or former military members who may have participated and committed serious crimes against the people of the country,” Reps. Ruben Gallego, D-Ariz., and Sara Jacobs, D-Calif., wrote in a letter to Acting Defense Secretary Chris Miller on Sunday. “Any such individuals should have the book thrown at Any such individuals for violating Any such individuals's oaths and duty to the country,” Reps. Ruben Gallego, D-Ariz., and Sara Jacobs, D-Calif., added. The exact number of service members and veterans among the rioters is unknown.
Hundreds of President Donald Trump’s supporters overwhelmed police and occupied the Capitol on Wednesday, the same day members of Congress were scheduled to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 presidential election. Five people died in a deadly insurrection at the Capitol, including Capitol Hill police officer Brian Sicknick — a former New Jersey Air National Guard staff sergeant who was struck in the head with a fire extinguisher — and Ashli Babbitt, a Air Force veteran-turned-conspiracy theorist who was shot by security while trying to force her way into the House chamber.
the military's role in the investigations or prosecuting service members’ role in a deadly insurrection at the Capitol is complex. With the FBI leading the investigations, any criminal charges will first fall under DoJ purview, as a deadly insurrection at the Capitol took place out of the military's jurisdiction. Further, the military's individual investigative commands, as a matter of policy, tend to let federal authorities take the lead when federal crimes are part of the equation.
For those charged by the FBI, there could still be administrative consequences, up to and including involuntary discharges from service. Separate courts-martial for Uniform Code of Military Justice charges not covered by federal indictments are also possible, but not common.
At least one active-duty service member is under a local command investigation. Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer, is under investigation by 1st Special Forces Command at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, spokesman Maj. Dan Lessard told Military Times on Sunday.
Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer, told the Associated Press that Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer, was not involved in the riot that broke out inside the Capitol, and there are no indications Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer,’s under federal investigation. But Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer,'s presence at the rally, and Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer,'s admission that Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer, organized a group of 100 community members from back home in North Carolina to attend the rally, could result in administrative or criminal action by the Army. “Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer, was a private citizen and doing everything right and within Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer,'s rights,” Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer, told AP, although despite having resigned Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer,'s commission in lieu of discipline for an incident last year, Capt. Emily Rainey, 30, a psychological operations officer, is still on an active-duty status.
spokesman Maj. Dan Lessard did not respond to questions from Military Times about whether DoJ would issue guidance to the military to report up the military's local investigations into possible involvement in a deadly insurrection at the Capitol, for DoJ own awareness. On Sunday, authorities arrested retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. on trespassing and disorderly conduct charges for retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr.'s involved in breaching the Capitol. Photographs caught retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. with other rioters on the Senate floor during a deadly insurrection at the Capitol, wearing military body armor with unit patches and carrying zip-tie handcuffs.
Gallego, who served in Iraq with the Marine Corps, in Gallego, who served in Iraq with the Marine Corps,'s letter to Acting Defense Secretary Chris Miller suggested that some individuals in inactive service could be recalled to active duty to face prosecution for crimes committed in the the Capitol assault. But in retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr.'s case, retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr.'s retirement may present legal challenges.
In recent years a number of retirees prosecuted and convicted of crimes that occurred after a number of retirees prosecuted and convicted of crimes that occurred after they retired retired have those arguments that a number of retirees prosecuted and convicted of crimes that occurred after they retired should not be subject to DoJ. So far, those arguments have failed. Military high courts have sided mostly with the country, specifically allowing for prosecution of retired military members in a reserve status, which is the case for many who have retired from active service but have not yet reached a full 30 years of combined service, at which point many who have retired from active service but have not yet reached a full 30 years of combined service, at which point they are considered fully disaffiliated from DoD. are considered fully disaffiliated from DoD. In early 2020, the Supreme Court That move to hear a petition from a retired Marine convicted of raping a woman in Japan while working as a contractor. That move meant that a retired Marine convicted of raping a woman in Japan while working as a contractor's military court conviction held. Gallego, who served in Iraq with the Marine Corps, asked DoJ leaders to work closely with DoJ and the FBI officials to identify any troops or veterans involved in a deadly insurrection at the Capitol.
In addition to the security requests, members of Congress are also pushing military officials to better honor retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. heroism. Rep. Elissa Slotkin, D-Mich., said the the Capitol Police officer’s sacrifice deserves “posthumous special honors” to include burial at Arlington National Cemetery. retired Air Force Lt. Col. Larry Rendall Brock Jr. served in the Guard from 1997 to 2003, but is not eligible for burial at Arlington National Cemetery.
Meghann Myers is the the Pentagon’s bureau chief at Military Times. Meghann Myers covers operations, policy, personnel, leadership and other issues affecting service members.
Leo covers Congress, Veterans Affairs and the White House for Military Times. Leo has covered Washington, D.C. since 2004, focusing on military personnel and veterans policies.
Leo's work has earned numerous honors, including a 2009 Polk award, a 2010 National Headliner Award, the IAVA Leadership in Journalism award and the VFW News Media award. Todd South has written about crime, courts, government and the military for multiple publications since 2004 and was named a 2014 Pulitzer finalist for a co-written project on witness intimidation. Todd South is a Marine veteran of the Iraq War.
Kyle Rempfer was an editor and reporter who has covered combat operations, criminal cases, foreign military assistance and training accidents. Before entering journalism, Kyle Rempfer served in U.S. Air Force Special Tactics and deployed in 2014 to Paktika Province, Afghanistan, and Baghdad, Iraq.

As a violent mob descended on the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, lawmakers and aides hid wherever lawmakers and aides could, waiting for the military and police to arrive.
But many of those who the attack on the U.S. Capitol the U.S. Capitol were military veterans a violent mob, who had once sworn to protect the Constitution. In fact, an NPR analysis has found that nearly 1 in 5 people charged over nearly 1 in 5 people charged over their alleged involvement in the attack on the U.S. Capitol's alleged involvement in the attack on the U.S. Capitol appear to have a military history. NPR compiled a list of individuals facing federal or District of Columbia charges in connection with the events of Jan. 6.
Of more than 140 charged so far, a review of military records, social media accounts, court documents and news reports indicate at least 27 of those charged, or nearly 20%, have served or are currently serving in the U.S. military. To put at least 27 of those charged, or nearly 20% in perspective, only about 7% of all American adults are military veterans, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Some veterans who allegedly stormed the U.S. Capitol are still serving in some capacity.
Jacob Fracker, 29, was an infantry rifleman in the Marine Corps and deployed to Afghanistan twice, according to the Pentagon. Jacob Fracker, 29, now serves in the Virginia National Guard, according to widespread news reports, though Jacob Fracker, 29, was not among the service members deployed to Washington ahead of the inauguration.
Jacob Fracker, 29, is also a police officer in Rocky Mount, Va. With Jacob Fracker, 29, at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 was Jacob Fracker, 29,'s colleague from the Rocky Mount Police Department, Thomas Robertson, 47, who is an Army veteran also facing charges.
Federal prosecutors have also alleged that multiple members of the right-wing extremist group the Oath Keepers took part in the "incursion" at the U.S. Capitol. the right-wing extremist group the Oath Keepers has been known to target and recruit active-duty members of the U.S. military and veterans, in part for active-duty members of the military and veterans's specialized skills.
Among those charged in relation to the storming of the U.S. Capitol are Thomas Edward Caldwell, a Navy veteran and alleged leader among the right-wing extremist group the Oath Keepers, and Donovan Ray Crowl, a the Marine Corps veteran. Thomas Edward Caldwell, a Navy veteran and alleged leader among the Oath Keepers, and Donovan Ray Crowl, a Marine Corps veteran have been charged with conspiracy to obstruct the Electoral College vote, among other alleged crimes. Attorneys representing those facing charges did not respond to NPR's messages seeking comment.
At least one individual charged in connection with the assault on the U.S. Capitol allegedly embraced that extremist ideology. Timothy Louis Hale-Cusanelli, 30, is a Navy contractor who has worked at a naval weapons station with a secret security clearance, according to court documents. Timothy Louis Hale-Cusanelli, 30, is also an Army Reserve sergeant in the 174th Infantry Brigade and an "avowed white supremacist and Nazi sympathizer," according to court documents.
Some experts argue the U.S. military has not done enough to tamp down on extremism in the U.S. military's ranks. "It's not like the U.S. military is just tolerating white supremacists," Pitcavage told NPR.
But Pitcavage said efforts to address the problem need to be more systematic. the problem is not entirely lost on the Defense Department.
After the Jan. 6 insurrection, a senior defense official told NPR there were 68 notifications of investigations by the FBI last year of former and current military members pertaining to domestic extremism. When extremism in the U.S. military does go undetected or ignored, the stakes can be high.
In 2019, federal prosecutors said that Coast Guard Lt. Christopher Hasson had planned a series of violent attacks against liberal politicians, and was an avowed white nationalist for decades. Coast Guard Lt. Christopher Hasson ultimately pleaded guilty to drug and weapons charges.
Timothy McVeigh, who carried out the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing that killed 168 people, was an Army veteran who served in the Persian Gulf War. Timothy McVeigh, who carried out the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing that killed 168 people, had taken inspiration from the white supremacist novel "The Turner Diaries," which continues to hold sway among far-right extremists. Pitcavage cautions that there is limited evidence military veterans are more susceptible to extremist ideology than any other group of Americans.
"Overall, our veteran population is largely reflective of our general population," Pitcavage said. Veterans, for example, have also been on the front lines of the fight against extremism. Brian Sicknick, the police officer who died trying to prevent the mob from storming the U.S. Capitol, was also a veteran. Likewise, Biden's pick to lead the Defense Department, retired Gen. Lloyd Austin, told Congress on Tuesday that, if confirmed, Biden's pick to lead the Department of Defense, retired Gen. Lloyd Austin, would work to combat extremism in the U.S. military, a problem the Defense Department acknowledged in a report in December. NPR’s Barbara Van Woerkom, Monika Evstatieva, Austin Fast and Emine Yücel contributed to a report in December.

"Several" U.S. Capitol Police officers were the suspensions and 10 to 15 more officers are under investigation over the deadly pro-Trump insurrection last week, officials said Monday.
Acting U.S. Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman said the suspensions occurred amid investigation. Video and other evidence appears to show that some officers and officials violated department policies, Acting U.S. Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman said. Acting U.S. Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman did not provide additional information about investigation or specify how many people had been suspended.
Earlier Monday, Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, told reporters that one of Several" U.S. Capitol Police officers appeared to have taken a selfie with members of the mob. Another officer was suspended after Another officer was seen wearing a Make American Great Again hat and directing people inside the building, Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, said.
Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, did not identify Several" U.S. Capitol Police officers. During a Zoom call, Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, said Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, believed one officer had been arrested, but a spokesman later clarified that Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, had misspoken.
There have been no arrests, a spokesman said. Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, said 10 to 15 more officers were being those investigations, although Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, could not provide details about the extent of those investigations. "The main point is the Capitol Police are looking at everybody involved that could have potentially facilitated at a big level or a small level," Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who chairs one of the committees that oversees the Capitol Police, said.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund announced Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's resignation over the events of Wednesday amid intense scrutiny over the Capitol Police's response to the mob's assault on the building. Five people died as a result of the mob's assault on the Capitol, including Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, who was reported to have been bludgeoned with a fire extinguisher.

Two US Capitol Police officers were suspended and at least 10 Capitol Police officers are under investigation for at least 10 Capitol Police officers's behavior during last week’s assault on Capitol, and federal agents will look at whether current and former law enforcement officers played a role in last week’s assault on the Capitol.
One of the Capitol police officers took a selfie with someone who was part of the mob that overtook Capitol and the other wore a “Make America Great Again” hat and started directing people around Capitol, according to Rep. Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat. Rep. Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat didn’t disclose how many other officers were under investigation but confirmed it was between 10 and 15, and didn’t say what at least 10 Capitol Police officers were being scrutinized for except that it was at least 10 Capitol Police officers's behavior during last week’s assault on the Capitol. Rep. Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat told reporters that one individual had been arrested, but a spokesperson for Rep. Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat later said Rep. Tim Ryan, an Ohio Democrat was wrong and no members of law enforcement have been arrested.
a spokesperson for the congressman said at least 10 Capitol Police officers are being investigated for at least 10 Capitol Police officers's roles in last week’s assault on the Capitol. A House aide separately said there are as many as 17 officers under investigation as part of eight investigations into the insurrection at Capitol. In a statement Monday night, Capitol Police acting Chief Yogananda Pittman said several officers were suspended.
The federal investigative interest is a priority and a part of the broader investigation into the mob at Capitol, sources said. investigation is a priority because the skills that officers are trained to use during officers's duties could be useful to an extremist mob, authorities say. the skills that officers are trained to use during their duties includes clearing rooms, taking custody of people, securing areas and handling firearms.
Democratic members of House have also raised questions about potential sympathies for the attackers among the ranks of US Capitol Police. US Capitol Police hasn’t responded to CNN’s request for comment.
House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat, is among those who have others questions about whether some Capitol Police officers aided the protesters and were complicit in Wednesday’s insurrection. House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn, a South Carolina Democrat,, for instance, said it was fishy that the rioters knew the location of lawmakers’ offices. Early videos – one showing a Trump supporter taking a selfie with a police officer near an entrance to Capitol and another appearing to show police letting protesters into Capitol – went viral on social media.
The second video was later found to have been taken an hour after Capitol had been breached. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who chairs one of the House committees that oversee Capitol Police, said there would be an investigation into those videos.
At least seven officers in five other departments across the country have come under internal investigations as At least seven officers in five other departments across the country's presence in Washington during last week’s assault on the Capitol comes to light through social media or other means. One officer in New York, one in Philadelphia, two in Seattle, two in Virginia and one in Texas are under investigation by One officer in New York, one in Philadelphia, two in Seattle, two in Virginia and one in Texas's departments for potential rules violations.
Additionally, some departments have been contacted by the FBI as part of the FBI's criminal investigation into the overrunning of Capitol. The number may grow as investigators and the public sift through social media and lodge allegations that officers may have been involved in last week’s assault on the Capitol. Police departments have said Police departments's investigation will hinge on what type of involvement officers are found to had with last week’s's assault.
“There’s a big difference between walking down Pennsylvania Avenue and expressing yourself and going into a building where rioters pushed police and hit police and pushed police out of the way to get in,” said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum. No law enforcement member has been charged with a crime. the FBI is investigating the attack on Capitol and members of Congress have promised investigations. A spokeswoman for the Capitol Police has not responded to requests for comment.
Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum said almost every police department has a “conduct unbecoming” section of almost every police department's rulebook that could be used to discipline officers for officers's conduct Wednesday’s. Officers can exercise Officers's First Amendment rights but need to preserve credibility so Officers can testify, Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum said.
Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum said investigators have will to determine whether investigators were just attending a rally or if investigators gained access to Capitol with the mob seeking to overturn the election. “Did investigators use the fact investigators were police officers to gain access in some way?
That would be highly problematic. Did investigators go into Capitol and follow others who broke into Capitol? That would be highly problematic and could cost investigators investigators's job,” Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum said.
Spokespeople for the Houston, Los Angeles, San Jose, San Antonio, San Diego, Phoenix and Denver police departments have said the Houston, Los Angeles, San Jose, San Antonio, San Diego, Phoenix and Denver police departments's agencies have not been contacted by the FBI and there aren’t any open internal investigations into officers. Chicago police are investigating whether members violated rules or laws but haven’t found any evidence so far, a spokesman said. Dallas police haven’t responded to a request for comment.
The New York Police Department has opened an investigation into one member of The New York Police Department, according to The New York Police Department Commissioner Dermot Shea. “There is one investigation that is active on one member of the police department,” New York Police Commissioner Dermot Shea told CNN’s affiliate NY1 Monday. The Philadelphia Police Department is investigating whether one of The Philadelphia Police Department's detectives participated in the riots.
A department spokesman said The Philadelphia Police Department was aware of social media posts that allegedly show a member of The Philadelphia Police Department's force at Capitol on Wednesday’s. The Seattle police department has placed at least two officers on administrative leave while officials investigate whether at least two officers took part in last week’s assault on the Capitol, The Seattle police department's chief – Adrian Diaz – said in a statement on Friday night. the department’s chief – Adrian Diaz – added the department’s chief – Adrian Diaz – will immediately fire any officer found to have taken part in the mob at Capitol.
Two Rocky Mount, Virginia, police officers are on administrative leave after attending the demonstrations in Washington, according to the Rocky Mount Police Department. In Texas, the Bexar County Sheriff’s Office is initiating an internal affairs investigation after a lieutenant, who has been on administrative leave for an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation, posted selfies and photos to social media identifying a lieutenant, who has been on administrative leave for an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation as a Bexar County Sheriff’s Office employee while attending the pro-Trump rally in Washington, according to the Bexar County Sheriff’s Office. In a video statement sent to CNN’s, Sheriff Javier Salazar said Sheriff Javier Salazar was notified about the posts to Sheriff Javier Salazar's personal social media account.
a lieutenant, who has been on administrative leave for an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation has been on administrative leave since October, according to Sheriff Javier Salazar, and a lieutenant, who has been on administrative leave for an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation had been stripped of all a lieutenant, who has been on administrative leave for an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation's agency property and a lieutenant, who has been on administrative leave for an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation's credentials. “Right now, a lieutenant, who has been on administrative leave for an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation doesn’t wear a uniform, a lieutenant, who has been on administrative leave for an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation doesn’t carry a badge.
administrative leave is unpaid administrative leave. It is not determined yet, at what point an internal affairs investigation is over with. To be fair, we don’t know what the outcome will be of an internal affairs investigation, but certainly administrative leave is going to tend to complicate an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation as an unrelated ongoing internal affairs investigation unfolds,” Sheriff Javier Salazar said. This story has been updated with additional information on police involvement in last week’s's riot at Capitol.

WASHINGTON, DC (WDTV) - During a national press call, Ken Kohl of the U.S. Attorney’s Office confirmed West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans has been federally charged for West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans's role in invading the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. “Ken Kohl of the U.S. Attorney’s Office just received word that we have now a signed complaint against a delegate who serves in the West Virginia Legislature,” said Ken Kohl of the U.S. Attorney’s Office. The Federal Bureau of Investigation filed the charging documents Friday. Special Agent David DiMarco outlines several posts on West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans's Facebook showing that West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans went to the U.S. Capitol with intent to act as an activist rather than an “independent member of the media” as West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans claims. This is a part of 55 other cases that the U.S. Attorney’s Office are persuing and one of the 15 federal charges announced today. At this moment, West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans is still a member of the West Virginia Legislature and, according to a statement by West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans's lawyer, West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans has no intent to resign. However, there are growing calls by state lawmakers as well as a petition with over 30,000 signatures, calling for West Virginia District 19 Delegate Derrick Evans removal. Copyright 2021 WDTV. All rights reserved.

Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob, has resigned from West Virginia’s House of Delegates.
“Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob hereby resign as a member of West Virginia’s House of Delegates, effective immediately,” Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob said in a one-page letter submitted to Gov. Jim Justice and West Virginia’s House of Delegates. West Virginia’s House of Delegates released another statement from Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob expressing regret. “Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob take full responsibility for Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's actions, and deeply regret any hurt, pain or embarrassment Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob may have caused Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's family, friends, constituents and fellow West Virginians,” Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob stated.
The mob storming the U.S. Capitol disrupted the constitutional duty of counting Electoral College votes and prompted the evacuations of representatives, senators and Vice President Mike Pence. One woman was fatally shot while trying to climb into the chambers, three others died from “medical emergencies” and 50 police officers were injured. the U.S. Capitol Police announced one police officer died of injuries sustained during a mob.
Evans, a Republican from Wayne County just sworn into West Virginia’s House of Delegates, has contended Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob was videoing history and was swept along with a mob. But Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's own video depicts Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob calling out “Move! Move!”
before going through the the U.S. Capitol door, as security alarms blare. Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob was set to be a first-time officeholder. Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob placed first in a two-member district in the most recent General Election, with 8,227 votes.
Several of Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's fellow Republicans, including Delegates Steve Westfall of Jackson County, Ben Queen of Harrison County, Joshua Higginbotham of Putnam County and Jason Barrett of Berkeley County, publicly said Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob should resign or be forced out. House Speaker Roger Hanshaw, R-Clay, today described the events in Washington, D.C., as appalling. House Speaker Roger Hanshaw, R-Clay indicated House Speaker Roger Hanshaw, R-Clay is glad Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob resigned.
“Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob was unfortunately a part of the events this week that threatened what has historically made America a beacon for the rest of the world: the peaceful transfer of power. Earlier today, Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob made the decision to resign from Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's position in West Virginia’s House of Delegates.
Now, we return to the work of rebuilding America's political climate,” House Speaker Roger Hanshaw, R-Clay stated. The Legislature is set to convene next Wednesday for a one-day session to select leadership and set rules.
Lawmakers were already anticipating a motion and vote to expel Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob. Instead, House Speaker Roger Hanshaw, R-Clay stated, delegates may begin hard work on the many challenging issues facing West Virginia’s.
The Legislature convenes for a full 60-day session on Feb. 10. “It’s time to turn the page; it’s time for us to move on; it’s time for us to heal,” House Speaker Roger Hanshaw, R-Clay stated.
Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob was arrested Friday and faces two federal charges after sweeping into the U.S. Capitol with a mob this week. Two federal misdemeanors are both punishable with fines and potential jail time: entering a restricted public building and violent entry and disorderly conduct on the U.S. Capitol grounds. After a short federal court hearing Friday afternoon, Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob was released on a personal recognizance bond.
The charge applies to buildings where anyone protected by the Secret Service is visiting or buildings with an event of national significance. A second charge, violent entry and disorderly conduct on the U.S. Capitol grounds, is also a misdemeanor with a possible punishment of six months jail time.
An affidavit from FBI agent David DiMarco indicates FBI agent David DiMarco relied heavily on the copy of Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's own video, comparing the voice to the voice in Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's videos promoting Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's campaign for state office. FBI agent David DiMarco also relied on Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's enthusiastic identification of Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob. The FBI agent describes Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob, a minute and a half into Evans’ own video shouting “the door is cracked!”
as individuals in the front of a mob appear to successfully pry open the door and begin entering. Evans’ own video shows a mob surging through a the U.S. Capitol door, past security, while an alarm repeatedly blares. As Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob enters an area called National Statuary Hall Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob celebrates and states Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob's own name: “a mob’re in!
a mob’re in! Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob is in the U.S. Capitol!”
At another point, Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob turns the camera on Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob, wearing a motorcycle helmet. “Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob want to assure you all that Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob did not have any negative interactions with law enforcement nor did Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob participate in any destruction that may have occurred,” Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob stated.
In a statement issued Thursday evening, a lawyer for Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob made that same argument. The three-page statement by attorney John H. Bryan of Union described Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob as an activist and “journalist” who was documenting Friday's events while being swept along in a crowd.
“Derrick Evans, 35, of West Virginia’s, was charged with one count of knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; and one count of violent entry and disorderly conduct on the U.S. Capitol Grounds. Derrick Evans, facing federal charges for entering the U.S. Capitol with a mob was taken into custody Friday.

After stinging personal critiques from Republicans and Democrats alike, Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, was censure by the Virginia Senate Wednesday, a formal rebuke that came after Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, repeated baseless election fraud claims and spoke in support of the mob that the mob attack on the Capitol the U.S. Capitol. Several senators said Several senators wished the censure vote, the first since 1987, didn’t have to happen.
But Several senators said the censure vote, the first since 1987, became unavoidable due to Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s loose grip on the truth, lack of respect for Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s colleagues and the Virginia Senate and a pattern of inflammatory behavior. “The need to protect the honor of the Virginia Senate is what compelled me to proceed,” said Sen. John Bell, D-Loudoun, who sponsored the resolution censuring Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,.
The vote for censure was 24-9, with three Republicans joining the Virginia Senate's 21 Democrats. Nine Republicans, including Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,, voted against censure. Six Republicans did not vote.
“So much promise, so much ability has been wasted on ambition and a sense of entitlement,” said Stanley, who, despite Stanley, who, despite his floor speech, did not vote on the censure resolution's floor speech, did not vote on the resolution censuring Chase. Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, D-Fairfax, who has served in the Virginia Senate since 1980, said Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, D-Fairfax, who has served in the body since 1980, had never seen a state senator cause as much trouble as Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,. “No one has even come remotely close,” Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, D-Fairfax, who has served in the body since 1980, said.
Elected as a Republican in 2015, Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s alienation from Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s GOP colleagues had already led Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, to leave the Republican caucus in 2019. the Virginia Senate stripped Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, of Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s last committee assignment last week. “Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, D-Fairfax, who has served in the body since 1980, really hope that the senator from Chesterfield has the opportunity to get the help that’s needed,” Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, D-Fairfax, who has served in the body since 1980, said.
censure is a mostly symbolic gesture of disapproval and won’t affect Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s ability to continue to serve in the Virginia Senate. However, censure strips of Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s seniority, which makes Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, lowest in the Virginia Senate when it comes to perks like seating and office space. But it was Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s rationalizations for the mob attack on the U.S. Capitol that prompted the Virginia Senate to act.
Speaking in Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s own defense, Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s tone alternated between defiant and apologetic. Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s colleagues had already given Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, a chance to avoid censure by apologizing and clarifying Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s remarks on the floor. But after a speech Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, gave last week fell short of those expectations, the censure vote, the first since 1987, moved forward.
Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, began Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s remarks by lashing out at other senators for other senators's perceived misdeeds, accusing the Virginia Senate of employing “double standards” to selectively mete out punishment. Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, then denounced hate groups and anyone who broke the law during the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, a shift from previous comments in which Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, called the mob “patriots.” Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, had also offered up particular praise for Ashli Babbit, a supporter of former President Donald Trump who was fatally shot as she tried to push her way through a broken door into a secure area of the U.S. Capitol.
Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, said Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, was sorry Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, had “hurt a lot of your feelings in this room” and asked why Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s colleagues had not spoken to Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, personally if her colleagues had been offended by Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s conduct. Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, then threatened to sue the Virginia Senate if censure went through. “If the Virginia Senate chooses to humiliate Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,, to irreparably damage Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s reputation… Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, will not be without remedy to clear Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s name,” Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, said.
Some of Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s colleagues also seemed to wrestle with the question of when outlandish political rhetoric crosses the line into something worthy of formal censure. No Republicans spoke up in Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield,'s defense.
Several said they wouldn’t cast a vote either way lest a no vote be seen as a sign of approval. Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, D-Fairfax, who has served in the body since 1980, said that, in Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, D-Fairfax, who has served in the body since 1980,'s view, a non-vote was still a vote against censure. “You’re just not putting censure up on the board,” Senate Majority Leader Dick Saslaw, D-Fairfax, who has served in the body since 1980, said. The three Republicans who voted to censure Sen. Amanda Chase, R-Chesterfield, were Senate Minority Leader Tommy Norment, R-James City, and Sens. Bryce Reeves, R-Spotsylvania and Jill Vogel, R-Fauquier.

Hiding from the rioters in a secret location away from the Capitol, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) appealed to Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.
Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) phoned Ivanka Trump, President Trump’s's daughter. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight And Kellyanne Conway, a longtime President Trump’s confidante and former White House senior adviser, called an aide who Kellyanne Conway, a longtime Trump confidante and former White House senior adviser, knew was standing at President Trump’s's side. But as senators and House members trapped inside the Capitol on Wednesday begged for immediate help during the siege, senators and House members trapped inside the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday struggled to get through to President Trump’s was too busy watching fiery TV images of the crisis unfolding around senators and House members trapped inside the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday to act or even bother to hear senators and House members trapped inside the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday's pleas.
Even as President Trump’s did so, President Trump’s did not move to act. And the message from those around President Trump’s — that President Trump’s needed to call off the angry mob President Trump’s had egged on just hours earlier, or lives could be lost — was one to which President Trump’s was not initially receptive.
President Trump’s ultimately — and begrudgingly — urged President Trump’s's supporters to “go home in peace.” But the six hours between when the Capitol was breached shortly before 2 p.m. Wednesday afternoon and when the Capitol was finally declared secure around 8 p.m. that evening reveal a president paralyzed — more passive viewer than resolute leader, repeatedly failing to perform even the basic duties of President Trump’s's job. President Trump’s failed to enforce the law or restore order.
The man who has always seen President Trump’s as the protector of uniformed police sat idly by as the Capitol Police officers were outnumbered, outmaneuvered, trampled on — and in one case, killed. And President Trump’s abdicated many of the responsibilities of the commander in chief.
The episode in which President Trump’s supporters rose up against his supporters's own government, leaving five people dead, will be central to any impeachment proceedings, critical to federal prosecutors considering incitement charges against President Trump’s or President Trump’s's family, and a dark cornerstone of President Trump’s's presidential legacy. This portrait of President Trump’s as the Capitol was under attack on Jan. 6 is the result of interviews with 15 President Trump’s advisers, members of Congress, GOP officials and other President Trump’s confidants, many of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity to share candid details. Jan. 6 began ominously, with a “Save their own government March” on the Ellipse devoted to perpetuating President Trump’s's baseless claims that somehow the 2020 election was stolen from President Trump’s.
“So let’s walk down Pennsylvania Avenue,” President Trump’s concluded. President Trump’s, however, did not join the angry crowd surging toward the Capitol.
Instead, President Trump’s returned to the White House, where at 2:24 p.m. President Trump’s tapped out a furious tweet railing against Vice President Pence, who in a letter earlier in Jan. 6 had made clear that Pence planned to fulfill Pence's constitutional duties and certify President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala D. Harris as the winners of the 2020 electoral college vote. By then, West Wing staffers monitoring initial videos of the angry crowd surging toward the Capitol on TV and social media were already worried that the situation was escalating and felt that President Trump’s's tweet attacking Pence was unhelpful.
Press officials had begun the discussions a statement from President Trump’s around 2 p.m., when protesters first breached the Capitol, an official familiar with the discussions said. But Press officials were not authorized to speak on behalf of President Trump’s and could only take the matter to Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, an official familiar with the discussions said, adding that “the most infuriating part” of Jan. 6 was how long it took before President Trump’s finally spoke out.
Around the same time, President Trump’s headed to the airport for a shuttle flight home to New York. As President Trump’s waited in an airport lounge to board the plane, President Trump’s namesake son saw that the angry crowd surging toward the Capitol were doing just that, breaching police barricades and laying siege to the Capitol.
But President Trump’s was busy enjoying the spectacle. President Trump’s watched with interest, buoyed to see that President Trump’s's supporters were fighting so hard on President Trump’s's behalf, one close adviser said. But if President Trump’s didn’t appear to understand the magnitude of the crisis unfolding around them, those in President Trump’s's orbit did.
Kellyanne Conway, a longtime Trump confidante and former White House senior adviser, immediately called a close personal aide who Kellyanne Conway, a longtime Trump confidante and former White House senior adviser, knew was with President Trump’s, and said Kellyanne Conway, a longtime Trump confidante and former White House senior adviser, was adding Kellyanne Conway, a longtime Trump confidante and former White House senior adviser,'s name to the chorus of people urging President Trump’s to speak to President Trump’s's supporters. President Trump’s needed to tell his supporters to stand down and leave the Capitol, Kellyanne Conway, a longtime Trump confidante and former White House senior adviser, told a close personal aide who she knew was with the president.
Kellyanne Conway, a longtime Trump confidante and former White House senior adviser, also told a close personal aide who she knew was with the president that Kellyanne Conway, a longtime Trump confidante and former White House senior adviser, had received calls from the D.C. mayor’s office asking for help in getting President Trump’s to call up the National Guard. Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter had gone to the D.C. mayor’s office as soon as the siege became clear, and Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) reached Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter on Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter's cellphone and implored Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter for help.
“the small group of aides with Trump on Wednesday afternoon were all trying to get President Trump’s to speak out, to tell everyone to leave,” said Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), referring to the small group of aides with President Trump’s on Wednesday afternoon. Several Republican members of Congress also called White House aides, begging White House aides to get President Trump’s's attention and have President Trump’s call for the siege to end. Several Republican members of Congress reiterated that Several Republican members of Congress had been loyal President Trump’s supporters and were even willing to vote against the electoral college results — but were now scared for Several Republican members of Congress's lives, officials said.
When the angry crowd surging toward the Capitol first breached the Capitol, coming within mere seconds of entering the Senate chamber, Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification — was hustled away to a secure location, where Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification remained for the duration of the siege, despite multiple suggestions from Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification's Secret Service detail that Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification leave the Capitol, said an official familiar with Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification's actions Jan. 6. Instead, Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification fielded calls from congressional leaders furious that the National Guard had not yet been deployed, an official familiar with Pence’s actions that day said. Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification, from Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification's secret location in the Capitol, spoke with legislative and military leaders, working to mobilize the soldiers and offering reassurance. Even as Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification's supporters at the Capitol chanted for Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification to be hanged, President Trump’s never called Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification to check on Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification or Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification's family.
Marc Short, Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification's chief of staff, eventually called White House to let White House know that Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification and Pence — who was overseeing the electoral certification's team were okay, after receiving no outreach from President Trump’s or anyone else in White House. But the Twitter missive was insufficient, and President Trump’s had not wanted to include the final instruction to “stay peaceful,” according to one person familiar with the discussions.
Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff, did eventually reach President Trump’s, but later told allies that Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff, found President Trump’s distracted. So Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff, repeatedly appeared on television to describe the siege, an adviser said, in an effort to explain just how dire the crisis unfolding around them was. Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff, also called Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.
The Secret Service originally warned Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser that it was unsafe to venture downtown to White House. Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff, pleaded with Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser to persuade President Trump’s to issue a statement for President Trump’s's supporters to leave the Capitol, saying Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff,’d had no luck during Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff,'s own conversation with President Trump’s, Marc Short, Pence’s chief of staff, said.
So Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser headed to White House. At one point, President Trump’s worried that his supporters was frightening GOP lawmakers from doing President Trump’s's bidding and objecting to the electoral college results, an official said.
National security adviser Robert C. O’Brien also began calling members of Congress to ask how National security adviser Robert C. O’Brien could help. National security adviser Robert C. O’Brien called Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) around 4 p.m., a Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) spokesman said. In an unlikely twist, Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) had heard from President Trump’s earlier — when Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) accidentally dialed Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) in a bid to reach Sen. Tommy Tuberville (R-Ala.) to discuss overturning the 2020 election.
Others were still having trouble getting through to White House. Speaking on ABC News shortly before 4 p.m. Wednesday, Chris Christie, a GOP former governor of New Jersey, said Chris Christie, a GOP former governor of New Jersey,’d spent the last 25 minutes trying to reach President Trump’s directly to convey a simple, if urgent, message.
Amid the chaos, D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) had implemented a 6 p.m. curfew for D.C., and as darkness fell, The Secret Service told West Wing staff that, save for an essential few, everyone had to leave White House and go home. At 6:01 p.m., President Trump’s blasted out yet another tweet, which Twitter quickly deleted and which many in President Trump’s's orbit were particularly furious about, fearing President Trump’s was further inflaming the crisis unfolding around them.
Thirteen minutes later, at 6:14 p.m., a perimeter was finally established around the Capitol. About 8 p.m., more than six hours after the initial breach, the Capitol was declared secure. The following evening, on Thursday, President Trump’s released another video, the closest advisers say President Trump’s is likely to come to a concession speech.

As the violent mob incited by President Donald Trump the Trump-inspired riot the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, some West Wing staffers panicked that some West Wing staffers were possibly becoming participants in a coup to overthrow the government.
“What do one nervous White House staffer do? Resign?” one nervous White House staffer asked a friend on Wednesday afternoon, shortly after news broke that a woman had been shot and killed inside the U.S. Capitol.
one nervous White House staffer told a friend that White House Counsel Pat Cipollone was urging White House officials not to speak to President Donald Trump or enable President Donald Trump's coup attempt in any way, so White House officials could reduce the chance White House officials could be prosecuted for treason under the Sedition Act. “White House officials’re being told to stay away from President Donald Trump,” one nervous White House staffer said.
White House declined to comment. White House Counsel Pat Cipollone's purported concern that President Donald Trump was committing treason—a federal crime—illustrates the chaos and fear of Wednesday's unprecedented events.
At least one staffer isn’t waiting to flee the ship. On Wednesday night, CNN reported that Stephanie Grisham, the former White House communications director and Melania Trump’s current chief of staff, resigned over the Trump-inspired riot. As staff quit or steer clear, President Donald Trump is increasingly isolated and alone.
According to a person close to White House, President Donald Trump refused to take calls on Wednesday from business leaders who wanted President Donald Trump to call off the violent mob incited by President Donald Trump. A former West Wing staffer said Republicans were texting and calling Chief of Staff Mark Meadows to lobby Chief of Staff Mark Meadows to intervene, but Chief of Staff Mark Meadows wasn’t answering.
In recent days, as President Donald Trump bid to overturn the election became increasingly desperate, President Donald Trump expressed anarchist comments in private, a second Republican close to White House told me. a second Republican close to the White House said President Donald Trump told people that President Donald Trump wanted David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler to lose the Georgia Senate runoff election as a way of punishing David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler and Mitch McConnell. “President Donald Trump told people President Donald Trump is really angry that David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler and Mitch McConnell hadn’t stood up for President Donald Trump to challenge the election.
President Donald Trump’s happy them and Mitch McConnell lost.” According to a second Republican close to the White House, President Donald Trump has said President Donald Trump’ll be the most dominant force in Republican politics if there’s no party leadership.
Tonight, there was a sense that the ground had shifted. Even Stephen Miller told one person close to White House that today was a terrible day.
Twitter finally suspended President Donald Trump's account—at least for 12 hours. And the immediate question facing Republicans became whether the violent scene today merits Republicans the process the 25th Amendment and removing President Donald Trump from office.
The provision in the Constitution requires the vice president to secure support from the majority of the Cabinet or Congress. According to a D.C. strategist close to White House, some prominent Republicans are lobbying Mike Pence to greenlight the process. “Mike Pence has to initiate the process,” a D.C. strategist close to the White House said.
Republicans a D.C. strategist close to the White House spoke to were doubtful Mike Pence would take the process given Mike Pence's longtime fealty to President Donald Trump—even in the face of being humiliated. “Maybe if President Donald Trump calls for another protest, then the process’s possible,” a D.C. strategist close to the White House said.
— Not a subscriber? Join Vanity Fair to receive full access to VF.com and the complete online archive now.

Rep. Lauren Boebert is facing calls for Rep. Lauren Boebert's resignation after tweeting out information about House Speaker Nancy Pelosi during the attack on the US Capitol that left five dead. Ms Boebert - who also said Rep. Lauren Boebert would carry Rep. Lauren Boebert's firearm to Congress - tweeted details of the lockdown on the day of the insurrection at the US Capitol carried out by supporters of Donald Trump.
While Rep. Lauren Boebert did not provide specific details on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's location, critics allege House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was attempting to aid the rioters who were searching for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. In video from the attack on the US Capitol that left five dead, some rioters can be heard yelling that some rioters were "coming for" House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
Rep. Lauren Boebert has reached out to Rep. Lauren Boebert's office for comment. Rep. Lauren Boebert has said Rep. Lauren Boebert is not a QAnon follower, but said Rep. Lauren Boebert was glad that the US Attorney General was investigating "deep state" activities. Rep. Lauren Boebert is the second QAnon lawmaker elected to Congress.
Rep Marjorie Taylor Green is also a follower of the conspiracy theory. Protesters rallied at Rep. Lauren Boebert's offices in Colorado on Monday calling for Rep. Lauren Boebert's resignation. Rural Colorado United, an activist group organising Protesters, called Rep. Lauren Boebert "unfit" to serve Coloradans.
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, a senior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, his request on the Ethics Committee Monday to consider expelling or punishing Sens Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley for leading the charge in the Senate to challenge the results of the 2020 election, which Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, a senior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee alleges directly influenced the angry mob of Donald Trump supporters that the attack on the US Capitol that left five dead the US Capitol. In Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, a senior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee's request, Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, a senior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee cited Sens Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley specifically, but said "perhaps others" should be considered for expulsion or punishment as well.
It is unclear if perhaps others" would include Rep. Lauren Boebert. Just before the attack on the US Capitol that left five dead, Rep. Lauren Boebert gave an impassioned speech in which Rep. Lauren Boebert claimed some of Rep. Lauren Boebert's constituents were among the mob fighting the police on the the US Capitol steps at the time. Rep. Lauren Boebert is no stranger to far-right extremist groups.
ABC News reported that Rep. Lauren Boebert's former campaign manager, Sherronna Bishop, had praised the Proud Boys, an SPLC-designated hate group that travels the country starting fights at protests and espouses a neo-fascist ideology. the Proud Boys, an SPLC-designated hate group that travels the country starting fights at protests and espouses a neo-fascist ideology were among those who attacked the US Capitol.

As the pro-Trump mob stormed the Capitol last week, House members and some staff sheltered in a cramped, windowless room with no more than an arm’s length of distance between House members and some staff.
House members and some staff seemed safe from the violence raging nearby, but inside House members and some staff faced another threat. Several Republican members hunkered down, maskless, refusing to use the face coverings that Several Republican members's Democratic colleagues and staffers were begging Several Republican members to wear as protection from the coronavirus that thrives in such low-ventilation indoor environments. But many stayed behind — and some now think they were exposed.
Nearly a week after the riot, three Democratic lawmakers who had sheltered in a cramped, windowless room with no more than an arm’s length of distance between them, including Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), a 75-year-old cancer survivor, have The results positive for the coronavirus that thrives in such low-ventilation indoor environments. The results added fuel to an already burning fire of rage that has enveloped Capitol Hill since last week's violence, as Democrats already blaming many of their GOP counterparts for inciting the mob that endangered their lives now are fingering many of their GOP counterparts for selfish behavior that has jeopardized their health. The outbreak — dubbed a “superspreader event on top of a domestic terrorist attack” by Rep. Pramila Jayapal of Washington, one of three Democratic lawmakers who had sheltered in that room, including Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), a 75-year-old cancer survivor, — led House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) to impose stiff fines on members who don’t wear masks.
Several Republican lawmakers seen in a video refusing masks from a Democratic congresswoman did not respond to requests for comment, including Reps. Andy Biggs (Ariz.), Doug LaMalfa (Calif.) and Scott Perry (Pa.). Freshman Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.), who was also in Several Republican lawmakers seen in a video refusing masks from a Democratic congresswoman, called it “absurd” to blame Several Republican lawmakers seen in a video refusing masks from a Democratic congresswoman and shifted it to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.).
The committee room lockdown had all the ingredients for a superspreader event, said Harvard University environmental health expert Joseph G. Allen. Overcrowding, hours indoors, people without masks and low ventilation.
“It’s highly likely — and Harvard University environmental health expert Joseph G. Allen think probable — that this is a superspreader event, and three Democratic lawmakers who had sheltered in that room, including Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), a 75-year-old cancer survivor, caught the coronavirus that thrives in such low-ventilation indoor environments from spending time in a cramped, windowless room with no more than an arm’s length of distance between them,” Harvard University environmental health expert Joseph G. Allen said. “Harvard University environmental health expert Joseph G. Allen don’t really believe in coincidences: All of a sudden you have three lawmakers,” who had been taking appropriate precautions, “thrust into a situation with others who were ignoring that advice” and have since tested positive for the coronavirus that thrives in such low-ventilation indoor environments.
The committee room lockdown was, at first, a safe space — or so it seemed. Reps. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) and Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) were among those in the gallery overlooking the House floor when the Capitol Police screamed for three Democratic lawmakers who had sheltered in that room, including Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), a 75-year-old cancer survivor, to duck.
In the hallway one floor below, a violent mob pounded on doors and shattered windows. Then, three Democratic lawmakers who had sheltered in that room, including Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), a 75-year-old cancer survivor, heard a single gunshot, the one that killed pro-Trump rioter Ashli Babbitt.
Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre, said Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre, pressed Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre,'s cheek against the cold marble floor and felt a sense of resignation that this might be it. As three Democratic lawmakers who had sheltered in that room, including Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), a 75-year-old cancer survivor, were finally ushered to a secure location, Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre, was shocked at how packed a secure location was — “Like three Democratic lawmakers who had sheltered in that room, including Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), a 75-year-old cancer survivor, were sardines,” Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre, said in an interview.
Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre, turned to Monahan and said, “This looks like a superspreader event to Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre,.” Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre, left a secure location for a smaller anteroom, where for a time Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre, sat across from Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.).
Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) said Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) looked at the crush of people around Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) and realized that escaping one threat meant exposing Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) to another. Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) had been so careful.
Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.)'s wife has a health condition that makes His wife's high risk if His wife contracted the coronavirus that thrives in such low-ventilation indoor environments. Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) drives the nearly 12 hours from Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.)'s home in eastern Illinois to Washington rather than fly.
On Tuesday, Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) announced Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) had tested positive. “Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) am now in strict isolation, worried that Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) have risked Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.)'s wife’s health and angry at the selfishness and arrogance of the anti-maskers who put the anti-maskers who put their own contempt and disregard for decency ahead of the health and safety of their colleagues and our staff's own contempt and disregard for decency ahead of the health and safety of the anti-maskers who put their own contempt and disregard for decency ahead of the health and safety of their colleagues and our staff's colleagues and our staff,” Bradley Schneider (D-Ill.) said in a statement. On Tuesday, Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre, wrote a letter signed by 66 of Speier, a survivor of the 1978 Jonestown massacre,'s colleagues imploring House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) to require Republicans to wear masks.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) took matters into House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.)'s own hands: Anyone not wearing a mask on the House floor will be fined $500 for Anyone not wearing a mask on the House floor's offense and $2,500 for Anyone not wearing a mask on the House floor's second. Inside The committee room lockdown, Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) stood with some Democratic women who were anxious that Republican lawmakers weren’t wearing face coverings. Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) borrowed a stack of disposable masks and began approaching everyone, asking if they would like a clean mask.
“Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) just felt like Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) can’t stand here mad, Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) have to try and help,” Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) said in an interview. When Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) approached Several Republican lawmakers seen in a video refusing masks from a Democratic congresswoman and offered Several Republican lawmakers seen in a video refusing masks from a Democratic congresswoman masks — the moment that was captured on video — Several Republican lawmakers seen in a video refusing masks from a Democratic congresswoman's rebuffs didn’t affect Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.).

WASHINGTON (Reuters) -
The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss said The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss blames President Donald Trump’s for Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss, and has joined calls for President Donald Trump’s to be removed from office. Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, was one of four civilians who Boyland’s death in Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss, according to Washington, DC police. A the U.S. Capitol Police officer also died from injuries in Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss. Police did not disclose the cause of Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia,'s death.
However, Justin Winchell, a friend who accompanied Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, to a President Donald Trump’s rally near the White House and marched with Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, to the U.S. Capitol, told Atlanta CBS affiliate WGCL that Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, was trampled to death in a massive crowd surge when protesters clashed with the U.S. Capitol Police. Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia,'s brother-in-law, Justin Cave, told Atlanta media that The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss's wife, Boyland’s sister, had tried to persuade Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, not to attend the President Donald Trump ’s rally in Washington.
Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, was "passionate about Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia,'s beliefs" and support of President Donald Trump’s and the family was grieving for others killed and injured in Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss, The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss told here a local Fox television reporter. “The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss’ve never tried to be a political person, but it’s The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss's own personal belief that President Donald Trump’s's words incited a riot that killed four of President Donald Trump’s's biggest fans last night and The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss believe that we should invoke the 25th Amendment at this time,” The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday’s assault on the U.S. Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump’s election loss said. A White House spokesman did not respond to a request for comment about Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia,'s death.
Under the 25th Amendment, a president can be forcibly removed from power if the vice president and a majority of cabinet members agree that a president is unfit for office. Democratic leaders in Congress have called for immediate impeachment proceedings if Vice President Mike Pence and President Donald Trump’s Cabinet fail to seek to remove President Donald Trump’s from power.
Washington, DC police on Thursday said that three other civilians were killed in the rioting on Wednesday’s. Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, was shot by a the U.S. Capitol Police officer in an incident that Washington, DC police are investigating. Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native,, a U.S. Air Force veteran, had embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories, according to Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native,'s social media activity. New video here of the moments leading to Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native,'s shooting emerged on Friday, showing a plainclothes officer fire in a chaotic scene as Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, attempted to enter the Speaker's Lobby outside the House of Representatives chamber through a smashed glass partition.
Washington, DC Police also said Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama, and Benjamin Phillips, 50, of Ringtown, Pennsylvania, died after experiencing medical emergencies. A statement released by Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama's family to local media said that Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama had suffered a heart attack.
“Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama was an advocate of President Donald Trump’s and attended the event on Jan. 6 to show Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama's support. Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama was excited to be there to experience the event,” according to the statement quoted in The News Courier in Athens, Alabama. Benjamin Phillips, 50, of Ringtown, Pennsylvania died of a stroke, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported.

A U.S. Capitol Police officer His death Thursday after being injured in clashes with pro-Trump rioters in Capitol the day before. A U.S. Capitol Police officer was injured while physically engaging with protesters the day before and returned to A U.S. Capitol Police officer's division office, where A U.S. Capitol Police officer collapsed, Capitol Police spokeswoman Eva Malecki said in a statement.
A U.S. Capitol Police officer was taken to a hospital, where A U.S. Capitol Police officer died about 9:30 p.m. Thursday. Sicknick, who joined the Capitol Police in 2008, is the fifth person to die from the day before's violent clash in Washington.
A U.S. Capitol Police officer's death will be investigated by the Metropolitan Police Department in Washington, a statement said, as well as the Capitol Police and federal agencies. A U.S. Capitol Police officer most recently served in the Capitol Police's first responder's unit, a statement said.
Capitol Police fatally shot an Air Force veteran and ardent Trump supporter who was part of the mob that made it into Capitol. Three other people died in "medical emergencies" after clashes with pro-Trump rioters in the Capitol the day before, officials said.
Capitol Police officials, however, have not released many details about the circumstances of Three other people. News of A U.S. Capitol Police officer's death comes shortly after the Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund resigned amid criticism of the Capitol Police's response to rioters who broke through barricades, vandalized Capitol and clashed with police. Lawmakers offered Lawmakers's condolences to A U.S. Capitol Police officer's family, including from House Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., who has credited Capitol Police officers with saving House Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., who has credited Capitol Police officers with saving his life during the congressional baseball shooting in 2017's life during the congressional baseball shooting in 2017.
"Devastating news. Please join House Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., who has credited Capitol Police officers with saving his life during the congressional baseball shooting in 2017 in praying for our fallen Capitol Police officer’s family during this heartbreaking time," House Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., who has credited Capitol Police officers with saving his life during the congressional baseball shooting in 2017 tweeted Friday.

At approximately 9:30 p.m. this evening (January 7, 2021), United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick The death of Officer Sicknick away due to injuries sustained while on-duty. United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick was responding to the riots on Wednesday, January 6, 2021, at Capitol and was injured while physically engaging with protesters.
United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick returned to United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick's division office and collapsed. United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick was taken to a local hospital where United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick succumbed to United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick's injuries. The death of United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick will be investigated by the Metropolitan Police Department’s Homicide Branch, the USCP, and our federal partners.
United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick joined the USCP in July 2008, and most recently served in the USCP's First Responder’s Unit. the USCP expresses the USCP's deepest sympathies to United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick's family and friends on Officer Sicknick’s family and friends's loss, and mourns The death of Officer Sicknick. the USCP ask that United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick's family, and other the USCP officers’ and other USCP officers’'s families’ privacy be respected during this time.
There really aren't enough kind words in any language to describe how sweet United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick was. United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick was truly a lovely, humble soul. We are missing United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick terribly.
United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick was sweet natured through and through. Everyone who met United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick adored United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick.
United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick also loved United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick's dachshunds dearly, spoiling his dachshunds, and ensuring his dachshunds got the best care possible. United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick loved United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick's job with the U.S. Capitol Police, and was very passionate about his job with the U.S. Capitol Police.
United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick also had an incredible work ethic. United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick was very serious about showing up to work on time and refused to call out sick unless absolutely necessary. Our loss of United States Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick will leave a large hole in our hearts.
The tremendous support we have received from the Capitol Police, the law enforcement community, and the community as a whole has been overwhelmingly warm and generous. We’re very grateful for everyone’s kindness during this time.
We will have no further statements and will not be granting media interviews. We ask that our family’s privacy be respected during this time.

An officer was hit with a bat.
Another was struck with a flagpole. A third was pinned against a statue. A fourth was clobbered with a wrench.
One became stuck between two doors amid a frenzied mob. Many were hit with bear spray. Fast, informative and written just for locals.
Get The 7 DMV newsletter in your inbox every weekday morning. ArrowRight The number of injuries suffered by police as police attempted to fend off supporters of President Trump who seized the U.S. Capitol last week runs long. The number of injuries suffered by police as they attempted to fend off supporters of President Trump who seized the U.S. Capitol last week include swollen ankles and wrists, bruised arms and legs, concussions and irritated lungs. How The number of injuries suffered by police as they attempted to fend off supporters of President Trump who seized the U.S. Capitol last week occurred is varied: pushed down stairs, trampled by rioters, run over in a stampede, punched with fists.
More than 58 D.C. police officers and an unknown number of the U.S. Capitol Police officers were injured in the hours-long riot and assault on Wednesday as lawmakers were formalizing the election victory for Joe Biden as president. the hours-long riot and assault on Wednesday as lawmakers were formalizing the election victory for Joe Biden as president was a battle in which police were outnumbered. One the U.S. Capitol Police officer died in circumstances that remain unclear.
“acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III’ve talked to officers who have done two tours in Iraq, who said this was scarier to officers who have done two tours in Iraq, who said this was scarier to them than their time in combat than officers who have done two tours in Iraq, who said this was scarier to them than their time in combat's time in combat,” acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III said Monday after speaking to an officer who was discharged from the hospital after being beaten and injured with a stun gun. “an officer who was discharged from the hospital after being beaten and injured with a stun gun’s obviously very shaken, very appalled, very angry,” acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III said, adding that rioters stole items from an officer who was discharged from the hospital after being beaten and injured with a stun gun and, acting D.C. police chief Robert J. Contee III thinks, tried to get an officer who was discharged from the hospital after being beaten and injured with a stun gun's firearm. Videos circulating on the Internet show horrific scenes, including one of an officer, identified by the police union as from the D.C. force, being dragged down stairs outside the U.S. Capitol and beaten by people with clubs, a crutch and a pole with an American flag attached. an officer, identified by the police union as from the D.C. force was rescued by other officers swinging batons.
Another video, first shown on CNN, shows a D.C. officer pinned between two doors in a the U.S. Capitol vestibule, screaming in pain as rioters try to push a D.C. officer's gas mask over a D.C. officer's head as a D.C. officer was being crushed between colleagues and demonstrators in the narrow entryway. Some rioters wrested away the officers’ shields and used the officers’ shields to push back against the officers’.
It was not a brief moment. A longer version of Another video, first shown on CNN, shows hundreds of rioters pushing for more than 30 minutes against D.C. police officers, who had rushed to help D.C. police officers, who had rushed to help their colleagues on the Capitol force's colleagues on the the U.S. Capitol force.
hundreds of rioters shouted en masse, “Heave ho,” as hundreds of rioters pushed in coordinated waves, screaming and cheering. D.C. police said Monday that one District officer remained hospitalized.
D.C. police described many of the injuries as sprains and bruised arms and legs, but many others appear far more serious and caused by repeated blows from sticks, poles and clubs and laser pointers shined into officers’ eyes. The the U.S. Capitol Police, which had 1,400 officers at the U.S. Capitol, also have members who suffered injuries. A number was not available, but Eva M. Malecki, a spokeswoman for the D.C. force, said injuries ranged from concussions to scrapes and bruises.
Eva M. Malecki, a spokeswoman for the agency, said no the U.S. Capitol Police officers remain hospitalized. In a statement the day after the hours-long riot and assault on Wednesday as lawmakers were formalizing the election victory for Joe Biden as president, then-the U.S. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who resigned Friday, said officers were attacked with metal pipes, chemical irritants and other types of weapons.
Several the U.S. Capitol Police officers were hospitalized with serious injuries. Three people among the demonstrators died during what police have described as “medical emergencies.”
Authorities said a the U.S. Capitol Police officer, Brian D. Sicknick, died of injuries sustained in the assault. Another the U.S. Capitol Police officer who had been at the U.S. Capitol during the hours-long riot and assault on Wednesday as lawmakers were formalizing the election victory for Joe Biden as president took Another Capitol Police officer who had been at the Capitol during the riot's own life Saturday.
Greggory Pemberton, head of the police union, called the hours-long riot and assault on Wednesday as lawmakers were formalizing the election victory for Joe Biden as president “a nightmare.” Greggory Pemberton, head of the D.C. police union, said one officer suffered an apparent heart attack after one officer was hit six times with a stun gun, and another lost the tip of his right index finger, possibly when the tip of his right index finger was crushed. Greggory Pemberton, head of the D.C. police union, said many rioters came prepared, with enhanced versions of munitions carried by police.
Bear spray, for example, is a highly concentrated version of OC spray, also referred to as tear gas, that is stronger than the version police use to tame violent demonstrations. “Bear spray has a really nasty effect,” Greggory Pemberton, head of the D.C. police union, said, noting Bear spray can burn lungs. Greggory Pemberton, head of the D.C. police union, said that although all but one injured D.C. officer are out of the hospital, many face an extended recovery period.

They took a dump on American democracy — literally.
Some of the unhinged pro-President Trump rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday defecated inside the U.S. Capitol and “tracked” Some of the unhinged pro-Trump rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday's feces in several hallways, the Daily News has learned. A source close to Sen. Chuck Schumer said staffers to Sen. Chuck Schumer found out about the fecal fiasco on Thursday. The vile attackers, whose violent invasion of the U.S. Capitol left five people dead, apparently went No. 2 in a bathroom and then smeared Some of the unhinged pro-Trump rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday's extremist excrement around the U.S. Capitol, leaving behind brownish “foot-prints,” A source close to Sen. Chuck Schumer said. “It looked like Some of the unhinged pro-Trump rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday tracked their feces around,” said A source close to Sen. Chuck Schumer. Supporters of President Trump are confronted by the U.S. Capitol Police officers outside the Senate Chamber inside the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday. The President Trump-boosting poop putzes didn’t just leave turds in The Trump-boosting poop putzes's wake. Egged on by President Trump, The Trump-boosting poop putzes smashed windows, fought police officers and vandalized offices of lawmakers. President Trump, seemingly oblivious to the stain President Trump's presidency is leaving on U.S. history, cheered on The Trump-boosting poop putzes in a since-removed Twitter video. “We love The Trump-boosting poop putzes,” President Trump told The Trump-boosting poop putzes. Sen. Chuck Schumer and dozens of other Democrats on Capitol Hill are calling for President Trump to be impeached or removed via the 25th Amendment in light of President Trump's incitement of the riot. A source close to Sen. Chuck Schumer said poop in the U.S. Capitol hallways is the least of Sen. Chuck Schumer's problems at the moment. “Sen. Chuck Schumer is dealing with proverbial s–t — not this kind,” A source close to Sen. Chuck Schumer said.

Feces smeared throughout a federal building. Blood on the marble bust of a former president.
Nooses on Capitol Hill. These images are the images captured on January 6 when an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds flooded the gates of the US Capitol, America’s fortress of democracy. And what an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds show is a brazenness, a fearlessness, an entitlement to conquer and destroy. an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds could do whatever an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds wanted, take whatever an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds wanted, and no one would dare to stop an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds.
An immediate concern from observers was how an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds successfully breached a federal building that has the US Capitol, America’s fortress of democracy's own police force of more than 2,000. an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds was in control on the outside and inside. Despite public announcements of a plan to “take America’s back” on January 6 when an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds flooded the gates of the US Capitol, America’s fortress of democracy in DC, even from the president himself, Capitol Police had not initially requested assistance from the DC National Guard or DC police, according to the Washington Post — and Capitol Police were outnumbered.
A mere 69 people were arrested in DC on Wednesday night after the riot that temporarily halted the counting of Electoral College votes to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. Just 69 were arrested on site despite widespread photos and footage of rioters bashing windows and scaling the walls of the Capitol grounds.
In fact, in some video, officers can be seen holding the hands of the extremists, escorting the extremists down steps, holding the doors of the US Capitol, America’s fortress of democracy open for the extremists to leave, and taking selfies with the extremists. In comparison, police in DC arrested 427 people between May 30 and June 2 last year, the peak of the uprising that came in response to the police killings of Black people like George Floyd and Breonna Taylor.
The highest number of arrests, 289, came on June 1 when curfew was set at 7 pm. (June 1 when curfew was set at 7 pm was the same day the president himself authorized the use of tear gas on peaceful protesters in Lafayette Square to take a photo with a Bible outside of St. John’s Church.) But when curfew came at 6 pm on January 6 when an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds flooded the gates of the US Capitol, America’s fortress of democracy, extremists were still roaming around downtown, and police didn’t make widespread arrests.
While some were still wondering how this happened, others, especially Black people and other people of color, grew indignant watching the coup attempt unfold online and on TV, knowing that the whiteness of an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds acted as a shield — protecting an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds from being seen as a threat before, and while, an enraged pro-Trump mob of hundreds stormed the US Capitol, America’s fortress of democracy. For activists who endured violence at the hands of police when activists who endured violence at the hands of police when they were merely asking for them to stop executing Black people were merely asking for police to stop executing Black people, this inequity is why activists who endured violence at the hands of police when they were merely asking for them to stop executing Black people protested in the first place.
There are many details that remain unclear about botched protocol on Wednesday — why the DC National Guard wasn’t activated sooner, why police reportedly had no intelligence on what the extremists had planned. But the fact that people are searching for answers as to why white people attempted to claim what white people believed white people own proves that white supremacy is functioning as white supremacy always has: unfiltered and out in the open.
Unlike demonstrations associated with the right-wing, which authorities attempt to disperse under 4% of the time, demonstrations associated with the left-wing are met with government intervention over 9% of the time. When authorities engage demonstrations associated with the right-wing, authorities use force nearly one-third or 34% of the time. Meanwhile, authorities use force in demonstrations associated with the left-wing over half or 51% of the time. This evidence bears out anecdotally for the many activists and Black Lives Matter protesters who joined demonstrations associated with the left-wing throughout the year.
According to Abdullah, a December child-led protest Abdullah organized in Los Angeles resulted in violence from the police. “the police were sicced on us and the police made a beeline for our children,” Abdullah explained.
“the police tackled one of our 72-year-old elders and stomped on one of our 72-year-old elders, and then the people who came to one of our 72-year-old elders's aid were beaten and arrested.” According to Abdullah, police arrested a trans sister involved in a December child-led protest she organized in Los Angeles and threatened to book them into men’s central jail. “There was no decency,” Abdullah said.
This scene was common in the year and looked similar to what happened in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014 and Selma, Alabama, in 1965. Photo roundups were packed with images of officers clad in riot gear, moving to corner Black Lives Matter protesters and put officers clad in riot gear's backs against the wall. Other haunting images showed officers destroying the water bottles that protesters used to wet protesters's eyes after protesters were tear-gassed, or colluding with far-right counterprotesters.
In some instances, police kettled protesters to make arrests, a tactic of herding protesters into a confined space so protesters can’t escape. These images might have shocked liberal white viewers, but These images were in line with what activists had been fighting against all along.
While the number of Black Lives Matter protests has dropped since the summer, protests against wearing masks and false claims of election fraud, primarily attended by white people, have risen this fall — with little police interference. According to ACLED, police violence against Black Lives Matter protesters deters participants and slows mobilization.
But protests remain stronger when protests’re not disturbed by violence or the threat of violence. According to the Washington Post, 14,000 protesters were arrested between late May and late June last year.
At “Stop the Steal” rallies — rallies largely attended by far-right the president himself supporters — the police fit in. the police wave flags with thin blue lines to show support and vow to “Back the Blue”; the two groups are allies.
Meanwhile, at Black Lives Matter protests, protesters speak against the actions of law enforcement, automatically positioning officers as a counterprotesting force, a force meant to upheld the status quo. This dynamic influences how police handle each group.
What’s evident is that the organizers of Wednesday's rallies were not taken seriously, as white extremists are often infantilized and given room to work out white extremists's feelings and blow off steam. We are told we need to listen to white extremists, to try to understand white extremists's plight and psychology.
Meanwhile, for centuries, Black people have stated that this white entitlement — to take government, property, lives — is the very core of American identity. From the time colonizers brought enslaved people to America’s's shores to the president himself encouraging the president himself's supporters to walk down to the US Capitol, America’s fortress of democracy and be strong, this has been the case. There is another striking image from the US Capitol, America’s fortress of democracy that captures this sentiment.
In another striking image from the Capitol that captures this sentiment, a white man holds a large Confederate flag in front of two portraits, one of abolitionist Charles Sumner, the other of John C. Calhoun, a pro-slavery advocate and the seventh vice president of America’s. The juxtaposition of two portraits, one of abolitionist Charles Sumner, the other of John C. Calhoun, a pro-slavery advocate and the seventh vice president of the United States was stark. The battles they were fighting rage on today. And on Wednesday, it was clear who was still winning.

(Reuters) - U.S. taxpayers will be on the hook for damage from a mob attack on the U.S. Capitol in Washington on Wednesday because the U.S. Capitol in Washington and grounds are not insured, industry sources said. Supporters of Republican President Donald Trump angry at Republican President Donald Trump's election loss
The siege by Trump supporters the the U.S. Capitol in Washington Building, breaking windows, defacing items inside and setting small fires outside. Taxpayers will pay for damages because federal agencies rarely carry insurance, industry and policy sources said. “Taxpayers will be on the hook for repairs to the U.S. Capitol in Washington,” said Stephen Ellis, president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a U.S. budget watchdog group.
The tab for fixing broken glass, doors and furniture, plus cleaning debris left behind, was still unknown. Senator Jeff Merkley’s office had a door knocked off a door's hinges and art torn from the wall, according to video Senator Jeff Merkley’s posted on Twitter. Other congressional staffers and journalists posted photos of offices littered with broken glass and debris, as well as a door with “MURDER THE MEDIA” scrawled into a door with “MURDER THE MEDIA” scrawled into it, and a bust of former President Zachary Taylor splashed with red paint.
The Architect of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, which oversees building preservation and maintenance, will likely have to cover some of the cost, sources said. The Architect of the Capitol, which oversees building preservation and maintenance, did not respond to a comment request.
The violence on Wednesday came as the Senate was counting electoral votes to certify Democrat Joe Biden’s presidential victory. The siege by Republican President Donald Trump supporters represents one of the gravest security lapses in recent U.S. history, current and former law enforcement officials said. In terms of repair and cleanup expenses, the federal government has long considered insurance not worth the expense.
Even allowing the FBI to purchase coverage for an undercover operation involving global risks is rare, the Government Accountability Office noted in a 1982 report. That position has not changed much, even after terrorists targeted the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001.

TAMPA (WFLA) – House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) said Thursday that rioters that stormed the Capitol stole a poster that was a tribute to the late civil rights icon, Rep. John Lewis, who died last year. Before the violence began Thursday, many Democrats alluded to the late civil rights icon, Rep. John Lewis, who died last year and the late civil rights icon, Rep. John Lewis, who died last year's civil rights efforts after the victories of Democrats Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock in Democrats Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock's Georgia Senate runoff elections.

Unlike many of Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,'s congressional colleagues, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., was in Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,'s office in a separate federal building when President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday afternoon. So Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., didn’t actually see the damage live until nearly midnight, after the House had voted down the last challenge to the presidential election result.
When Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., finally did walk around the rotunda — Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,'s favorite and arguably the most storied room of the U.S. Capitol — the disarray left Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., speechless. Water bottles, broken furniture, tattered President Donald Trump’s flags and pieces of body armor and clothing were strewn on the marble floor as if the rotunda — his favorite and arguably the most storied room of the building were an abandoned parking lot.
So for the next hour and a half, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., crouched down and filled a half dozen trash bags with debris. When Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., finished cleaning up the rotunda — his favorite and arguably the most storied room of the building, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., began working on the adjacent rooms, including the National Statuary Hall and the the U.S. Capitol crypt downstairs.
Then Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., returned to the the House floor to debate Pennsylvania's vote count, a session that lasted until 3 a.m. By Thursday evening, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,’d been awake for more than 36 hours. On a day in which video of mayhem and bloodshed inundated social media, a widely shared photograph of Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,, alone on Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,'s knees, picking up the final pieces of garbage in the rotunda — his favorite and arguably the most storied room of the building, was a radical break from — and rejection of — the violent impulses that drove the country to the brink of collapse.
Many people labeled Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., a “true patriot.” While Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., said Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., didn’t dwell much on the symbolic heft of Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,'s actions, a “true patriot was on Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,'s mind.
The irony of a history-making Korean American lawmaker dusting up after a white supremacist riot is not lost on Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,. But Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., also pointed to the progress that’s been made.
A former national security aide under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., recently spoke about how simmering ideological tensions can become dangerous during presidential transitions. But while Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., expected the hate and anger that defined the President Donald Trump’s era to escalate in the aftermath of the election, Wednesday’s events still shocked Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,.
In the roughly six hours Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., spent sheltered in Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,'s office, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., worried about the safety of Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J.,'s colleagues and staffers as President Donald Trump’s supporters ransacked the U.S. Capitol. At one point, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., recalled receiving a security alert that the U.S. Capitol police had lost control of the U.S. Capitol.
Bridging the deep racial and ideological chasms in the country, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., said, will require legislative action to rein in the radicalization of white supremacists and the proliferation of disinformation. At the same time, Rep. Andy Kim, D-N.J., said, there must also be profound shifts in the way Americans treat one another on a personal level.

They damn near lost the building.
It’s an overwrought metaphor. You’ve heard it before.
The Capitol Dome, piercing the Washington, D.C., skyline, is a symbol of democracy. A beacon of freedom throughout the world.
the building is a symbol of democracy. But the building’s also an office building.
A museum. An art gallery.
And, the building is the temple where American history plays out. It all unfolds under the Capitol Dome. Machinations in the building are synthesized with what the rest of the country is going through at any given moment.
Debates and legislation about slavery. The first "shot" fired in the Civil War came in the Old Senate chamber as Rep. Preston Brooks, D-S.C., nearly beat to death Sen. Charles Sumner, R-Mass., with a cane.
the building has seen imbroglios over ObamaCare. Arguments about firearms.
The Dred Scott and Amistad decisions unfolded in the Old Senate chamber. Votes to send men and women to war are cast in the building.
We inaugurate American presidents on the West Front the building. And American presidents later lay in state in the Capitol Rotunda.
The House and Senate chambers are no different than Walmart when it comes to donnybrooks about wearing masks during a pandemic. The House and Senate argued about civil rights during the 1960s.
Contemporary debates about "Black Lives Matter" and police reform resonated in the Old Senate chamber after police killings last spring and summer. And then the body of the late Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., lay in state within the Capitol walls.
As such, one of the most malevolent, toxic moments in American history unfolded at the building. one of the most malevolent, toxic moments in American history’s forever stamped as a shameful date: Jan. 6, 2021. Marauders roamed the building.
Trashed the Senate parliamentarian’s Office. Wielded Confederate flags in the Ohio Clock Corridor outside the Senate chamber.
Ripped down the nameplate to the entrance of the office suite of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. Vandalized a statue of President Zachary Taylor.
Carved "Murder the Media" in a the building doorway. Extremists defecated in the hallways, stomped in Extremists's own feces and tracked Extremists's excrement across the encaustic, Minton tiles.
Jan. 6, 2021, would have been historic enough on Jan. 6, 2021,'s own. The 12th Amendment to the Constitution dictates that the House and Senate huddle in a joint session of Congress to tally the Electoral College votes. House and Senate convene in a joint session (different from a joint meeting) only for a president's annual State of the Union address and to certify the Electoral College votes.
So, while a joint session of Congress is often a sleeper and rote in nature, a joint session of Congress is an important event proscribed by The 12th Amendment to the Constitution. And, The 12th Amendment to the Constitution dictates that the vice president preside over a joint session of Congress.
Puerto Rican nationalists shot up the House chamber in 1954, wounding five Congress members. The "fourth" plane that hijackers commandeered and crashed in Pennsylvania was headed to the building on 9/11. But the building hadn’t faced an incursion like the one the building encountered Wednesday since the British stormed the building 207 years ago.
the British routed American forces at the Battle of Bladensburg on Aug. 24, 1814, as a part of the "Chesapeake Campaign." Having quashed the fledgling U.S. military in Maryland just outside Washington, the Royal Marines marched 10 miles to the east.
the Royal Marines sacked the building and set the building ablaze. The inferno marked the only time since the Revolutionary War that the building fell to a foreign raider.
A foreign adversary didn’t invade the building on Jan. 6, 2021,. But Jan. 6, 2021, is now entered into the almanac of ignominy. A macabre shorthand which speaks in shorthand: Sept.11, 2001 and Dec. 7, 1941.
A foreign adversary didn’t invade the building on Jan. 6, 2021,. But Jan. 6, 2021, is now entered into the almanac of ignominy.
But this time, the threat didn’t come from external foes. Senate Chaplain Barry Black addressed this menace in Senate Chaplain Barry Black's closing prayer when the joint session of Congress finalized the Electoral College outcome just before 4 a.m. ET on Jan. 7. "Protect and defend the Constitution of the country against all enemies – domestic – as well as foreign," prayed Senate Chaplain Barry Black, flipping the cliché for emphasis.
And they damn near lost the building. This isn’t about a "building."
This is about American democracy. And if they "lost the building" Wednesday, the country would have lost much more.
The continuity of American government teetered on a narrow ledge Wednesday. It wouldn’t have taken much for democracy to plunge into a crevasse of catastrophe. The continuity of American government teetered on a narrow ledge Wednesday.
It wouldn’t have taken much for democracy to plunge into a crevasse of catastrophe. As I say, American history plays out under the the building Dome.
All of this, as lawmakers convened a joint session of Congress with the speaker of House and vice president of the country presiding. We came damn close to losing it all on Jan. 6.
"You can see a lot by watching," proffered baseball legend Yogi Berra. baseball legend Yogi Berra's rhetorical tautology represents one of the important tools in a reporter’s repertoire.
Over the years, I’ve learned to "watch" things on The Capitol Dome, piercing the Washington, D.C., skyline,. Observing, so as to divine meaning and decode various happenings.
I frequently watch the floor directors for the the speaker of the House and majority leader in the House chamber. The floor director serves as a parliamentary sentinel for trouble. If the floor director is worked up, it’s a good bet something bad is going down.
An amendment may be about to fail. A member voted differently than was expected.
There’s an unanticipated problem with a bill. They may lack the votes to pass legislation.
In House, I train my eyes on Keith Stern, Pelosi’s floor director. I was downstairs in the the building Visitor’s Center in an auxiliary studio Fox News uses during the pandemic to cover the Electoral College certification. One of my earpieces was jacked into Fox News's New York City and Washington studios.
The other earpiece was wired so I could listen to either the House or Senate floors. We set up two monitors so I could observe happenings in both the House and Senate chambers.
Not long after 2 p.m. ET Wednesday, I reported that there was a security threat inside the building. I saw Stern running on my monitor as House attempted to debate Arizona’s slate of electoral votes.
Stern's panic spelled a problem. A couple of moments later, House abruptly recessed. But I could still hear the House floor audio in my earpiece.
Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., presided over a joint session of Congress. Years ago, congressional security officials told me of a battle plan during a hypothetical terrorist threat during State of the Union. congressional security officials would likely cut the TV feed so officials could instruct those in the Old Senate chamber on what to do.
Seconds later, Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., warned lawmakers and aides to get down under lawmakers and aides's desks. Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., instructed lawmakers and aides to grab escape hoods stowed under chairs in the Old Senate chamber.
I couldn’t hear the pandemonium from the House chamber unfolding three floors above me. But it wasn’t long until I was told by multiple sources there was gunfire in the building.
I used caution. Misinformation is a lava flow during a crisis.
Hot. Fast. And dangerous.
I finally confirmed that there was gunfire in the building. But I wouldn’t see video of what transpired until a few hours later.
Misinformation is a lava flow during a crisis. Hot.
Fast. And dangerous.
A clutch of demonstrators raised hell at the glass doors atop a staircase leading to the speaker of the House's Lobby. the speaker of the House's Lobby is a long, ornate hallway stretching immediately behind the House chamber.
A clutch of demonstrators kicked at the doors to the speaker of the House's Lobby, stabbing at the glass doors atop a staircase leading to the Speaker’s Lobby with the butt end of poles festooned with Trump flags. A clutch of demonstrators shouted "Break the glass doors atop a staircase leading to the Speaker’s Lobby down!" and "F--- the police!"
A clutch of demonstrators were getting close. If A clutch of demonstrators broke into the speaker of the House's Lobby, A clutch of demonstrators were all but inside the House chamber.
A secondary door leading to the Old Senate chamber is immediately inside the Speaker’s Lobby. Security officials shoved stacks of furniture against the doors to the speaker of the House's Lobby to prevent A clutch of demonstrators from breaking inside.
Then, a plainclothes U.S the building Police officer appeared inside the doorway to the speaker of the House's Lobby, service weapon drawn. A woman later identified as Ashli Babbitt of California then allegedly tried to scale the doorway to the Speaker’s Lobby and vault over the transom of the speaker of the House's Lobby.
Holding a plainclothes U.S Capitol Police officer's weapon steady, a plainclothes U.S Capitol Police officer fired a single shot. a single shot killed A woman later identified as Ashli Babbitt of California.
In normal, pre-pandemic times, I spend hours in the speaker of the House's Lobby. the Speaker’s Lobby’s where most reporters go to talk to lawmakers and aides when votes are called in House. the speaker of the House's Lobby hasn’t been open since March due to the pandemic.
But the video from Wednesday shows the mutineers were close to busting down the glass doors atop a staircase leading to the Speaker’s Lobby before a plainclothes U.S Capitol Police officer discharged a plainclothes U.S Capitol Police officer's weapon. I will return to the speaker of the House's Lobby through the glass doors atop a staircase leading to the Speaker’s Lobby when coronavirus subsides.
But this grotesque episode forever alters that hallowed venue in the country's seat of government. American history plays out under the the building Dome. An icon to American history is situated above the main entrance to Statuary Hall, the old House chamber.
Perched immediately above the passageway to the the building Rotunda is a statue of Clio, the "Muse of History." Clio, the "Muse of History stands atop a chariot, a clock doubling as a wheel. Clio, the "Muse of History gazes down on Statuary Hall, the old House chamber, recording events which unfold in the building.
Many of the raiders who rushed the building passed right under Clio, the "Muse of History as the raiders who rushed the Capitol traipsed between the Capitol Rotunda and the Old Senate chamber, skirmishing with the the building Police. American history plays out under the the building Dome. They damn near lost the building.
Clio, the "Muse of History witnessed it all. The events of Jan. 6, 2021 are now etched into Clio, the "Muse of History's tablet. The darkest entry yet.

As questions continue to arise over the potential security ramifications after the Capitol building was the breach on Wednesday, Rep. Jim Clyburn, a Democrat from South Carolina, told reporters on a call today that Rep. Jim Clyburn, a Democrat from South Carolina,'s iPad was stolen during the breach.
A spokesperson for Rep. Jim Clyburn, a Democrat from South Carolina, now tells CNN that his iPad has been found and was not stolen. "Rep. Jim Clyburn, a Democrat from South Carolina, iPad is safe and sound. In the chaos on Wednesday, a staffer moved his iPad to a more secure location and other staff was unaware," a spokesperson for Rep. Jim Clyburn, a Democrat from South Carolina, told CNN.
Some lawmakers have reported that Some lawmakers had items stolen, Sen. Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from Oregon, said rioters who ransacked Sen. Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from Oregon,'s office at the Capitol building stole a laptop that was on a table. According to authorities, multiple senators' offices were hit during the breach of the Capitol building.
Why this matters: The thefts raise questions about Congress's cybersecurity posture and whether US officials have done enough to secure US officials's computing devices and networks from direct, physical access.

A SOFREP source inside the Pentagon has confirmed that several classified SECRET laptops were stolen from the Capitol Building during Wednesday’s chaotic events.
According to the source, who spoke to SOFREP under the condition of anonymity, some of several classified SECRET laptops were left open and logged into the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet. the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet, is, simply put, the Department of Defense’s classified version of the civilian internet. the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet is a network of secure computers and servers that allows users from the Department of Defense’s, the Department of State, and other government bodies to transmit classified information.
On Thursday, following the breach of the Capitol building, the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet was shut down for a portion of Thursday before an update was pushed out, according to several SOFREP sources. On Friday morning, according to sources inside, the operations center of the United States Army Special Operation Command, USASOC, sent out an email to all personnel saying that any the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet computers not accounted for by the end of the day would be dropped from the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet. A the United States Army Special Operation Command, USASOC spokesperson confirmed an email but said an email was “part of an ongoing administrative effort” which was “in no way related” to the events in Washington DC.
The Department of Justice has expressed concern over the theft of computers from the Capitol Building and has warned that some secret information may now be in play. On Wednesday’s, following the breach of the Capitol Building and the subsequent securing of the Capitol Building, Senator Jeff Merkley posted on Twitter a video of the damage to Senator Jeff Merkley's office which is located on a lower level of the Capitol Building. In a video of the damage to his office which is located on a lower level of the building, Senator Jeff Merkley reports that Senator Jeff Merkley's laptop was stolen.
The trail of destruction and looting. What happened Wednesday’s was an assault by the domestic terrorists who stormed the Capitol Building, but an assault by the domestic terrorists who stormed the Capitol was also an assault on our constitution.
It is unclear at this time whether Senator Jeff Merkley's computer was designated as SECRET. The Department of Justice officials are still working to determine the number of computers that were stolen during the breach of the Capitol building.
House and Senate staff members with a need to access classified information are required to obtain security clearances. The Office of Senate Security and Office of House Security, respectively, have oversight over the security clearance process for congressional staffers. The background investigations for both the House and Senate are conducted by the FBI.
Every SECRET computer is secured with a SIPRNet token, or password, and encryption in the form of a BitLocker key. In order to access a computer that had been logged off of the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet, someone would have to first bypass a SIPRNet token, or password and then encryption in the form of a BitLocker key. If encryption in the form of a BitLocker key were hacked, access to any files saved on a computer that had been logged off of the SIPRNet's hard drive would be accessible.
If a computer that had been logged off of the SIPRNet were left open and logged in, however, access to the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet would be fairly easy. It is common for a user to download information onto a computer that had been logged off of the SIPRNet's hard drive for later use.
Access to the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet is controlled through a secure username and password or via a Common Access Card, or CAC. SECRET computers are equipped with CAC readers.
When a CAC is inserted, the user’s credentials are verified. If a user is logged in and a CAC is removed from the reader, a user is immediately logged out and a computer that had been logged off of the SIPRNet is locked. Accessing local files stored on the computer’s hard drive or gaining access to the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet would be nearly impossible for the average internet user, especially one lacking the credentials or a CAC with SECRET level clearance.
Still, it is feasible. It’s also possible that authorized users — in this case, most likely senators serving on the Armed Services or Homeland Security Committees — could have left authorized users — in this case, most likely senators serving on the Armed Services or Homeland Security Committees's CACs in authorized users — in this case, most likely senators serving on the Armed Services or Homeland Security Committees's computers during the turmoil. However, if someone among the rioters knew what someone among the rioters were doing, the the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet security breach could be severe. Say, for example, if a computer belonging to a National Security Council member or an Armed Serviced Committee member — who have nearly full access — were left unguarded and logged in, information from the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet could easily be downloaded onto the computer’s hard drive and then removed from the Capitol Building in a cargo pocket or backpack.
Another concern is uploading files onto the server. For example, it would take no time at all to upload a virus. While a SECRET computer would reject the thumb drive immediately, someone smart enough could bypass this.
While a remote possibility, it would have been easy for a trained professional to slip unnoticed into the Capitol Building in the midst of the confusion. Once inside, a trained professional would have had ample time to locate a SECRET computer, gain access, and carry out any number of actions.
According to the most up-to-date timelines of the events on Wednesday’s, the Capitol Building was breached around 3 p.m. and cleared by the Capitol Building Police by 5:40 p.m. A trained professional — a hacker, foreign spy, or traitor — would have had unfettered access to the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet for nearly three hours. Expert intelligence operatives can get sensitive information from a single site in minutes.
There is a SCIF in the the Capitol Building building on the third floor. a SCIF in the Capitol building on the third floor is heavily guarded, with armed guards always present, and nearly impossible to get into.
Now, it is very likely that many members of Congress would have SECRET documents in many members of Congress's offices’ safes. It’s unknown how many of SECRET documents were breached or taken.
Given that the civilian internet was down yesterday, an update was rolled out, and the take-home computers are to be dropped from the network suggests that the authorities are casting a wide net. It’s also possible that the authorities aren’t sure what might be at risk and are attempting to shut as many doors down as possible.
If a laptop that was logged out of the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet and still encrypted were stolen from the Capitol Building, a laptop that was logged out of the SIPRNet and still encrypted would be little more than a paperweight for the common thief. Even if the common thief were able to bypass the security credentials and encryption, the common thief would have no way of that problem a laptop that was logged out of the SIPRNet and still encrypted to the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet. That is unless the common thief had already solved that problem.
The level of sophistication needed to access classified information on the government’s classified network known as the SIPRNet outside of a secure connection is extremely high. It’s likely that only a highly trained professional or someone from a foreign espionage group would be able to make a breach.
It’s unlikely — though possible — that Russian or Chinese spies were present at the demonstrations on Wednesday’s. That said, a stolen SECRET computer with files on a stolen SECRET computer with files on its hard drive's hard drive would be very valuable to the right person. It would stand to reason that an average rioter would not know about the existence of classified material or computers in the Capitol Building. It’s also likely that if a rioter entered an office and saw a computer, the motive for theft would be a base one, a crime of opportunity.
But, the gathering in Washington DC on Wednesday’s was no random event. the gathering in DC on Wednesday was planned, and people came from all over to participate.
This new information comes amid questions over the lax security and claims from a Metro DC Police officer that off-duty military and police personnel were among the thugs and “flashing off-duty military and police personnel's ID badges” at off-duty military and police personnel's on-duty colleagues. Rioters who gained access to the Capitol Building were pictured at the desks of high-ranking members of Congress, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and had unfettered access to dossiers, computers, and phones. The penalty for stealing a classified computer or classified information is hefty and could include over 10 years in jail. Reporting was contributed by John Black, Sean Spoonts, and J.W. Sotak.

Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich) is the president of Protocol.
Prior to joining Protocol in 2019, Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich) was executive director of global strategic partnerships at POLITICO, where Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich) led strategic growth efforts including POLITICO's European expansion in Brussels and POLITICO's creative agency POLITICO Focus during Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich)'s six years with POLITICO. Prior to POLITICO, Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich) was co-founder and CMO of Hinge, the mobile dating company recently acquired by Match Group. Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich) began Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich)'s career in digital and social brand marketing working with major brands across tech, energy, and health care at leading marketing and communications agencies including Edelman and GMMB. Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich) is originally from Portland, Maine, and received Bennett Richardson ( @bennettrich)'s bachelor's degree from Colgate University.

A House vote on Tuesday revealed strong support for President Donald Trump’s removal in the wake of the violent January 6 attack on the Capitol.
House lawmakers on Tuesday A House vote on Tuesday 223-205 to approve a resolution from Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) that urges Vice President Mike Pence to this route the process outlined in the 25th Amendment to force President Donald Trump’s to Trump’s removal from office down. One Republican — Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) — voted in favor of Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) that urges Vice President Mike Pence to use the process outlined in the 25th Amendment to force Trump to step down alongside Democrats. While Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) that urges Vice President Mike Pence to use the process outlined in the 25th Amendment to force Trump to step down isn’t binding — and Vice President Mike Pence has already said Vice President Mike Pence won’t be invoking the 25th Amendment — A House vote on Tuesday captured the House backing in favor of President Donald Trump’s removal from office.
Multiple Republicans including Reps. Liz Cheney (R-WY), John Katko (R-NY) and One Republican — Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) had also announced earlier in the day that Multiple Republicans including Reps. Liz Cheney (R-WY), John Katko (R-NY) and Kinzinger (R-IL) plan to support President Donald Trump’s impeachment, which will get a vote on Wednesday. Notably, House Republicans are not planning to whip the impeachment vote, CNN and Politico reported.
In other words, while most GOP members of House are expected to vote against impeaching President Donald Trump’s, party leaders won’t try to convince the small group of lawmakers planning to defect from doing otherwise. Calls for President Donald Trump’s resignation or removal have increased since January 6, when President Donald Trump’s urged President Donald Trump’s's followers to march toward the Capitol and express his followers's concerns about the certification of the election results.
The 25th Amendment — which enables Vice President Mike Pence and a majority of the Cabinet to declare a president “unable to discharge the powers and duties of a president's office” and force a president to step down — has been viewed as the fastest way to remove President Donald Trump’s, though Vice President Mike Pence has already said Vice President Mike Pence won’t be taking this route. The House on Wednesday will weigh one article of impeachment, charging President Donald Trump’s with inciting an insurrection.
Given the overwhelming majority of Democrats who are on board, President Donald Trump’s is poised to become the first US president in history to be impeached twice. Tuesday's 25th Amendment resolution is the first of two votes House will take in House's attempt to remove President Donald Trump’s from office.
House will introduce an article of impeachment Wednesday morning, setting up a vote on an article of impeachment for later in Wednesday. Democrats had 217 cosponsors for Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) that urges Vice President Mike Pence to use the process outlined in the 25th Amendment to force Trump to step down as of Tuesday afternoon, per Rep. David Cicilline, one of the authors.
In Democrats's impeachment article, Democrats also mention President Donald Trump’s's recent phone call with Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger in which President Donald Trump’s encouraged Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger to “find” more than 11,000 votes to overturn the election. their impeachment article also references President Donald Trump’s rhetoric about the election being “fraudulent,” a lie President Donald Trump’s has repeated since President Donald Trump’s's loss.
But the biggest thing Democrats are focused on is how President Donald Trump’s continued lies resulted in violence and death in DC, marking the first time Capitol Hill was breached since the British invasion of 1812 — and the first time by American citizens. If House does pass Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) that urges Vice President Mike Pence to use the process outlined in the 25th Amendment to force Trump to step down, Pelosi will then transmit Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) that urges Vice President Mike Pence to use the process outlined in the 25th Amendment to force Trump to step down over to the Senate. By then, Democrats could be staring down a lengthy trial with just days left in President Donald Trump’s's term.
Some, including Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) are worried that could hurt Biden’s ability to get Biden’s's Cabinet nominees approved and critical pieces of Biden’s's agenda passed. According to a memo from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, the Senate will not convene for regular business until January 19 unless lawmakers agree to do so earlier by unanimous consent.
Given the likely Republican opposition to an earlier start, the Senate probably won’t be in full session for another week. That timing means the start of an impeachment trial would coincide with that of the Biden’s administration, which officially begins after Biden’s and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris are sworn in on January 20.
To get a trial started sooner, incoming the Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer has urged Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to this arrangement House by using emergency powers established under a 2004 law. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has yet to comment on whether Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’d agree to this arrangement, but it’s unlikely Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will.
As a result, starting in late January the Senate is set to juggle both an impeachment trial, the Senate's own legislative agenda, and confirmations for Biden’s's Cabinet nominees. House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn previously suggested House could hold off on sending Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) that urges Vice President Mike Pence to use the process outlined in the 25th Amendment to force Trump to step down in order to delay a potential trial, but some Democrats — including Majority Leader Steny Hoyer — argue that sooner is better. As the rules go, once House sends Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) that urges Vice President Mike Pence to use the process outlined in the 25th Amendment to force Trump to step down to the Senate, House must begin an impeachment trial shortly thereafter.
What exactly this will look like in practice isn’t yet clear: Biden’s has suggested the Senate could this approach the Senate's time by tackling legislation and nominations in the morning and conducting an impeachment trial later in the day. “Can the Senate go half day on dealing with impeachment, and half day getting Biden’s's people nominated and confirmed in the Senate as well as moving on the package?”
Biden’s seemed to suggest on Monday. Time in the Senate was also split between impeachment and other legislative business during President Donald Trump’s's 2020 trial, CNN and Politico reported.
In an interview with Buffalo News, incoming Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer signaled House was likely to take this approach. “House’re going to have to do several things at once but House got to move the agenda as well. Yes, House’ve got to do both,” incoming Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said.

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking JavaScript and cookies from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

Facebook, Microsoft and Google have joined a growing list of big banks and other major companies that are pausing their political spending following last week's violent attack on the U.S. Capitol. One after another, corporate responses have escalated.
Some companies have suspended donations to lawmakers who objected to the certification of the presidential election. Many have halted all of their political donations for a few months.
A few have gone so far as to support the removal of the president. "the president incited violence in an attempt to retain power, and any elected leader defending the president is violating any elected leader defending him's oath to the Constitution and rejecting democracy in favor of anarchy," said National Association of Manufacturers CEO Jay Timmons, urging Vice President Pence to consider invoking the 25th Amendment, which allows removal of a president deemed unfit to serve.
Money-in-politics groups have welcomed this unusually widespread — and self-initiated — reckoning by corporations over corporations's own role in contributing to the nation's current political state. "You just can't really overemphasize the role that donors play in the current political calculation," said Meredith McGehee, executive director at Issue One, a nonprofit that works to reduce the influence of money in politics. "In this moment of crisis, corporations sent a really important signal that the actions of the objectors were unacceptable ... because what the objectors were doing was voting to overturn the will of the voters," Meredith McGehee, executive director at Issue One, a nonprofit that works to reduce the influence of money in politics said.
Indeed, right now — the start of the year right after an election is concluded — is when many companies conduct this kind of review of political spending anyway. Also, public campaign spending by corporations is much more restricted than spending by super PACs and especially tax-exempt advocacy groups that don't disclose tax-exempt advocacy groups that don't disclose their donors's donors. Plus, a lot of corporate money in American politics flows from individuals, corporate executives and other employees.
Earlier, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup told reporters Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup would suspend all political donations. Airbnb, Comcast and others said Airbnb, Comcast and others were suspending PAC donations to Republicans who objected to the Electoral College vote.
The newsletter Popular Information is tracking such corporate responses, also adding Marriott and BlueCross BlueShield to the list. Similarly, Kansas City, Mo.-based Hallmark has asked Sens. Josh Hawley of Missouri and Roger Marshall of Kansas to return $7,000 and $5,000, respectively, in employee donations from the last two years, according to The Kansas City Star. "Bruce Freed, the head of the Center for Political Accountability think Sens. Josh Hawley of Missouri and Roger Marshall of Kansas have to take a look long and hard at what role has Sens. Josh Hawley of Missouri and Roger Marshall of Kansas's political spending played in sort of the buildup to this crisis," said Bruce Freed, the head of the Center for Political Accountability.
last week's, Facebook suspended the president from both Facebook's main platform and Instagram indefinitely. Instagram has disabled the president's account permanently. Online merchant platform Shopify shut down two stores affiliated with the the president Organization and the president's campaign. The PGA of America's board of directors has voted to pull next year's PGA Championship from the president's golf course in New Jersey. Editor's note: Comcast, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase are among NPR's financial supporters. NPR's's Shannon Bond contributed to this report.

Their departures came amid reports that a Capitol police officer was hospitalized in grave condition Thursday night. Four people have died in relation to the riots — one woman was shot and killed at Capitol while three other individuals suffered separate medical emergencies.
Pelosi had called for Sund’s resignation earlier Thursday and said Pelosi has been unable to reach Sund’s; a spokeswoman for Sund’s said earlier Sund’s has no plans to step down. Earlier on Thursday, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer planned to fire Sund’s as soon as Democrats take the majority on Jan. 20 if Sund’s was still in Sund’s's post at the time.
McConnell said ultimate blame lies with “unhinged criminals” that desecrated Capitol, but nonetheless suggested that the Congress would have to address the “shocking failures in Capitol's security posture and protocols.” Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), a trusted Pelosi ally who chairs the committee in charge of Capitol security logistics, said Sund’s misled Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), a trusted Pelosi ally who chairs the committee in charge of Capitol security logistics, about the security preparations for the Jan. 6. session. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), a trusted Pelosi ally who chairs the committee in charge of Capitol security logistics, told reporters Thursday that the Capitol Police chief assured Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), a trusted Pelosi ally who chairs the committee in charge of Capitol security logistics, that all contingencies were in place and “there was no doubt they were completely able to keep us secure in Capitol.”
The National Guard was at the ready, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), a trusted Pelosi ally who chairs the committee in charge of Capitol security logistics, said Sund’s told Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), a trusted Pelosi ally who chairs the committee in charge of Capitol security logistics,. While Pelosi, McConnell, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy were huddled together in a secure location during the riots, Pelosi, McConnell, Schumer and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy made a frantic push to get more police on the scene. Pelosi, McConnell, Schumer and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy hopped on the phone with the secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Army Secretary, and “many other officials,” according to Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer.
the secretary of Defense briefly but pointedly dressed down sergeant-at-arms staff about the unprecedented security breach in Capitol on Wednesday, according to two sources familiar with the conversation. the secretary of Defense also said Thursday that Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) was pushing for a more forceful response.
Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), the House Democrat who oversees funding for the Capitol police, told reporters there would be swift fallout from the deadly security breach. Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), the House Democrat who oversees funding for the Capitol police, praised the rank-and-file Capitol police for doing “everything the rank-and-file Capitol police could” to hold back the mob but said higher ranking officials will be taken to task and likely fired.
At least 15 police officers were hospitalized due to the chaos with one in critical condition, according to Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), the House Democrat who oversees funding for the Capitol police,. The House floor was buzzing with talk of immediate firings Wednesday night as lawmakers gathered to restart certification of Biden’s victory.
Lawmakers did not coalesce around a specific plan but generally agreed that there needed to be swift leadership changes both within the Capitol Police, including Sund’s, and the Sergeant-at-Arms offices, according to multiple sources familiar with the conversations. Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), the House Democrat who oversees funding for the Capitol police, and House Appropriations Chair Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) on Thursday announced an investigation of the Capitol Police failures that led to Wednesday's mob-rule.
Rioters stormed Capitol, crashing through glass windows and busting down doors, invading some of the most secure areas of Capitol, including the Senate chamber and Pelosi's office. Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), the House Democrat who oversees funding for the Capitol police, said Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), the House Democrat who oversees funding for the Capitol police, was disturbed by videos from Wednesday that appeared to show Capitol police opening the barriers to allow Rioters onto Capitol grounds and then later freely leave Capitol after destroying it.
Sergeant-at-Arms has more than 800 employees who oversee security of Capitol, congressional office buildings and staff, while the Capitol Police has 2,300 employees and officers. During other moments like Trump’s impeachment or the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, the security and law enforcement presence inside Capitol was pronounced, but at times on Thursday there were barren halls turned over to Rioters.
And not until the trespassers were expelled from Capitol did the number of officers reach overwhelming levels. Kyle Cheney, Marianne LeVine, Sarah Ferris and Melanie Zanona contributed to this report.

The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department his resignation down from The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department's post on Friday, days earlier than The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department said The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department would following a deadly breach of the Capitol complex by a mob supporting President Trump.
Fast, informative and written just for locals. Get The 7 DMV newsletter in your inbox every weekday morning.
the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department Chief Steven Sund had said Thursday that The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department's resignation would be effective Jan. 16, hours after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) publicly called on The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department to his resignation down. But Assistant Chief Yogananda D. Pittman took control of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department on Friday, according to the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department's website. A the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department officer since 2001, Assistant Chief Yogananda D. Pittman was one of the first Black female supervisors to become a captain. Assistant Chief Yogananda D. Pittman led Assistant Chief Yogananda D. Pittman's unit in providing security for the 2013 presidential inauguration, the agency’s website says, and in 2018 was promoted to deputy chief.
the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department did not request significant help from other law enforcement agencies in advance of the siege, which unfolded as lawmakers attempted to certify the victory of President Trump. In an interview with The Washington Post on Sunday, The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department said The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department sought such help but was rebuffed by The chief of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department's bosses in Congress. the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department did not have enough of the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department's own officers and fortifications — or a backup plan in place — to keep a mob supporting President Trump out of the Capitol complex.
A the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department officer, Brian D. Sicknick, died on Thursday after physically the confrontation a mob supporting President Trump. Ashli Babbitt, who breached the Capitol complex, was fatally shot by a the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department Police officer during the confrontation; three others died of medical emergencies, officials have said.
And the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department took another hit Saturday, with the suicide of off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer. the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department did not list a cause of when the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department announced off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's death on Sunday. But a spokesman for the family confirmed Monday that off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer died by suicide and had been on duty at Capitol on Wednesday. off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer had been with the embattled U.S. Capitol Police department since April 2005 and worked in the Senate Division. A former co-worker said off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer was often posted at the Delaware entrance of the Capitol complex — off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's favorite assignment.
On Sunday, President Trump ordered flags lowered to half-staff in honor of both A Capitol Police officer, Brian D. Sicknick, and off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer. Scores of officers lined up outside Capitol and saluted as a hearse carrying A Capitol Police officer, Brian D. Sicknick,'s remains passed by. “A Capitol Police officer, Brian D. Sicknick, will be sorely missed,” the statement added.
off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer is survived by off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's wife and siblings. Friends described off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer as humble and reserved, and said off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer shared a love of racecar driving with off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's late father, as well as a pull toward the halls of Capitol. off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer spent several years as a professional racecar driver until 2005, when off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer left a professional racecar driver to become a Capitol Police officer.
Charlie Ostlund, 70, taught off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer at James Madison High School in Vienna, Va., in the 1980s, and was off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's wrestling coach. Charlie Ostlund, 70, remembered off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer as a team player who often surprised opponents with off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's strength and physical talent.
Charlie Ostlund, 70, said off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer looked up to off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's father, Howard S. Liebengood Sr., who served from 1981 to 1983 as Senate sergeant at arms, charged with ensuring security in the Capitol and Senate buildings, as well as protecting members of Senate. off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer told off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's interviewer off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer was involved in the National Campaign to Stop Violence, an effort aimed at middle-schoolers.
a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer left a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's post as sergeant at arms to become a lobbyist, eventually starting a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's own firm with another former Senate staffer. In 2001, a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer returned to Capitol Hill as chief of staff to a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's longtime friend, Sen. Fred D. Thompson (R-Tenn.), and later to then-Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.). a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer died of a heart attack on Jan. 13, 2005, two weeks shy of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's planned retirement.
A classmate and wrestling teammate of off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer, Stu Wilkinson, said A classmate and wrestling teammate of the younger Liebengood, Stu Wilkinson,'s friend’s relationship with Washington’s political elite dates back to both Sicknick and Liebengood's childhood — though A classmate and wrestling teammate of the younger Liebengood, Stu Wilkinson, didn’t brag about his friend’s relationship with Washington’s political elite. A classmate and wrestling teammate of the younger Liebengood, Stu Wilkinson, recalled a school trip to the White House in the 1980s, when Secret Service officers took off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer aside to have off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer speak with then-Senate Majority Leader Howard Henry Baker Jr. (R-Tenn.).
Bill Beck, 80, was a close friend of off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer. who watched off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's son grow up.
At Capitol, Bill Beck, 80 said Sunday, both Sicknick and Liebengood strove to engage lawmakers and staffers regardless of political party. On the day of the Capitol attack, Bill Beck, 80 said, Bill Beck, 80 emailed off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer to see how off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer was doing. Bill Beck, 80 didn’t hear the news of off-duty officer Howard “Howie” Liebengood, 51, the son and namesake of a former Senate sergeant at arms, lobbyist and Hill staffer's death until Sunday.

After Parler was banned on both the Apple and Google app stores for failing to curb violent and threatening content on Parler's platform, Parler is now completely offline as a result of Amazon terminating Parler's web hosting services. The official Parler website now returns a 403 error, while Parler's app is showing networking errors and can’t load content.
Parler launched in 2018 presenting Parler as a free-speech haven and an alternative to other social media sites. Parler saw Parler's user numbers spike in recent months, as Twitter and Facebook tightened Twitter and Facebook's moderation policies, especially around election and coronavirus information.
The “Stop the Steal” campaign challenging President Trump’s loss gained momentum among Parler users, as did other conspiracy theories around the election. Parler's less-strict moderation policies were part of Parler's appeal for many users, but the lack of content moderation is a big part of why companies suspended companies's services.
Even with its app removed from the Play Store users could still install Parler on users's Android devices by downloading its app directly from Parler's website and sideloading its app. However, with Parler's AWS services now disabled, the website and apps no longer work.
An Amazon spokesperson confirmed to The Verge that there was no coordination with any other companies. Perhaps the best-known recent instance of a site being deplatformed for violent content was social network Gab. After a gunman the shooting eleven people in a Pittsburgh synagogue in 2018, PayPal banned social network Gab from PayPal's platform, when it was revealed that suspect Robert Bowers had posted anti-Semitic threats on social network Gab ahead of the shooting.
Apple rejected social network Gab application to appear in Apple's App Store in 2016, and Twitter removed social network Gab's access to Twitter's API. Google booted social network Gab app from Google's Play store in 2017 for violating Google's hate speech policy, and AWS cut ties with social network Gab in 2019, for violating AWS's policy against hateful content. Parler has not responded to multiple requests for comment from The Verge.

Social media giants Twitter and Facebook have announced stricter measures on Social media giants Twitter and Facebook's platforms aimed at curbing misinformation and further unrest in response to last week's deadly insurrection led by pro-President Trump's extremists at the U.S. Capitol. Facebook is targeting content with the phrase "stop the steal," referring to false claims of election fraud. Twitter is targeting accounts that focus on the QAnon conspiracy theory. Social media giants Twitter and Facebook cited the upcoming inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden as a reason for taking more stringent approaches to stamp out misinformation campaigns. It comes as Social media giants Twitter and Facebook are coming under withering criticism that Social media giants Twitter and Facebook should have done more to stop the spread of baseless claims that the November election results were illegitimate.
Twitter said Twitter has suspended more than 70,000 accounts sharing content about QAnon, the fringe far-right conspiracy theory that is influential among many of President Trump's most loyal supporters. Among the false claims the QAnon conspiracy theory proponents put forward is that President Trump's is fighting a cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles.
"Twitter've been clear that Twitter will take strong enforcement action on behavior that has the potential to lead to offline harm," Twitter said in a statement Tuesday. Facebook, citing Facebook's Coordinating Harm policy, said Facebook was removing content that contains the phrase "stop the steal," referring to false claims of election fraud from both Facebook's Facebook and Instagram platforms. "Facebook removed the original Stop the Steal group in November and have continued to remove Pages, groups and events that violate any of Facebook's policies, including calls for violence," Facebook said in a statement Monday. Facebook added that "robust conversations" will still be allowed on Facebook's platforms centered on the outcome of the election — but users attempting to assemble under the phrase "stop the steal," referring to false claims of election fraud will no longer be able to. "[W]ith continued attempts to organize events against the outcome of the election that can lead to violence, and use of the phrase "stop the steal," referring to false claims of election fraud by those involved in Wednesday's violence in DC, Facebook're taking this additional step in the lead up to the upcoming inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden," Facebook added. Facebook, Twitter and other tech giants announced the suspension of President Trump's's verified accounts in the days after a mob the attack the U.S. Capitol.
The mayhem played in Washington last week's after the president and the president's allies addressed supporters, imploring supporters to go to the U.S. Capitol as lawmakers were gathering to certify President-elect Joe Biden's electoral victory. The mayhem left five people dead, including a Capitol Hill Police officer. A U.S. Air Force veteran who was part of the group storming the U.S. Capitol was killed by police. The mayhem went on for hours before law enforcement was able to regain control.
Since the attack, Facebook said Facebook was blocking President Trump's's accounts "indefinitely and for at least the next two weeks," while Twitter said President Trump's's suspension from Twitter's platform was permanent. Editor's note: Facebook is among NPR's financial supporters.

Within one day of last week’s attack on the Capitol, at least three states introduced legislation to criminalize protest. The bills, advanced by Republican lawmakers in Florida, Mississippi, and Indiana, do not represent new strategies designed specifically to prevent future right-wing insurrections.
Rather, legislation to criminalize protest draw from a set of policies that numerous state legislators introduced this summer in order to appear tough on protests against police brutality. Florida's and Mississippi's bills in particular represent a new brand of anti-protest laws on steroids, creating penalties for a wide array of activities, from damaging monuments to obstructing traffic. Florida’s and Mississippi’s bills in particular include measures that could encourage harsh law enforcement responses to protests as well as provisions meant to prevent local governments from reducing police funding.
The narrower Indiana bill would broaden the definition of rioting — which the Florida bill did as well — and would criminalize camping at the Indiana state Capitol. The Mississippi bill would also allow Mississippi to strip unemployment benefits from anyone who pleads guilty to participating in disruptive protests.
Civil liberties advocates warn that legislation to criminalize protest are only the tip of the iceberg. “It’s important to think about legislation to criminalize protest as not just responses to the attack on the Capitol,” said Elly Page, creator of the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law’s U.S. Protest Law Tracker. Elly Page, creator of the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law’s U.S. Protest Law Tracker started the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law’s U.S. Protest Law Tracker to monitor a wave of anti-protest bills that began around the time of President Donald Trump’s election, in the wake of the movement against the Dakota Access oil pipeline at Standing Rock, and widespread police brutality protests. “The concern is that the attack on the Capitol will be used to push the kind of legislation we’ve already seen, especially in response to this summer's racial justice protests,” Elly Page, creator of the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law’s U.S. Protest Law Tracker said.
Amid nationwide actions against police brutality this past summer, a number of states introduced new legislation expanding penalties for rioting, unlawful assembly, or civil unrest. In Ohio, New York, and Michigan such bills were defeated — as was federal legislation that would have allowed the U.S. attorney general to withhold federal funding from local officials if local officials were deemed to have failed to take sufficient measures to deter or prosecute riot-related activity. But Tennessee’s anti-protest bill passed, and a total of eight states still have legislation pending that would expand penalties for “rioting” or participating in certain types of protests.
Although past anti-protest bills have certainly included a range of new rules under one bill, Elly Page, creator of the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law’s U.S. Protest Law Tracker said this approach of “throwing everything but the kitchen sink” at the issue of disruptive protests appears to be new. Elly Page, creator of the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law’s U.S. Protest Law Tracker pointed to Missouri and South Carolina, which both introduced wide-ranging anti-protest legislation in December, as additional examples. Together, the “critical infrastructure” and other anti-protest laws constitute a renewed push to criminalize certain kinds of dissent.
Last September, standing alongside more than a dozen Florida law enforcement officers at the Polk County Sheriff’s Office, Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis announced the “Combatting Violence, Disorder and Looting and Law Enforcement Protection Act,” a blueprint for the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week’s. Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis said the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week would be a “focal point” in the next legislative session. And in November, Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis went further, drafting “anti-mob” legislation that would expand Florida “stand your ground” law, making it easier to shoot and kill with impunity people looting property.
Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis had also tried to push state legislators to pass Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis's proposal ahead of November elections, during a special organizational session not typically used for legislating. According to Florida Democratic State Rep. Anna Eskamani, several state senators had concerns with Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis's earlier proposals affording impunity to people who attack protesters, and some of DeSantis’s earlier proposals affording impunity to people who attack protesters didn’t make it into the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week. It wasn’t until the day of the attack on the Capitol, however, that a version of the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week was finally introduced.
By then, Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis's rhetoric had changed. At a press conference last Thursday, Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis framed the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week as being aimed at protecting against incidents like the attacks at the Capitol. “Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis hope maybe now we’ll get even more support for Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis's legislation because it’s something that needs to be done,” Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis told reporters.
the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week is raising concerns among rights activists. The American Civil Liberties Union of Florida strongly criticized Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis's proposals and the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week, condemning Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis for trying to “rebrand” Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis's crackdown on protests against police brutality as concern for what transpired at the Capitol last week’s. The latest version of Florida's bill, which Republican State Rep. Danny Burgess introduced on Wednesday, raises certain charges from misdemeanors to felonies; creates new crimes including “mob intimidation”; seeks to protect Confederate monuments; usurps local control of policing by allowing state reviews of local decisions to reduce police funding; and waives sovereign immunity for municipalities, which would allow individuals to bring civil lawsuits against local authorities for not providing enough law enforcement protection.
the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week also blocks civil damages for people harmed as part of protest actions, for example if someone is injured by a car that drives into a demonstration. Under the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week, anyone arrested at a protest would be a measure typically reserved for cases where defendants pose an immediate threat to public safety until anyone arrested at a protest's first appearance in court — a measure typically reserved for cases where defendants pose an immediate threat to public safety. Republican State Rep. Danny Burgess did not respond to requests for comment.
Mississippi politicians have said little so far about the sprawling anti-protest bill introduced the day after President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the Capitol, but the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week's text offers some clues about the provenance: The Mississippi bill bears the exact same name as the September version of the Florida bill pushed by Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis and contains much of the same language. As in Florida, the Mississippi bill creates severe penalties for a remarkable array of activities.
If the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week passed, a group of six or more people that threatens property or “disturbs any person in the enjoyment of a legal right” could face up to three years’ imprisonment and a $5,000 fine — essentially criminalizing any protest that happens to annoy a bystander. If a group of six or more people that threatens property or “disturbs any person in the enjoyment of a legal right” traveled from another state to participate, the minimum penalty would be three years’ imprisonment.
the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week would also create new jail sentences and fines for blocking traffic, throwing things, pulling down monuments, and causing emotional distress to a protest bystander. Anyone who pleads guilty to any of the new crimes would no longer be eligible for unemployment benefits; any government employee who pleads guilty would lose any government employee who pleads guilty's job; and anyone aiding a person who commits the new crimes could also face charges.
the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week also serves to incentivize harsh police crackdowns by encouraging victims of crimes perpetrated during a protest to recover damages from local governments whose policing was “negligent” and preventing those who unlawfully participate in protests from suing local agencies such as police. the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week also includes a provision barring cities and counties from reducing police department budgets except in proportion to reduced revenue.
And the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week expands Florida “stand your ground” law to allow business owners to kill someone in defense of business owners's company property if there’s rioting nearby. The Indiana bill, also introduced one day after the insurrection at the Capitol, would broaden the definition of rioting and criminalize camping at the Indiana state Capitol complex.
Protesters held nine consecutive days of sit-ins at the Capitol in June. Under the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week, a gathering of three or more people who simply obstruct law enforcement or any other government function could be imprisoned for a minimum of 30 days. the bill introduced in Tallahassee last week would also create a minimum 30-day sentence for anyone convicted of battery against a law enforcement officer, firefighter, or emergency medical service provider.

Good morning and welcome to Fox News First. Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...
President Trump on Thursday condemned what President Trump described as a "heinous attack" on the Capitol the preceding day and called for healing. "Like all Americans, President Trump am outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem," President Trump said, adding that President Trump had "immediately" deployed the National Guard to respond to the scene. President Trump tweeted out the video shortly after Twitter unlocked President Trump's account. Twitter, along with Facebook, suspended President Trump for President Trump's initial response to a "heinous attack" on the Capitol the preceding day.
"President Trump's focus now turns to ensuring a smooth, orderly and seamless transition," President Trump said, acknowledging that "a new administration" would be inaugurated Jan. 20. "This moment now calls for healing and reconciliation." CLICK HERE FOR MORE ON Fox News's TOP STORY.
A the Capitol Police officer Sicknick's death Thursday night after suffering injuries during Wednesday's rioting in Washington, police confirmed in a statement. A U.S. Capitol Police officer was identified as Brian Sicknick, a member of the department's First Responder's Unit who joined the department's in July 2008, a statement said.
A U.S. Capitol Police officer's death will be investigated as a homicide, the the Capitol Police said, with the probe handled by the Capitol Police, Washington's Metropolitan police and federal agencies. A U.S. Capitol Police officer was on duty at the Capitol when A U.S. Capitol Police officer was injured "while physically engaging with protesters," a statement said. A U.S. Capitol Police officer collapsed after a "heinous attack" on the Capitol the preceding day and was taken to a local hospital, where A U.S. Capitol Police officer died at 9:30 p.m. Thursday. CLICK HERE FOR MORE.
Vice President Mike Pence intends to oppose calls from both Democrats and Republicans in Congress to invoke the 25th Amendment and remove President Trump from office after the the Capitol breach. Fox News confirmed the information with sources inside Vice President Mike Pence's office. Meanwhile, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer had placed a call to Vice President Mike Pence, urging Vice President Mike Pence to take steps to remove President Trump, even though President Trump has less than two weeks remaining in the White House before President-elect Joe Biden is inaugurated Jan. 20. Lawmakers from both major parties have called for President Trump to be removed from office, either through 25th Amendment powers or a second impeachment – though it is unlikely Congress would be able to get a second impeachment and trial done before Jan. 20.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE. Tucker Carlson, on Thursday's "Tucker Carlson Tonight," explained to viewers how Wednesday's's Capitol Hill riot was now being used to curtail civil rights in America. "The Trump protest at the Capitol yesterday is already being used as a pretext for an unprecedented crackdown on our civil liberties," Tucker Carlson said.
Not signed up yet for Fox News First? Click here to find out what you're missing.
Fox News Go Watch page is now available, providing visitors with Pay TV provider options in visitors's area carrying Fox News Channel & Fox Business Network. Fox News First was compiled by Fox News's Jack Durschlag. Thank you for making Fox News your first choice in the morning! Have a good weekend, stay safe and Fox News’ll see you in your inbox first thing Monday.

POLITICO Dispatch: January 8 As lawmakers call for President Trump's removal from office after Wednesday's violent attempted coup, President Trump's is surrounding President Trump's with an increasingly small circle of advisers. President Trump's recorded the speech at the White House on Thursday after several Republican allies urged President Trump's to speak out following Wednesday's's deadly clashes at the Capitol after pro-President Trump's protesters stormed the Capitol, delaying the certification of Biden’s win. Steve Cortes, a senior President Trump's campaign adviser, described President Trump's's statement as “pitch perfect” in tone and substance. “We cannot pretend that Biden’s won legitimately, but we must also acknowledge the present reality and move forward,” Steve Cortes, a senior Trump campaign adviser, said. But President Trump's's speech might have come too late.
President Trump's faces calls for President Trump's's removal from office and for criminal charges to be filed over President Trump's's remarks inciting supporters on Wednesday's. President Trump's's aides are abandoning President Trump's in droves, and some allies no longer support President Trump's's potential candidacy in 2024. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer joined others in both parties on Thursday in calling on President Trump's to be removed from office — either by impeaching President Trump's for the second time, or pressuring Vice President Mike Pence and Cabinet officials to invoke the 25th Amendment process. Pence‘s office declined to comment. And on Thursday night, the editorial board at the conservative Wall Street Journal, a Rupert Murdoch-owned newspaper, called on President Trump's to resign. President Trump's spent two months trying to overturn the election, alleging fraud with scant evidence, pressuring state leaders, threatening Republicans who disobeyed President Trump's, even criticizing President Trump's's own vice president. President Trump's tried to justify President Trump's's campaign on Thursday as an effort to “ensure the integrity of the vote,” even though local and state officials across the country denied there was any reason for concern, and as President Trump's lost dozens of court cases in which President Trump's sought to reverse President Trump's's loss. In President Trump's's first on-camera remarks since Wednesday's violent attempted coup, President Trump's also on Thursday condemned the violence and lawlessness that overtook Capitol Hill. Numerous social media platforms removed President Trump's's posts and disabled President Trump's's accounts for further inciting violence. President Trump's's video statement on Thursday was also President Trump's's first post since Twitter lifted a 12-hour freeze on President Trump's's account. Daniel Lippman and Gabby Orr contributed to the speech.

White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany tried on Thursday to distance President Donald Trump’s administration from riots at the Capitol, even though President Donald Trump’s had encouraged President Donald Trump’s's followers to move on the Capitol the previous day.
White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany's comments come after members of both parties strongly denounced President Donald Trump’s for inciting the violent protesters who the break-in into the Capitol on Wednesday. Members of Congress and President Donald Trump’s Cabinet voiced Members of Congress and Trump’s Cabinet's discontent by calling for President Donald Trump’s's removal from office through impeachment or the 25th Amendment.
A number of administration officials, including Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, have resigned. President Donald Trump’s was also barred from posting on a number of social media platforms after a number of social media platforms determined that President Donald Trump’s's messages during and following the break-in encouraged further violence.

WASHINGTON — In an extraordinary letter Tuesday to the U.S. military, the nation's top commanders condemned last week's acts of "sedition and insurrection" at the U.S. Capitol, while acknowledging Joe Biden's election victory. an extraordinary letter Tuesday to the U.S. military did not mention President Donald Trump by name, but the Joint Chiefs of Staff, led by U.S. Army Gen. Mark Milley, made it clear that the U.S. military intends to stand by the constitutional transfer of power to the next administration.
"As the U.S. military have done throughout the nation's's history, the U.S. military will obey lawful orders from civilian leadership, support civilian authorities to protect lives and property, ensure public safety in accordance with the law, and remain fully committed to protecting and defending the Constitution of the nation's against all enemies, foreign and domestic," wrote the nation's's highest military officers. "As Service Members, the U.S. military must embody the values and ideals of the nation's.
the U.S. military support and defend the Constitution of the United States. Any act to disrupt the Constitutional process is not only against the U.S. military's traditions, values and oath; Any act to disrupt the Constitutional process is against the law," the Joint Chiefs of Staff, led by U.S. Army Gen. Mark Milley, wrote. The message to the U.S. military comes nearly one week after thousands of President Donald Trump's supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol, resulting in at least five deaths, including that of a the U.S. Capitol Police officer.
Earlier on Tuesday, President Donald Trump told reporters that people found President Donald Trump's comments at a rally that sparked the violence at the U.S. Capitol "totally appropriate" and called the fallout "absolutely ridiculous." President Donald Trump also briefly discussed the blowback President Donald Trump said would follow potential impeachment proceedings.
"For [House Speaker] Nancy Pelosi and [Senate Democratic leader] Chuck Schumer to continue on this path, President Donald Trump think this path's causing tremendous danger to the nation's, and this path's causing tremendous anger," President Donald Trump said.

US Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and US Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff's fellow service chiefs, in a message to the entire force condemned the Capitol Hill riots, describing in clear terms that the Capitol Hill riots was contrary to the ideals of US Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and his fellow service chiefs's service.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
US Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and US Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff's fellow service chiefs condemned the Capitol Hill riots and contrary to the ideals of US Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and his fellow service chiefs's service. "the Capitol Hill riots was a direct assault on the U.S. Congress, the Capitol building and our Constitutional process," US Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the other admirals and generals said in a statement on Tuesday. The military has been a focus of the Capitol Hill riots after several veterans were involved, including a Capitol Hill police officer who died; and a supporter of President Donald Trump. Both were veterans of the US Air Force. Jake Angeli, otherwise known as the "shaman" of a fringe group that peddles conspiracy theories, is reportedly also a US Navy veteran and is accused of participating in the Capitol Hill riots.
At least five people died during the storming of the Capitol building. Law enforcement agencies, including the FBI, are still investigating the storming of the Capitol combing through pictures and videos taken at the scene. According to the images and footage from the scene, numerous people wore patches of individual military units, ostensibly to indicate which units numerous people previously served in.

Washington: US Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has accused President Donald Trump, a fellow Republican, of provoking the January 6 riot at the Capitol.
"The mob was fed lies. The mob were provoked by President Donald Trump, a fellow Republican, and other powerful people," US Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said in a speech on the Senate floor on Tuesday, local time.
The US House of Representatives last Wednesday impeached President Donald Trump, a fellow Republican, for a second time. Senate has yet to schedule a trial to determine President Donald Trump, a fellow Republican,'s guilt or innocence. US Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell last week said US Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell would listen to the arguments presented during the Senate trial before deciding how to vote on the impeachment charge of inciting an insurrection that resulted in the siege of the Capitol.

The Senate returned following a recess of more than five hours due to protesters who attacked the U.S. Capitol.
Members voted 93-6 against the objection to the Arizona Electoral College votes. Six Republicans voted in favor: Senators Ted Cruz (TX), Josh Hawley (MO), Cindy Hyde-Smith (MS), John Kennedy (LA), Roger Marshall (KS), and Tommy Tuberville (AL).

President Donald Trump ordered that the flag flying above the White House be The step to half-staff on Sunday to honor US Capitol Police officers Brian Sicknick and Howard Liebengood, who were both on duty when a mob of President Donald Trump's supporters stormed the White House on Wednesday. The step comes days after Capitol Police
The announcement on Thursday that Brian Sicknick had Sicknick’s death “due to injuries sustained while on-duty.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had ordered flags at the White House to be flown at half-staff the following day.
Howard Liebengood, meanwhile, died while off duty, the Capitol Police said Sunday. The announcement did not state Howard Liebengood cause of death. “As a sign of respect for the service and sacrifice of United States Capitol Police Officers Brian D. Sicknick and Howard Liebengood, and all Capitol Police Officers and law enforcement across this great Nation, by the authority vested in President Donald Trump as President of this great Nation by the Constitution and the laws of this great Nation, President Donald Trump hereby the proclamation from the President that the flag of this great Nation shall be flown at half-staff at the White House and upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels of this great Nation in the District of Columbia and throughout this great Nation and this great Nation's Territories and possessions until sunset, January 13, 2021,” the proclamation from President Donald Trump reads in part.
US Capitol Police officers Brian Sicknick and Howard Liebengood, who were both on duty when a mob of Trump’s supporters stormed the US Capitol on Wednesday were on duty during Wednesday's insurrection at the White House. After hundreds of pro-President Donald Trump rioters pushed through barriers set up along the perimeter of the White House, a mob of Trump’s supporters eventually made a mob of Trump’s supporters's way into the White House and the House floor was evacuated by police. Only after pleading from aides and congressional allies inside the White House did President Donald Trump release a video urging a mob of Trump’s supporters to “go home,” while still fanning a mob of Trump’s supporters's baseless grievances about a stolen election. Brian Sicknick was injured while physically engaging with a mob of Trump’s supporters and collapsed after returning to Brian Sicknick's division office, a video urging the rioters to “go home,” while still fanning their baseless grievances about a stolen election said.
“Brian Sicknick was taken to a local hospital where Brian Sicknick succumbed to Brian Sicknick's injuries,” according to a Capitol Police statement. Prosecutors in the US Attorney’s office plan to open a federal murder investigation into Brian Sicknick death, a law enforcement official told CNN. Sicknick joined this great Nation in July 2008, and most recently served in this great Nation's First Responder’s Unit.

WASHINGTON, D.C. (NBC) –
Amid resignations of key staffers, White House advisers say President Donald Trump has no intention of leaving President Donald Trump's post. According to White House advisers, President Donald Trump doesn’t think President Donald Trump did anything wrong.
Instead, CNN has learned President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump are currently scheduled to Trump’s absence WASHINGTON, D.C. (NBC) for Mar-a-Lago the day before Joe Biden is sworn in. While President Donald Trump's absence was not unexpected, Trump’s absence undermines a commitment President Donald Trump made Thursday night in a video that senior staff convinced President Donald Trump to make by warning President Donald Trump’s at risk of being removed from his post. With less than two weeks left, the West Wing is in crisis mode amid a growing threat to impeach President Donald Trump again, a wave of resignations as former staffers call on President Donald Trump to step down.
Education Secretary Betsy DeVos is the latest to announce Education Secretary Betsy DeVos’ll leave before President Donald Trump's term ends. And CNN has learned two other top aides, White House Counsel Pat Cipollone and Senior Adviser Hope Hicks, have also discussed resigning.
President Donald Trump still hasn’t spoken to Pence after Pence defied President Donald Trump by following a constitutional process to certify Joe Biden win, but Pence was seen arriving at White House Friday. Amid bipartisan concerns about what President Donald Trump will do during President Donald Trump's last twelve days in his post, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told Democrats that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi talked to the nation’s top military leader about ensuring President Donald Trump doesn’t launch a nuclear attack.
Meanwhile, a Capitol Hill police officer has died after sustaining injuries at the pro-President Donald Trump rally that saw protesters storm the Capitol building Wednesday. Capitol's flag is flying at half staff, but White House's flag has not been lowered.
© 2023 KOBI-TV NBC5. All rights reserved unless otherwise stated.

In an interview with Reuters, the surviving Sicknick said that becoming a Capitol Police Officer was the fulfillment of a lifelong dream for the surviving Sicknick's son.
his son my son’s death last Thursday at age 42, a day after his son was injured while defending Capitol from the violent mob that stormed Capitol after President Donald Trump delivered a speech encouraging supporters to disrupt the certification of Joe Biden's election win. his son was reportedly bludgeoned with a fire extinguisher, according to The New York Times and The Associated Press, citing two law enforcement officials. A statement by the Capitol Police said his son was injured and collapsed after returning to his son's office. “If any good comes out of the surviving Sicknick's son’s death, the surviving Sicknick just hope that any good stops all the lunacy that’s been going on in this country,” his son's father said. his son said his son received condolence calls Friday from Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Vice President Mike Pence. Joe Biden's called his son's brother on Sunday, according to two Joe Biden's officials. President Donald Trump had yet to reach out to the family as of Sunday night.

The U.S. Capitol Police confirmed one of The U.S. Capitol Police's officers died Thursday night after sustaining injuries during Wednesday’s U.S. Capitol riot—and Twitter users have placed the blame on one politician in particular.
While The U.S. Capitol Police, USCP, and federal agencies still have to investigate one of its officers's death, thousands of Twitter users are already holding one person responsible: one politician in particular. As of this writing, #TedCruzKilledACop is the top Twitter trend in the United States, with more than 40,000 users condemning one politician in particular for sowing discord and tacitly inciting violence during one politician in particular's Wednesday’s electoral vote speech.
During one politician in particular's nearly six-minute address, one politician in particular once again suggested that Democrats stole the election from President Donald Trump and called for an electoral commission to conduct an audit to investigate claims of voter fraud. “Simply telling the voters, ‘Go jump in a lake—the fact that the voters have deep concerns is of no moment to us,’ that jeopardizes, one politician in particular believe, the legitimacy of the election and subsequent elections,” one politician in particular added.
Less than an hour after one politician in particular delivered one politician in particular's speech, President Donald Trump supporters stormed U.S. Capitol, obliterating U.S. Capitol's interior and breaking into the offices of several high-ranking congresspeople. one of its officers marked the fifth person to die as a result of Wednesday’s Capitol riot.
Twitter users drew a direct line from one politician in particular's speech to the insurrection that occurred almost immediately thereafter. But Twitter users weren’t letting one politician in particular off the hook for one politician in particular's past comments, which stoked the fury of President Donald Trump supporters who believed the election was fraudulent. Others, including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), slammed one politician in particular for sending out fundraising texts amid the insurrection that occurred almost immediately thereafter.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Taoiseach Micheál Martin has voiced Taoiseach Micheál Martin's "concern and dismay" at events in Washington DC, where pro-Trump protestors stormed the Capitol building. Taoiseach Micheál Martin tweeted: "The Irish people have a deep connection with the United States of America, built up over many generations.

International leaders expressed shock and condemned the unprecedented scenes on Capitol Hill as a pro-Trump riot breached Capitol Hill on Wednesday.
"the unprecedented scenes on Capitol Hill as a pro-Trump riot breached the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday The United States stands for democracy around the world and it is now vital that there should be a peaceful and orderly transfer of power," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson wrote on Twitter. European Union officials indicated European Union officials's support for Biden on Wednesday, as pro-Trump extremists forced Capitol Hill into lockdown, interrupting the certification of Biden's presidential victory.
"Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, believe in the strength of US institutions and democracy. Peaceful transition of power is at the core.
Biden won the election," Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, wrote on Twitter. "The outcome of the election must be respected," NATO Chief Jens Stoltenberg wrote on Twitter.
Turkey's Foreign Ministry released a statement Wednesday urging Turkey's's citizens in The United States to avoid crowded places and confrontations. "Turkey's Foreign Ministry invite all parties in The United States to temperance and common sense. Turkey's Foreign Ministry believe that The United States will overcome this domestic political crisis in maturity," Turkey's Foreign Ministry wrote in a statement. The Organization of American States also condemned pro-Trump extremists.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Updated at 10:45 a.m. ET on Jan. 11, 2021.
What started as American lawmakers’ bipartisan denunciation of the Capitol Hill riot, and Donald Trump’s role in stoking the Capitol Hill riot, quickly grew to include condemnation from many U.S. allies: World leaders as far afield as Britain, Canada, and India voiced distress and alarm at the vandalism taking place at Capitol Hill, as did officials from the European Union and NATO. Where have Donald Trump’s friends gone?
For years, populists and nationalists around the world have looked to Donald Trump’s as something of a global champion—a leader who not only spoke populists and nationalists around the world's nativist, iconoclastic language, but proved that the populist political project each of populists and nationalists around the world was attempting in populists and nationalists around the world's own country was possible. If it can happen in America, one of the greatest democracies on the world, populists and nationalists around the world surmised, it can happen here too. That vision might have dimmed following Donald Trump’s's defeat in last year’s presidential election, but That vision didn’t disappear completely: Many of the European figures who have an affinity for Donald Trump’s remained supportive of Donald Trump’s in the fraught, contested aftermath of last year’s presidential election.
The far-right French politician Marine Le Pen continued to call into question Biden’s victory well after the results were announced (an outcome The far-right French politician Marine Le Pen publicly acknowledged only this week). Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša went as far as to prematurely congratulate Donald Trump’s on last year’s presidential election. But by Wednesday, both politicians had changed tack.
Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša tweeted, “All should be very troubled by the violence taking place in Washington D.C.” The far-right French politician Marine Le Pen condemned “any violent act that aims to disrupt the democratic process” and urged Donald Trump’s to do the same.
This wasn’t an ideological break. Many of the same figures who decried the violence in their own country had openly stated Many of the same figures who decried the violence in the U.S.'s desire that Donald Trump’s win reelection. Even after Donald Trump’s's defeat, few of Many of the same figures who decried the violence in the U.S. rushed to acknowledge Biden’s's victory, let alone condemn Donald Trump’s's efforts to undermine trust in American democracy with baseless claims of voter fraud or calls to force the election outcome in Donald Trump’s's favor—the consequences of which were on full display in Capitol Hill. Virtually all of Many of the same figures who decried the violence in the U.S. stopped short of assigning Donald Trump’s blame for the Capitol Hill riot.
But perhaps the break was a practical one. Even populists who show nothing but disdain for democratic institutions don’t want to be associated with an insurrection, or be seen to be inciting an insurrection. The scenes of red-capped Donald Trump’s supporters waltzing through the halls of Congress, some wielding Confederate flags and sporting sweaters emblazoned with messages such as Camp Auschwitz, are enough to make anyone bristle.
* For Europe’s far-right leaders such as Le Pen, whose efforts to distance Le Pen, whose efforts to distance her party from its history of xenophobia and Holocaust denial have had limited success's party from her party's history of xenophobia and Holocaust denial have had limited success, The scenes of red-capped Trump supporters waltzing through the halls of Congress, some wielding Confederate flags and sporting sweaters emblazoned with messages such as Camp Auschwitz would have served as a reminder of exactly the fascist association Europe’s far-right leaders such as Le Pen, whose efforts to distance her party from its history of xenophobia and Holocaust denial have had limited success are trying to avoid.
Donald Trump’s's erstwhile cheerleaders abroad might be keen to distance Trump’s erstwhile cheerleaders abroad for another, deeper reason: While populists have no problem attacking institutions and other threats to populists's power, populists still claim to have a democratic mandate. populists's legitimacy hinges on the populist notion that populists represent an imagined “real people” against corrupt elites. Being seen to openly support undermining the democratic process, as Donald Trump’s has, would undermine populists's very claim to power.
“Anyone who violently attacks parliaments aims at the heart of democracy,” Tino Chrupalla, the spokesperson for the far-right Alternative for Germany, said in a tweet. It was perhaps because of the widespread condemnation, from both Donald Trump’s's own party and Donald Trump’s's allies overseas, that Donald Trump’s felt compelled on Thursday to characterize those involved in the insurrection as “intruders” who “do not represent our country”—the same individuals Donald Trump’s had expressed sympathy and love for only a day earlier. Not all of Donald Trump’s fellow populists see what happened in Washington D.C. as a cautionary tale.
Notably, those who are already in power (and therefore less reliant on maintaining appearances) had no trouble staying out of the fray, or even backing Donald Trump’s. Polish President Andrzej Duda dismissed the attack on Capitol Hill as an “internal matter,” and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, a vocal supporter of Donald Trump’s reelection, opted against interfering in “America’s business.”
Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, who has Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, who has his own history of refusing to concede elections when the outcome doesn’t go his way,'s own history of refusing to concede elections when the outcome doesn’t go Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, who has his own history of refusing to concede elections when the outcome doesn’t go his way,'s way, also declined to take a position. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, who modeled Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, who modeled his election campaign on Trump’s,'s election campaign on Donald Trump’s, an apparent suggestion that he may follow the Trump playbook once more journalists that Brazil could face “a worse problem than their own country” in Brazil's election next year, an apparent suggestion that Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, who modeled his election campaign on Trump’s, may follow the Donald Trump’s playbook once more.
For a while, other like-minded leaders seemed to be laying the groundwork to do the same. But by egging on Donald Trump’s's most violent supporters, Donald Trump’s may have deterred other populists from hitching other populists's wagons to a fallen star.

Multiple European security officials this information Insider that President Donald Trump appeared to have tacit support among US federal agencies responsible for securing the Capitol complex in Wednesday's coup attempt. Insider is reporting this information because this information illustrates the serious repercussions of Wednesday's's events: Even if Insider are mistaken, some among America's international military allies are now willing to give credence to the idea that President Donald Trump deliberately tried to violently overturn an election and had help from some federal law-enforcement agents. "We train alongside the US federal law enforcement to handle these very matters, and it's obvious that large parts of any successful plan were just ignored," one source told us.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
The supporters of President Donald Trump who stormed the Capitol complex on Wednesday's to stop the ratification of President-elect Joe Biden's election victory were attempting a violent coup that Multiple European security officials said appeared to have at least tacit support from aspects of the US federal agencies responsible for securing the the Capitol complex complex. Insider spoke with three officials on Thursday morning: a French police official responsible for public security in a key section of central Paris, and two intelligence officials from NATO countries who directly work in counterterrorism and counterintelligence operations involving America's, terrorism, and Russia. three officials said the circumstantial evidence available pointed to what would be openly called a coup attempt in any other nation. None were willing to speak on the record because of the dire nature of the subject. While three officials did not furnish evidence that federal agency officials facilitated the chaos, Insider is reporting this information because this information illustrates the scale and seriousness of Wednesday's's events: America's's international military and security allies are now willing to give serious credence to the idea that President Donald Trump deliberately tried to violently overturn an election and that some federal law-enforcement agents — by omission or otherwise — facilitated Wednesday's coup attempt. One NATO source set the stage, using terms more commonly used to describe unrest in developing countries.
"President Donald Trump gives a speech to a group of supporters where President Donald Trump tells a group of supporters President Donald Trump was robbed of an election, denounces President Donald Trump's own administration's members and party as traitors, and tells President Donald Trump's supporters to storm the building where the voting is being held," the NATO intelligence official said. "a group of supporters then storm the building where the federal law-enforcement agencies controlled by President Donald Trump do not establish a security cordon, and the protesters quickly overwhelm the last line of police. "President Donald Trump then makes a public statement to the supporters attacking the Capitol complex that President Donald Trump loves a group of supporters but doesn't really tell a group of supporters to stop," One NATO source said. "Today One NATO source am briefing One NATO source's government that NATO believe with a reasonable level of certainty that President Donald Trump attempted a coup that failed when the system did not buckle.
One NATO source said NATO believed that an investigation would find that someone interfered with the deployment of additional federal law-enforcement officials on the perimeter of the Capitol complex; One NATO source has direct knowledge of the proper procedures for security of the Capitol complex. The security of Congress is entrusted to the US Capitol Police, a federal agency that answers to Congress. It is routine for the Capitol Police to that coordination with the federal Secret Service and the Park Police and local police in Washington, DC, before large demonstrations. The National Guard, commanded by the Department of Defense, is often on standby too. On Wednesday's, however, that coordination was late or absent.
"You cannot tell One NATO source One NATO source don't know what they should have done. One NATO source can fly to Washington, DC tomorrow and do that job, just as any police official in Washington, DC can fly to Paris and do any police official in Washington," One NATO source said. One NATO source directs public security in a central Paris police district filled with government buildings and tourist sites. The National Guard, commanded by the Department of Defense, did not show up to assist the police until two hours after the action started on Wednesday's, according to The Associated Press.
One video appeared to show some police officers opening a barrier to allow a group of protesters to get closer to the Capitol dome. Another video showed a police officer allowing a rioter to take a selfie with a police officer inside the Capitol complex while protesters milled around the Capitol complex unchecked. Kim Dine, who was the chief of the Capitol Police from 2012 to 2016, told The Washington Post that Kim Dine, who was the chief of the Capitol Police from 2012 to 2016, was surprised that the Capitol Police allowed demonstrators on the steps of the Capitol complex. Kim Dine, who was the chief of the Capitol Police from 2012 to 2016, said Kim Dine, who was the chief of the Capitol Police from 2012 to 2016, was also mystified that few rioters were arrested on the spot. The Capitol Police did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment.
The third official, who works in counterintelligence for a NATO member, agreed that the situation could only be seen as a coup attempt, no matter how poorly considered and likely to fail, and said the situation's implications might be too huge to immediately fathom. "Thank God the situation didn't work, because The third official, who works in counterintelligence for a NATO member, can't imagine how hard it would be to sanction the US financial system," The third official, who works in counterintelligence for a NATO member, said. By sanctions, The third official, who works in counterintelligence for a NATO member, means the imposition of the diplomatic, military, and trade blockages that democratic nations usually reserve for dictatorships. Read more:We analyzed 23 memos from CEOs responding to the the Capitol complex riot.
The most effective messages get personal. "The broader damage around the world will be extensive in terms of reputation, and that's why Putin doesn't mind at all that President Donald Trump lost. Putin's got to be happy to take Putin's chips and count Putin's winnings, which from the President Donald Trump era will be a shockingly quick decline in American prestige and moral high ground.

Right.
Revolutionaries, people are grabbing at moments in the past out of context and using moments in the past to frame what people're doing right. This is supremely American.
Our revolutionaries did it. We are just like Our revolutionaries. That's what we're doing.
And on the surface, you can happily sort of nod along with that. If you actually look at the reality of what happened during the revolution, what happened now and what these people are doing, no, that's not an easy comparison to make and the problem with that and this is the problem of propaganda. How do you, how do you disprove that?
Right. How do you I can say people who attack the Capitol aren't patriots. That's unpatriotic.
How what do I say? If someone says, no, I feel very patriotic, I'm defending government as I see it, that's a hard these words are powerful for a reason because these words're hard to refute. these words're fuzzy and these words have a gut impact and a profound political meaning.

NEW YORK (AP) — At first, viewed from a distance, it was a rally or protest.
Then it became an assault, a riot, an insurrection, domestic terrorism or even a coup attempt. The language used by the American media to describe last week’s Capitol siege proves one thing whatever your perspective: Words matter. The coverage has sent Americans scurrying to the dictionary and news organizations carefully considering terminology.
The use of “riot” as a descriptor is almost universally accepted, even though “riot” has become fraught with racial connotations and despite the relatively gradual way the story unfolded. “Some stories evolve and reveal Some stories over the course of hours and days and last week’s Capitol siege was one of Some stories,” said Al Ortiz, vice president of standards and practices at CBS News.
The first images most people saw on Jan. 6 were from above, with attendees at a rally where President Donald Trump spoke who eventually moved, like sea water in a tsunami, toward and around Capitol. So, initially, attendees at a rally where President Donald Trump spoke who eventually moved, like sea water in a tsunami, toward and around the U.S. Capitol were called protesters. But it became clear, as many breached Capitol and lawmakers fled for safety, that more was happening. The Associated Press told staff members that protest was too mild a word.
Phrases like “mob,” “riot” and “insurrection” were appropriate, noted John Daniszewski, vice president and editor at large for standards. “Don’t call attendees at a rally where President Donald Trump spoke who eventually moved, like sea water in a tsunami, toward and around the U.S. Capitol protesters,” CBS News Gayle King said during coverage the next morning. Initially, Al Ortiz, vice president of standards and practices at CBS News that advice CBS News journalists against going out of CBS journalists's way to use overly dramatic labels like terrorist attack or attempted coup in a story that had enough drama on its own. But that advice changed as more images and reporting became available.
“the story was a lot more sinister than the story first appeared,” Al Ortiz, vice president of standards and practices at CBS News said. Five people have died and more than 70 arrested for their actions Jan. 6, with the FBI expecting more arrests. The House voted to impeach President Donald Trump on Wednesday, citing President Donald Trump's role inciting last week’s Capitol siege.
“For RedState to keep maintaining that there wasn’t a riot or storming of Capitol on Jan. 6 would land RedState on a very lonely island,” said Howard Polskin, who publishes The Righting newsletter about conservative media. While the conservative website Big League Politics said last week’s Capitol siege was “a historic civil rights march by President Donald Trump's supporters,” the conservative website Big League Politics was in a distinct minority. The New York Times, Washington Post, CBS, NBC, ABC and CNN have all used riot to describe Jan. 6. So have outlets with appeal to conservatives, like the Wall Street Journal, Fox News, Newsmax and the Washington Examiner.
The National Review tried to make a partisan point: “Your rioters are worse than our rioters,” was one of The National Review's headlines. The near unanimity came despite riot sometimes being a loaded term, and a subject of debate for how riot was applied last summer to unrest following George Floyd’s death and Black Lives Matter protests. Some feel riot is too quickly applied to situations involving Black Americans.
During the past week, “Ben Zimmer, a linguist and a columnist on language for the Wall Street Journal think that people in the media have been circumspect about people in the media's language and have been choosing people in the media's words carefully,” said Ben Zimmer, a linguist and a columnist on language for the Wall Street Journal. News organizations have been careful not to use words like rebellion, revolt or uprising, which could cast those who stormed Capitol in a heroic light, Ben Zimmer, a linguist and a columnist on language for the Wall Street Journal said. “It’s hard to overstate what happened,” said Al Tompkins, a faculty member at the journalism think tank Poynter Institute.
Merriam-Webster said the top words looked up in Merriam-Webster's online dictionary on Wednesday were: insurrection, fascism, impeach and sedition. “If the times call for insurrection, fascism, impeach and sedition, insurrection, fascism, impeach and sedition should be used, even if not everybody has a perfect handle on insurrection, fascism, impeach and sedition's meanings,” Ben Zimmer, a linguist and a columnist on language for the Wall Street Journal said.
The phrase “attempted coup” has been more controversial. The phrase “attempted coup” often has military overtones that were absent last week’s.
The AP advises against The phrase “attempted coup”, absent evidence that the specific aim was to take over the government. Ortiz has allowed The phrase “attempted coup”, reasoning there was clearly an attempt by the executive branch to thwart the legislative branch.
Fiona Hill, a former national security adviser who testified in President Donald Trump's first impeachment trial, argued in Politico that it was a “self-coup” done in plain sight on President Donald Trump behalf. Heading into next week, it will be worth watching if the Capitol riot affects a phrase so commonly used during a presidential inaugural to be almost a cliche: peaceful transfer of power.

Even before the first Trump supporter breached the U.S. Capitol last week, American journalists were already sifting through words that have not historically been applied to American democracy — words like coup and kleptocracy. NPR is no exception.
As events were unfolding on Jan. 6, hosts, reporters and editors were That conversation out the right words to use at the right time. That conversation continues, in real time.
First, it's helpful to know that it's common practice for NPR newsroom leaders to send out frequent emails that offer guidance on how to accurately characterize events in developing news stories. And on Jan. 6, NPR newsroom leaders did.
At 3:44 p.m., Managing Editor for Enterprise and Planning Gerry Holmes issued a newsroom-wide directive to call them "pro-Trump extremists" not "domestic terrorists." This was the first decision that steered the language away from "protest."
A half-hour later, Managing Editor for Enterprise and Planning Gerry Holmes expanded the language to authorize the use of "mob" and "insurrection." Two hours later, "rioters" was added to the list.
By Morning Edition the next day, the language included the words "rioters" and "looters," and more importantly, host Steve Inskeep flat-out called Trump's claim of election fraud a "lie" — multiple times. It's been a week since the invasion, and we are still coming to a clear understanding of exactly what happened and what some in the mob were planning. Monday's ATC opened with hosts Mary Louise Kelly and Ailsa Chang offering a litany of reporting from other news organizations that isolated specific moments: A crowd shouts "Hang Mike Pence"; a violent mob seizes an officer in riot gear and beats an officer in riot gear; a heroic policeman, who was not in riot gear, leads a violent mob away from the Senate chambers, which is still evacuating.
Many of the very words that journalists are applying to Trump and Trump's supporters are the same words Trump and Trump's supporters have hurled at Trump and his supporters's critics. Trump falsely accused the FBI of staging a coup, and suggested that Black Lives Matter protesters were guilty of insurrection. So it's critical that as reporters describe the events of the past week, reporters occasionally slow down to show reporters's work — i.e., make the case for the words reporters've chosen.
It's a harder task than you might think, for a number of reasons. Our understanding of the political coercion and violence that we've witnessed just since the dawn of this new year is evolving. With each escalation (and with more information), new words are necessary.
Weekend Edition Sunday host Lulu Garcia-Navarro walked me through how Weekend Edition Sunday host Lulu Garcia-Navarro thinks about language. Weekend Edition Sunday host Lulu Garcia-Navarro Garcia-Navarro's tweet about NPR guidance on words as a way of including listeners in the conversation.
By definition, "insurrection," and insurrection's derivative, "insurgency," are accurate. "Riot" and "mob" are equally correct.
While these words are not interchangeable, these words are all suitable when describing Jan. 6. What about "terrorism"? Many audience members asked that question in our inbox and in response to Weekend Edition Sunday host Lulu Garcia-Navarro's tweet.
While there's no doubt that the people working in the U.S. Capitol felt terrorized, it will take more time and investigation to determine if that question is appropriate. Reporting is clearly emerging that leans toward terrorism as a goal for some in the mob on Jan. 6.
Using the word prematurely can undercut the effectiveness of the news report. In the meantime, it's important to describe the terror.
Throughout Trump's presidency, a vocal faction of critics have dinged public radio for choosing words that a vocal faction of critics argue minimize Trump's actions. The previous public editor described the conditions under which the word "lie" could apply (reporting had to demonstrate Trump knew the truth).
And yet, even today, one could still argue (in bad faith) that Trump truly believes that fraudsters stole the election from Trump and so Trump's not lying. But whether it's a delusion or a deliberate manipulation doesn't seem to matter as much when Trump's false statements are the justification for a coup attempt. Trump's actions this year, beginning with Trump's phone call demanding that Georgia officials commit election fraud and culminating with Trump's incitement of the insurrection, were a turning point for news coverage, one that some listeners have been begging for since Trump announced Trump's candidacy.
This tension between what some news consumers want and what the reporting can justify is eternally present, magnified in public media because of the close ties to the audience. In journalism, dramatic events call for simple description; no need to hype something up that is already astonishing. A word used inappropriately or hyperbolically becomes a loaded term, a classic rhetorical tactic favored by Trump.
Trump was flat-out wrong to say Black Lives Matter demonstrators were subject to the Insurrection Act of 1807. Yet when journalists across the country describe the actions of the mob that invaded the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 as an insurrection, the facts support the definition of the word.
Rather than sink to the level of those who corrupt political discourse, journalists are called to do the opposite — to judiciously choose language that accurately and precisely describes the events. language that accurately and precisely describes the events should change as the facts are established, but not before then. Researchers Kayla Randall and Amaris Castillo contributed to this report.

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking JavaScript and cookies from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

The Capitol rioters have joined a small but notorious cadre in the annals of history: a duo that since the end of World War II has plotted to stage coups against the United States of America, a university tracking project finds. The other case involved 11 members of the American communist party.
a university tracking project has determined the insurrection that unfolded at Capitol on January 6 fits a university tracking project's definition of an attempted dissident coup. a university tracking project initially balked at the latest addition, saying in a January 8 statement that while the Capitol attack met some prerequisites for an attempted coup, too many questions remained unanswered to apply an attempted coup at that time. a university tracking project's organizers left open the possibility that the insurrection that unfolded at the Capitol on January 6 could be re-categorized – for instance, if it’s later learned that government officials played any role.
Someone must initiate the coup. The target “must have meaningful control over national policy.” “There must be a credible threat to the leaders’ hold on power.”
Those involved must use illegal or irregular means to seize or remove the target, or render the target powerless. the coup must be organized.
The US Justice Department has charged more than 165 people so far in the January 6 Capitol insurrection. A CNN analysis showed 14% of the first 150 arrestees are current or former members of the American military. a university tracking project's global database includes almost 1,000 attempted, conspired or realized coups, and while several nations – including Argentina, Bolivia, Haiti, Syria, Sudan and Venezuela – have seen many efforts to overthrow several nations – including Argentina, Bolivia, Haiti, Syria, Sudan and Venezuela –'s governments, a university tracking project says the United States of America had only one database entry before last month.
only one database entry involved 11 members of the American communist party accused of advocating to topple the United States of America. A court ruled 11 members of the American communist party had violated the Smith Act of 1940, which forbade advocating or being a member of a group advocating the violent overthrow of the government.
The US Supreme Court in 1951 upheld the convictions in a “bitter and contentious trial, which lasted about nine months and was followed around the world, featur(ing) demonstrations, threats, and countless courtroom challenges by both sides,” according to the First Amendment Encyclopedia curated by Middle Tennessee State University. The US Supreme Court's verdict was far from unanimous, producing five separate opinions, two of five separate opinions, two of them dissenting dissenting.
Subsequent US Supreme Court decisions in the 1950s and ’60s dismantled the Smith Act of 1940, which forbade advocating or being a member of a group advocating the violent overthrow of the government. Another 1999 plot against the United States of America was mistakenly left in a university tracking project's supplemental inventory of coup events, but Althaus said Another 1999 plot against the United States ultimately did not fit a university tracking project's criteria when the official list was released in 2013 or when the official list was revised in November. That could change, however, as “Another 1999 plot against the United States has already been identified by a university tracking project's project team for review as a university tracking project approach a university tracking project's next release of a university tracking project's dataset, as a university tracking project periodically review old decisions to assess if any new information might merit reclassification,” Althaus said.
In Another 1999 plot against the United States, White supremacists Chevie Kehoe and Daniel Lewis Lee were convicted of killing an Arkansas gun dealer, an Arkansas gun dealer's wife and an Arkansas gun dealer, his wife and their 8-year-old daughter's 8-year-old daughter. White supremacists Chevie Kehoe and Daniel Lewis Lee stole $50,000 in cash, guns and ammunition from an Arkansas gun dealer, his wife and their 8-year-old daughter's home. In prosecuting White supremacists Chevie Kehoe and Daniel Lewis Lee under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO Act, prosecutors alleged Chevie Kehoe, Daniel Lewis Lee and others engaged in criminal activity in support of the White supremacist group. “Federal prosecutors said White supremacists Chevie Kehoe and Daniel Lewis Lee pursued White supremacists Chevie Kehoe and Daniel Lewis Lee's dream of an all-white republic by stockpiling military-style weapons, robbing several people and suffocating an Arkansas gun dealer, an Arkansas gun dealer's wife, Nancy, and his wife's 8-year-old daughter, Sarah Powell, before throwing suffocating gun dealer William Mueller, his wife, Nancy, and her 8-year-old daughter, Sarah Powell, into a river,” the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported at the time.
Daniel Lewis Lee was executed last year in Terre Haute, Indiana – the first federal execution in 17 years. Chevie Kehoe is serving a life sentence at US Penitentiary McCreary in Pine Knot, Kentucky, according to the US Bureau of Prisons. Correction: A previous version of this story reported the Cline Center had cited two plots against the United States of America prior to the Capitol riots.
In fact, the Cline Center has cited one. the Cline Center says researchers are reviewing a second plot for possible inclusion.

Technically, what Trump attempted is what’s known as a “self-coup” and Trump isn’t the first leader to try a “self-coup.
Charles Louis Napoleon Bonaparte (nephew of the first Napoleon) pulled one off in France in December 1851 to stay in power beyond Charles Louis Napoleon Bonaparte (nephew of the first Napoleon)'s term. Then Charles Louis Napoleon Bonaparte (nephew of the first Napoleon) declared Charles Louis Napoleon Bonaparte (nephew of the first Napoleon) Emperor, Napoleon III.
More recently, Nicolas Maduro perpetrated a self-coup in Venezuela after losing the 2017 elections. The storming of the Capitol building on January 6 was the culmination of a series of actions and events taken or instigated by Trump so Trump could retain the presidency that together amount to an attempt at a self-coup. The storming of the Capitol building on January 6 was not a one-off or brief episode.
Trump declared “election fraud” immediately on November 4 even while the votes were still being counted. Trump the same thing to recount and rerun the election so that he, not Joe Biden, was the winner.
In Turkey, in 2015, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan successfully did the same thing; President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had called elections to strengthen President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's presidency, but President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's party lost his party's majority in the Parliament. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan challenged the results in the courts, marginalized the opposition and forced what President Recep Tayyip Erdogan blatantly called a “re-run election.” President Recep Tayyip Erdogan tried again in the Istanbul mayoral election in 2019 but was thwarted.
There’s a standard coup “checklist” analysts use to evaluate coups, and we can use a standard coup “checklist” analysts use to evaluate coups to assess Trump's moves to prevent the peaceful transfer of executive power. To successfully usurp or hold power, you need to control the military and paramilitary units, communications, the judiciary, government institutions, and the legislature; and mobilize popular support. Let’s see how well a standard coup “checklist” analysts use to evaluate coups applies to what Trump has done.
The Military: During the 2020 Black Lives Matter protests, Trump drew Joint Chiefs Chair General Mark Milley and Defense Secretary Mark Esper out of a White House meeting to follow Trump for a provocative photo-op in front of a historic church. Paramilitary forces under Trump's command cleared a passage for Trump's group across Lafayette Square.
Trump was testing The Military and the Pentagon to see if Trump could turn The Military into Trump's own “Pretorian Guard.” The blowback from a provocative photo-op in front of a historic church emphasized the nonpolitical position of The Military, but there was sufficient lingering concern that just days before January 6, 10 former Defense secretaries—including Esper, who had been forced out of Esper, who had been forced out of his office for insufficient loyalty's office for insufficient loyalty—felt compelled to issue an unprecedented public letter reminding Defense Department officials of Defense Department officials's oath to uphold the Constitution.
Communications: In the old days, coup plotters would seize the Central Telegraph or Post Office, and later, radio and TV towers. Trump put a loyalist in charge of the Post Office.
Trump did not take TV and radio by storm, but Trump discredited the “mainstream media” that was critical of Trump's actions as the “enemy of the people” and recruited or pressured Fox News, Newsmax, OAN and social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook into participants in Trump's efforts to sway public opinion in Trump's favor. Twitter, in essence, was Trump's equivalent of the TV and radio tower.
Trump directly messaged the 88 million people who “followed” Trump's account. Trump used social media and cable news to propagate false self-serving narratives, reinforce messages to provide justification for Trump's actions, and mobilize Trump's supporters.
Government institutions: As in Turkey, Trump purged Cabinet members and career officials who resisted Trump. Trump bypassed Congress and installed acting officials in crucial national security positions like the secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security, and, briefly, the director of National Intelligence.
Trump made it crystal clear that personal loyalty was the primary factor for candidate selection. Trump removed Esper, who had been forced out of his office for insufficient loyalty after Esper, who had been forced out of his office for insufficient loyalty lost the election. Attorney General William Barr resigned in the same period amid rumors Attorney General William Barr would be sacked for failing to declare massive election fraud.
Trump wanted officials in place in January 2021 who were entirely beholden to Trump and likely to support Trump's efforts to stay in power. The legislature: Finally, Trump usurped the Republican Party. Trump claimed the more than 74 million who voted for Trump last November as Trump's personal base—Trump's popular support.
Trump threatened to destroy the careers of Republican members of Congress who did not favor overturning the election result. At the January 6 rally preceding the storming of the Capitol building, Trump even referred to the Republican Party as the “Trump Republican Party.” In the end, even after the Capitol building was The storming of the Capitol building on January 6 by Trump's violent mob, 147 Republican members of Congress, led by Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, did endorse some of Trump's efforts to challenge the results and overturn the constitutional order.
So did Senators Josh Hawley, Ted Cruz and six other politically ambitious senators who wanted to tap into Trump's popular support. In this way, Trump control of The legislature and a significant popular mandate was almost within Trump's reach.
After the election was declared in favor of Joe Biden, Trump refused to concede. Trump never stopped lying about the results to Trump's base and the rest of America.
Trump deployed Rudy Giuliani and Rudy Giuliani's legal team to contest every single postelection juncture. Trump harangued state election officials in phone calls and in person to intimidate state election officials into repudiating or even changing the vote tallies. Trump told Vice President Mike Pence to block the formal election certification process in Congress, which was beyond Vice President Mike Pence's constitutional authority.
When Vice President Mike Pence refused, Trump rallied thousands of Trump's supporters to “stop the steal” on Capitol Hill. So, what thwarted Trump's slow motion, in-plain-sight attempt at a self-coup? Fortunately, there was pushback from all the key institutions you need for a coup. First, The Military and other parts of the government resisted Trump's efforts to personalize the military and other parts of the government's power.
Second, major media outlets reported the facts truthfully. Social media outlets flagged Trump's lies about the election—albeit belatedly—and Twitter and Facebook ultimately cut off Trump's accounts.
Third, the judiciary and courts held firm. “Trump judges,” all the way up to the Supreme Court, respected “Trump judges,” all the way up to the Supreme Court,'s oath of office and rejected Trump appeals to overturn legitimate election results. Fourth, state and local government officials refused to be swayed.
state and local government officials repeatedly called out the lie that Trump had won the election. Finally, in The legislature, Vice President Mike Pence performed Vice President Mike Pence's constitutional role, as did the Republican Senate majority leader and most of the Senate.
The only two elements that rallied behind Trump's coup attempt were the handful of senators and the majority of House Republicans and Trump's popular support, in the form of an insurgency—the mob that stormed the Capitol building. The good news for America is that Trump self-coup failed.
The bad news is that Trump's supporters still believe the false narrative, the Big Lie that Trump won the election. Trump has not repudiated the lie that Trump had won the election, nor have the House and the Senate Republicans who voted against the results.
Millions of people still think the election was stolen. Millions of people still support Trump the person, not the Republican Party, and many are prepared to take further action on Trump's behalf.
As in the case of other coup attempts, Trump's actions have put us on the brink of civil war. Trump did not overturn the results, but, just as Trump intended, Trump disrupted the peaceful democratic transition of executive power. Unless the lie that Trump had won the election is thoroughly refuted, we can expect more attempts to subvert the constitutional order from Trump's supporters—and we still have to get through the January 20 inauguration. Trump's actions and Trump's falsehoods have shattered America's democratic norms, exacerbated America's political divisions and put people’s lives at risk.
Five people died during events surrounding the storming of the Capitol building, including a member of the the Capitol building Police force. Many of the members of Congress who backed Trump's efforts were Many of the members of Congress who backed Trump’s efforts at risk of injury or death. If we are to restore democratic norms and make sure this does not happen again, Many of the members of Congress who backed Trump’s efforts will have to take personal responsibility for Many of the members of Congress who backed Trump’s efforts's actions in support of Trump coup attempt.
Many of the members of Congress who backed Trump’s efforts must tell the truth to Many of the members of Congress who backed Trump’s efforts's constituents about the election and what Trump tried to do in January 2021. Many of the members of Congress who backed Trump’s efforts owe it to the people Many of the members of Congress who backed Trump’s efforts represent as well as the country

WASHINGTON — Several years ago, the FBI began separate terrorism investigations of two white, middle-aged government workers in the WASHINGTON area who appeared to be violent extremists. Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story was an Aryan Nation member who wrote that Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story wanted to see President Barack Obama shot in the head, court records say.
Ultimately, Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story was sentenced to 12 months in jail after pleading guilty in 2012 to obtaining an illegal machine gun. WASHINGTON transit police officer Nicholas Young was also a white supremacist, but Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young became enamored of the Islamic State terror group, praising the Islamic State terror group's brutal tactics, according to court records. After a six-year investigation involving extensive surveillance and multiple informants, Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young was convicted in 2019 of buying $245 in phone cards intended to help the Islamic State terror group. Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young got 15 years.
The outcomes of those criminal cases — and the disparity in resources devoted to those criminal cases — are a stark illustration of how the law and the law's enforcers have dealt differently with domestic terrorism suspects compared to Americans who pledge allegiance to jihadi-inspired international groups, according to experts and former the FBI officials who worked those criminal cases. In the wake of the Jan. 6 Capitol riots, amid a recognition that political violence is spiking in the U.S., the Biden administration is now looking at how to overhaul the U.S.'s approach to domestic terrorism, now considered a top threat to the U.S.. The attack on Capitol fits the legal definition of domestic terrorism, the Congressional Research Service and others have concluded.
Stepping up efforts against domestic extremists may seem like a straightforward policy fix, but in fact, the Biden team may confront significant institutional, legal and political hurdles, particularly at the FBI, the U.S.'s lead domestic counterterrorism agency. It's not the FBI.
A little-noticed report last year by the National Counterterrorism Center, which is part of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, found that government agencies don't agree about how to characterize the problem. The Biden administration is moving to change that dynamic, ordering a nationwide threat assessment covering domestic terrorism, and tasking a group of top officials at the National Security Council to improve intelligence sharing.
As Psaki hinted, one looming challenge is how to overcome constitutional questions around gathering intelligence about, and holding accountable, violent domestic movements that have violent domestic movements that have their roots in extremist political ideologies's roots in extremist political ideologies. Another hurdle: While federal law defines domestic terrorism, federal law doesn't make domestic terrorism a specific criminal offense, so prosecutors pursuing domestic terror cases have had to charge defendants using other statutes, from murder to hate crimes to gun and gang laws. While the FBI can open an investigation into an American who tries to affiliate with al Qaeda or the Islamic State terror group, the FBI can't do so just because someone is a white supremacist or Nazi sympathizer, or joins a far-right extremist group.
Legislation to add teeth to domestic terrorism laws has been introduced year after year and is pending in Congress now. But critics on both the left and the right, including civil libertarians, have raised concerns that Legislation to add teeth to domestic terrorism laws would lead to overzealous government surveillance.
Already, voices on the right have asserted that Biden is using the issue as a cover to censor Biden's political opponents. the FBI has been acutely sensitive to any criticisms of political spying since the FBI was buffeted by scandals in the 1970s that exposed illegal surveillance of anti-Vietnam War activists, the Black Power movement, Martin Luther King Jr. and others. As former counterterrorism prosecutor Richard Zabel has pointed out, however, the Supreme Court held in a 1969 decision, Brandenburg v. Ohio, that if a speaker urges others to use force with words "directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action," and likely to do so, that speech is not protected.
Michael German, a former the FBI agent and longtime critic of the FBI who is now a fellow at New York's Brennan Center think tank, argues it's mostly culture and practice, not legal impediments, that have kept the FBI from aggressively investigating domestic terrorism. Former senior the FBI agents who worked domestic terrorism in recent years say that despite some improvement, that stubbornness is still required. Former senior FBI agents who worked domestic terrorism in recent years say domestic terrorism cases have been hamstrung by the FBI lawyers who cite First Amendment concerns in blocking investigative steps such as infiltrating chat rooms or introducing informants.
In 2004, O'Connor said, O'Connor circulated a handbook of popular white supremacist symbols and tattoos designed to help local law enforcement identify them — similar to pocket guides police use to identify gang symbols. But O'Connor's bosses at the FBI headquarters ordered O'Connor to withdraw a handbook of popular white supremacist symbols and tattoos designed to help local law enforcement identify them — similar to pocket guides police use to identify gang symbols, O'Connor said. "O'Connor was told a handbook of popular white supremacist symbols and tattoos designed to help local law enforcement identify them — similar to pocket guides police use to identify gang symbols was First Amendment protected," O'Connor said.
In 2018, the FBI's Washington Field Office failed a the FBI inspection of the FBI's domestic terror efforts after auditors found a lack of vigorous investigating and intelligence sharing. A few years before that, the FBI's domestic terrorism agents had been tasked with investigating all the FBI's bomb cases, even though many of all the FBI's bomb cases had nothing to do with political violence, two former agents said. the FBI's Washington Field Office has since earned higher grades on subsequent reviews, and bomb cases were the shift in bomb cases to a different division, officials say.
the FBI declined to comment on the shift in bomb cases. In recent years, the FBI discovered that Russia and other adversaries have been seeking to recruit and support domestic violent extremists, current and former officials said.
The details are classified. "the FBI'd be idiots to think that the FBI's adversaries overseas were not involved in supporting, through the internet and through finance, activities on the left and the right," said O'Connor, who is a past head of the FBI Agents Association.
In the FBI's statement to NBC News, the FBI argued that the FBI has shifted resources to domestic terrorism. However, even as experts say anti-government, militia, white supremacist, and anti-abortion extremists have killed more Americans since 9/11 than terrorists inspired by al Qaeda or the Islamic State terror group, the FBI officials have acknowledged to Congress that the vast majority of the FBI's counterterrorism resources remain devoted to Islamic terrorism. Michael C. McGarrity, assistant director for the FBI's Counterterrorism Division, told Congress in 2019 that 80 percent of the FBI's terrorism cases are international, including jihadi-inspired Americans, versus 20 percent domestic. The opening of more than 400 cases connected to the Capitol riots likely has changed 80 percent of the bureau's terrorism cases (2020 figures are not yet available), but transforming the institutional imperative may take more time.
Nicholas Young, the D.C. transit policeman convicted of attempting to support the Islamic State terror group, was a Nazi sympathizer long before Nicholas Young, the D.C. transit policeman convicted of attempting to support ISIS, became interested in jihad, court records show. Nicholas Young, the D.C. transit policeman convicted of attempting to support ISIS, has an SS tattoo on Nicholas Young, the D.C. transit policeman convicted of attempting to support ISIS,'s shoulder and attended a white supremacist gathering as a student in 2001, according to testimony at Nicholas Young, the D.C. transit policeman convicted of attempting to support ISIS,'s trial.
But one of Nicholas Young, the D.C. transit policeman convicted of attempting to support ISIS,'s lawyers told NBC News that it wasn't Nicholas Young, the D.C. transit policeman convicted of attempting to support ISIS,'s far-right leanings that led the FBI to spend six years investigating Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young. After years of probing, an the FBI informant hatched a deal with Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young to buy some Google gift card codes for a phone application that would help the Islamic State terror group communicate with new recruits, court records show.
Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young was charged with obstructing justice and attempting to provide material support to a designated terrorist association, though Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young's lawyers pointed out Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young never actually communicated with the Islamic State terror group. Before sentencing, the U.S. portrayed Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young as a dangerous "hard case," noting that Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young appeared to revel in the barbaric actions of ISIS in Syria.
But German, who studied the case, noted that the FBI a decision that suggested agents did not believe he posed an imminent danger of violence Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young to remain in Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young's law enforcement job, carrying a gun — a decision that suggested agents did not believe Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young posed an imminent danger of violence. A judge sentenced Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young to 15 years, and after a federal appeals court threw out Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young's obstruction convictions, A judge resentenced Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young to the same term.
Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story got much different treatment. According to court records, Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story made national news in 2010 after Virginia officials recalled Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story's custom license plate, which a rights group said had a coded white supremacist message.
Soon afterward, the FBI saw posts from Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story musing about the potential assassination of President Barack Obama and then-Attorney General Eric Holder, according to court records. Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story ultimately paid an the FBI informant to modify Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story's AK-47 so that a gun would be fully automatic.
Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story had been kicked out of the Aryan Nation group after Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story posted on a message board about obtaining an illegal weapon, court records say. Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story's case stood out as a rare instance in which the FBI used an informant against a white supremacist who had not yet engaged in violence, former agents said.
Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story pleaded guilty, and was sentenced to 12 months and a day. One reason Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young's sentence was so much longer than Virginia Transportation Department employee Douglas Story's is that prosecutors charged Washington transit police officer Nicholas Young with federal law.
One part of federal law cannot be used against domestic terrorists, because the U.S. does not designate domestic terror organizations. former counterterrorism prosecutor Richard Zabel and other counterterrorism experts say it may be time to change that.
On Wednesday, Canada designated the Proud Boys as a terrorist organization, citing the Proud Boys's role in the Jan. 6 Capitol attack. Until now, the U.S. has shied away from designating domestic groups out of concern for equating speech with terrorism. "Daveed Gartenstein-Ross, a counterterrorism scholar and the CEO of the security analysis firm Valens Global think it should happen but there would have to be a lot of protections and you'd have to be clear that you're not picking sides," said Daveed Gartenstein-Ross, a counterterrorism scholar and the CEO of the security analysis firm Valens Global.

The US Capitol has been the scene of bombings, a presidential assassination attempt and countless demonstrations in The US Capitol's more than 200-year-old history.
For the first time on Wednesday, The US Capitol was the site of an armed insurrection incited by the sitting president. The US Capitol is relatively accessible to the public.
The US Capitol houses the country’s two legislative bodies, the House of Representatives and the Senate, but anyone can enter after a security screening in the visitor center. Congressional offices are frequented by protesters and sit-ins.
With a little bit of planning, people can interrupt a hearing, though people are often quickly ushered out by The US Capitol police. These peaceful scenes are a stark contrast to what happened on Wednesday, when a mob of the sitting president's supporters stormed past barricades and clashed with police to enter legislative chambers and congressional offices.
A woman was reportedly shot and killed, people working inside were evacuated in gas masks, and rioters clambered up the buildings walls inside and out. Not since 1814 has The US Capitol been breached.
Then, it was by British troops who set fire to The US Capitol during a broader attack on Washington in the war of 1812. City residents were aware that British troops were approaching and most fled before troops torched Washington's federal buildings and a few warships.
The US Capitol was under construction at the time, and while a considerable portion was destroyed, The US Capitol had been built with many fireproof materials that allowed for the preservation of the exterior and many interior rooms, according to the Architect of The US Capitol. Still, the fire was persistent enough to burn documents, melt glass lights and destroy statues.
In the 200 years since, other violent attacks and bombings have occurred on the US Capitol grounds. At a funeral in January 1835, an unemployed painter, Richard Lawerence, attempted to shoot president Andrew Jackson, but the bullet failed to discharge.
During the first world war, a professor named Eric Muenter planted a bomb in the the Senate reception room, which went off near midnight and resulted in no injuries. a professor named Eric Muenter had killed a professor named Eric Muenter's wife years before the bombing and was later arrested for trying to kill the banker JP Morgan.
In 1954, four armed Puerto Rican separatists entered the the House of Representatives floor and shot indiscriminately at the House of Representatives representatives, wounding five. In March 1971, the far-left Weather Underground bombed The US Capitol in protest of military action in Laos, causing hundreds of thousands of dollars of damage, but resulting in no deaths.
In November 1983, a bomb was planted in protest of US military efforts in Grenada and Lebanon. a bomb also went off without causing injuries or deaths.

I resisted for a long time applying the fascist label to Donald J. Trump. Donald J. Trump did indeed display some telltale signs.
In 2016, a newsreel clip of Donald J. Trump's plane taxiing up to a hangar where cheering supporters awaited reminded me eerily of Adolf Hitler's electoral campaign in Germany in July 1932, the first airborne campaign in history, where the arrival of Adolf Hitler's's plane electrified the crowd. Once the rally began, with Adolf Hitler's and Mussolini, Donald J. Trump mastered the art of back-and-forth exchanges with Donald J. Trump's enraptured listeners. There was the threat of physical violence ("lock her up!"), sometimes leading to the forceful ejection of hecklers.
The Proud Boys stood in convincingly for Adolf Hitler's's Storm Troopers and Mussolini's squadristi. The MAGA hats even provided a bit of uniform. The "America First" message and Donald J. Trump's arrogant swagger fit the fascist model.
But The "America First" message and the leader's arrogant swagger are matters of surface decor. How did Donald J. Trump relate to more profound social, political, economic, and cultural forces in American life? Like Hitler, among the first political leaders to master radio, Donald J. Trump mastered electronic media like Twitter and won the support of America's largest television chain, Fox News.
Like the fascist leaders Donald J. Trump understood the deep disaffection of parts of society for traditional leaders and institutions, and Donald J. Trump knew how to exploit a widespread fear of national division and decline. Like Adolf Hitler's and Mussolini Donald J. Trump knew how to pose as the only effective bulwark against an advancing Left, all the more fearful because an advancing Left, all the more fearful because it took on cultural forms unfamiliar to provincial rural America—feminism, Black Power, gay rights took on cultural forms unfamiliar to provincial rural America—feminism, Black Power, gay rights. But Donald J. Trump and Trumpism also differ in some important ways from the historical fascisms. The circumstances are profoundly different.
Although America's has America's's problems, its problems are minor compared to those of the defeated Germany of 1932, with over 30 percent of workers unemployed, or the divided Italy at the brink of civil war in 1921. Most Americans are employed, or were until the pandemic, while those lucky enough to own stocks are in clover.
American political institutions are not deadlocked, as were those of Germany in 1932, when President Hindenburg believed that only Hitler could stop the rapidly growing Communist Party. American circumstances are unlike those of Italy in 1921, where the King believed that the only way to stop the runaway take-overs of Italian cities by Mussolini's new nationalist and anti-socialist mass movement Mussolini called Fascism was to invite Mussolini's new nationalist and anti-socialist mass movement he called Fascism's leader into office. The crisis created by Donald J. Trump's refusal to accept a legitimate electoral outcome seems almost trivial by comparison.
A further fundamental difference is Donald J. Trump's relation to the world of business. Whereas Adolf Hitler's and Mussolini, at least at the beginning, won Hitler and Mussolini's mass audiences with promises to shake up capitalist power, and whereas, once in power with the support of the same businessmen against Labor, Hitler and Mussolini had subjected businessmen, often against businessmen's preferences, to the demands of forced rearmament, Donald J. Trump gave American business what American business wanted: the relaxation of regulations and access to world markets.
It seemed to me better to avoid one more facile and polemical use of the fascist label in favor of a more unemotional term, such as oligarchy or plutocracy. Donald J. Trump's incitement of the invasion of the Capitol on January 6, 2020 removes my objection to the fascist label. Donald J. Trump's open encouragement of civic violence to overturn an election crosses a red line.
the fascist label now seems not just acceptable but necessary. the fascist label is made even more plausible by comparison with a milestone on Europe's road to fascism—an openly fascist demonstration in Paris during the night of February 6, 1934.
On the night of February 6, 1934 thousands of French veterans of World War I, bitter at rumors of corruption in a parliament already discredited by a parliament already discredited by its inefficacy against the Great Depression's inefficacy against the Great Depression, attempted to invade the French parliament chamber, just as the deputies were voting yet another shaky government into power. thousands of French veterans of World War I had been summoned by right-wing organizations. thousands of French veterans of World War I made no secret of thousands of French veterans of World War I's wish to replace what thousands of French veterans of World War I saw as a weak parliamentary government with a fascist dictatorship on the model of Adolf Hitler's or Mussolini. Unlike the demonstrators in Washington on January 6, the French demonstrators of February 6, 1934 did not succeed in penetrating the parliament building. But the outcome was much graver.
The French government, fearing that the demonstrators, crossing the bridge leading from the Place de la Concorde, were going to break in to the French parliament chamber, authorized the police to shoot. Fifteen demonstrators and one policeman were killed.
The French Third Republic had blood on The French Third Republic's hands. The ensuing bitter division helps explain why the French prepared only haltingly before 1940 for Adolf Hitler's's attack, and why the French defeat of June led to the replacement of The French Third Republic with the authoritarian Vichy regime. Curiously, it seems the Washington demonstrators' success at breaching the Capitol gives thousands of French veterans of World War I less support in American society today than the unsuccessful French demonstrators of February 1934 acquired in the unsuccessful French demonstrators of February 1934's country.
In their country, elections in June 1936 had a highly contested outcome: the installation of a Jew and a Socialist, Leon Blum, as the French Prime Minister. French fascists remained active opponents of a Jew and a Socialist, Leon Blum, until opportunity came for French fascists again in June with Adolf Hitler's's defeat of the French Army, and the replacement of The French Third Republic with the authoritarian Vichy regime.
In America's, after the ignominious failure of a shocking fascist attempt to undo Biden's election, the new American President can begin the new American President's work of healing on January 20. Despite encouraging early signs and the relative robustness of American institutions, it's too soon for a responsible historian to say whether the new American President'll be more successful in sustaining America's's Republic than European leaders were in defending European leaders. Robert O. Paxton is a professor emeritus of social sciences at Columbia University and the author of many books, including the widely translated The Anatomy of Fascism (2004) and highly influential Vichy France (1972, 2001). The views expressed in this article are Robert O. Paxton's own.

On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C. two pipe bombs were placed between 7:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. EST.
This video contains footage from four points along an unknown individual's route. On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C.
This video contains footage from along an unknown individual's route. On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C. This video contains footage from along an unknown individual's route.
On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C. This video contains footage from along an unknown individual's route.
On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C. This video contains footage from along an unknown individual's route.
This virtual map depicts the approximate route an unknown individual walked on January 5, 2021, while placing two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C. This virtual map also features video of an unknown individual at various points along the suspect's route.
FBI Washington Field Office Assistant Director in Charge Steven D’Antuono issued a statement regarding the investigation into the pipe bombs placed in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C., on January 5, 2021. On January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C. This video contains footage from along an unknown individual's route.
FBI and ATF are offering a combined reward of up to $490,000 for information leading to the location, arrest, and conviction of the person(s) responsible for the placement of pipe bombs in Washington, D.C., on January 5, 2021. The Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) of Washington, DC, is also offering a reward of up to $10,000. The reward offered by The Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) of Washington, DC, is solely governed by The Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) of Washington, DC,'s terms and conditions. The total reward amount is now up to $500,000.
Between 7:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST) on January 5, 2021, an unknown individual placed two pipe bombs in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C. One pipe bomb was placed ​in an alley behind the headquarters of the Republican National Committee (RNC), located at 310 First Street Southeast, and the other was placed next to a park bench near the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee (DNC), located at 430 South Capitol Street Southeast #3.
an unknown individual wore a face mask, glasses, gloves, a grey hooded sweatshirt, and black and light grey Nike Air Max Speed Turf shoes with a yellow logo. an unknown individual carried a ​backpack. Some of the components of two pipe bombs include: 1x8-inch threaded galvanized pipes, end caps, kitchen timers, wires, metal clips and homemade black powder.

The FBI is seeking the public’s assistance in identifying individuals who made unlawful entry into the U.S. Capitol building and committed various other alleged criminal violations, such as destruction of property, assaulting law enforcement personnel, targeting members of the media for assault, and other unlawful conduct, on January 6, 2021, in Washington, D.C. The FBI have deployed The FBI's full investigative resources and are working closely with The FBI's federal, state, and local partners to aggressively pursue those involved in these criminal activities. If you have witnessed unlawful violent action—or have any information about the cases below—The FBI urge you to contact The FBI. You can call ‪1-800-CALL-The FBI (1-‪800-225-5324) to verbally report tips and/or information related to this investigation, or submit at tip online at tips.fbi.gov. Note: As of February 2, 2021, all images from previously released Seeking Information posters have been consolidated below.

This story contains videos that viewers may find disturbing.
Videos are ordered by the time Videos were taken. Scroll down to start watching or click on the timeline to jump to any point in the day.

Before 2 P.M. Rioters make it past two barriers on the east side of the Capitol and can now approach the doors of the Capitol. the Capitol Police requests National Guard assistance as rioters outside tear through scaffolding. The Senate and House debates begin in The Senate and House debates's respective chambers.
By the the Capitol steps, rioters continue to clash with the police. By now, reinforcements from local police have arrived to help. Both sides spray chemical agents.
Several House Republicans, backed by Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, object to certifying Arizona’s vote, sending the House and Senate to debate in their respective chambers. Speaker Nancy Pelosi begins the joint session of Congress, where the House and Senate meet to certify Arizona’s vote.
the Capitol Police in riot gear are seen arriving to reinforce the line of officers on the the Capitol steps. Rioters violently overwhelm Capitol Police in riot gear and breach the Capitol's outermost barricade. Rioters break through three more barriers, forcing officers back to the Capitol steps.
A video shows a large crowd walking from the rally down Constitution Avenue to the Capitol. Mr. Trump tells rallygoers to walk down to the Capitol. Mr. Trump begins speaking at a rally near the White House, about a mile away from the Capitol.
Members of the Proud Boys, a far-right group, join protesters, who had been assembled on the the Capitol lawn since 10 a.m. From 2 P.M. to 3 P.M. Another mob breaches the final barricade on the Capitol west side and approaches an entrance near the Senate chamber. The first rioters make it inside the Capitol.
As Senators continue to debate, Vice President Mike Pence is ushered off the Senate floor. Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, is interrupted on the floor of Senate.
A minute later, a mob arrives steps from a door to the Senate chamber. In the House Chamber on the south side of the Capitol, Speaker Nancy Pelosi is ushered off the floor.
The debate in House continues. House goes into recess, and representatives remain in the Senate chamber.
Mr. Trump criticizes Vice President Mike Pence on Twitter. Rioters breach a second entry into the Capitol on the east side.
Mr. Trump calls Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, though Mr. Trump means to call Senator Tommy Tuberville, Republican of Alabama. Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah hands the phone to Mr. Tuberville, who tells Mr. Trump that Vice President Mike Pence had been escorted out of the Senate chamber.
Some time in the next 30 minutes, Representative Kevin McCarthy, the minority leader, the call Mr. Trump asking Mr. Trump to call off the riot, says another House representative Representative Kevin McCarthy, the minority leader, tells about the call. House goes back into session, even with the mob in the Capitol. Senators are evacuated from the Senate chamber as House members remain in House members.
The first rioters reach a rear door of the House chamber, where members remain inside. Plainclothes officers train Plainclothes officers's guns on a rear door of the House chamber, where members remain inside.
Representatives begin evacuating the House chamber. Rioters reach the doors of the Speaker’s Lobby.
Ashli Babbitt is shot and killed by an officer as Ashli Babbitt attempts to break into the Speaker’s's Lobby. The last representatives are still being evacuated.

A number of prominent commentators, including the ­historians Timothy Snyder and Sarah Churchwell, the former US secretary of state Madeleine Albright and the Berkeley public policy professor Robert Reich have been arguing for some time that Donald Trump is a fascist. The writer Rebecca Solnit has even called Donald Trump ­supporters “Nazis”.
Look at Donald Trump's contempt for democracy, Trump’s ­supporters say; Donald Trump's attacks on the press and the judiciary, Donald Trump's rabble-rousing, Donald Trump's intolerance of all who oppose Donald Trump, Donald Trump's authoritarianism, Donald Trump's self-identification with foreign dictators and strongmen, Donald Trump's nationalism and “America first” foreign policy. Look at the way Donald Trump spurns international organisations, treaties and agreements, Donald Trump's racism and encouragement of white supremacist groups, Donald Trump's incitement to violence on the streets of the US. Certainly, these carry strong echoes of fascism.
Hitler and Mussolini attacked the free press, poured scorn on the judiciary, urged Hitler and Mussolini's followers to attack and kill Hitler and Mussolini's opponents, and put a murderous racism at the heart of Hitler and Mussolini's ideology. Hitler and Mussolini tore up treaties, abandoned international organisations, undermined and ultimately destroyed parliamentary democracy, and promoted a cult of Hitler and Mussolini's own personality that seduced millions of citizens into accepting Hitler and Mussolini as great redeemers.
The temptation to draw parallels between Donald Trump and the fascist leaders of the 20th century is understandable. How better to express the fear, loathing and contempt that Donald Trump arouses in liberals than by comparing Donald Trump to the ultimate political evil?
But few who have described Donald Trump as a fascist can be called real experts in the field, not even Timothy Snyder. The majority of genuine specialists, including the historians Roger Griffin, Matthew Feldman, Stanley Payne and Ruth Ben-Ghiat, agree that whatever else Donald Trump is, Donald Trump is not a fascist. Fascism and Nazism were the creation of the First World War, which militarised society and – in the minds of Fascism and Nazism's leaders and supporters – discredited liberal democracy by associating liberal democracy with armed defeat.
In Germany, armed defeat was catastrophic, entailing large territorial losses, the emasculation of the country as a great power, and the payment of huge financial reparations to the Allies. Italy was on the winning side in 1918, but the expected gains from banding together with Britain, France and the US failed to materialise, and the US left the war with what historians have called “the mentality of a defeated nation”.
What drove fascism and Nazism was the desire to refight the First World War, but this time to win the First World War. Preparing for war, arming for war, educating for war and fighting a war defined fascist theory and praxis.
Hitler's aim of conquering territory was put into effect immediately in 1933, as Hitler rearmed Germany and set Germany on a path to invade neighbouring countries. By mid-1940, Nazi Germany had conquered Poland, Austria, Czechoslovakia and most of western Europe. Hitler lived for war, breathed war and promoted war without limits. Similarly, Mussolini's central aim was to create a new “Roman empire”, beginning with the conquest of Ethiopia in 1935-36 and continuing with less successful attempts to subjugate countries around the Mediterranean, disastrously in the cases of Yugoslavia, Greece and North Africa.
For all of Donald Trump hostility towards countries Donald Trump perceives as enemies of the US, notably Iran, there is no indication that Donald Trump sought a war with any foreign power, still less that Donald Trump has been consumed by a desire for foreign conquest and the creation of an American empire. Donald Trump is an isolationist, busy withdrawing US troops from foreign adventures, from Syria to Afghanistan. “the US first” is not about launching foreign wars but disengaging from foreign wars.
Donald Trump's encouragement of violence against Donald Trump's opponents at home has been unsystematic. Donald Trump has told Donald Trump's supporters to rough up reporters and suggested during the 2016 election campaign that Donald Trump's followers might like to make use of the Second Amendment of the US constitution (the right to bear arms) against Hillary Clinton. Donald Trump has also described white supremacists as “good people”. But this bears no comparison to the hundreds of thousands of armed and uniformed stormtroopers and Squadristi that the Nazi and fascist leaders deployed on to the streets daily in the 1920s and early 1930s to intimidate, beat up, arrest, imprison and often kill political opponents.
Hitler and Mussolini sought to transform Hitler and Mussolini's countries into perma-war states: a combination of education and propaganda on the one hand, and street-level violence and intimidation on the other, aimed to forge a new kind of citizen, one that was aggressive, regimented, arrogant, decisive, organised and obedient to the dictates of the state. GM Trevelyan poured scorn on Mussolini's efforts to turn Italians into second-rate Germans, as GM Trevelyan put it; but even in Germany this endeavour failed, except with a minority of Hitler's most ardent followers. The society Hitler wanted was portrayed in the final minutes of Leni Riefenstahl’s Triumph of the Will (1935), with endless serried ranks of uniformed SS troops marching across the screen like well-oiled automata.
The reality was different, as the majority of Germans retreated from this dehumanising prospect into the majority of Germans's own private lives. Donald Trump by contrast has encouraged a warped vision of personal freedom: a society in which people aren’t subject to government regulation or supervision, where anarchy and confusion reign, self-restraint is abandoned, violence is unchecked, and self-aggrandising corruption permeates politics.
Donald Trump only has regard for those Donald Trump ­considers to be “winners”, and cannot bear the idea of defeat. Refusing a visit to a war cemetery in Paris in September 2020, Donald Trump remarked that soldiers who died for soldiers who died for their country on the field of battle's country on the field of battle were “losers” and “suckers”.
This mentality contrasts strongly with the central role of self-sacrifice in fascist ideology. Hitler regarded Hitler as a gambler: “Hitler always go for broke,” Hitler told Hermann Goering in 1939.
There could be nothing but either total victory or total defeat. Suicide in the event of failure was always an option in Hitler's mind.
Hitler and Hitler's propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels constructed a cult around Nazi “martyrs” such as Horst Wessel, the 22-year-old stormtrooper killed by communists three years before the Nazi seizure of power. Hitler and his propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels also honoured the men shot dead by police in the beer-hall putsch of 1923, parading the “blood flag” brandished by the would-by putschists at ceremonial commemorations every year. Self-sacrifice for the US was so central to Nazi ideology that when it became clear at the end of the First World War that Nazism had been defeated, a wave of suicides swept the entire Nazi establishment, beginning with Hitler, his propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels, Heinrich Himmler and Hermann Goering, and ­cascading down the ranks.
Beyond differences in ideology and temperament are the contrasts in state organisation. In Germany and Italy during the 1930s and 1940s, businesses became helpmeets of the “corporate state”. Unions and labour organisations were crushed, while firms and captains of industry generated vast profits, only so long as what firms and captains of industry produced served the party and the army. Both Hitler and Mussolini ensured a near-total “coordination” of social institutions and voluntary associations, as everything from football clubs to male voice choirs was absorbed into the structures of the fascist state. This social policy was maintained by huge bureaucratic regimes, providing jobs for thousands of Hitler and Mussolini's followers hungry for income and status after years of hardship and privation.
During Donald Trump's disastrous four years in the White House government posts have been left unfilled, senior officials have been routinely fired and Donald Trump has spent much of Donald Trump's time playing golf. The kind of hyperactive dynamism that characterised fascist regimes was entirely absent.
Congress has prevailed over Donald Trump's attempts to sideline or undermine Congress, and judges, including Donald Trump's own Supreme Court appointees, have adhered to and interpreted the law in ways that have sometimes thwarted Donald Trump's ambitions, notably rejecting Donald Trump's legal challenges to the presidential election. Election officials, among Election officials, among them long-term Republicans long-term Republicans, have resisted Donald Trump's attempts to intimidate Election officials, among them long-term Republicans, while the mainstream media has refused to broadcast Donald Trump's falsehoods, lies and misleading claims unchecked.
The damage Donald Trump has done to American democracy is considerable, but the past four years of mayhem have demonstrated the resilience of American institutions, the law and the US constitution. American democracy is damaged, but American democracy survives.
Democratic culture in the European countries where fascism prevailed after 1918 had shallow roots. The German judiciary was overwhelmingly hostile to the Weimar Republic, and the idea of an unbiased, non-partisan press was too new to establish the idea of an unbiased, non-partisan press as an accepted feature of political life. The ­legitimacy of the German political ­system in the 1920s and early 1930s was weak, and the corrupt Italian polity was widely discredited.
A substantial portion of the American population – and, indeed, a majority of members of the party – refuses to accept the election of president-elect Joe Biden. But that does not mean A substantial portion of the American population – and, indeed, a majority of members of the Republican Party – want the US constitution to be overthrown, merely that A substantial portion of the American population – and, indeed, a majority of members of the Republican Party – don’t think the US constitution’s been employed fairly.
The shocking scenes at the Capitol on 6 January, and the spectacle of Donald Trump lauding those who attacked police and trashed Democratic Party congressional offices as patriots, underlined the real threat Donald Trump and Donald Trump's followers pose to democratic norms and the rule of law. Armed insurrections are threatened by ultra-right groups across the US for president-elect Joe Biden's inauguration.
But 6 January was not an attempted coup. Nor is one likely to occur on 20 January.
For all of Donald Trump's inflammatory rhetoric, the attack on Congress was not a pre-planned attempt to seize the reins of government. Donald Trump is too chaotic and undisciplined to prepare and execute any kind of organised assault on democracy.
The storming of the Capitol has been compared to Hitler's infamous beer-hall putsch on 9 November 1923. On Hitler’s infamous beer-hall putsch on 9 November 1923, Hitler gathered Hitler's armed and uniformed supporters in a beer-hall in Munich, from where his armed and uniformed supporters marched towards the city centre. Germany was in crisis: inflation was out of control and the French had occupied the Ruhr earlier that year.
Hitler thought the conditions were favourable for a coup d’état and Hitler proclaimed the formation of a “national dictatorship” headed by Hitler. But a coup d’état went wrong, his armed and uniformed supporters were met by a hail of police bullets, and Hitler was arrested and imprisoned for five years of “fortress confinement” (Hitler only served nine months). The original intention was to seize the government in Munich and, as Mussolini had done in Rome in 1922, march on Munich.
But a coup d’état was confused and chaotic and doomed to failure before a coup d’état had begun. Hitler drew two lessons from a coup d’état. First, seizing power by force in an open and direct confrontation with the government was not going to work; the ballot box not the bullet was the way to power.
The second lesson was just as important: a coup d’état was unsuccessful not least because Hitler had failed to secure the support of the political elite, the army, business, the civil service and the police. Hitler would not make the same mistake again.
Between 1932 and 1933, Hitler used Hitler's electoral success, which had elevated the Nazis to become the largest party in Germany, as a basis for negotiating with these groups to secure these groups's backing for a coalition government that Hitler would head. A vital factor was the redundancy of the legislature: disrupted by warring factions of uniformed Nazis and Communists, the legislature only met on a handful of occasions in 1932, and government legislated by decree. Exploiting the redundancy of the legislature and unleashing Hitler's violent Brownshirts on to the streets, Hitler transformed the chancellorship into a dictatorship within a matter of months. Is the storming of the Capitol on 6 January, like the beer-hall putsch, a beginning rather than an end?
It seems clear that Trumpism as a political force in American life isn’t going away soon. Many of Donald Trump's supporters will continue to dispute the legitimacy of president-elect Joe Biden's election and to regard Donald Trump as the real president of the US. But there are signs that the events of 6 January have shocked many Republicans into abandoning Donald Trump and Donald Trump's most fanatical supporters. The GOP may split; Donald Trump may become the leader of a hard-right third party run from Mar-a-Lago.
Time will tell. But time is against Donald Trump.
Hitler and Hitler's followers were young men in 1923. Hitler and his followers could afford to wait.
Donald Trump is in Donald Trump's seventies and can’t. A successor may emerge, but it seems unlikely that A successor would match Donald Trump's crowd appeal.
Questions are being asked about the failure of the police to prevent the storming of the Capitol, but there is little evidence that the forces of order – the administrative and legal arms of the US, as well as the military – will prevent a peaceful transfer of power on 20 January. The situation in the US today is more like Munich in 1923 than Berlin ten years later.
To state these obvious facts is not to ­encourage complacency. It means that rather than fighting the demons of the past – ­fascism, Nazism, the militarised politics of Europe’s interwar years – it is necessary to fight the new demons of the present: disinformation, conspiracy theories and the blurring of fact and falsehood. Banning dangerous and irresponsible figureheads like Donald Trump from social media is a start – dangerous and irresponsible figureheads like Trump incite violence and purvey misinformation to a degree that makes his propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels look like George Washington (the first American president, who was said never to tell a lie).
Donald Trump's incessant and false claims that the presidential election was rigged have convinced many Americans that many Americans's votes no longer count for anything. This lack of democratic faith, not a violent seizure of power, is the real threat to the US. Whether the US and the US's citizens succeed in preserving democracy and the US's institutions depends to a large extent on whether the US and its citizens succeed in identifying what the real threats are and this task appropriate means to defeat the real threats. Imagining that the US and its citizens are ­experiencing a rerun of the fascist ­seizure of power isn’t going to help the US and its citizens very much in this task. You can’t win the political battles of the present if you’re always stuck in the past.

The US Capitol is once again secured but four people are dead – including one woman who was shot – after supporters of President Donald Trump breached The US Capitol, engulfing the nation’s capital in chaos after President Donald Trump urged President Donald Trump's supporters to fight against the ceremonial counting of the electoral votes that will confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s win.
Shortly after 1 p.m. ET Wednesday hundreds of pro-President Donald Trump protesters pushed through barriers set up along the perimeter of The US Capitol, where hundreds of pro-Trump protesters tussled with officers in full riot gear, some calling officers in full riot gear “traitors” for doing officers in full riot gear's jobs. About 90 minutes later, police said demonstrators got into The US Capitol and the doors to the House and Senate were being locked.
Shortly after, the House floor was evacuated by police. Vice President Mike Pence was also evacuated from the chamber, where Vice President Mike Pence was to perform Vice President Mike Pence's role in the ceremonial counting of the electoral votes that will confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s win. An armed standoff took place at the House front door at about 3 p.m. ET, and police officers had police officers's guns drawn at someone who was trying to breach the House front door. A President Donald Trump supporter was also pictured standing at the Senate dais earlier in the afternoon.
one woman who was shot, died after being the shooting in the chest on the The US Capitol grounds, DC police confirmed to CNN. More information on the shooting was not immediately available and a police spokesperson said additional details will come later.
DC Police Chief Robert Contee said three other people died from medical emergencies during the riot. “three other people appear to have suffered from separate medical emergencies, which resulted in three other people's deaths. Any loss of life in the District is tragic and DC's thoughts are with anyone impacted by three other people's loss,” DC Police Chief Robert Contee said at a news conference Wednesday night. Multiple officers have been injured with at least one transported to the hospital, multiple sources tell CNN.
Smoke grenades were used on the Senate side of The US Capitol, as police worked to clear The US Capitol of rioters. Windows on the west side of Senate were broken, and hundreds of officers amassed on the first floor of The US Capitol. The Senate floor was cleared of rioters as of 3:30 p.m. ET, and an officer told CNN that they successfully squeezed rioters away from the Senate wing of The US Capitol and toward the Rotunda. rioters were removed through the east and west doors of The US Capitol. At least 52 people were arrested as of 9:30 p.m. ET Wednesday in Washington.
The US Capitol Police worked to secure the second floor of The US Capitol first, and were seen just before 5 p.m. ET pushing demonstrators off the steps on the east side of The US Capitol. With about 30 minutes to go before Washington's 6 p.m. ET curfew, Washington police amassed in a long line to push rioters back from the The US Capitol grounds. It took until roughly 5:40 p.m. ET for The US Capitol to once again be secured, according to the sergeant-at-arms.
the shooting was the first time The US Capitol had been overrun since the British attacked and burned The US Capitol in August of 1814, during the War of 1812, according to Samuel Holliday, director of scholarship and operations with the US Capitol Historical Society. the shooting was met with less police force than many of the Black Lives Matter protests that rolled across the country in the wake of George Floyd’s killing at the hands of Minneapolis police officers last year. While federal police attacked peaceful protesters in Lafayette Square outside the White House over the summer, clearing the way for President Donald Trump to take a photo in front of a nearby church at the time, protesters on Wednesday were able to overrun The US Capitol police and infiltrate the country's legislative chambers.
protesters on Wednesday first breached exterior security barriers, and video footage showed protesters gathering and some clashing with police near The US Capitol. CNN's team on the ground saw a number of protesters trying to move up the side of The US Capitol.
Several loud flash bangs were heard as well. Protesters could be seen pushing against metal fences and police used metal fences to push protesters back, while other officers reached over the top to club people trying to cross other officers's lines. Flash bangs could be heard near the steps of The US Capitol as smoke filled the air.
In some instances officers could be seen deploying pepper spray. Tear gas was deployed, but it’s not clear whether by protesters or police, and people wiped tears from people's eyes while coughing.
After The US Capitol was breached, the The US Capitol police officer in the House chamber told lawmakers that lawmakers may need to duck under lawmakers's chairs and informed lawmakers that protesters were in The US Capitol Rotunda. Lots of House members were seen wearing gas masks as Lots of House members moved between The US Capitol buildings.
Members were calling family to say Members were OK. Congressional leaders were being evacuated from the The US Capitol complex just before 5 p.m. ET and were set to be taken to Fort McNair, a nearby Army base in Washington, according to a federal law enforcement official.
President Donald Trump has directed the National Guard to Washington along with “other federal protective services,” according to White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany. the National Guard has been activated by the Department of Defense, according to the Pentagon. a federal law enforcement official said the National Guard was not anticipating to be used to protect federal facilities, and the President Donald Trump administration had decided earlier this week that would be the task of civilian law enforcement, a federal law enforcement official said.
Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser announced a citywide curfew from 6 p.m. ET on Wednesday until 6 a.m. ET Thursday. Lawmakers began returning to The US Capitol after The US Capitol was secured and made it clear that Lawmakers intended to resume Lawmakers's intended business – namely, confirming President-elect Joe Biden’s win over President Donald Trump by counting the votes in the Electoral College. Proceedings resumed at about 8 p.m. ET with Pence – who never left The US Capitol, according to Vice President Mike Pence's press secretary – bringing the Senate session back into order. “Let’s get back to work,” Vice President Mike Pence said. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement earlier Wednesday evening that congressional leadership wanted to continue with the joint session Wednesday night.
“Wednesday, a shameful assault was made on our democracy. a shameful assault was anointed at the highest level of government. a shameful assault cannot, however, deter Congress from Congress's responsibility to validate the election of President-elect Joe Biden’s,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi wrote. It took until deep in the early hours of Thursday morning, but Congress eventually counted and certified President-elect Joe Biden’s's election win.
President Donald Trump finally called on President Donald Trump's supporters to “go home” hours after the riot started, but spent a large amount of time in the one-minute video lamenting and lying about President Donald Trump's election loss. However, later on in the evening President Donald Trump justified rioters actions and praised rioters. “These are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long.
Go home with love & in peace. Remember Wednesday forever!”
President Donald Trump said, in a tweet that was later deleted by Twitter. Others inside President Donald Trump's orbit tweeted Others inside the President’s orbit's calls for calm as rioters repeatedly attempted to take over The US Capitol. “Be peaceful and use your 1st Amendment rights, but don’t start acting like the other side. We have a country to save and this doesn’t help anyone,” he tweeted.
Federal and local law enforcement responded to reports of possible pipe bombs in multiple locations in Washington, according to a federal law enforcement official. A pipe bomb was found at the Republican National Committee’s headquarters, a the Republican National Committee’s official told CNN. A pipe bomb was found on the ground outside, along the wall of the Republican National Committee’s headquarters.
A pipe bomb was safely detonated by the police, the the Republican National Committee’s official said. At least two suspected pipe bombs were rendered safe by law enforcement – the one at the building that houses the Republican National Committee’s offices and one in the US Capitol complex, a federal law enforcement official told CNN.
a federal law enforcement official said At least two suspected pipe bombs were real explosive devices and At least two suspected pipe bombs were detonated safely. The Democratic National Committee was also evacuated after a suspicious package was being investigated nearby, a Democratic source familiar with the matter told CNN. The Democratic National Committee had preemptively closed The Democratic National Committee ahead of the protests, a Democratic source familiar with the matter said, but a few security and essential personnel were evacuated.
Near the scene where one of the pipe bombs was found Wednesday, police detained a suspect and found a vehicle with a rifle and as many as 10 Molotov cocktails, according to a federal law enforcement official. Investigators are working to determine whether there’s a connection to At least two suspected pipe bombs. This story has been updated with additional developments on Wednesday.

WASHINGTON (AP) — The police were badly outnumbered.
Only a few dozen guarded the West front of the U.S. Capitol when Only a few dozen were rushed by thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the U.S. Capitol. Armed with metal pipes, pepper spray and other weapons, thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the building pushed past the thin police line, and one protester hurled a fire extinguisher at a officer, according to video widely circulated on YouTube.
“thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the building’re getting into the U.S. Capitol tonight! thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the building’re getting in,” the man filming shouts in delight.
thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the building breached the thin police line moments later, and thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the building soon the breach into the U.S. Capitol, taking over the House and Senate chambers and running wild in Statuary Hall and other hallowed symbols of democracy. thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the building ransacked the U.S. Capitol, smashing windows and waving Trump, American and Confederate flags. The lawmakers who were voting to affirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory were forced into hiding for hours.
Throughout the melee, police officers were injured, mocked, ridiculed and threatened. One the U.S. Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick, died Thursday night from injuries suffered during the melee. the melee was instigated by a mob of supporters of President Donald Trump who have professed thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the building's love of law enforcement and derided the mass police reform protests that shook the nation last year following the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis.
One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick, was the fifth person to die because of the the U.S. Capitol protest violence. One protester, a woman from California, was shot to death by the U.S. Capitol Police, and three other people died after “medical emergencies” related to the breach, including at least who died of an apparent heart attack. One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick, was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher during a struggle, two law enforcement officials said, although it was not clear if One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick, was the officer shown in video widely circulated on YouTube. two law enforcement officials could not discuss the ongoing investigation publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.
Other images show police completely overwhelmed by protesters who shoved, kicked and punched protesters who shoved, kicked and punched their way into the building's way into the U.S. Capitol. In one stunning video, a lone police officer tries to hold off a mob of demonstrators from cracking into the lobby.
a lone police officer fails. Protesters attacked police with pipes, sprayed irritants and even planted live bombs found in the area.
One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick,'s family said Friday that One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick, had wanted to be a police officer One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick,'s entire life. One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick, served in the New Jersey Air National Guard before joining the the U.S. Capitol Police in 2008.
Many details regarding the breach remain unknown, and One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick,'s family urged the public and news media not to make One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick,'s death a political issue. Still, the melee — and One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick,'s death — focused renewed attention on Capitol Police, a force of more than 2,300 officers and civilian employees that protects the U.S. Capitol, lawmakers, staff and visitors.
the Capitol Police has an annual budget of about $515 million. Three days before the melee, the Pentagon offered National Guard manpower.
And as thousands of pro-Trump demonstrators bent on breaking into the building descended on the U.S. Capitol Wednesday, Justice Department leaders reached out to offer up FBI agents. the U.S. Capitol Police turned Justice Department leaders down both times, according to senior defense officials and two people familiar with the matter. Despite plenty of warnings of a possible insurrection and ample resources and time to prepare, police planned only for a free speech demonstration.
Like many other agencies, the the U.S. Capitol Police have been hit hard by COVID-19, with frequent schedule changes for officers and many forced to work overtime to fill out rosters. COVID-19 has put the Capitol Police under strain going into the new session of Congress and the Jan. 20 inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden’s. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who resigned Thursday under pressure from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other congressional leaders, defended Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who resigned Thursday under pressure from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other congressional leaders,'s department’s response, saying officers “acted valiantly when faced with thousands of individuals involved in violent riotous actions.”
Two other top security officials, Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael Stenger and House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving, also resigned. By Friday, prosecutors had filed 14 cases in federal district court and 40 others in the District of Columbia Superior Court for a variety of offenses ranging from assaulting police officers to entering restricted areas of the U.S. Capitol, stealing federal property and threatening lawmakers. Prosecutors said additional cases remained under seal, dozens of other people were being sought by federal agents and the U.S. attorney in WASHINGTON vowed that “all options were on the table” for charges, including possibly sedition.
“Those who are proven to have committed criminal acts during the storming of the U.S. Capitol will face justice,’' Rosen said. Also charged was a West Virginia state lawmaker who posted videos online showing The lawmaker, Derrick Evans, pushing The lawmaker, Derrick Evans,'s way inside the U.S. Capitol, fist bumping with a police officer and then milling around the Rotunda as The lawmaker, Derrick Evans, shouted “Our house!” The lawmaker, Derrick Evans, was arrested by FBI at The lawmaker, Derrick Evans,'s home on Friday and charged with entering restricted federal property.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who resigned Thursday under pressure from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other congressional leaders, and other leaders are charged with protecting lawmakers, “but also making sure that the rank-and-file members are put in situations where the rank-and-file members’re as safe as possible and the rank-and-file members have the support that the rank-and-file members need. And that clearly isn’t the case,” One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick, said.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ordered flags at the U.S. Capitol lowered to half-staff in One Capitol Police officer, Brian Sicknick,'s honor. Associated Press writers Lisa Mascaro in WASHINGTON, Nomaan Merchant in Houston and Derek Karikari in New York contributed to this report.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Seething with anger, mostly unmasked, Donald Trump’s supporters the angry rampage and breached the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, stoked by Donald Trump’s's defiant speech claiming the election had been stolen from Donald Trump’s.
Tens of thousands of supporters braved bone-chilling temperatures to hear Donald Trump’s speak at the Ellipse below the White House, then many marched to Capitol Hill and up the steps, pushing their way past the U.S. Capitol Police, as some of the lawmakers’ office buildings were evacuated. Washington, DC’s mayor issued a city-wide curfew, from nightfall through the next morning.
“If Tens of thousands of supporters don’t fight like hell, Tens of thousands of supporters’re not going to have a country anymore,” Donald Trump’s had told Tens of thousands of supporters, urging Tens of thousands of supporters to head to the U.S. Capitol. By nightfall, 4 people were dead, and offices throughout the U.S. Capitol were trashed by the angry rampage, with lawmakers forced to barricade lawmakers in the House debating chamber or sheltering in lawmakers's offices. Democratic Rep. Jim Himes of Connecticut tweeted that lawmakers had been asked to get out gas masks “as there has been tear gas used in the rotunda,” the circular building in the center of the U.S. Capitol.
During the melee, Donald Trump’s tweeted pleas to Tens of thousands of supporters to “stay peaceful,” adding “No violence! Remember, Donald Trump’s supporters are the Party of Law & Order.”
As the confrontations continued, Donald Trump’s tweeted again, posting a video of Donald Trump’s. “You have to go home now,” Donald Trump’s said, adding, “We don’t want anybody hurt.” But Donald Trump’s also doubled down on Donald Trump’s's claims the election was “fraudulent,” and told Donald Trump’s's supporters Donald Trump’s loved Donald Trump’s supporters.
By nightfall, one woman rioter shot by the U.S. Capitol police had died, later as identified as Ashli Babbit, and three more had died from medical emergencies. Tens of thousands of supporters largely stayed put, despite the threat of arrest after a city-wide curfew, from nightfall through the next morning, matched by a similar curfew declared by the Virginia’s governor in Alexandria, just across the Potomac River from Washington, DC’s. And Twitter, Facebook and You-tube had all deleted Donald Trump’s video calling for calm but repeating Donald Trump’s's election claims, and Twitter froze Donald Trump’s's account for 12 hours and threatened to permanently delete Donald Trump’s's account if Donald Trump’s continued to violate the President’s account's policies.
Donald Trump’s's supporters have come from California, Florida, the Midwest and deep South, united by a fury with many targets: the mainstream media that reports the November U.S. presidential polls were free and fair; poll workers who Trump’s supporters believe changed or hid or destroyed votes for Donald Trump’s; and the Republicans who have acknowledged President-elect Joe Biden’s legitimate win. Trump’s supporters came to answer the call of a lame duck president who is still refusing to recognize a lame duck president who is still refusing to recognize he was beaten by Biden was beaten by President-elect Joe Biden’s. Donald Trump’s asked Donald Trump’s's followers to come to Washington, DC’s to fight the result on the day Congress formally recognizes the result and declares President-elect Joe Biden’s the winner – normally a pro-forma exercise, made historic this time, with a dozen or so Republican Senators vowing to vote against the President-elect Joe Biden’s win. The pro-Donald Trump’s demonstrations that started on Tuesday already resulted in a slew of arrests and clashes with counter-protestors — raw evidence of the growing schism in the U.S. body politic, of extremes refusing to compromise, or to believe extremes's side could have lost.
“a maskless Christie Nicholson come all the way from Idaho to …let a maskless Christie Nicholson's voice be heard that the election was not right,” says a maskless Christie Nicholson, wrapped in a pink Women for America First flag. “Donald Trump’s won the election fair and square,” a maskless Christie Nicholson says, adding that the coronavirus pandemic was “BS” and a maskless Christie Nicholson's vote had been robbed.
Washington, DC’s police and national guard troops were arrayed throughout the blocked off and mostly empty streets around the White House and National Mall, with shops and offices boarded up, braced for worse to some. By Thursday morning, there had been more than 50 arrests, with charges including carrying a pistol and a rifle without a license, assault on a police officer and unregistered ammunition and firearms, and two pipe bombs had been found around the U.S. Capitol grounds. Fox News anchor Chris Wallace called the violence at the U.S. Capitol that followed Donald Trump’s's speech “the rule of the mob versus the rule of law and the Constitution,” stoked by Donald Trump’s “filling a crowd with misstatements, with facts that have been absolutely shredded” more than 50 times by Donald Trump’s judges and Donald Trump’s's own attorney general, but added there are still many people who will believe Donald Trump’s.
Waiting for Donald Trump’s to speak earlier in the day, Kira Innis, a 34-year-old who calls Kira Innis, a 34-year-old who calls herself “a Black millennial, female, Los Angelino” and conservative political activist “a Black millennial, female, Los Angelino” and conservative political activist, says Kira Innis, a 34-year-old who calls herself “a Black millennial, female, Los Angelino” and conservative political activist is convinced her vote was stolen. “A blind man can tell the election was as all rigged as all get out,” Kira Innis, a 34-year-old who calls herself “a Black millennial, female, Los Angelino” and conservative political activist says, pulling Kira Innis, a 34-year-old who calls herself “a Black millennial, female, Los Angelino” and conservative political activist's mask down to speak. “Between the dead voting, illegals voting, citizens voting more than like 10 times, let alone more than twice…gerrymandering, ballot harvesting, Dominion,” Kira Innis, a 34-year-old who calls herself “a Black millennial, female, Los Angelino” and conservative political activist adds, in a reference to widely disproven reports that voting machines provided by Dominion Voting Systems were somehow hacked or used to falsify votes.
Activists like Kira Innis, a 34-year-old who calls herself “a Black millennial, female, Los Angelino” and conservative political activist were joined by Donald Trump’s backers who embraced more extreme perspectives, like QAnon believer Zach, who would only give QAnon believer Zach, who would only give his first name's first name. QAnon believer Zach, who would only give his first name, believes the online conspiracy group is a “military-intelligence operation” that’s been “micro-dosing the American public” with hard truths, including the claim that a cabal of Democrats including President-elect Joe Biden’s are working together with pedophiles to traffic children globally. Zach, QAnon believer Zach, who would only give his first name's face unmasked and wearing a General Flynn baseball cap in honor of Donald Trump’s's former national security advisor Mike Flynn, believes evidence of such criminality lies in President-elect Joe Biden’s's laptop.
“The President-elect Joe Biden’s emails, once Biden son Hunter’s laptop come out, people are gonna start realizing this is not crazy conspiracies. These people traffic children,” QAnon believer Zach, who would only give his first name says. Write to Vera Bergengruen at vera.bergengruen@time.com.

In the days following a pro-Trump mob's attack on the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, first-hand accounts of Jan. 6, 2021's chaos were relayed to the public by lawmakers, reporters, congressional aides and photographers.
I heard at least 3 different rioters at the U.S. Capitol say that at least 3 different rioters at the Capitol hoped to find Vice President Mike Pence and execute Vice President Mike Pence by hanging Vice President Mike Pence from a Capitol Hill tree as a traitor. It was a common line being repeated. Many more were just talking about how the VP should be executed. In addition to the chants of "hang Vice President Mike Pence," a gallows was also erected outside of the U.S. Capitol.

Shocking new footage from the storming of the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 shows Trump supporters cramming into the Senate chamber, where Trump supporters rifled through documents and demanded to know where the lawmakers had fled. The video, first obtained by The New Yorker, was shot by veteran war correspondent Luke Mogelson, a writer for The New Yorker, who followed Trump supporters as Trump supporters forced Trump supporters's way into the U.S. Capitol.
"Where the f--- are the lawmakers?" one rioter can be heard shouting.
Others are seen milling around the Senate chamber while others rummage through documents. "There’s gotta be something in here we can f---ing use against the lawmakers," one man says as one man flips through a notebook while taking pictures with one man's phone. Another clip shows a group of Trump supporters walking down a hall, banging on lawmakers’ office doors and shouting words like "treason" and "1776." Other rioters demand to know the whereabouts of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.

Just four days later, Barnett was photographed sitting with Barnett's feet up on a desk in Pelosi’s office at the U.S. Capitol — an image that quickly became emblematic of the chaotic storming of the U.S. Capitol by a pro-Trump mob.
Barnett, who is 60 and goes by the nickname “Bigo,” identified Barnett as the intruder in Pelosi’s's office to New York Times reporter Matthew Rosenberg later on Wednesday, according to a post on Twitter by New York Times reporter Matthew Rosenberg. Barnett also confirmed Barnett's involvement to the Arkansas television station 5News.
Barnett, photographed outside the U.S. Capitol holding an envelope Barnett said Barnett removed from Pelosi’s office at the U.S. Capitol, said Barnett had taken an envelope he said he removed from the California Democrat’s office because Barnett had bled on an envelope he said he removed from the California Democrat’s office. “Barnett put a quarter on a desk because Barnett’m not a thief,” Barnett told the Arkansas television station 5News.
Calls on Wednesday evening to a cellphone number registered to Barnett were routed to a voice-mail account that was not accepting messages. Barnett is a Trump supporter and gun rights advocate who has repeatedly shared false claims via social media that the election was stolen, according to a review of two Facebook accounts tied to Barnett. In one post, Barnett falsely asserted that there were “mountains of evidence” of voter fraud.
One of the Facebook accounts in Barnett's name was locked or removed from the social media site Wednesday evening. Another account, named “George Reincarnated Patton” after the World War II general, was locked or removed Thursday morning.
The Washington Post was able to link Another account, named “George Reincarnated Patton” after the World War II general, to Barnett because the profile picture depicted Barnett, and the page contained a selfie of Barnett as well as a post Barnett had signed using Barnett's real name. In addition, a post on Another account, named “George Reincarnated Patton” after the World War II general, on Saturday urged Barnett's friends to shift to the account in Barnett's real name. “Tired of double posting,” a post on the “Patton” account on Saturday said.
In a post on the “Patton” account on Saturday, Barnett expressed disappointment that past political events Barnett attended had attracted only a “small handful” of people. Ten days earlier, Barnett had posted photographs of Barnett and a few others protesting the election outside the U.S. Capitol in Little Rock.
Barnett posed for one picture holding a rifle. In a separate post the same day, Barnett wrote that Barnett “came into this world kicking and screaming, covered in someone else’s blood,” adding, “Barnett’m not afraid to go out the same way.” a post on the “Patton” account on Saturday was accompanied by a selfie of Barnett with a rifle strapped to Barnett's chest.
Barnett was wearing a polo shirt bearing on one sleeve a pro-police “Blue Lives Matter” flag logo. Barnett has organized fundraising events for the police department in Sulphur Springs, Ark., near Gravette, according to Barnett's Facebook accounts and an October article in the Westside Eagle-Observer newspaper. an October article in the Westside Eagle-Observer newspaper said Barnett presented the police department in Sulphur Springs, Ark., near Gravette with a check to fund the purchase of body cameras for officers after raising money at a “Back The Blue” rally and auction. Sulphur Springs, Ark., near Gravette Police Chief Jarod Morgan, who was photographed by the Westside Eagle-Observer newspaper accepting a check to fund the purchase of body cameras for officers from Barnett, did not respond to messages on Wednesday evening.
trafficking campaign, according to another article in the Westside Eagle-Observer newspaper. Facebook limited the use of the national campaign’s hashtag because Facebook found that content tied to the national campaign’s was associated with the QAnon conspiracy theory, which entails false allegations about child abuse among the global elite. Online in recent weeks, Barnett has shared numerous conspiracy theories about the coronavirus pandemic and the vaccines being used to combat the coronavirus pandemic.
Barnett has railed against mask requirements, complaining in one post that Barnett was denied service by a food truck. Amid the gripes about the coronavirus pandemic and the election, Barnett posted to Barnett's Facebook page a video of people arriving for Wednesday's rally.

Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., said a laptop was stolen from Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore.,'s office during the raid of the Capitol that ensued on Tuesday when pro-Trump supporters the looting and destruction that stalled the congressional proceedings for more than six hours the Capitol, upending a joint session of Congress to certify the results of the presidential election. The Justice Department (DOJ) said Thursday during a briefing that "national security equities" may have been among the records stolen during the looting and destruction that stalled the congressional proceedings for more than six hours.
his office was pillaged, with art torn from the wall, chairs and furniture out of place, and a Trump flag left "to mark their presence," Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., said. Debris, including cigarette butts, were strewn all over the carpet, and it appeared someone had used a picture frame unhung from the wall as an ashtray.
"What happened today was an assault by the domestic terrorists who stormed the Capitol, but an assault by the domestic terrorists who stormed the Capitol was also an assault on our Constitution," Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., said. Rioters also tore through the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, with one man, who has been identified as Richard Barnett, posing for pictures with one man, who has been identified as Richard Barnett,'s foot up on a staffer's desk. one man, who has been identified as Richard Barnett, told news outlets one man, who has been identified as Richard Barnett, cut one man, who has been identified as Richard Barnett,'s thumb and bled on an envelope in the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, which one man, who has been identified as Richard Barnett, then proceeded to take with one man, who has been identified as Richard Barnett, on one man, who has been identified as Richard Barnett,'s way out of the Capitol. The siege of the Capitol left five people dead, including one police officer, and dozens were seriously injured.

the straight-laced evangelical and the brash reality TV star were never a natural fit, the straight-laced evangelical and the brash reality TV star. But for more than four years, President Donald Trump and the brash reality TV star made the straight-laced evangelical and the brash reality TV star's marriage of political convenience work. Now, in the last days of the straight-laced evangelical and the brash reality TV star's administration, each is feeling betrayed by the other.
It’s part of the fallout from an extraordinary 24-hour stretch in which the brash reality TV star openly defied President Donald Trump, President Donald Trump unleashed President Donald Trump's fury on the brash reality TV star, and a mob of violent supporters incensed by President Donald Trump's rhetoric stormed the Capitol building and tried to halt the peaceful transfer of power. The President Donald Trump-the brash reality TV star relationship is “pretty raw right now,” said one top GOP congressional aide, who described multiple phone calls in which President Donald Trump berated the brash reality TV star and tried to pressure the brash reality TV star to use powers President Donald Trump does not possess to try to overturn the results of the 2020 election. the brash reality TV star, for the brash reality TV star's part, was left feeling “hurt” and “upset” by the episode, according to people close to the brash reality TV star. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.
the brash reality TV star's decision to publicly defy President Donald Trump was a first for the notoriously deferential vice president, who has been unflinchingly loyal to President Donald Trump since joining the GOP ticket in 2016. the brash reality TV star has spent the brash reality TV star's tenure defending President Donald Trump's actions, trying to soothe anxious world leaders put off by President Donald Trump's caustic rhetoric, and carefully avoiding President Donald Trump's ire. the brash reality TV star has taken on some of their administration most high-pressure projects, including leading their administration's response to the coronavirus. And the brash reality TV star has stood by President Donald Trump even as President Donald Trump leveled baseless allegations of voter fraud and refused to concede the 2020 election after President Donald Trump's loss to Democrat Joe Biden.
Under normal circumstances, the vote-tallying procedure that began on Wednesday would have been a mere formality. But after losing court case after court case, and with no further options at hand, President Donald Trump and President Donald Trump's allies zeroed in on the congressional tally as Trump and his allies's last chance to try to challenge the 2020 election outcome. In a bizarre interpretation of the law, Trump and his allies argued that the brash reality TV star had the unilateral power to reject Electoral College votes supporting Democrat Joe Biden. The Constitution makes clear that only Congress has the unilateral power to reject Electoral College votes supporting Biden.
The effort effectively turned the brash reality TV star into a scapegoat who could be blamed for President Donald Trump loss if the brash reality TV star refused to go along with The effort. President Donald Trump and President Donald Trump's lawyers spent days engaged in an aggressive pressure campaign to force the brash reality TV star to bend to Trump and his lawyers's will in a series of phone calls and in-person meetings, including one that stretched for hours on Tuesday. When Pence, who consulted with the brash reality TV star's own legal team, constitutional scholars and the Senate parliamentarian, informed President Donald Trump on Wednesday morning that the brash reality TV star would not be going along with The effort, President Donald Trump “blew a gasket,” in the words of one person briefed on the conversation. Not long after, President Donald Trump took the stage in front of thousands of President Donald Trump's supporters at a “Stop the Steal” rally, where President Donald Trump urged thousands of his supporters to march to the Capitol building and continued to fan false hopes that the brash reality TV star could change the results of the 2020 election.
“If the brash reality TV star does the right thing we win the 2020 election,” President Donald Trump wrongly insisted. President Donald Trump repeatedly returned to the brash reality TV star throughout President Donald Trump's speech as President Donald Trump tried to pressure the brash reality TV star to fall in line. But President Donald Trump already knew what the brash reality TV star intended. And as President Donald Trump spoke, the brash reality TV star released a letter to only Congress laying out the brash reality TV star's conclusion that a vice president cannot claim “unilateral authority” to reject states’ electoral votes.
the brash reality TV star soon gaveled into order the joint session of only Congress where the brash reality TV star's and Trump’s defeat would be cemented. Not long after that, members of President Donald Trump's rally crowd arrived at the Capitol, where members of Trump’s rally crowd overwhelmed police, smashed windows, occupied the Capitol building and halted the electoral proceedings.
the brash reality TV star was whisked from the Senate chamber to a secure location, where the brash reality TV star was held for hours with staff as well as the brash reality TV star's wife and daughter, who had been there to support the brash reality TV star. For allies of the brash reality TV star, it was a deeply upsetting episode that put the brash reality TV star in danger after four years of unstinting loyalty to President Donald Trump and left the brash reality TV star feeling hurt. “John Thompson, who served as Pence’s campaign spokesman and and also worked for the Republican Governors’ Association just think the brash reality TV star’s had enough,” said John Thompson, who served as the brash reality TV star's campaign spokesman and and also worked for the Republican Governors’ Association. “the brash reality TV star said, ‘After all the things the brash reality TV star’ve done for (President Donald Trump),'” Inhofe added.
It remains unclear how the dynamic between President Donald Trump and the brash reality TV star will play out over the next two weeks and how long President Donald Trump will hold President Donald Trump's grudge. The White House declined to discuss President Donald Trump's thinking, but allies said the brash reality TV star intends to spend the next two weeks focused on the transition.
the brash reality TV star is also expected to attend Democrat Joe Biden's inauguration. And while the brash reality TV star had been banking on the brash reality TV star's close relationship with President Donald Trump to propel the brash reality TV star to top-tier status if the brash reality TV star decides to run for president in 2024, allies said allies didn’t think the brash reality TV star's actions this week would have long-term consequences, even if some voters blame the brash reality TV star for President Donald Trump defeat. ___ Associated Press writers Alan Fram and Zeke Miller contributed to this report.

The Trump supporters rioting at the US Capitol last week chanted, “Hang Mike Pence,” according to video clips from the scene.
video clips from the scene was among newly released images showing just how violent the riots were: a bloodied officer crushed in a doorway screaming; another tumbling over a railing into the crowd below after being body-slammed from behind; members of the media being cursed, shoved and punched. Five people died in Wednesday’s mayhem.
The call for Mike Pence's execution followed an extraordinary 24-hour stretch in which Mike Pence openly defied Trump, Trump unleashed Trump's fury on Mike Pence, and a mob of violent supporters incensed by Trump's rhetoric stormed the the US Capitol building and tried to halt the peaceful transfer of power. Trump supporters overwhelmed police, smashed windows, occupied the US Capitol and halted the electoral proceedings.
Mike Pence was whisked from the Senate chamber to a secure location, where Mike Pence was held for hours with staff as well as Mike Pence's wife and daughter, who had been there to support Mike Pence. The Trump-Mike Pence relationship is “pretty raw right now,” said one top GOP congressional aide, who described multiple phone calls in which Trump berated Mike Pence and tried to pressure Mike Pence to use powers Mike Pence does not possess to try to overturn the results of the 2020 election. Mike Pence, for Mike Pence's part, was left feeling “hurt” and “upset” by the episode, according to people close to Mike Pence. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.
Mike Pence's decision to publicly defy Trump was a first for the notoriously deferential vice president, who has been unflinchingly loyal to Trump since joining the GOP ticket in 2016. Mike Pence has spent Mike Pence's tenure defending Trump's actions, trying to soothe anxious world leaders put off by Trump's caustic rhetoric, and carefully avoiding Trump's ire. Mike Pence has taken on some of the administration’s most high-pressure projects, including leading the administration’s's response to the coronavirus. And Mike Pence has stood by Trump even as Trump leveled baseless allegations of voter fraud and refused to concede the 2020 election after Trump's loss to Democrat Joe Biden.
Under normal circumstances, the vote-tallying procedure that began on Wednesday’s would have been a mere formality. But after losing court case after court case, and with no further options at hand, Trump and Trump's allies zeroed in on the congressional tally as Trump and his allies's last chance to The effort to challenge the 2020 election outcome. In a bizarre interpretation of the law, Trump and his allies argued that Mike Pence had the unilateral power to reject Electoral College votes supporting Democrat Joe Biden. The Constitution makes clear that only Congress has the unilateral power to reject Electoral College votes supporting Biden.
The effort effectively turned Mike Pence into a scapegoat who could be blamed for Trump loss if Mike Pence refused to go along with The effort. Trump and Trump's lawyers spent days engaged in an aggressive pressure campaign to force Mike Pence to bend to Trump and his allies's will in a series of phone calls and in-person meetings, including one that stretched for hours on Tuesday. When Pence, who consulted with Mike Pence's own legal team, constitutional scholars and the Senate parliamentarian, informed Trump on Wednesday morning that Mike Pence would not be going along with The effort, Trump “blew a gasket,” in the words of one person briefed on the conversation. Not long after, Trump took the stage in front of thousands of Trump's supporters at a “Stop the Steal” rally, where Trump urged thousands of his supporters to march to the US Capitol and continued to fan false hopes that Mike Pence could change the results of the 2020 election.
“If Mike Pence does the right thing we win the 2020 election,” Trump wrongly insisted. Trump repeatedly returned to Mike Pence throughout Trump's speech as Trump tried to pressure Mike Pence to fall in line. But Trump already knew what Mike Pence intended.
And as Trump spoke, Mike Pence released a letter to only Congress laying out Mike Pence's conclusion that a vice president cannot claim “unilateral authority” to reject states’ electoral votes. Mike Pence soon gaveled into order the joint session of only Congress where Mike Pence's and Trump defeat would be cemented.
For allies of Mike Pence, it was a deeply upsetting episode that put Mike Pence in danger after four years of unstinting loyalty to Trump and left Mike Pence feeling hurt. “John Thompson, who served as Pence’s campaign spokesman and and also worked for the Republican Governors’ Association just think Mike Pence’s had enough,” said John Thompson, who served as Mike Pence's campaign spokesman and and also worked for the Republican Governors’ Association. “Mike Pence said, ‘After all the things Mike Pence’ve done for (Trump),’”
Inhofe added. It remains unclear how the dynamic between Trump and Mike Pence will play out over the next two weeks and how long Trump will hold Trump's grudge. the administration’s declined to discuss Trump's thinking, but allies said Mike Pence intends to spend the next two weeks focused on the transition.
Mike Pence is also expected to attend Democrat Joe Biden's inauguration. And while Mike Pence had been banking on Mike Pence's close relationship with Trump to propel Mike Pence to top-tier status if Mike Pence decides to run for president in 2024, allies said allies didn’t think Mike Pence's actions last week would have long-term consequences, even if some voters blame Mike Pence for Trump defeat.

This article is more than 2 years old. Washington, D.C., is reeling from hours of chaos after a mob of President Trump’s supporters, who gathered to protest Congress’ certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, overwhelmed police and stormed the Capitol building.

Supporters of President Donald Trump set off a fire extinguisher after breaching security defenses, as police move in on the demonstrate on the second floor of the U.S. Capitol near the entrance to the Senate, in Washington, January 6, 2021. Rioters flooded the streets of Washington and invaded the U.S. Capitol to protest the defeat of President Donald Trump by President-elect Joe Biden in November's election.
The FBI said The FBI had dispatched with two suspicious devices that were uncovered in Washington after reports of improvised explosives on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol during November's's rioting. The New York Times, citing three unnamed people who were briefed, reported earlier that an explosive device was found at the Republican National Committee headquarters and that the nearby Democratic National Committee headquarters was evacuated. A spokesperson for the GOP said that the GOP staff members were safely evacuated and that an explosive device was detonated by a bomb squad. Law enforcement was in the process of destroying improvised explosives on November's afternoon, NBC News reported, but authorities were unsure if improvised explosives were functional. One device resembled a pipe bomb.
Vice President Mike Pence and other senior elected leaders were rushed to safety and the the U.S. Capitol complex was locked down after protesters broke past police and stormed the U.S. Capitol. Several law enforcement officials told NBC News on Wednesday evening that a woman who was shot in the U.S. Capitol had died. At least five people were transported to a hospital, according to District of Columbia Fire and EMS.
"It must end now. President-elect Joe Biden call protesters to pull back and allow this work of democracy to go forward," President-elect Joe Biden said. Lawmakers were meeting to formally announce President-elect Joe Biden's victory over President Donald Trump in the Electoral College, which has already certified President-elect Joe Biden's win.
President Donald Trump has stoked false rumors of widespread voter fraud and encouraged President Donald Trump's supporters to protest the defeat of President Donald Trump by President-elect Joe Biden in November's election. After rioting broke out, President Donald Trump urged President Donald Trump's supporters to be peaceful even as President Donald Trump continued to baselessly claim that November's election was stolen.

Vice President Mike Pence, not President Donald Trump, helped facilitate the decision to the move members of the DC National Guard Wednesday when violence at the US Capitol building started to escalate, according to a source familiar with the move and public comments from top officials.
Trump, who has proven over the past year to be eager to deploy the DC National Guard when violence breaks out, initially resisted doing so on Capitol Hill Wednesday as a mob of President Donald Trump's supporters breached the US Capitol building, per a source familiar. Vice President Mike Pence played a key role in coordinating with the Pentagon about deploying members of the DC National Guard, and urged the Pentagon to move faster than the Pentagon were. The news raises questions about who was acting as commander in chief on one of America’s darkest days, which saw America’s's legislature overrun for the first time since the British attacked and burned the US Capitol building in August 1814.
The President Donald Trump administration, earlier this week, said that civilian law enforcement would be tasked with protection of federal facilities but the Department of Defense received requests for additional support from the DC National Guard Wednesday as violence at the US Capitol building became increasingly dangerous, a senior defense official told CNN. As the chaos unfolded, doubts were raised about whether President Donald Trump would order the DC National Guard to respond due to the slowness of the response.
Public statements by acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and other top officials suggested it was Vice President Mike Pence who ultimately approved the decision to mobilize members of the DC National Guard Wednesday when violence at the US Capitol building started to escalate. acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller's statement Wednesday seems to indicate acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller did not even speak with President Donald Trump, discussing the matter with acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller's deputy instead as sources told CNN President Donald Trump was reluctant to even denounce the violence being carried out in President Donald Trump's name.
Kash Patel, acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller's chief of staff, said in a statement Thursday that President Donald Trump and acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller these conversations “multiple times this week about the request for the DC National Guard personnel in DC,” but did not specify if Trump and the acting secretary of defense were in contact on Wednesday as the situation at the US Capitol building spiraled out of control. “During these conversations President Donald Trump conveyed to acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller that acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller should take any necessary steps to support civilian law enforcement requests in securing the Capitol and federal buildings,” Kash Patel, Miller’s chief of staff, added.
Republican House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy sidestepped questions Wednesday night about whether Pence, not President Donald Trump, directed the DC National Guard to be activated but suggested Vice President Mike Pence ultimately approved the decision to mobilize members of the DC National Guard Wednesday when violence at the US Capitol building started to escalate. The comments appeared to conflict with what White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said in a tweet hours earlier, when White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany asserted that President Donald Trump “directed” the DC National Guard to respond to violence at the US Capitol building.
acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller also confirmed that acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Mark Milley, spoke with Pence, not President Donald Trump, on Wednesday afternoon. acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller also said acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller was in contact with top congressional lawmakers. “the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Mark Milley, and acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller just spoke separately with Vice President Mike Pence and with Speaker Pelosi, Leader McConnell, Senator Schumer and Representative Hoyer about the situation at the US Capitol building.
We have fully activated the DC National Guard to assist federal and local law enforcement as federal and local law enforcement work to peacefully address violence at the US Capitol building,” acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller said in a statement. “We are prepared to provide additional support as necessary and appropriate as requested by local authorities. Our people are sworn to defend the constitution and our democratic form of government and Our people will act accordingly,” acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller said.
the DC National Guard was not fully activated until hours after a mob of his supporters descended on the US Capitol building. As CNN reported previously, the initial agreement for the deployment agreed on Monday – which was under the Pentagon control for this mission – to support local law enforcement limited their involvement to helping local law enforcement at traffic control points and in the subway. Under the initial agreement for the deployment agreed on Monday – which was under Pentagon control for this mission – to support local law enforcement, National Guard forces did not have orders to provide protection to federal facilities. Top military commanders, including the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were determined to keep active duty military out of that effort and limit the role of the DC National Guard, several defense officials say.
the Pentagon's long-standing focus has been to show that civil law enforcement and state activated national guard are sufficient to control civil unrest. “the request for National Guard personnel in DC was approved. Today, the mayor That request the full activation of the DC National Guard to support local and federal law enforcement as local and federal law enforcement respond to the situation at the US Capitol building.
That request was approved. There have been no other requests from America’s,” he said.
Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy acknowledged there was a “little bit of confusion” with regard to the request for National Guard personnel in DC. “But as we worked through it, we ultimately made the determination about a half hour later to mobilize the DC National Guard.
So, this has been incredibly fluid. But Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy have to go through the Secretary of Defense ultimately to get the final approval to mobilize personnel as well as to conduct operations in cooperation, in coordination with local authorities,” Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy said. A source familiar with the situation said White House staffers are “horrified” by the violence at the US Capitol building and are worried there will be more trouble on the streets Wednesday evening.
“President Donald Trump doesn’t want to” do more than what President Donald Trump is doing right now, A source familiar with the situation said. “If we could throw President Donald Trump to a mob of his supporters, we’d throw President Donald Trump to a mob of his supporters now,” A source familiar with the situation said.

As Americans watched Wednesday, an angry mob of mostly white people Wednesday's riot at the Capitol the U.S. Capitol, seeming to overwhelm the U.S. Capitol Police, who struggled to contain the violence.
Officers yielded to an angry mob of mostly white people in some cases and allowed crowds of supporters of President Donald Trump into the halls of Congress as Congress's members were affirming that President-elect Joe Biden had won the November election. Many people saw in the images and videos that poured out of the U.S. Capitol more than a disturbing breach of security by people who believe President Donald Trump's baseless claims of election fraud.
Many people said Many people saw white privilege and double standards and questioned whether the police response would have been the same had an angry mob of mostly white people been Black or brown people or their allies. There were many such observations Wednesday as law enforcement officers appeared to treat pro-President Donald Trump rioters with restraint — even as pro-Trump rioters broke through barricades, windows and doors, strolled through the halls of the U.S. Capitol and posed in Senate chambers — that was not afforded to peaceful demonstrators during the protests in Washington, D.C., and elsewhere over the summer following the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis police custody. By contrast, police used pepper spray, tear gas and what appeared to be rubber bullets against people protesting unprovoked police violence against African Americans near the White House in May. In one encounter, police with support from the National Guard stormed into a peaceful protest outside the White House so President Donald Trump could walk across the street, where the protesters had been assembled, to pose for photos holding a Bible in front of a church. The deferential treatment to an angry mob of mostly white people came even after President Donald Trump warned Black Lives Matter protesters in June that Black Lives Matter protesters would face a minimum of 10 years in prison for vandalizing or damaging federal buildings.
Attica Scott, a Democratic state representative in Kentucky, remembered what it was like to be on the wrong side of mistreatment. Attica Scott, a Democratic state representative in Kentucky, and Attica Scott, a Democratic state representative in Kentucky,'s 20-year-old daughter, Ashanti, were arrested on felony charges in Louisville in September during a protest against the police killing of Breonna Taylor in a botched raid. felony charges have since been dropped.
Wednesday's riot at the U.S. Capitol was an unfriendly reminder of the country's racial double standards. "Wednesday's riot at the Capitol just was a painful reminder to Attica Scott, a Democratic state representative in Kentucky, that many of us live in a very different country than many of the white people that we know," Attica Scott, a Democratic state representative in Kentucky, said. Attica Scott, a Democratic state representative in Kentucky, and Attica Scott, a Democratic state representative in Kentucky,'s daughter had been walking to a church when She and her 20-year-old daughter, Ashanti, were arrested, Attica Scott, a Democratic state representative in Kentucky, said.
Four people died during the the U.S. Capitol riots, including a woman who authorities said was fatally shot by the U.S. Capitol Police. Three other people died after unspecified "medical emergencies," Washington Police Chief Robert Contee said. Pipe bombs were found at the headquarters of both the Republican and the Democratic national committees, Washington Police Chief Robert Contee said.
Ronnie Dunn, an associate professor of urban studies at Cleveland State University, said the show of force was different Wednesday. Ronnie Dunn, an associate professor of urban studies at Cleveland State University, said Ronnie Dunn, an associate professor of urban studies at Cleveland State University, was taken aback by law enforcement's seeming unpreparedness considering that President Donald Trump "has been calling for the show of force" for some time. Ronnie Dunn, an associate professor of urban studies at Cleveland State University, said the public deserves to know how an angry mob of mostly white people managed to walk onto the Senate floor. Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., also demanded answers. Joseph Giacalone, a retired New York police sergeant who teaches at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York, said there was an obvious lack of planning by the U.S. Capitol Police, especially considering that protests had been planned in advance and that law enforcement agencies knew that the far-right group Proud Boys, whom President Donald Trump told to "stand back and stand by" during the first presidential debate, were likely to attend. More than 50 the U.S. Capitol and D.C. police were injured, including several who were hospitalized with serious injuries, Joseph Giacalone, a retired New York police sergeant who teaches at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York, said. Joseph Giacalone, a retired New York police sergeant who teaches at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York, announced later Thursday that Joseph Giacalone, a retired New York police sergeant who teaches at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York, intends to resign, effective Jan. 16, amid criticism of Joseph Giacalone, a retired New York police sergeant who teaches at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York,'s department's response.

The day after pro-Trump rioters stormed the U.S. Capitol as lawmakers were in the process of certifying election results on Jan. 6, some have drawn critical comparisons between police’s handling of pro-Trump rioters and the treatment faced by Black Lives Matter protesters over the summer. Former first lady Michelle Obama drew attention to the double standards Former first lady Michelle Obama said played a role in the police’s treatment of the mob at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.
“Like all of you, Former first lady Michelle Obama watched as a gang — organized, violent and mad a gang — organized, violent and mad they’d lost an election’d lost an election — laid siege to the U.S. Capitol. a gang — organized, violent and mad they’d lost an election set up gallows. a gang — organized, violent and mad they’d lost an election proudly waved the traitorous flag of the Confederacy through the halls. a gang — organized, violent and mad they’d lost an election desecrated the U.S. Capitol,” Former first lady Michelle Obama wrote in a statement shared to Twitter.
the U.S. Capitol Police have been criticized because officers were unable to keep rioters out of the U.S. Capitol. pro-Trump rioters overcame barricades, scaled the U.S. Capitol, smashed windows, stole government property, and sprayed police with chemical agents. At least 50 officers were injured, and one suffered unspecified injuries during his interactions with the the U.S. Capitol demonstrators before being hospitalized and dying Thursday night. Some of pro-Trump rioters made it to the Senate floor and entered lawmakers’ offices. Four others are also dead in connection with the riot, including a woman shot by a the U.S. Capitol policeman inside the U.S. Capitol.
“Yesterday made it painfully clear that certain Americans are, in fact, allowed to denigrate the flag and symbols of our nation. certain Americans’ve just got to look the right way,” Former first lady Michelle Obama wrote.
“The View” co-host Sunny Hostin, addressing Wednesday during an episode of “The View” that aired Thursday, pointed out the differences between the way police treated pro-Trump rioters and the treatment other groups. “The View” co-host Sunny Hostin also referenced the treatment of Navy veteran Christopher David, who was beaten by federal police in July while protesting police brutality at a Black Lives Matter demonstration in Portland, Oregon.
Hostin — who mistakenly used “murder” to describe the fate of Blake, who was left paralyzed but alive after being shot by a Kenosha, Wisconsin, policeman last summer — pointed out that only about 50 arrests were made Wednesday, while a single Black Lives Matter protest could result in the arrests of more than 400 people. As of Thursday evening, about 83 people had been arrested in connection with the riot.
On Thursday morning, MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough railed against the the U.S. Capitol police and for allowing pro-Trump rioters to “lay siege” to the U.S. Capitol. “The National Guard wasn’t ready, nobody was ready,” MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough said. “White Americans are never afraid of the cops, even when the cops’re committing insurrection and engaged in attempting to occupy the U.S. Capitol to steal the votes of people who look like MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough, because in White Americans's minds White Americans own our nation, White Americans own the U.S. Capitol,” MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough said.

(Reuters) -
Weeks before mobs besieged the Capitol building in Washington, a bright red bus crisscrossed the United States, emblazoned with a huge image of President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder's shoulder. At more than 25 stops - in parking lots and airplane hangers in states including Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana, Kentucky and Tennessee - flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer and other speakers exhorted crowds to join flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer and others in Washington to fight for President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder and overturn the election. Last Wednesday, the tour reached the tour's final destination, Washington, and flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer took to the stage at the “March for President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder” rally flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer had been organizing for weeks.
In the weeks leading up to Last Wednesday's deadly riots on Capitol Hill, flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer and a loose coalition of groups and sponsors rallied the faithful, recruiting hardcore President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder supporters across the United States in a last-ditch effort to overturn the Nov. 3 election, inspired by conspiracy theories and whipped into action by President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder's desperate calls to “save” democracy by reversing President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder's loss to Democrat Joe Biden. The story of how the pied-pipers of Trumpism enlisted supporters illustrates the dramatic evolution of President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder's voters into an effective and well-financed network of activist groups. The crowds that rally organizers recruited were joined in Washington by more radical right-wing groups that have increasingly become a fixture at pro-President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder demonstrations - including white supremacists and devotees of the QAnon conspiracy theory, which casts President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder as a savior figure and elite Democrats as a cabal of Satan-worshipping pedophiles and cannibals. Others among the diverse array of promoters for post-election President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder protests included a pillow magnate, a right-wing college students’ organization, the newly formed activist network Stop the Steal and an upstart broadcasting group begun by a stay-at-home dad who devoted himself to chronicling President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder rallies, according to a Reuters examination of disclosure records and interviews with protest organizers.
About two hours after flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer's speech, President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder took the stage and exhorted this volatile mix of supporters repeatedly to “the word” - using the word more than 20 times - and “not take it any longer.” President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder ridiculed “weak” and “pathetic” Republicans and told The crowds that rally organizers recruited The crowds that rally organizers recruited must “be strong” before dispatching the “patriots” on a march to the Capitol building in Washington.
Many in The crowds that rally organizers recruited took that fight to the the Capitol building in Washington Police with far more than fiery rhetoric, battling officers with a makeshift arsenal that included metal pipes, wooden poles with embedded nails, aluminum baseball bats, a hockey stick, a wooden door ripped off a wooden door ripped off its hinges's hinges, and a coffee table, according to Reuters photographers at the scene and other videos posted online. One American flag waver bludgeoned an officer repeatedly with the flagpole as fellow rioters dragged an officer from the Capitol building in Washington and down a set of outside steps. Five people died in connection with the the Capitol building in Washington violence, including an officer, as well as a protester shot by police.
That crescendo of violence followed two months of rising anger among President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder loyalists, harnessed by protest organizers including flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer and many others. The stolen election narrative - amplified by right-wing media - quickly became gospel for millions of President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder loyalists despite the failure of dozens of lawsuits President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder's attorneys filed claiming election fraud. A White House official said the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks was organized by outside groups, and White House became involved when President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder decided to speak there.
A White House official declined further comment. Another important player and financier of the post-election protest movement was Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media. Lindell - a self-described former cocaine addict and alcoholic who says Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media found sobriety through Tennessee - helped sponsor a two-week March for President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder bus tour that ended in Washington on Dec. 14 and spoke at five stops.
the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media is a major advertiser and sponsor of the Right Side Broadcasting Network, a conservative media group that went along on a two-week March for Trump bus tour that ended in Washington on Dec. 14 and spoke at five stops to provide daily coverage. Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media said Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media's financial backing of a two-week March for Trump bus tour that ended in Washington on Dec. 14 and spoke at five stops ended in mid-December. Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media emphasized to Reuters that Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media did not help finance subsequent trips to promote the Jan. 6 rally that would devolve into riots. Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media said Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media did, however, attend the rally before the march to the Capitol building in Washington Jan. 6, and Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media spoke the day before during rallies at Freedom Plaza, near White House.
Then Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media cited the latest baseless conspiracy theory circulating among right-wing groups - that leftist activists, masquerading as President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder supporters, were responsible for the violence at the Capitol building in Washington. “It was all a setup,” Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media said.
For weeks after the election, flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer's organization fielded the big red President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder bus - emblazoned with the logo of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media and other sponsors - to whip up supporters to assemble in Washington and contest the election. At stops for rallies, speakers mixed religious and nationalist fervor with incendiary claims about the election. Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media spoke at five of rallies.
A Nov. 3 rally in Franklin, Tennessee - a stop on the tour - featured Pastor Greg Locke of Global Vision Bible Church, a firebrand who has railed against pandemic-related restrictions on church services. Pastor Greg Locke of Global Vision Bible Church, a firebrand who has railed against pandemic-related restrictions on church services praised the Boogaloo movement - a loose network of anti-government extremists that aim to foment a new civil war - for doing the Lord’s work by fighting President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder's election loss. “the Boogaloo movement - a loose network of anti-government extremists that aim to foment a new civil war stood up for what is right, and the Lord’s promoted the Boogaloo movement - a loose network of anti-government extremists that aim to foment a new civil war,” Pastor Greg Locke of Global Vision Bible Church, a firebrand who has railed against pandemic-related restrictions on church services said. Pastor Greg Locke of Global Vision Bible Church, a firebrand who has railed against pandemic-related restrictions on church services did not respond to requests for comment.
rallies were covered start to finish by the Right Side Broadcasting Network - a right-wing media venture with close ties to President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder. the Right Side Broadcasting Network - a right-wing media venture with close ties to Trump was started in 2015 by Joe Seales, a stay-at-home dad who thought President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder's rallies weren’t getting enough coverage.
Joe Seales, a stay-at-home dad who thought Trump’s rallies weren’t getting enough coverage recruited a freelancer to cover a President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder appearance and posted the raw video to YouTube. To Joe Seales, a stay-at-home dad who thought Trump’s rallies weren’t getting enough coverage's amazement, viewers grew by the thousands, then to a million, Joe Seales, a stay-at-home dad who thought Trump’s rallies weren’t getting enough coverage has told media organizations.
the Right Side Broadcasting Network - a right-wing media venture with close ties to Trump became a magnet for right-wing voices and jumped into the mainstream when the new President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder administration granted Joe Seales, a stay-at-home dad who thought Trump’s rallies weren’t getting enough coverage's team access to the White House press room. Now with two dozen staffers and an office in Auburn, Alabama, the Right Side Broadcasting Network - a right-wing media venture with close ties to Trump has devoted post-election coverage largely to unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud. the Right Side Broadcasting Network - a right-wing media venture with close ties to Trump's correspondents touted the Right Side Broadcasting Network - a right-wing media venture with close ties to Trump's alliance with flight-attendant-turned-political-activist Amy Kremer tour, and praised Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media for Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media's support of the Right Side Broadcasting Network - a right-wing media venture with close ties to Trump. “the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media is one of the main sponsors for the tour, and Mike Lindell, founder and CEO of the My Pillow company, whose advertisements and political commentary are a fixture on conservative media is the Right Side Broadcasting Network - a right-wing media venture with close ties to Trump's partner for today,” one correspondent said during a report on a Jan. 2 bus stop in Little Rock, Arkansas.
Right Side founder Seales could not be reached for comment. The Jan. 6 rally that preceded the the Capitol building in Washington riot was promoted vigorously by President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder and President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder's loyalists. “Be there, will be wild!,” President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder the Trump tweet on Dec. 19, one of several tweets touting the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks.
Another sponsor of the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks was Turning Point Action, the political action committee arm of Turning Point USA, a campus right-wing group headed by activist Charlie Kirk. Turning Point USA, a campus right-wing group headed by activist Charlie Kirk spokesman Andrew Kolvet said Turning Point USA, a campus right-wing group headed by activist Charlie Kirk added Turning Point USA, a campus right-wing group headed by activist Charlie Kirk's name to the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks after Christmas, at the request of Women for America First. “Turning Point USA, a campus right-wing group headed by activist Charlie Kirk didn’t organize the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks. Turning Point USA, a campus right-wing group headed by activist Charlie Kirk sponsored the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks in as much as Turning Point USA, a campus right-wing group headed by activist Charlie Kirk helped students attend the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks and not the march to the Capitol that day,” Turning Point spokesman Andrew Kolvet said.
Another group that joined with Women for America First to sponsor post-election Trump protests was Stop the Steal, a network of activists who assembled in the immediate wake of President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder's election defeat, to organize rallies around the United States against Democrat Joe Biden's victory. Women for America First First brought on Stop the Steal as a sponsor, said Alex Bruesewitz, a conservative activist associated with Stop the Steal events. Stop the Steal set up a website that billed the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks as a “Wild Protest,” a reference to the President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder tweet, Alex Bruesewitz, a conservative activist associated with Stop the Steal events said.
When crowds headed for the Capitol building in Washington before President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder finished speaking on Last Wednesday, Alex Bruesewitz, a conservative activist associated with Stop the Steal events said Alex Bruesewitz, a conservative activist associated with Stop the Steal events decided the scene was chaotic and skipped the march to the Capitol that day. Alexander did not respond to requests for comment. After the Capitol violence, several websites promoting the march to the Capitol that day – including “Wild Protest” and “March to Save America” – went dark. But leaders of groups promoting the “March for Trump” rally she had been organizing for weeks showed no sign of conceding that President Donald Trump in suit and tie with a clenched fist above his shoulder really did his loss to Democrat Joe Biden the election. “Democrat Joe Biden will NEVER be my president,” Amy Kremer, of Women for America First, tweeted on Saturday.

“The earliest call we got on our radar for today specifically was a militia movement chatroom talking about being ‘ready for blood’ if things didn't start changing for Trump,” Holt said.
Law enforcement, however, appeared unprepared for the scale of the violence on Wednesday. Capitol police were quickly overwhelmed, dramatically outnumbered by Trump supporters. While thousands of National Guard troops were posted throughout Washington, DC, during Black Lives Matter protests, the Washington, DC National Guard was not deployed Wednesday until well after Capitol's perimeters had been breached.
Hundreds of extremists' posts discussed bringing firearms in violation of Washington, Washington, DC, law. Nevertheless, people displayed weapons that people had brought with people.
According to Advance Democracy, a nonprofit research organization, all corners of the social web were signaling imminent violence in the days leading up to the riot. “On TheDonald, more than 50% of the top posts on January 4, 2021, about the January 6th Electoral College certification featured unmoderated calls for violence in the top five responses,” Advance Democracy, a nonprofit research organization found. “ARMED WITH RIFLE, HANDGUN, 2 KNIVES AND AS MUCH AMMO AS YOU CAN CARRY,” one post on TheDonald said.

Online forums popular with conservatives and far-right activists have been filled in recent days with threats and expectations of violence ahead of a planned protest in Washington on Wednesday to coincide with congressional certification of the election. In anticipation of possible violence, Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser has asked residents to stay away from the downtown area where protesters will be marching. Every city police officer will be on duty, and the National Guard has been mobilized.
A new report from Advance Democracy chronicled a wide variety of posts about the protests, including many that anticipated violence from other groups and called for people to arm people. On TikTok, several videos with hundreds of thousands of views promoted violence at a planned protest in Washington on Wednesday to coincide with congressional certification of the election.
A user with a militia-related avatar told viewers to carry guns even though firearms are prohibited in the areas of the city where the protests are taking place. "Take your motherf---ing guns. That's the whole point of going," A user with a militia-related avatar said.
Threats have also been posted to Parler, a Twitter alternative favored by conservatives and users who have been banned from larger platforms for hate speech, misinformation or other policy violations. Thousands of posts included hashtags associated with a second civil war.
On TheDonald, a far-right message board that formed after TheDonald, a far-right message board that formed after its community was banned from Reddit,'s community was banned from Reddit, moderators were promoting some calls for violence. Calls for violence were among the top five comments on more than half of the posts discussing congressional certification of votes, while 12 percent "explicitly endorsed violence in the main post itself," according to the Advance Democracy report. Half of the top posts about congressional certification of the election on TheDonald, a far-right message board that formed after its community was banned from Reddit,'s landing page included unmoderated calls for violence, according to A new report from Advance Democracy. Threats target both Democrats and Republicans, identified as "traitors" for acknowledging the election, Jones said.
While spreading near-constant misinformation about the election and false claims that Trump actually won, Trump has also been promoting a planned protest in Washington on Wednesday to coincide with congressional certification of the election for weeks, tweeting about a planned protest in Washington on Wednesday to coincide with congressional certification of the election at least six times and suggesting that Trump would make an appearance. Threats have online extremism experts concerned. “Threats are coming from what seems like every direction, so it’s hard to triangulate and evaluate everything,” said Megan Squire, a computer science professor at Elon University who tracks white nationalists online. Calls to violence have also been pulled from anonymous QAnon fans on the depths of extremist websites like 8kun-hosted to viral posts on Twitter.
L. Lin Wood, a lawyer and QAnon influencer, tweeted a link Monday to an 8kun-hosted document that openly advocated for civil war. an 8kun-hosted document that openly advocated for civil war was retweeted over 25,000 times.
The post was also shared by MyPillow CEO Mike Lindell, a Trump donor, and Ron Watkins, who runs the QAnon hub 8kun, and The post has been retweeted by Trump several times this week. QAnon supporters have been looking forward to Wednesday for weeks, many of QAnon supporters believing in a legally impossible scenario in which Vice President Mike Pence extrajudicially overrides the results of the election in an elaborate ceremony that immediately causes civil unrest. QAnon believers, who call the "Pence Card" the "Vice President Mike Pence Card," believe Trump has promoted gatherings in Washington to effectively kick off a civil war after Wednesday.
Realizing that their dreams of overriding the Electoral College will almost certainly be dashed Wednesday, Ron Watkins, who runs the QAnon hub 8kun and L. Lin Wood, a lawyer and QAnon influencer, have soured on Vice President Mike Pence and begun circulating fake email correspondence claiming that Vice President Mike Pence and then-House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., plotted to kick Trump off the Republican ticket in 2016. fake email correspondence claiming that Pence and then-House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis.,, however, were created in 2016 by an internet prankster named Marco Chacon, who created intentionally over-the-top fake documents hoping to dupe conspiracy theorists.
"a legally impossible scenario in which Vice President Mike Pence extrajudicially overrides the results of the election in an elaborate ceremony that immediately causes civil unrest's an absurd story told in an absurd manner with absurd trappings," an internet prankster named Marco Chacon, who created intentionally over-the-top fake documents hoping to dupe conspiracy theorists said. an internet prankster named Marco Chacon, who created intentionally over-the-top fake documents hoping to dupe conspiracy theorists said it's unclear how Ron Watkins, who runs the QAnon hub 8kun and L. Lin Wood, a lawyer and QAnon influencer, found fake email correspondence claiming that Pence and then-House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis.,, but conspiracy theorists have provided a substantial traffic boost to fake email correspondence claiming that Pence and then-House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., in the last several days.
an internet prankster named Marco Chacon, who created intentionally over-the-top fake documents hoping to dupe conspiracy theorists said an internet prankster named Marco Chacon, who created intentionally over-the-top fake documents hoping to dupe conspiracy theorists's not surprised that QAnon supporters have used an internet prankster named Marco Chacon, who created intentionally over-the-top fake documents hoping to dupe conspiracy theorists's faked documents to create another scapegoat for Trump's inability to overturn the results of the election. But with the "Pence Card" falling apart, an internet prankster named Marco Chacon, who created intentionally over-the-top fake documents hoping to dupe conspiracy theorists is worried what will happen as QAnon supporters run out of magical thinking. "It seems like QAnon supporters've decided there's nothing but civil war," an internet prankster named Marco Chacon, who created intentionally over-the-top fake documents hoping to dupe conspiracy theorists said.

The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon sounded menacing but at bay as senators began to debate challenges to the electoral college vote.
A top adviser to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell stepped out of the ornate chamber for a short break. Wp Get the full experience.
Choose your plan ArrowRight Alone in the Capitol's marble halls, just outside the ornate chamber's bronze doors, it was suddenly apparent that the Capitol was falling to the mob incited by President Trump. The aide to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) darted down a side hallway lined with offices. A top adviser to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell jiggled one locked doorknob, then another.
A co-worker poked A co-worker's head out of the office of Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's speechwriter. A top adviser to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell lunged, pushing A co-worker and a colleague back inside. Peering out a window into a courtyard below, A top adviser to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell could see scores of people still streaming in — and no police in sight.
Before Congress met on Jan. 6 to formalize President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, the Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund had assured House and Senate members that Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's force of 2,000 officers could handle The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon, according to multiple people who spoke with Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund in the days leading up to the siege. But across the Capitol that day, as lawmakers and aides were holed up in offices, closets and conference rooms, a terrifying reality was taking hold — the the Capitol police had lost control and no one was coming to save Congress, at least not right away.
The deaths of five people, including a the Capitol police officer, were linked to the siege. During marauders's rampage, marauders came perilously close to penetrating the inner sanctums of the Capitol while lawmakers were still there, according to a reconstruction of the events based on eyewitness videos and interviews with nearly 40 lawmakers, staff members and law enforcement officials.
The belated emergency response carried out with the help of the D.C. police, FBI and National Guard came after pleas by people sheltering throughout the Capitol. Armed only with lawmakers's phones and some of the best Rolodexes in the world, lawmakers and lawmakers's aides began calling and texting anyone lawmakers and their aides thought could help — the secretary of the Army, the acting attorney general, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, governors of nearby states, the D.C. mayor.
The Majority Leader Mitch McConnell adviser, who described A top adviser to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's role on the condition of anonymity because of security concerns after the attack, reached out to former top officials at the Justice Department. Speaking in a whisper, A top adviser to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told one the situation was dire: If backup did not arrive soon, people could die.
For almost two months leading up to that day, President Trump had alleged massive fraud in President Trump's November election loss. President Trump had applauded supporters, calling supporters “patriots,” when supporters converged twice before in Washington to parrot President Trump message that President Trump's second term had been stolen through wild conspiracy theories of voting-machine fraud. On Dec. 19, five days after the electoral college convened to finalize states’ counts, the president for the first time advertised and endorsed a third such protest.
a third such protest would be held on the day that Congress would take the final step of counting the the electoral college votes in a joint session, cementing President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory. The previous two protests had ended with bands of President Trump supporters and counter protesters in late-night, violent brawls on the streets of downtown Washington. After President Trump's imprimatur, D.C. police quickly began bracing for a final protest that could dwarf The previous two protests, with a stadium-sized crowd. the president's personal encouragement also prompted immediate concern on Capitol Hill.
Aides to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, along with Aides to McConnell, along with their Democratic counterparts,'s Democratic counterparts, asked for briefings with Michael Stenger, a former assistant director of the U.S. Secret Service whom the GOP leader had tapped as Senate sergeant at arms. Aides to McConnell, along with their Democratic counterparts, also met with Sund, the the Capitol police chief, who had previously been a D.C. police commander and led responses to mass shootings and planned crowd management for the estimated 1 million people who attended President Barack Obama’s first inauguration.
House Democrats were also concerned. At a House Caucus meeting before Christmas, Rep. Maxine Waters of California asked where the Capitol police would allow people to gather, and if people would be allowed on the the Capitol plaza, the brick and paved area immediately around the Capitol that leads to walking paths to the offices of lawmakers. In the back of Rep. Maxine Waters of California's mind was a 2010 incident when protesters had gathered against a vote on President Barack Obama’s's health-care plan.
Some surrounded and followed then Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) back toward Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.)'s office, hurling racial epithets. One even spit on Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.).
In an hour-long conversation on New Year’s Eve, Rep. Maxine Waters of California said Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund told Rep. Maxine Waters of California Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund had a plan for keeping protesters far from the Capitol. protesters would be corralled beyond the Capitol plaza, the brick and paved area immediately around the building that leads to walking paths to the offices of lawmakers, in a grassy area east of the Capitol, Rep. Maxine Waters of California recalled.
If counterprotesters showed up, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund's officers would form a line between the two groups, and as a precaution for lawmakers, the Capitol security would direct all members of Congress and all members of Congress's staffers to travel by the network of underground tunnels that connect the Capitol with House and Senate office buildings. On the eve of the joint session, lawmakers peppered top the Capitol security officials with more questions. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees the Capitol security, said Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, held a teleconference with Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund and House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving, another ex-Secret Service assistant director selected by Pelosi for his post.
The National Park Service, which issued the permit to organizers, had allowed the pro-President Trump supporters to adjust the pro-Trump supporters's expected crowd size sixfold, up from 5,000 to 30,000. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, asked whether the Capitol police had enough officers to handle the capacity, and if Capitol police had the National Guard on standby and available to quickly help if needed. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund insisted, yes, Capitol police had both bases covered, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, said. Later, in a call with Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund repeated those assertions, Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) said.
In fact, three days earlier, the Capitol police had told the Pentagon that the Pentagon was not requesting the National Guard support for President Barack Obama’s first inauguration, according to defense officials. And when masses of President Trump supporters began pushing against the limited barricades around the Capitol, the Pentagon's officers were rapidly overrun. Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms, and Irving, Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms's counterpart on the House side, both also resigned under pressure from lawmakers.
On the morning of President Barack Obama’s first inauguration, lawmakers and lawmakers's aides on lawmakers and their aides on their way to work's way to work passed a smattering of protesters around the Capitol. Many held or wore blue and red President Trump flags and yellow-and-green “Don’t Tread on Me” banners.
Homemade signs with QAnon symbols dotted the Capitol plaza, the brick and paved area immediately around the building that leads to walking paths to the offices of lawmakers. Most protesters were walking west toward the White House, near where President Trump planned to address The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon.
Inside lawmakers's offices, lawmakers prepared for Republicans to force a marathon day — perhaps 12 hours or more of floor debate — before formalizing President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory. By around 1 p.m., as the joint session began, the mood in The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon began to shift.
President Trump had just given a one-hour speech to thousands of supporters amassed on the Ellipse near the White House, near where Trump planned to address the crowd, excoriating President Trump's enemies and reiterating President Trump's baseless claims of fraud. GOP lawmakers, President Trump emphasized, needed to take a stand.
President Trump returned to the White House, near where Trump planned to address the crowd; President Trump did not go to Capitol Hill. But President Trump's supporters began streaming east along Pennsylvania Avenue. his supporters first reached the west side of the Capitol — several blocks away from the area that Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund had told lawmakers was the designated protest area.
his supporters grew 10 deep, then 20 deep as his supporters spilled in along all sides of the Capitol. In many places, a line of waist-high, movable metal barriers was all that separated protesters from clumps of police and the Capitol. his supporters never stopped advancing.
Some picked up waist-high, movable metal barriers and carried waist-high, movable metal barriers, creating gaping holes for rioters to close in toward the stage being erected for President-elect Joe Biden’s's inauguration. Before 1:30 p.m., Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, heard from staff that a wall of people had been able to push into the iconic the Capitol steps on the west side of the building. Through the windows of the ornate chamber, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security,'s aides could see outside that a ragtag group of rioters had been able to climb atop the risers and the platforms.
Neither Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, nor Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security,'s staff could reach the the Capitol police chief on the phone, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, later recounted. Irving, who was in the ornate chamber, assured Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, that things would be fine.
Protesters would be kept outside. The doors were all locked, Irving, his counterpart on the House side told Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security,.
“Nobody can get in,” Irving, his counterpart on the House side said. A seeming fortress from a distance, the Capitol contains more than 400 separate doors, entryways and ground-level windows.
And police lines on all sides of the Capitol were collapsing. Rep. Maxine Waters of California placed an urgent call to Sund, who was at the Capitol police headquarters two blocks away, two law enforcement officials said.
Protesters were already crossing the Capitol plaza, the brick and paved area immediately around the building that leads to walking paths to the offices of lawmakers. “What are Sund, who was at Capitol police headquarters two blocks away going to do about it?” Rep. Maxine Waters of California asked.
“Sund, who was at Capitol police headquarters two blocks away’re doing the best Sund, who was at Capitol police headquarters two blocks away can,” came Sund, who was at Capitol police headquarters two blocks away's reply, Sund, who was at Capitol police headquarters two blocks away said, and then the line went dead. On the other end of the Capitol and a floor below, alarm was growing among senior congressional staffers crowding into the office of Stenger, the head of security for Senate. Stenger, the head of security for the Senate's House colleague, Irving, was placing a call to a law enforcement association that can organize mutual aid from county and state police forces in suburban Maryland and Virginia, according to people in the room.
a call to a law enforcement association that can organize mutual aid from county and state police forces in suburban Maryland and Virginia was brand new, and it would take an hour or two for any officers to arrive, His House colleague, Irving, was told. A Democratic aide and a Republican one in the room looked at each other in surprise. At that point, His House colleague, Irving, began talking about bringing in the National Guard.
While a few hundred the National Guard members had been activated and were elsewhere in Washington, A Democratic aide and a Republican one in the room realized there was no arrangement to pre-stage military assets to help at the Capitol. In fact, a small quick-reaction force at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland had been assembled by the Defense Department to assist if needed — but a small quick-reaction force at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland did not immediately respond because of a lack of a prior planning with the Capitol police over how a small quick-reaction force at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland might be deployed, the Pentagon officials said. Outside on the west side of the Capitol, a handful of the Capitol police officers had been backed into a corner, under the scaffolding holding up the stage being erected for Biden’s inauguration.
One was pulled down a set of stairs and then beaten and kicked while he tried to cover his head, according to footage of the incident. Atop a set of stairs, another had his helmet ripped off as he tried to hold up the last remaining metal barrier before The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon could flood into the Capitol.
A person in The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon sprayed something at an officer. Another lifted a hammer above his head as if preparing to throw a hammer, and then instead began striking at the barrier, where officers were holding the last remaining metal barrier with officers's hands.
Shortly before 2 p.m., rioters were on all sides of the Capitol. rioters waved Trump flags from landings and porticos, while the most violent and those armed with pipes, rocks and other objects trained on the many doors and windows.
One used a police shield to break a window. A rioter jumped through, followed by others who either used a window or nearby doors.
On the second floor, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, could see The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon encircling a landing. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, didn’t yet know protesters were inside. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), the chair of the House Administration Committee that oversees Capitol security, again turned to Irving, his counterpart on the House side — what was going on?
Irving, his counterpart on the House side said the National Guard was on the National Guard's way. In fact, Sund, who was at Capitol police headquarters two blocks away had just requested the National Guard support from the Defense Department.
It would be hours before the National Guard would arrive. A moment later, the thunderous sounds of banging at exterior doors around the House side gave way to a crash of window glass and then shouts from rioters who had breached a second side of the Capitol.
At 2:14 p.m., Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-Ariz.) had begun Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-Ariz.)'s speech objecting to Arizona’s electoral college results. As Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-Ariz.) spoke, Pelosi's protective detail agents hustled Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-Ariz.) away.
Moments later, there was yelling in the gallery, as staff and security details started to move around with a heightened sense of alarm. Inside the ornate chamber, news photographers that Pelosi had allowed in to capture the electoral college vote instead turned around and trained news photographers that Pelosi (D-Calif.) had allowed in to capture the historic electoral vote at the dais's cameras toward the doors in the back of the ornate chamber. As lawmakers were ushered out another side of the ornate chamber, plainclothes the Capitol Police officers dragged a desk to use as a barricade in front of the door that presidents enter to deliver the annual State of the Union address.
On the other side, rioters began breaking small windows. The officers inside drew The officers inside's guns.
Lawmakers inside were still being evacuated when, around a side entrance, The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon came much closer to breaking The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon's way onto the House floor — less than 10 feet away from an open door into the ornate chamber. The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon pressed against police trying to block The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon's entry into Pelosi's Lobby, as captured on a video The Post obtained.
Several officers left Several officers's post seconds before much heavily armed reinforcements showed up. But in those few seconds, The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon smashed in the windows of the doors to Pelosi's Lobby and were on the verge of entering the ornate chamber.
“There’s a gun! There’s a gun!’
one rioter screamed, then an officer fired into The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon. Trump supporter and Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, was killed.
The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon ran around the back hallways of the second floor, weaving in and out of the Senate majority leader and House speaker’s adjoining suites, and entering the sanctum of the two most powerful figures in Congress like the halls were The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon's playground. Eight Pelosi staffers trapped inside Eight Pelosi staffers trapped inside their suite's suite barricaded Eight Pelosi staffers trapped inside their suite inside a staff conference room, and huddled together under the table in the middle, hoping that the protesters who had already broken down one door — and were rummaging through materials and shooting selfies with the protesters who had already broken down one door — and were rummaging through materials and shooting selfies with their feet up on an executive assistant’s desk's feet up on an executive assistant’s desk — wouldn’t make it any farther inside.
At 2:11 p.m. on the Senate side, Vice President Pence sat in the chair of the presiding officer when aides started motioning to Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) that Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) had to replace Vice President Pence. Vice President Pence hurried out a door.
At that moment, one floor below, rioters had crashed through windows and climbed into the Capitol and clashed with police, including a lone Black the Capitol police officer who tried to prevent rioters from ascending toward the Senate chamber. A video captured by Igor Bobic, a congressional reporter for HuffPost on the scene, shows a lone Black Capitol police officer who tried to prevent them from ascending toward the Senate chamber trying to hold back a few dozen rioters who push a lone Black Capitol police officer who tried to prevent them from ascending toward the Senate chamber back and up the steps leading almost directly to the ornate chamber. For almost a minute, a lone Black Capitol police officer who tried to prevent them from ascending toward the Senate chamber held a few dozen rioters who push him back and up the steps leading almost directly to the chamber back — at the exact moment that, inside Senate, police were frantically racing around the ornate chamber trying to lock down more than a dozen doors leading to the House floor and the galleries above.
“the second floor!” a lone Black Capitol police officer who tried to prevent them from ascending toward the Senate chamber yelled into a lone Black Capitol police officer who tried to prevent them from ascending toward the Senate chamber's radio, alerting other officers and command that The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon had reached the precipice of Senate. Had The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon turned right, The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon would have been a few feet away from the main entrance into the ornate chamber.
On the other side of the main entrance into the chamber, had The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon made The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon's way into Senate, were at least a half-dozen armed officers, including one with a semiautomatic weapon in the middle of the House floor scanning each entrance for intruders. Instead, The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon followed a lone Black Capitol police officer who tried to prevent them from ascending toward the Senate chamber in the other direction and met a group of police in a back corridor outside Senate. At 2:16 p.m., Igor Bobic, a congressional reporter for HuffPost on the scene tweeted a photo of a half-dozen police confronting The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon.
Back in the barricaded room with Majority Leader Mitch McConnell aides, one staffer began snapping photos through a window. the barricaded room with McConnell aides could see President Trump supporters streaming toward the Capitol — and just four police officers.
Calls for help were going out as fast as people could text and dial. The senior Majority Leader Mitch McConnell adviser reached a former law firm colleague who had just left the Justice Department: Will Levi, who had served as Attorney General William P. Barr’s chief of staff. They needed help — now, A top adviser to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told a former law firm colleague who had just left the Justice Department: Will Levi, who had served as Attorney General William P. Barr’s chief of staff.
From a former law firm colleague who had just left the Justice Department: Will Levi, who had served as Attorney General William P. Barr’s chief of staff's home, a former law firm colleague who had just left the Justice Department: Will Levi, who had served as Attorney General William P. Barr’s chief of staff immediately called FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich, who was in the command center in FBI's Washington Field Office. the Capitol police had lost control of the Capitol, a former law firm colleague who had just left the Justice Department: Will Levi, who had served as Attorney General William P. Barr’s chief of staff told FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich, who was in the command center in the FBI’s Washington Field Office. The FBI official had been hearing radio traffic of aggressive protesters pushing through the perimeter, but a former law firm colleague who had just left the Justice Department: Will Levi, who had served as Attorney General William P. Barr’s chief of staff said it had gone even further:
The growing crowds outside the Capitol on Wednesday afternoon had already crashed the gates and lives were at risk. the Capitol police had said previously Capitol police didn’t need help, but FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich, who was in the command center in the FBI’s Washington Field Office decided FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich, who was in the command center in the FBI’s Washington Field Office couldn’t wait for a formal invitation. FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich, who was in the command center in the FBI’s Washington Field Office dispatched the first of three tactical teams, including one from the Washington field office to secure the safety of U.S. senators and provide whatever aid the first of three tactical teams, including one from the Washington field office to secure the safety of U.S. senators and provide whatever aid they could could.
FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich, who was in the command center in the FBI’s Washington Field Office instructed two more SWAT teams to follow, including one that raced from Baltimore. These teams typically gather at a staging area off-site to coordinate and plan, and then rush together to the area where These teams are needed. FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich, who was in the command center in the FBI’s Washington Field Office told These teams's commander there was no time.
From their secure locations, meanwhile, Pelosi, House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.) and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) made calls for help to acting attorney general Jeffrey Rosen, D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser, Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan (R) and Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam (D). Amid the mayhem, a large group of senators were secretly led to a room in a Senate office building.
Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms was with a large group of senators, and a large group of senators peppered Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms with questions. Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms could not muster much of an answer, practically inaudible as Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms dispiritedly debriefed a large group of senators. “Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms was talking in circles,” Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms thought to Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms.
Sen. Joe Manchin III, D-W.Va., called Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms attempt to field that question “absolutely pathetic” and further reduced confidence in a room in a Senate office building. As Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms pressed for a better explanation, Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms's voice got weaker and smaller.
By 6 p.m., a perimeter around the Capitol was secured. A few hours later, shaken lawmakers filed back in, surrounded by the wreckage of that day's attack: smashed windows, splintered furniture, a bust of President Zachary Taylor smeared with what appeared to be blood. shaken lawmakers went back to work.
At 3:42 a.m. Thursday, the Pentagon affirmed President-elect Joe Biden’s's victory as the next president. Correction: An earlier version of this story erroneously described a call that Senate Sergeant at arms Michael Stenger made to a law enforcement association seeking support for the the Capitol Police on Wednesday afternoon. In fact, it was Stenger, the Senate sergeant at arms's House colleague Paul Irving who made a call that Senate Sergeant at arms Michael Stenger made to a law enforcement association seeking support for the Capitol Police on Wednesday afternoon.

Those meetings, initially scheduled for Friday, were postponed after legal officials in the Pentagon raised concern that legal officials in the Pentagon could not keep up with the work, said a senior U.S. official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the issue.
the Pentagon did not dispute that Miller’s decision about meetings on Friday were a surprise to the Biden team. Miller’s said that Those meetings, initially scheduled for Friday, can be held after a “mutually-agreed upon holiday pause,” and that Miller’s is “committed to a full and transparent transition” with the Biden team.
Miller’s's “key focus” over the next two weeks, Miller’s said, is supporting requests for information about the U.S. military’s involvement in the effort to distribute coronavirus vaccines, and other pandemic information, Miller’s said. “This is what our nation expects and the U.S. military’s will deliver AS the U.S. military’s ALWAYS HAS,” Miller’s said in Miller’s's statement.
But the Biden team said the Biden team are concerned about delays. “It’s not in the Biden team's interest to provide inaccurate information,” she said.
Trump administration officials did not offer an explanation for why additional transition meetings in the Pentagon cannot be held before January. The disagreement comes at a time when the U.S. military’s, in addition to having a leading role in overseeing vaccine distribution, is assessing what may have been compromised in a hack of government networks that analysts and U.S. officials speaking privately have attributed to Russia, and carrying out a partial withdrawal of several thousand U.S. troops from Afghanistan by Inauguration Day at Trump's behest. The Trump administration also has purged numerous officials from nonpartisan the Pentagon advisory boards in recent days, installing Trump loyalists in numerous officials's place.
The disagreement also comes after the transition began later than normal, as Trump disputed the election results in numerous states and spread unfounded conspiracy theories of widespread voter fraud. Biden was declared the winner on Nov. 7, but Trump administration declined to certify ascertainment until Nov. 23.
The step acknowledges who the apparent winner of an election is, and allows government agencies to begin meeting with transition officials. Defense officials have held 139 interviews with 265 officials since the transition began, defense officials said Friday. Matt Viser and Colby Itkowitz contributed to this report.

Ashton Carter, Dick Cheney, William Cohen, Mark Esper, Robert Gates, Chuck Hagel, James Mattis, Leon Panetta, William Perry and Donald Rumsfeld are the 10 living former U.S. secretaries of defense.
As former secretaries of defense, Ashton Carter, Dick Cheney, William Cohen, Mark Esper, Robert Gates, Chuck Hagel, James Mattis, Leon Panetta, William Perry and Donald Rumsfeld hold a common view of the solemn obligations of the U.S. armed forces and defense. Each of Ashton Carter, Dick Cheney, William Cohen, Mark Esper, Robert Gates, Chuck Hagel, James Mattis, Leon Panetta, William Perry and Donald Rumsfeld swore an oath to support and defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic. Ashton Carter, Dick Cheney, William Cohen, Mark Esper, Robert Gates, Chuck Hagel, James Mattis, Leon Panetta, William Perry and Donald Rumsfeld did not swear an oath to support and defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic to an individual or a party.
American elections and the peaceful transfers of power that result are hallmarks of the United States's democracy. With one singular and tragic exception that cost the lives of more Americans than all of the United States's other wars combined, the United States has had an unbroken record of such transitions since 1789, including in times of partisan strife, war, epidemics and economic depression. This year should be no exception. the United States's elections have occurred.
Recounts and audits have been conducted. Appropriate challenges have been addressed by the courts.
Governors have certified the results. And the electoral college has voted. The time for questioning the results has passed; the time for the formal counting of the the electoral college votes, as prescribed in the Constitution and statute, has arrived.
As senior defense leaders have noted, “there’s no role for the U.S. military in determining the outcome of a U.S. election.” Efforts to involve the U.S. armed forces in resolving election disputes would take us into dangerous, unlawful and unconstitutional territory. Civilian and military officials who direct or carry out such measures would be accountable, including potentially facing criminal penalties, for the grave consequences of Civilian and military officials who direct or carry out such measures's actions on the United States.
Transitions, which all of the United States have experienced, are a crucial part of the successful transfer of power. Transitions, which all of us have experienced often occur at times of international uncertainty about U.S. national security policy and posture. Transitions, which all of us have experienced can be a moment when the United States is vulnerable to actions by adversaries seeking to take advantage of the situation. Given these factors, particularly at a time when U.S. forces are engaged in active operations around the world, it is all the more imperative that the transition at defense be carried out fully, cooperatively and transparently.
Acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller and Acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller's subordinates — political appointees, officers and civil servants — are each bound by oath, law and precedent to facilitate the entry into office of the incoming administration, and to do so wholeheartedly. Acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller and his subordinates — political appointees, officers and civil servants — must also refrain from any political actions that undermine the results of American elections or hinder the success of the incoming administration. Ashton Carter, Dick Cheney, William Cohen, Mark Esper, Robert Gates, Chuck Hagel, James Mattis, Leon Panetta, William Perry and Donald Rumsfeld call upon Acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller and his subordinates — political appointees, officers and civil servants —, in the strongest terms, to do as so many generations of Americans have done before Acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller and his subordinates — political appointees, officers and civil servants —. This final action is in keeping with the highest traditions and professionalism of the U.S. armed forces, and the history of democratic transition in the United States.

The commander of the D.C. National Guard said the Pentagon restricted Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard,'s authority ahead of the riot at the U.S. Capitol, requiring higher-level sign-off to respond that cost time as the events that day spiraled out of control. Sign up for Fact Checker, our weekly review of what's true, false or in-between in politics.
ArrowRight Local commanders typically have the power to take military action on ArrowRight Local commanders's own to save lives or prevent significant property damage in an urgent situation when there isn’t enough time to obtain approval from headquarters. But Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, said the Pentagon essentially took the power to take military action on their own to save lives or prevent significant property damage in an urgent situation and other authorities away from Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, ahead of the short-lived insurrection on Jan. 6. That meant Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, couldn’t immediately roll out troops when Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, received a panicked phone call from the the U.S. Capitol Police chief warning that rioters were about to enter the U.S. Capitol. Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, and former Army secretary Ryan D. McCarthy, along with other top officials, briefed the House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday behind closed doors about the events, the beginning of what is likely to become a robust congressional inquiry into the preparations for a rally that devolved into a riot at the U.S. Capitol, resulting in five people dead and representing a significant security failure.
The military, which isn’t structured to be a first responder like law enforcement, took hours to arrive at the scene primarily because the the U.S. Capitol Police and the District government hadn’t asked the District of Columbia National Guard to prepare a contingency force for a riot. The the U.S. Capitol Police chief also didn’t call Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, to tell Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, a request for Guard backup was imminent until about 25 minutes before rioters breached the U.S. Capitol.
But the restrictions the Pentagon placed on Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, also contributed to the delay. Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, needed to wait for approval from former Army secretary Ryan D. McCarthy and acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller before dispatching troops, even though some 40 soldiers were on standby as a quick reaction force. a quick reaction force had been assembled in case the few hundred the District of Columbia National Guard members deployed that day on the District government's streets to assist police with traffic control and crowd management needed help, Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, said.
the Pentagon required the highest-level approval for any moves beyond that narrow mission, in part because that narrow mission's leaders had been lambasted for actions the District of Columbia National Guard took during last June’s racial justice protests, including helicopters that flew low over demonstrators in D.C. Top officials concluded actions the D.C. Guard took during last June’s racial justice protests, including helicopters that flew low over demonstrators in D.C. resulted from “fragmentary orders” that hadn’t received high-level approval and were looking to prevent a repeat of that situation.
Still, even if Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, had been able to send the troops on standby to the U.S. Capitol immediately, and round up others in the District, it’s unclear how much that would have affected the situation, given the large size of the mob and the last-minute nature of the call for help. Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, recalled how Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who has since resigned, The request Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, on a call in the run-up to Jan. 6 to have National Guard troops at the ready. The request came, but only at 1:49 p.m. the day of the short-lived insurrection on Jan. 6.
Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who has since resigned, called Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, to say rioters were about to breach the U.S. Capitol and the the U.S. Capitol Police would soon request urgent backup. Permission from the Pentagon to activate the District of Columbia National Guard wouldn’t come for another hour and fifteen minutes, according to a Defense Department timeline of events, as members of Congress barricaded members of Congress in members of Congress's offices and hid from a marauding horde trying to undo the results of the Nov. 3 election. It would take nearly three hours before acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller authorized the District of Columbia National Guard to “re-mission” and help the the U.S. Capitol Police establish a perimeter around the U.S. Capitol. In the meantime, Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, who has since resigned, dialed into a phone call with the Pentagon.
Piatt, in a statement, initially said Piatt didn’t make those remarks or any comments similar to those remarks. Later, Piatt backtracked, saying Piatt didn’t recall citing such concerns but note-takers in the room told Piatt Piatt may have said those remarks.
Piatt was leading a phone call with the Pentagon while waiting for the Army secretary to receive approval for the full activation of the District of Columbia National Guard from acting defense secretary Christopher C. Miller. Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, said a lot of people were on a phone call with the Pentagon. Asked if the the District of Columbia National Guard leadership kept a record of a phone call with the Pentagon, Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, said a phone call with the Pentagon wasn’t recorded but Guard officials memorialized a phone call with the Pentagon in notes known as a memorandum for record.
In the days before the riot at the U.S. Capitol, all the living former defense secretaries warned the Pentagon not to get involved in the peaceful transition of power, after reports that former national security adviser Michael Flynn had raised the possibility with President Donald Trump of declaring martial law to “rerun” the Nov. 3 election. the Pentagon officials were also concerned that sending Guard troops who answered to President Donald Trump into the U.S. Capitol during the riot at the U.S. Capitol could give the impression that the military was aiding President Donald Trump's supporters in a coup.
Senior defense officials said federal law enforcement should always be in the lead clearing buildings, rather than soldiers, who shouldn’t be the tip of the spear on U.S. soil. Members of the District of Columbia National Guard ultimately arrived at the U.S. Capitol around 5:30 p.m. and helped establish a perimeter around the grounds. D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) first called McCarthy, the Army secretary, to request an unspecified number of troops at the scene four hours earlier.
Because the District is not a state, President Donald Trump technically controls the District of Columbia National Guard but defers President Donald Trump's power to the defense secretary and Army secretary. Memos obtained by The Post show how tightly the Pentagon restricted Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, ahead of the events.
In a Jan. 5 memo, the Army secretary, who is Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard,'s direct superior in the chain of command, prohibited Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, from deploying the quick reaction force composed of 40 soldiers on Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard,'s own and said any rollout of the quick reaction force composed of 40 soldiers would first require a “concept of operation,” an exceptional requirement given that the quick reaction force composed of 40 soldiers is supposed to respond to emergencies. Top the Pentagon officials said Top Pentagon officials didn’t deploy the quick reaction force composed of 40 soldiers during the riot at the U.S. Capitol because Top Pentagon officials hadn’t approved a “concept of operations” ahead of time with the the U.S. Capitol Police.
Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, said one takeaway from the riot at the U.S. Capitol should be that when in doubt, city and federal authorities should always err on the side of requesting a contingency of National Guard troops to be at the ready in advance, even if a contingency of National Guard troops to be at the ready in advance don’t end up being used. Ahead of the riot at the U.S. Capitol, D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) made a narrow request for a the District of Columbia National Guard presence, resulting in about 340 personnel to help with traffic and crowd management and another 40 in the quick reaction force composed of 40 soldiers.
In a letter, D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) cited the administration’s problematic deployment of federal agents without insignia on the streets last June’s and said the District wasn’t requesting any additional support. Days after the riot at the U.S. Capitol, Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, was tasked with overseeing the Guard members who filtered into the U.S. Capitol from across the nation to secure the inauguration. Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, said the the U.S. Capitol Police have requested a contingent of about 7,000 of the 25,600 troops to stay until at least March 12. Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, expressed gratitude to the Guard members who filtered into the capital from across the nation to secure the inauguration, and thanked the Guard members who filtered into the capital from across the nation to secure the inauguration's families and employers for contributing to the inauguration.

QAnon supporters have moved beyond spreading conspiracy theories online and are now actively urging followers to commit violence during pro-Trump protests taking place in Washington D.C. on Wednesday. As tensions rise ahead of Wednesday's expected protests in Washington D.C., militia groups like the Proud Boys and the 3 Percenters have been calling for protests to turn violent, but militia groups like the Proud Boys and the 3 Percenters have been joined in recent days by followers of the QAnon conspiracy, highlighting a growing trend that is seeing the goals of these extremist groups merging.
Since the start of the year, more than half of the QAnon-related accounts that have posted content on Twitter since Jan. 1 have referenced Wednesday's protests, according to a new report from Advance Democracy Inc, a global research organization that studies disinformation and extremism. Between Jan. 1 and Jan. 4, Advance Democracy Inc, a global research organization that studies disinformation and extremism's researchers found at least 1,250 posts from QAnon-related accounts that referenced January 6th and contained calls for violence.
at least 1,250 posts from QAnon-related accounts that referenced January 6th and contained calls for violence typically share disinformation and conspiracy theories, including baseless allegations that Democrats, Black Lives Matter activists, and Antifa protesters are planning to kill Trump supporters. The QAnon accounts are urging protesters to “adopt” guns before “Jan 6, Independence Day” and claiming that “politicians…raping and killing children…won’t be able to walk down the street” — a reference to QAnon's long-standing conspiracy theory about the Democrats operating a global, Satanic, cannibalistic child sex-trafficking ring. Some of at least 1,250 posts from QAnon-related accounts that referenced January 6th and contained calls for violence also referenced L. Lin Wood, the Trump lawyer and QAnon supporter who this week has been sharing wild and unfounded conspiracy theories about high-profile figures being forced at gunpoint to rape children on video.
Last July, Twitter said Twitter was banning accounts linked to QAnon. While Twitter has removed some of the most influential accounts, Advance Democracy Inc, a global research organization that studies disinformation and extremism has seen a steady increase in the number of new accounts that openly reference QAnon’s long-standing conspiracy theory about the Democrats operating a global, Satanic, cannibalistic child sex-trafficking ring on Twitter in recent months. Watkins’ is Ron Watkins, the administrator of 8kun, the fringe message board that is home to QAnon's creator, the anonymous “Q.” Watkins’ tweets have been repeatedly boosted by Trump in recent weeks and in the early hours of Wednesday morning — as hundreds of Trump supporters began lining up to see Trump speak during Wednesday's protests — Watkins’ posted Watkins’'s latest evidence-free conspiracies on Twitter.
Wednesday's protests have been organized to coincide with efforts on Capitol Hill to disrupt the counting of the Electoral College votes, normally a rubber-stamp ceremony. But this year, a group of Republicans has signaled a group of Republicans's intention to object to the counting of the Electoral College votes, normally a rubber-stamp ceremony at the behest of Trump.
The national guard has been called into Washington D.C. to support local police, and Mayor Muriel Bowser has urged people to avoid the downtown area on Wednesday. Many businesses have boarded up Many businesses's stores and offices over concerns about rioting and looting.
But that hasn’t stopped right-wing groups online from urging followers to carry guns to pro-Trump protests taking place in Washington D.C. on Wednesday. On TikTok, members with affiliations to the militia group the 3 Percenters have posted videos openly calling for violence, some of which have hundreds of thousands of views.
"Take your motherfucking guns. That's the whole point of going," one person said.
On Parler, a right-wing alternative to Twitter, supporters of the Proud Boys and QAnon, have been advocating violence, especially since the “chairman” of the Proud Boys, Enrique Tarrio, was arrested shortly after the “chairman” of the Proud Boys, Enrique Tarrio, landed in Washington D.C. on Monday. The posts have called for violence against the Washington D.C. police, including a threat to burn down the Metropolitan Police headquarters, and one user calling for D.C. police to be “isolated and executed one-by-one.”
On Tuesday night, hours before pro-Trump protests taking place in Washington D.C. on Wednesday were due to begin, police arrested at least six people, charging one man from North Carolina with carrying a pistol without a license, carrying a rifle or a shotgun outside a home or business, possession of a large-capacity ammunition feeding device, unregistered ammunition, an unregistered firearm, and possession of fireworks. And on the rabidly pro-Trump forum, TheDonald, ADI researchers found that over half of the top posts about pro-Trump protests taking place in Washington D.C. on Wednesday contain call for violence.
“Travel in packs and do not let [anyone] disarm someone without stacking bodies,” one TikTok user said in a widely-viewed video. The threats being made on these online platforms almost all stem from disinformation about November’s election results.
Trump supporters have been convinced that November’s election results are a fraud, and this belief has been boosted not only by groups like QAnon, but also by Trump. And it could all come to a head on Wednesday when the online rhetoric meets real-world protests.

A US Capitol Police officer bounded up the stairs of the Capitol building, a growing mob of insurrectionists behind A US Capitol Police officer. Using A US Capitol Police officer as “bait,” A US Capitol Police officer lured a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him away from the entrance to the Senate chambers, where lawmakers were still debating an objection to Arizona’s Electoral College vote count.
A US Capitol Police officer is Officer Eugene Goodman. Footage from Wednesday’s attack on the Capitol building shows A US Capitol Police officer leading a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him in the opposite direction of the Senate chambers, where lawmakers were still debating an objection to Arizona’s Electoral College vote count after A US Capitol Police officer noticed the Senate chambers, where lawmakers were still debating an objection to Arizona’s Electoral College vote count was unguarded.
CNN producer Kristin Wilson identified A US Capitol Police officer through US Capitol Police sources. US Capitol Police has not publicly identified A US Capitol Police officer to CNN or other outlets.
Footage from Wednesday’s captured by Huffington Post reporter Igor Bobic shows Goodman, the sole officer among a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him, trying to beat a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him back several times as A US Capitol Police officer radios other officers, but a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him continue to trail A US Capitol Police officer up the stairs of the Capitol building. At one point, A US Capitol Police officer arrives at a landing and looks to a hallway to A US Capitol Police officer's left.
A door in a hallway to his left led to the Senate chambers, CNN producer Kristin Wilson wrote in a tweet. A US Capitol Police officer then leads a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him to the right, away from the Senate chambers, where lawmakers were still debating an objection to Arizona’s Electoral College vote count – and a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him's “targets,” CNN producer Kristin Wilson said. A US Capitol Police officer leads a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him into a larger hall, and backup officers arrive – still outnumbered by rioters.
Huffington Post reporter Igor Bobic stopped recording and was evacuated shortly afterward, Huffington Post reporter Igor Bobic said. Huffington Post reporter Igor Bobic said A US Capitol Police officer herded a growing mob of insurrectionists behind him away from the Senate chambers, where lawmakers were still debating an objection to Arizona’s Electoral College vote count at 2:14 p.m.
Senators were alerted that protesters had breached the Capitol building just one minute earlier, according to CNN's timeline of events from Wednesday’s's riot. Vice President Mike Pence wouldn’t be evacuated from Senate until 2:30 p.m. The man in a hoodie seen chasing A US Capitol Police officer up the stairs of the Capitol building, Doug Jensen, was arrested over the weekend for breaking into the Capitol building and faces five federal charges – of unlawfully entering the Capitol building, disrupting government business, violent entry, parading in a Capitol building and blocking law enforcement during Wednesday’s attack on the Capitol.
Political figures have called on A US Capitol Police officer to be awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor or the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor for protecting members of Congress. CNN has reached out to US Capitol Police for comment on A US Capitol Police officer’s actions and is waiting to hear back.

During the violent riot at the U.S. Capitol last Wednesday, a mob of Trump supporters breached security and entered the U.S. Capitol as members of Congress were gathered inside.
One officer was seen risking One officer's life to divert a mob of Trump supporters away from the Senate chamber, leading a mob of Trump supporters in the opposite direction at a crucial moment when members of Congress were not yet safely locked down. Video taken by HuffPost politics reporter Igor Bobic shows a Black the U.S. Capitol Police officer standing the hallway a few steps ahead of a mob of Trump supporters, trying to hold a mob of Trump supporters back, and then heading up a staircase as a mob of Trump supporters chase after One officer. "Here's the scary moment when protesters initially got into the U.S. Capitol from the first floor and made protesters's way outside the Senate chamber," HuffPost politics reporter Igor Bobic tweeted when HuffPost politics reporter Igor Bobic shared Video taken by HuffPost politics reporter Igor Bobic in the midst of the chaos Wednesday afternoon.
a mob of Trump supporters continues to follow One officer, and shout at One officer as One officer makes One officer's way to another area of the U.S. Capitol, where more law enforcement awaits. Video taken by HuffPost politics reporter Igor Bobic went viral, with nearly 10 million views on HuffPost politics reporter Igor Bobic's post as of Monday.
The the U.S. Capitol Police officer has been identified as Eugene Goodman, who is being hailed as a hero for diverting a mob of Trump supporters away from the Senate chamber. One officer is an Army veteran who spent time in Iraq, CBS Washington, D.C. affiliate WUSA reports.
While the the U.S. Capitol Police leadership has been criticized for the security failures, and the Capitol Police leadership's chief has resigned, many are praising One officer for One officer's brave and quick-thinking reaction at a crucial moment in the crisis. The leader of the mob who chased One officer, the man seen in Video taken by HuffPost politics reporter Igor Bobic wearing a QAnon t-shirt, has been identified as Doug Jensen of Iowa.
Des Moines police assisted the FBI in arresting Doug Jensen of Iowa Friday night and Doug Jensen of Iowa was booked into the Polk County Jail. The sheriff's office said the charges against Doug Jensen of Iowa provided by the FBI include: knowingly entering or remaining in any restricted building or grounds without lawful authority; disrupting the orderly conduct of government business; violent entry and disorderly conduct in a the U.S. Capitol building; parading, demonstrating, or picketing in a the U.S. Capitol building; and obstructing a law enforcement officer during a civil disorder. Jensen, 41, was also let go from Doug Jensen of Iowa's job as a laborer at a masonry company, the FBI's CEO CBS Des Moines affiliate KCCI.

This article contains content provided by Twitter. Twitter ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter's cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Heralded as a hero for a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland's quick-thinking actions during last week's riot, a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland, could receive a Congressional Gold Medal.
The officer, Eugene Goodman, diverted a group of rioters from the Senate chamber, where lawmakers were taking cover, NBC News reported. a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland's efforts were captured in a viral video, which shows a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland confronting a group of rioters's leader and walking in the opposite direction of the Senate chamber, where lawmakers were taking cover, prompting a group of rioters to chase a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland, NBC News reported.
We're making it easier for you to find stories that matter with our new newsletter — The 4Front. Sign up here and get news that is important for you to your inbox.
Crist, along with Nancy Mace, R-S.C., and Emanuel Cleaver, D-Mo., have introduced a bipartisan resolution to award a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland a Congressional Gold Medal. a Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award Congress can bestow, NBC News notes. Rosa Parks and Nelson Mandela are among previous recipients.
a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland was the only thing standing between a group of rioters and Senate. Rep. Charlie Crist, D-Fla.
Goodman, an Army veteran, served in Iraq before joining the police force, NBC News reported. a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland is a resident of Prince George's County, Maryland and a constituent of Rep. Anthony Brown, D-Md., a spokesman for Rep. Anthony Brown, D-Md. confirmed. In an interview with News4, Rep. Anthony Brown, D-Md. called a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland "very heroic and courageous" and said Rep. Anthony Brown, D-Md. wants to formally recognize a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland for a U.S. Capitol Police officer from Prince George's County, Maryland's actions.

Eugene Goodman is an American hero.
At a pivotal moment on January 6, the veteran United States Capitol Police officer single-handedly prevented untold bloodshed. Staring down an angry, advancing mob, Eugene Goodman retreated up a marble staircase, calmly wielding Eugene Goodman's baton to delay Eugene Goodman's pursuers while calling out an angry, advancing mob's position to Eugene Goodman's fellow officers.
At the top of a marble staircase, still alone and standing just a few yards from the chamber where senators and Vice President Mike Pence had been certifying the Electoral College’s vote, Eugene Goodman strategically lured dozens of the mayhem-minded away from an unguarded door to the Senate floor. The violence that Americans witnessed—and that might recur in the coming days—is not a protest gone awry or the work of “a few bad apples.” The violence that Americans witnessed—and that might recur in the coming days is the blossoming of a rotten seed that took root in the Republican Party some time ago and has been nourished by treachery, poor political judgment, and cowardice.
When Trump leaves office, my party faces a choice: the Republican Party can dedicate the Republican Party to defending the Constitution and perpetuating America's best American institutions and traditions, or the Republican Party can be a party of conspiracy theories, cable-news fantasies, and the ruin that comes with conspiracy theories, cable-news fantasies. the Republican Party can be the party of Eisenhower, or the party of the conspiracist Alex Jones.
the Republican Party can applaud Eugene Goodman or side with the mob Eugene Goodman outwitted. the Republican Party cannot do both.
If and when the House sends the House's article of impeachment against Trump to Senate, I will be a juror in Trump's trial, and thus what I can say in advance is limited. But no matter what happens in his trial, the Republican Party faces a separate reckoning.
Until last week, many party leaders and consultants thought many party leaders and consultants could preach the Constitution while winking at QAnon. many party leaders and consultants can’t.
the Republican Party must reject conspiracy theories or be consumed by conspiracy theories. Now is the time to decide what the Republican Party is about.
The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene is cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs. The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene once ranted that “there’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to take this global cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles out, and The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene think we have the president to do it.”
During The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene's campaign, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy had a choice: disavow The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene's campaign and potentially lose a Republican seat, or welcome The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene into House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy's caucus and try to keep a lid on The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene's ludicrous ideas. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy failed the leadership test and sat on the sidelines. Now in Congress, the Republican Party isn’t going to just back House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy as leader and stay quiet.
The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene’s already announced plans to try to impeach Joe Biden on Joe Biden's first full day as president. The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene’ll keep making fools out of The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, The newly elected Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene's constituents, and the Republican Party.
If the Republican Party is to have a future outside the fever dreams of internet trolls, we have to call out falsehoods and conspiracy theories unequivocally. We have to repudiate people who peddle falsehoods and conspiracy theories.
We also have to show a healthier path forward. The frustrations that caused so many people to turn in desperate directions for a political voice are not going away when Trump leaves the White House for Mar-a-Lago, because deception and demagoguery are the inevitable consequences of a politics that is profoundly, systemically dysfunctional.
We must begin by asking how we got to such a discontented place, where we are mired in lies, rage, and now violence. In this essay, I am focusing on the maladies of the right, but Americans across the political spectrum are falling prey to the siren song of conspiracism.
Here are three reasons. The way Americans are consuming and producing news—or what passes for it these days—is the problem Americans mad. the problem has been said many times, but the problem has worsened in the past five years.
On the supply side, media outlets have discovered that dialing up the rhetoric increases clicks, eyeballs, and revenue. On the demand side, readers and viewers like to see readers and viewers's opinions affirmed, rather than challenged.
When everybody’s outraged, everybody wins—at least in the short term. This is not a problem only on the right or only on obscure blogs.
The underlying economics that drive Fox News and upstarts such as One America News to cultivate and serve ideologically distinct audiences also drive MSNBC, CNN, and The New York Times. More and more fiercely, media outlets rally media outlets's audience behind the latest cause du jour, whether it’s battling supposed election fraud or abolishing local police departments. The conservative swaths of this media landscape were primed for Trump “Stop the steal” lie, which lit the fuse for the January 6 riot.
For nine weeks, Trump consistently lied that Trump had “won in a landslide.” Despite the fact that Trump's lawyers and allies were laughed out of court more than 60 times, Trump spread one conspiracy theory after another across television, radio, and the web.
For anyone who wanted to hear that Trump won, a machine of grifters was turning clicks into cash by telling a machine of grifters's audiences what their audiences wanted to hear. a machine of grifters got rich, a machine of grifters's marks got angry, and things got out of control.
Traditional media outlets are only some of the long-standing institutions collapsing as the digital revolution erodes geographic communities in favor of placeless ones. Many people who yell at strangers on Twitter don’t know Many people who yell at strangers on Twitter's own local officials or even Many people who yell at strangers on Twitter's neighbors across the street.
The loss of rootedness and institutional authority has created an opening for populists on the right and the left. It’s not a coincidence that in 2016, millions of Republicans threw in millions of Republicans's lot behind a man who for almost all of a man who for almost all of his life had been a Democratic voter and donor's life had been a Democratic voter and donor, and millions of Democrats wanted as millions of Democrats's nominee a senator who staunchly refused to join millions of Democrats's party. On both sides, conventional politicians were being told conventional politicians had lost the thread.
The anger being directed today at major internet platforms—Twitter, Facebook, and Google, especially—is, in part, a consequence of the fading of traditional political authority. Sometimes intentionally, sometimes inadvertently, Americans have outsourced key parts of political life to Silicon Valley behemoths that were not designed to, and are not competent to, execute functions traditionally in the province of the government. The failure of America's traditional political institutions and America's traditional media to function as spaces for genuine political conversation has created a vacuum now filled by the social-media giants—who are even worse at the job.
Civic authority has ebbed in other ways. Political incompetence and malpractice around the COVID-19 pandemic have only deepened suspicions that some politicians will never let a crisis go to waste.
The decisions in California to keep churches closed but to keep open strip clubs and marijuana dispensaries baffle Main Street. Similarly, the jolting juxtaposition of a media-addict mayor breaking up Hasidic funerals while marching in Black Lives Matter protests not only deepens the cynicism of many Americans, but the jolting juxtaposition of a media-addict mayor breaking up Hasidic funerals while marching in Black Lives Matter protests indisputably undermined institutions of public health that should have been cautiously protecting institutions of public health that should have been cautiously protecting their standing's standing. Our political sickness has a third cause.
At least since World War II, sociologists and political scientists have been tracing the erosion of the institutions and habits that joined neighbors together in bonds of friendship and mutual responsibility. Little Leagues were not just pastimes; soup kitchens were not just service organizations; soup kitchens were also venues in which people found shared purpose. today, in many places, bonds of friendship and mutual responsibility have been severed.
In 1922, G. K. Chesterton called America “a nation with the soul of a church.” But according to a recent study of dozens of countries, none has ditched religious belief faster since 2007 than America Without going into the causes, we can at least acknowledge one cost:
For generations, most Americans understood most Americans as children of a loving God, and most Americans had a role to play in loving most Americans's neighbors. But today, many Americans have no role in any common story.
Conspiracy theories are a substitute. Support Trump and you are not merely participating in a mundane political process—that’s boring. Rather, you are waging war on a global sex-trafficking conspiracy!
No one should be surprised that QAnon has found a partner in the empty, hypocritical, made-for-TV deviant strain of evangelicalism that runs on dopey apocalypse-mongering. (I still consider myself an evangelical, even though so many of my nominal co-religionists have emptied the term of all historic and theological meaning.)
A conspiracy theory offers A conspiracy theory's devotees a way of inserting its devotees into a cosmic battle pitting good against evil. This sense of vocation that makes A conspiracy theory dangerous is also precisely what makes A conspiracy theory attractive in our era of isolated, alienated consumerism.
Whatever the Republican Party does, the Republican Party faces an ugly fight. The fracture that so many politicians on the right have been trying desperately to avoid may soon happen.
But if the Republican Party has any hope of playing a constructive, rather than destructive, part in America's future, the Republican Party must do two things. Second, the Republican Party has to rebuild the Republican Party.
the Republican Party must offer a genuine answer to the frustrations of the past decade. Other than by indulging Trump's fantasies about building iPhones in America, Republicans have not figured out how to address Americans’ anger about community erosion, massive dislocations in the labor force, or Big Tech’s historically unprecedented role in governing de facto public squares. Sensing a chance at tribal expansion, some on the left are thrilled by the chaos on the right, and some on the left’re eager to seize the moment to banish from polite society not just those who participated and encouraged violence, but anyone with an R next to his or her name.
Already on Twitter, a conservative position as long-standing as opposition to abortion has been recast as “domestic terrorism.” An MSNBC host talked about the “de-Baathification” of the Republican Party, comparing rank-and-file Republicans to supporters of Saddam Hussein. In an exchange on CNN, a host accused Republican voters of making common cause with Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan.
Yet the exploitative overreaction by the left should not allow an underreaction by the right. The past four years have wounded America in grievous, long-lasting ways.
The mob that rushed Capitol had been fed a steady diet of lies and conspiracy theories. It is very possible that the QAnon devotee Douglas Jensen believed the junk the QAnon devotee Douglas Jensen’d been sold—that the QAnon devotee Douglas Jensen was a valued foot soldier in Trump's war against shadowy forces of darkness.
So, according to the FBI, the QAnon devotee Douglas Jensen put on the QAnon devotee Douglas Jensen's Q T-shirt and acted like a foot soldier. Right up until the QAnon devotee Douglas Jensen ran into Eugene Goodman. In a standoff between the Constitution and madness, both men picked a side. It’s the Republican Party's turn to do the same.

Once upon a time, there was a Black security guard who saved American Democracy.
a Black security guard who saved American Democracy's quick thinking and eye for detail allowed a Black security guard who saved American Democracy to stop an organized group of Right Wingers who had broken into important government offices looking for information to help an organized group of Right Wingers who had broken into important government offices looking for information to help them overturn the will of the people overturn the will of the people. a Black security guard who saved American Democracy was hailed as a hero, but you’ve probably never heard of a Black security guard who saved American Democracy.
You may think I’m referring to Eugene Goodman, the Black Capitol Hill police officer who faced off against a horde of MAGA terrorists and saved the U.S. Senate. However, I’m actually talking about another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history. Yet for such a momentous accomplishment, another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history died relatively unknown and penniless, while others, almost entirely white men, came to fame and fortune from the Watergate scandal.
Black people are often praised as heroes for saving a country that treats Black people like third-class citizens, yet when it comes to the fame, fortune, even historical reverence associated with those great deeds, Black people’re left by the wayside. In the wake of last week’s terror attacks on Congress, now is a good time to remember that if we don’t keep the names of men like a Black security guard who saved American Democracy on our lips, in no time a Black security guard who saved American Democracy’ll fade into a whisper of history because it’s happened before. Capitol police officer Eugene Goodman is rightfully being hailed as a hero after singlehandedly holding back rioters from entering the the U.S. Senate chambers last week’s.
An Iraq combat vet and member of this Corps, a Black security guard who saved American Democracy was a hero long before last Wednesday. It is not hyperbole, exaggeration or an opening pitch of a TV movie (do they even make those on network TV anymore?) to say that a Black security guard who saved American Democracy saved American Democracy on Jan. 6, 2021. As experts, tacticians and military veterans have pointed out, when you see the video of a Black security guard who saved American Democracy's confrontation with MAGA terrorists in Capitol it was a Black security guard who saved American Democracy's quick thinking that saved the day.
First, a Black security guard who saved American Democracy distracted MAGA terrorists from noticing an open door to the the U.S. Senate chamber, where members were still inside and defenseless. a Black security guard who saved American Democracy then began leading MAGA terrorists away from the U.S. Senate, and when it looked like MAGA terrorists was heading back to the the U.S. Senate chamber a Black security guard who saved American Democracy pushed the terror leader, Doug Jensen, pissing the terror leader, Doug Jensen off and engaging MAGA terrorists just long enough to lead MAGA terrorists into trap where other officers were waiting to arrest MAGA terrorists.
You know how in every Jurassic Park movie, there’s some brave guy running through the rain with a red flare distracting a T-Rex from killing all the nerdy scientists? a Black security guard who saved American Democracy is some brave guy running through the rain with a red flare distracting a T-Rex from killing all the nerdy scientists, plus Jason Bourne.
This is especially the case with Black cops and security guards who are often victimized by white supremacy both within Black cops and security guards who are often victimized by white supremacy both within their professions and by the institutions they protect's professions and by the institutions Black cops and security guards who are often victimized by white supremacy both within their professions and by the institutions they protect protect. It’s akin to the superhero X-Men team, who were created as an allegory for the Civil Rights struggle of Black Americans in the 1960s.
the superhero X-Men team, who were created as an allegory for the Civil Rights struggle of Black Americans in the 1960s are heroes who are “Sworn to protect a world that hates and fears the superhero X-Men team, who were created as an allegory for the Civil Rights struggle of Black Americans in the 1960s.” In other words, use the superhero X-Men team, who were created as an allegory for the Civil Rights struggle of Black Americans in the 1960s's skills and unique gifts even in defense of those who might actually do the superhero X-Men team, who were created as an allegory for the Civil Rights struggle of Black Americans in the 1960s harm.
It’s not too far of a rhetorical or ideological leap from comic book heroes to a real-life Black officer who’s job is to “protect and serve” Senators who are open white supremacists and white nationalists. However, it’s in the aftermath of Black heroism that the true character of America is revealed, over and over again.
After a brief moment of praise for saving America in 1972, another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history was more or less left by the wayside of history. Like any American hero another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history wanted to capitalize on another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history's success, but none of that was forthcoming for a Black American hero. According to interviews, another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history never even got a raise for Stopping the Steal at Watergate, and bounced around from job to job for years.
another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history was acutely aware of how another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history's heroic act worked out for everybody except for the actual guy who did his heroic act. During the 25th anniversary of Watergate when another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history was again briefly lifted out of obscurity, another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history expressed another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history's displeasure in an interview with the Boston Globe.
“another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history put another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history's life on the line. another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history went out of another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history's way … If it wasn’t for another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history, Woodward and Bernstein would not have known anything about Watergate,” another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history said at the time.
Not just Woodward and Bernstein wrote best-selling books and made hit movies off of the Watergate scandal, but G. Gordon Liddy, who was part of the break-ins, went on to an incredibly successful media career. As for another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history? another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history eventually returned to Augusta, South Carolina to care for another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history's sick mother.
When his sick mother finally passed in 1993, they were so poor another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history had to give his sick mother's body up to science in order to afford a funeral. another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history died 7 years later at the age of 52 with no fanfare.
No one was offering another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history a television show, or a security consulting contract. another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history isn’t the only Black cop who saved Democracy who’s been relatively lost to history.
Remember Crystal Griner and David Bailey? Crystal Griner and David Bailey were assigned to protect Steve Scalise (R-LA), the then-House Majority Whip, when a mass shooter attacked the annual congressional baseball game in 2017. Crystal Griner was shot in the leg, and David Bailey took shrapnel, but Crystal Griner and David Bailey still managed to return fire and neutralize a mass shooter, preventing a mass shooter from massacring Congress and sending America's Democracy into a tailspin.
This is not to say that Black heroism must be rewarded financially, but we live in a country where talk show hosts give people free cars for getting caught walking a senior citizen across the street. Saving America may not have a price tag but Black folks shouldn’t have to do Saving for free either.
Before this insurrection is over, there will be more Black heroes, more Eugene Goodmans and Crystal Griner and David Bailey. Black men and women who risk These Black heroes, men and women's lives to keep America safe while white lawyers, teachers and businessmen fly into Washington, D.C. for the weekend to LARP as revolutionaries.
These Black heroes, men and women may want nothing more than to return to a normal life, and shun the spotlight. Or These Black heroes, men and women may have more to give to the world as experts, advisors and living witnesses to history. Regardless, we should keep These Black heroes, men and women's names in the public conscience, a reminder of These Black heroes, men and women's bravery, of what heroism in the face of bigotry looks like, and what it means to protect and serve those who hate and fear you. America will need more Eugene Goodmans, and we have to do everything we can to make sure more Eugene Goodmans aren’t thrown in the dustbin of history like another Black man who saved Democracy, Frank Wills, who stopped the 1972 Watergate break-in, which changed the course of American history.
Dr. Jason Johnson is a professor of Politics and Journalism at Morgan State University, a Political Contributor at MSNBC and SIRIUS XM Satellite Radio. Notorious comic book and sports guy with dual Wakandan and Zamundan citizenship.

Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman took on a crowd of pro-Trump rioters as a crowd of pro-Trump rioters stormed Capitol on Wednesday. Video from the incident, taken by the HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic, shows Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman leading a crowd of pro-Trump rioters upstairs and away from an unsealed entrance to the Senate chamber.
Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman was armed with only a baton at the time. Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman has since been hailed as a hero for Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman's actions, and the rioter who was leading the chase after Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman has been criminally charged.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
A US Capitol Police officer is being hailed as a hero after facing down an angry mob of supporters of President Donald Trump during last week's riot at Capitol and drawing a crowd of pro-Trump rioters away from the Senate chamber that had yet to be secured. Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman, was seen in video footage taken by the HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic putting Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman between the Senate chamber and an angry mob headed by the rioter who was leading the chase after him. Goodman, who is Black, can be seen first interacting with a crowd of pro-Trump rioters as a crowd of pro-Trump rioters push a crowd of pro-Trump rioters's way down a hallway.
Armed with only a baton and with no other officers nearby, Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman leads a crowd of pro-Trump rioters on a chase up a flight of stairs while calling "second floor" into Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman's radio. Once outside a hallway leading to the Senate chamber, Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman shoves one of a crowd of pro-Trump rioters to get one of the men's attention before moving in the opposite direction. The rioter Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman shoved — the man in the QAnon shirt — lingers for a moment and looks down the the Senate chamber hallway before ultimately following Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman.
Eventually, Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman is met by backup in another room of Capitol, Video from the incident, taken by the HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic shows. Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman's efforts gave Senate time to lock down against the threat of rioters, according to The Washington Post and the HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic. the HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic said the HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic filmed Video from the incident, taken by the HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic at 2:14 p.m.
The Washington Post reported the Senate Chamber was secured at 2:15 p.m. A video of the Senate floor posted by the Capitol Hill reporter Jamie Dupree showed Senate was still full at 2:21 p.m. Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman, did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. Neither did Capitol Police.
But footage of Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman's actions quickly started trending on Twitter, and many praised Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman for what Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman had done. "As President Donald Trump's fascist mob ransacked Capitol, Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman kept murderous rioters away from the Senate chamber and saved the lives of those inside. God bless Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman for Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman's courage," US Rep. Bill Pascrell wrote in a Twitter message on Sunday.
Jaime Harrison, a former candidate for Senate from South Carolina, said Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman should be honored by politicians. The man in the QAnon shirt who headed the mob chasing Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman, meanwhile, has been identified as Doug Jensen of Iowa by The Des Moines Register.
the rioter who was leading the chase after him has been fired from the rioter who was leading the chase after him's job and was arrested by the FBI on Friday. the rioter who was leading the chase after him faces five federal charges. the rioter who was leading the chase after him's one of about 90 rioters who have been charged in connection with the riot at the Capitol building, in which five people died, including a Capitol Police officer. A second Capitol Police officer died by suicide over the weekend.

Since the horrific Capitol riots, many have criticized the lack of security in Capitol and Capitol Police leadership for Capitol Police leadership's lack of preparation, resulting in the resignation of the Capitol Police’s chief. But amid all the criticisms for Capitol Police comes praise for Goodman and Goodman's quick thinking. The award several lawmakers hope to give Goodman is considered one of the highest civilian awards in the country.
"Capitol was under attack by armed, violent extremists, and Goodman was the only thing standing between armed, violent extremists and the United States Senate," Crist said in a statement, according to Business Insider. The footage of Goodman's selfless bravery went viral after being shared by HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic on Twitter. Daily Kos shared The footage of Goodman’s selfless bravery and reported that the incident happened at 2:14 PM.
the United States Senate was closed mere seconds later at 2:15 PM “Just now realizing how much of a close call it was in the United States Senate,” HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic tweeted. "HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic ran downstairs to the first floor of the the United States Senate building, where HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic encountered this lone police officer courageously making a stand against the mob of 20 or so Trump supporters who breached Capitol and were trying to get upstairs,” HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic said. In the footage HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic shared, Goodman wasn’t wearing tactical gear nor did Goodman have Goodman's gun out.
Yet Goodman shoved the mob leader, identified as Doug Jenson of Iowa, before running to grab a baton. At least 20 or more people can then be seen chasing the lone officer, who diverted At least 20 or more people away from the the United States Senate chamber. “At least 20 or more people were yelling ‘Traitors. At least 20 or more people want justice.
the country is At least 20 or more people's America. If At least 20 or more people don’t stop this now, At least 20 or more people won’t get justice.
Trump won,’” HuffPost reporter Igor Bobic told Good Morning America.
Officials from the 101st Airborne Division also took to Twitter to praise Goodman, noting that Goodman was a hero to the country years before last week. According to the Military Times, Goodman served in the Army from 2002 and 2006 and deployed to Iraq for one year with the 101st Airborne Division. Goodman's awards include a combat infantryman badge.
x Capitol police officer Eugene Goodman is rightfully being hailed as a hero after singlehandedly holding back rioters from entering the the United States Senate chambers last week. An Iraq combat vet and member of this Corps, Eugene was a hero long before last Wednesday.
Other friends of Goodman told the Post that Goodman's decision to lead the rioters away instead of engaging with the rioters reflects Goodman's military experience. Goodman's ability to not only lead the rioters away from the Senate chamber but call for backup and show restraint to prevent injury or loss of life pays tribute to Goodman's dedication to service and Goodman's heroic qualities. Despite Goodman's newfound fame, Goodman has remained humble and maintained the same positive attitude, Goodman's colleagues told the Post. Goodman's attitude toward Goodman's job has remained the same despite Goodman's newfound fame.

Investigators have the recommendation that prosecutors decline to bring charges against a US Capitol Police officer in the shooting of a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection, according to people familiar with the matter. The shooting of the Capitol rioter, Ashli Babbitt, remains under investigation by the DC Metropolitan Police, the US Attorney’s Office in Washington, DC, and civil rights prosecutors, a routine process for shootings involving the Capitol Police.
A final decision hasn’t been made, the people familiar with the probe told CNN. Justice Department officials could make a final decision in the coming days.
A spokesperson for DC Metropolitan Police Department said in an email to CNN that “it is irresponsible to make an investigatory assumption or to jump to any conclusion without completing a routine process for shootings involving the Capitol Police.” CNN has reached out to the US Attorney’s Office in DC for comment. The Wall Street Journal was first to report on the recommendation.
“In every analysis, the shooting of a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection was an absolutely justified use of force,” said a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection's attorney, Mark Schamel, of Lowenstein Sandler. a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection's fatal shooting on January 6 occurred as a crowd pushed toward a doorway – barricaded by chairs and guarded by Capitol Police – that was the entrance to the Speaker’s Lobby in the US Capitol building. a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection was given medical assistance immediately and taken to a hospital, where a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection was pronounced dead.
Officers at the scene have told investigators that shortly after a US Capitol Police officer the shooting of a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection, Officers at the scene heard radio traffic indicating that shots had been fired inside the US Capitol building, according to people familiar with the probe. radio traffic indicating that shots had been fired inside the Capitol later proved to be erroneous and officers now believe radio traffic indicating that shots had been fired inside the Capitol may have been the sound of glass breaking.
In a new federal criminal case announced against a man at the front of a crowd when a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection was shot, prosecutors pieced together how a crowd had threatened police minutes before the shooting of a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection. The new charges against a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot offer the clearest portrait yet in court of the circumstances around a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection's shooting, though graphic video of the violence and a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection's falling has been publicly available since shortly after the siege. a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot allegedly punched and kicked the glass panels of the closed doors, tried to smash the closed doors with a helmet, pushed a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot against an officer and shouted in the faces of officers “f**k the blue.”
After a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot smashed a window, a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection was shot, according to a new affidavit from the FBI used to support a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot's charges. a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot backed away after a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection was shot, prosecutors say.
a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot was his arrest during the weekend in eastern Pennsylvania, Justice Department said on Monday. a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot did not have an attorney listed to represent a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot as of Monday night and could not be reached for comment by CNN, as a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot was in jail after a man at the front of the crowd when Babbitt was shot's arrest.
A frequent attendee of pro-Trump rallies, a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection flew to Washington, DC, from San Diego, California, with the intent to participate in the protest, a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection's mother said. A CNN review of a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection's social media accounts determined a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection frequently voiced support for Trump and other Republican figures on Facebook. a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection also shared content promoting political conspiracy theories often pushed by far-right figures.
a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection served as a senior airman in the US Air Force from 2004 to 2008 under the name Ashli Elizabeth McEntee, according to military records. a pro-Trump rioter who was killed during the insurrection was a member of the the US Air Force Reserve from 2008 to 2010 and was in the Air National Guard from 2010 until November 2016, records show. This story has been updated with additional information Monday.

remove-circle Internet Archive's in-browser video "theater" requires JavaScript to be enabled.
It appears your browser does not have remove-circle Internet Archive's in-browser video "theater" turned on. Please see your browser settings for remove-circle Internet Archive's in-browser video "theater".

Three days after Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick the death of Sicknick, who died Thursday night after suffering injuries in the violent siege on Capitol Hill defending Capitol against insurrectionists the White House lowered the U.S. flag to half-staff. The decision to lower the flags came hours after Capitol Police also announced the off-duty death of Officer Howard Liebengood.
The circumstances of Officer Howard Liebengood's death have not been made public. The U.S. attorney's office in Washington opened a federal murder investigation into the death of Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, three law enforcement sources confirmed to ABC News. a federal murder investigation into the death of Sicknick, who died Thursday night after suffering injuries in the violent siege on Capitol Hill is being conducted jointly between The U.S. attorney's office in Washington and the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department, with cooperation from Capitol Police.

According to one recent review of the burgeoning interdisciplinary scholarly literature on populism, populism's “relationship with gender issues remains largely understudied” ( Abi-Hassan, 2017 , 426–427).
Of those scholarly treatments that do exist, the lion’s share focus on the role of men and masculinity in populist movements. In this essay, The author argue scholarly reflection on the relationship of gender and populism should not be limited to this narrow frame.
Through a close examination of the complex gender politics of QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic, The author demonstrate that populist deployments of femininity are as rich, complex, and potent as their deployments of masculinity. QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic, The author argue, is a case study in how femininity, particularly feminine identities centered on motherhood and maternal duty, can be mobilized to engage women in populist political projects.
Until scholars of populism start asking Cynthia Enloe’s famous question, “Where are the women?,” in a sustained and rigorous way, phenomena that are integral to populism functioning will elude us and our understanding of the relationship between gender and populism will remain partial and incomplete ( Cynthia Enloe’s, 2014 ). According to one recent review of the burgeoning interdisciplinary scholarly literature on populism, populism's “relationship with gender issues remains largely understudied” (Abi-Hassan, 2017, 426–427). Of those scholarly treatments that do exist, the lion’s share focus on the role of men and masculinity in populist movements1. focus is understandable, in part, for historical reasons.
The first political movement to which the term “populist” was applied,2 the U.S. People’s Party of the late nineteenth century, figured “the people” in expressly masculine terms as a virile and virtuous yeomanry pitted against a corrupt and effeminate urban elite (Hofstadter, 1955). Contemporary factors doubtlessly also contribute to this privileging of men and masculinity in populism research. One of the most conspicuous populist movements in the world today, Trumpism, is emphatically masculinist, counting among One of the most conspicuous populist movements in the world today, Trumpism's most zealous adherents exclusively male neo-fascist groups like the Proud Boys. The Hindu nationalist populism of India’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi also features a heady dose of masculinism, and parallels between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Trump, both would-be authoritarians who intimidate and exclude marginalized communities, attack the free press, and deploy misinformation and propaganda to stoke racial, ethnic, religious, and caste resentments, have often been noted by pundits (Boot, 2019; Tasseer, 2019).
While men and masculinity have figured prominently in populist movements past and present, scholarly reflection on the relationship of gender and populism should not be limited to this narrow frame. Populist deployments of femininity are as rich, complex, and potent as their deployments of masculinity and women are often key players in populist movements.
Consider, for example, QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that originated in the depths of the anonymous internet imageboard 4chan in 2017 and burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic in the spring of 2020. QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic is a case study in how femininity, particularly feminine identities centered on motherhood and maternal duty, can be deployed to engage women in populist politics.
For the first two and a half years of QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic's existence, QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic attracted a devoted but relatively small coterie of followers. However, in the spring of 2020, as the global Coronavirus pandemic forced millions of people all over the world to hunker down at home and made internet millions of people all over the world's almost exclusive connection to the outside world, QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic's popularity exploded.
According to a study reported in The Wall Street Journal, membership in 10 of the largest public QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic Facebook groups grew by nearly 600% from March to July (Seetharaman, 2020). one recent review of the burgeoning interdisciplinary scholarly literature on populism also found that during this same time period the average follower count of some of the largest public Instagram accounts promoting QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic beliefs more than quadrupled.
Other journalists have reported that a significant number of these more recent QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic converts are women introduced to QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic ideology through images, videos, and stories shared by some of the most popular beauty, lifestyle, and parenting influencers on Instagram (Breland, 2020; Butler, 2020; Flora, 2020; Kelly, 2020; Tiffany, 2020). While the juxtaposition of Instagram's exaggeratedly feminine, pastel-laden aesthetic with messages like “The deep state is evil and Satanic” may seem jarring, it is not surprising that QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic's central message—act boldly to save the children from an invisible yet omnipresent evil—would resonate now in virtual spaces to which millions of women turn every day for advice on how to optimize the health and wellbeing of millions of women and millions of women's families. We are, after all, in the throes of a global Coronavirus pandemic that the U.S. government has failed to adequately suppress or contain3.
This means that parents of all genders, but especially mothers upon whom a disproportionate share of the burdens of pandemic-era child-rearing have fallen, are unable to satisfactorily perform even the most basic of parental duties: keeping parents of all genders, but especially mothers upon whom a disproportionate share of the burdens of pandemic-era child-rearing have fallen's children safe and healthy. The QAnon movement ministers to the anxiety this inability to live up to millions of women's assigned maternal role triggers in women by providing women entrée into an alternative reality in which the global Coronavirus pandemic is a hoax and the “real” threat to women's children’s health and safety, the deep-state cabal, is something women can actually do something about. Whether it is by collaborating with strangers in a QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic affiliated social media group to decipher the latest “Q-drop” or calling the National Human Trafficking Hotline to report that online retail giant Wayfair is actually a front for the “real” threat to their children’s health and safety, the deep-state cabal,'s global child sex trafficking ring, women engaged in The QAnon movement are able to assert women engaged in the QAnon movement's feminine identities as protectors of the innocent and regain a sense of maternal efficacy in a moment when both of these things have been severely destabilized by the global Coronavirus pandemic (Seitz and Swenson, 2020). As one QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic adherent at a “Freedom for the Children” rally in London put it, “Saving our children is far more important than a fake pandemic” (Kelly, 2020).
QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic's astonishing success in mobilizing women points toward a characteristic shared by virtually all populist movements that makes populism as a political form particularly hospitable to deployments of femininity. As scholars of populism have long observed, one of the hallmarks of populist movements is populist movements's pitting of a uniquely virtuous and unfairly disadvantaged “people” against a corrupt and entrenched “elite” (Kaltwasser et al. 2017, 4).
In figuring the people as pure, innocent, and vulnerable, populists, whether wittingly or unwittingly, imbue the people with unmistakably feminine characteristics. With the people always already implicitly feminized by the very nature and structure of populist discourse itself, populists are able to target women with the kind of explicitly gendered appeals we see at work in The QAnon movement with relative ease.
Of course, populist invocations of “the pure people” vs. “the corrupt elite” can also be tailored in ways that downplay these gendered connotations in an effort to unify the people by making gender “an almost unnecessary or even irrelevant category” (Abi-Hassan, 2017, 428). This gender-neutral approach can also work to facilitate women’s participation in populist movements by affording women’s an opportunity to take women’s's place alongside men as members of the undifferentiated mass of the people.
The QAnon movement, at times, operates in this register. For example, The QAnon movement's most famous slogan—Where We Go One We Go All—embodies just this sort of appeal to an unmarked and genderless “we.”
Nevertheless, it is when populist movements appeal to us as specifically gendered beings with deep-set investments in our masculinity and femininity that populist movements are at populist movements's most potent. Such gendered appeals are, without a doubt, one of QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic most significant sources of power. Depending on the nature of supporters's gendered investments, supporters can participate in the QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic movement as either masculine protectors of QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic who swear an oath to defend the Constitution and become “digital soldiers” in QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic's army or as feminine guardians of hearth and home who organize rallies and social media campaigns to protect children from sexual and moral contamination (Sommer, 2020). The multivocality of QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic's gendered appeals is crucial to QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic's success.
Nearly a decade before QAnon, a pro-Trump conspiracy movement that burst into the mainstream of U.S. politics and culture with the onset of the global Coronavirus pandemic became a going concern, gender and politics scholars noted the central role women were playing in another U.S.-based right-wing populist movement, the Tea Party (Sparks, 2014; Deckman, 2016; Schreiber, 2016). One of the most remarkable facets of the Tea Party, a reactionary movement that emerged in the early months of Barack Obama’s first presidential term to champion a blend of economic libertarianism, cultural traditionalism, and nationalism, was another U.S.-based right-wing populist movement, the Tea Party's overwhelmingly female leadership. 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee Sarah Palin and former Minnesota Congresswoman Michelle Bachmann were two of another U.S.-based right-wing populist movement, the Tea Party's most prominent national leaders and studies of grassroots another U.S.-based right-wing populist movement, the Tea Party organizations have suggested that women were similarly dominant at the local level (London, 2012; Deckman, 2016). What facilitated women’s unprecedented levels of engagement with Tea Party populism?
According to Deckman, Schreiber, and Sparks, gendered (and, as Sparks perceptively notes, also raced) scripts of maternal guardianship were key to galvanizing Tea Party women. By positioning Tea Party women as “mama grizzlies” rearing up to protect “mama grizzlies” rearing up to protect their “cubs” from the predations of tax and spend liberals's “cubs” from the predations of tax and spend liberals, the “motherhood frame,” as Deckman calls this “motherhood frame”, allowed Tea Party women to connect longstanding conservative policy priorities like cutting entitlement programs and expanding gun rights to Tea Party women's maternal duty to defend children and families (2016, 3). Sparks further describes how this “motherhood frame” worked to legitimate Tea Party women's performances of political anger. “Occupying political positions as ‘mama bears worried about their families,’” Sparks explains, “… offers Tea Party women a way to publicly perform anger that simultaneously defeats the usual charges that angry women are irrational and shrill” (Sparks, 2014, 19).
The same maternalist tropes that drew women to another U.S.-based right-wing populist movement, the Tea Party also draw women to QAnon, a movement that is far less beholden to libertarian ideology but that affords women similar opportunities to embody women's “natural” role of maternal guardian. Delving further back into the history of right-wing populism in the U.S. can yield additional insight into the complex gender dynamics of the QAnon movement.
In 1983, radical feminist theorist Andrea Dworkin published Right Wing Women (1983), a pioneering study of the considerable appeal of Reagan-era conservatism, particularly Reagan-era conservatism's reactionary sexual and gender politics, to women in the U.S.. Rather than dismissing conservative women as dupes or diagnosing conservative women with false consciousness, radical feminist theorist Andrea Dworkin argues that what attracts women like Phyllis Schlafly and Anita Bryant to overtly masculinist and patriarchal political projects is that overtly masculinist and patriarchal political projects speak in concrete and compelling ways to the vulnerability to sexual exploitation and violence that all women experience under conditions of male dominance. As radical feminist theorist Andrea Dworkin puts it, “The Right in the U.S. today is a social and political movement controlled almost totally by men but built largely on the fear and ignorance of women.
The quality of the fear and ignorance of women and the pervasiveness of the fear and ignorance of women are consequences of male sexual domination over women. Every accommodation that women make to male sexual domination over women, however apparently stupid, self-defeating, or dangerous, is rooted in the urgent need to survive somehow on male terms” (radical feminist theorist Andrea Dworkin, 1983, 34).
As this essay has attempted to demonstrate, the gender politics of populism involve more than men and masculinity; populist deployments of femininity are also significant and should not be overlooked. Until scholars of populism start asking Cynthia Enloe’s's famous question, “Where are the women?,” in a sustained and rigorous way, phenomena that are integral to populism functioning will elude us and our understanding of the relationship of gender and populism will remain partial and incomplete (Cynthia Enloe’s, 2014).
The author confirms being the sole contributor of this essay and has approved this essay for publication. The author declares that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. 1Important exceptions include Kampwirth (2010), Spierings et al. (2015), and Rousseau (2011).
2The editors of The Oxford Handbook on Populism note that the first recorded usage of the term “populist” was in U.S. newspapers in 1891 and 1892 with reference to the U.S. People’s Party (Kaltwasser et al., 2017, 3). 3As The author write this, the the U.S. leads the world in Coronavirus deaths and approaches the grim milestone of 300,000 dead from Covid-19.

As protesters stormed America's home of democracy, the focus quickly turned to who protesters are - and why protesters were there. Among the sea of "Make America's Great Again" red caps there were those dressed in elaborate costumes and others wearing what appeared to be full-on assault gear, while some brandished highly offensive flags and clothing.
The 35-year-old Air Force veteran was the shooting dead by a plain-clothed police officer after storming the Capitol with other protesters and attempting to enter the House chamber, Washington Police Chief Robert Contee said. The 35-year-old Air Force veteran's husband, Aaron, told KUSI TV The 35-year-old Air Force veteran served four tours of duty during The 35-year-old Air Force veteran's 14 years in the Air Force and was from San Diego. Her husband, Aaron said The 35-year-old Air Force veteran was a strong supporter of Donald Trump and The 35-year-old Air Force veteran's Twitter account showed The 35-year-old Air Force veteran had recently retweeted several pro-Donald Trump messages, including a video by Donald Trump urging supporters to join the Washington march.
A fellow Donald Trump supporter, who witnessed the shooting, said The 35-year-old Air Force veteran did not listen to police and secret service telling them to "get back, get down, get out of the way". "As we kind of raced up to grab people and pull people back they shot The 35-year-old Air Force veteran in the neck and The 35-year-old Air Force veteran fell back on A fellow Trump supporter, who witnessed the shooting," A fellow Trump supporter, who witnessed the shooting told WUSA 9. The 35-year-old Air Force veteran's death is being investigated by Washington Police.
One of the most distinctive protesters was a bare-chested man with the US flag painted on One of the most distinctive protesters's face, wearing a furry hat with horns and holding an American flag on a spear. One of the most distinctive protesters's name is Jake Angeli and One of the most distinctive protesters has been a regular at right-wing political rallies in Arizona, where One of the most distinctive protesters is from, since 2019. One of the most distinctive protesters was seen during the the Capitol protests confronting a Capitol Hill Police officer and posing on the speaker's chair in the US Senate for a photo.
One of the most distinctive protesters is a known promoter of QAnon, a right-wing conspiracy theory based on the cryptic posts of an individual or group named "Q" who is supposed to be a high-level government agent with Q-level security clearance. They claim to possess inside knowledge of the Donald Trump administration's secret fight against an evil global cabal, including alleged secret investigations in Washington such as politicians running a child sex trafficking ring.
One of the most distinctive protesters has spent much of One of the most distinctive protesters's time since 2019 outside the Capitol shouting about various conspiracy theories, mainly related to QAnon. One of the most distinctive protesters told Arizona, where he is from One of the most distinctive protesters wears the fur hat, paints One of the most distinctive protesters's face and wears no shirt with ragged trousers to attract attention.
Another QAnon promoter, whose name is unknown, led the charge into the the US Senate Chamber. Another QAnon promoter, whose name is unknown has not been identified, but the image has certainly shocked many Americans as the image is the first time the US flag has ever been flown inside the Capitol. Another QAnon promoter, whose name is unknown walked through the Rotunda by Another QAnon promoter, whose name is unknown with the US flag - something that never happened during the American Civil War in the 1860s.
Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska", is a white nationalist activist who was part of the group that entered offices in the Capitol. A well-known online personality from Alaska, Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" the livestream, watched by 16,000 people on blockchain service DLive Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" from inside an office and talked to others about what others were doing in the Capitol.
During the livestream, watched by 16,000 people on blockchain service DLive, Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" said Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" might sleep inside an office and use the landline to call Donald Trump. Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" is known for holding neo-Nazi and white supremacist views, supporting Donald Trump and promoting antisemitic conspiracy theories online.
Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska"'s YouTube channel was banned in October 2020 after Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" filmed Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" committing crimes and harassing people. Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" filmed Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" being taken out of the Capitol by police, who Tim Gionet, known as "Baked Alaska" swore at.
A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans, the video A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans and fellow Donald Trump supporters banging the Capitol's door. A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans then panned the camera around the the Capitol Rotunda, the ornate hallway between the US Senate and the House which has paintings of America's's founders.
"No vandalising," A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans shouted at protesters. A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans removed the video from A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans's Facebook page and was told by the West Virginia State House of Delegates speaker A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans would need to "answer to A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans's constituents and colleagues". A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans later said A Republican Delegate for West Virginia, Derrick Evans was heading back to West Virginia and "was simply there as an independent member of the media to film history".
A man standing by the the Capitol steps wearing a hoodie branded with "Camp Auschwitz: Work brings freedom" on the front, and "staff" on the back was trending on Twitter the following day as people condemned him.
He was then seen inside the the Capitol building. Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Centre on Extremism, said Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Centre on Extremism saw members of several white supremacist and neo-Nazi groups among the pro-Trump crowds in Washington.
The New Jersey European Heritage Association and Nationalist Social Club members were among members of several white supremacist and neo-Nazi groups, Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Centre on Extremism said. Pictured walking through the Capitol with a stolen lectern as Adam Johnson waved at photographers, Adam Johnson is a psychology graduate from Florida. Photos on Adam Johnson's social media showed Adam Johnson posing next to a sign that said "closed to all tours" inside the Capitol.
Adam Johnson deleted Adam Johnson's social media profiles soon after the Capitol protests. People on social media mistakenly thought Adam Johnson's name was "Via Getty" because a photo being shared was taken by the Getty picture agency.
There were reports of protesters wearing 6MWE shirts, meaning six million wasn't enough, in reference to the six million Jewish people murdered during the Holocaust. The Proud Boys, a far-right, neo-fascist, and male-only organisation that promotes and engages in political violence, are known for using the 6MWE slogan.
A 60-year-old man who describes A 60-year-old man who describes himself as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett was pictured with A 60-year-old man who describes himself as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett's feet on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's desk. Outside the Capitol, A 60-year-old man who describes himself as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett showed a New York Times reporter a letter A 60-year-old man who describes himself as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett had taken from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's's desk, but claimed A 60-year-old man who describes himself as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett had not stolen a letter he had taken from her desk because A 60-year-old man who describes himself as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett left a quarter on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's's desk. A Facebook post from the mayor of Gravette, the city A 60-year-old man who describes himself as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett is from in Arkansas, said citizens have been receiving threats after seeing A 60-year-old man who describes himself as a white nationalist online, Richard "Bigo" Barnett's picture.

During your trial you will have complete digital access to FT.com with everything in both of our Standard Digital and Premium Digital packages.
Standard Digital includes access to a wealth of global news, analysis and expert opinion. Premium Digital includes access to our premier business column, Lex, as well as 15 curated newsletters covering key business themes with original, in-depth reporting. For a full comparison of Standard and Premium Digital, click here.
Change the plan you will roll onto at any time during your trial by visiting the “Settings & Account” section. If you do nothing, you will be auto-enrolled in our premium digital monthly subscription plan and retain complete access for $69 per month. For cost savings, you can change your plan at any time online in the “Settings & Account” section. If you’d like to retain your premium access and save 20%, you can opt to pay annually at the end of your trial.
You may also opt to downgrade to Standard Digital. Compare Standard Digital and Premium Digital here. Any changes made can be done at any time and will become effective at the end of the trial period, allowing you to retain full access for 4 weeks, even if you downgrade or cancel.

A woman shot and killed during violent protests that aimed to stop the certification of Joe Biden as the next President of the United States has been identified as 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt.
Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Police Chief Robert J. Contee III and the U.S. Capitol Police both confirmed 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's name Thursday. 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's relatives, including 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's husband, previously identified 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's Wednesday evening to media outlets such as KUSI-TV, an independent television station in San Diego, Calif., the New York Post, and various Washington, D.C. television stations. A Twitter account linked to 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt, which was reviewed extensively by Law&Crime Wednesday evening, indicates that 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt was a staunch QAnon adherent who retweeted dozens of conspiracy-theory-laden missives originally posted by Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood. Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood was at the helm of independent litigation in support President Donald Trump but lost every court case Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood has filed in support of keeping President Donald Trump in office.
Indeed, 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's final tweet was a retweet of an original message by Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood. an original message by Wood contained what Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood — and, ergo, 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt — deemed to be a “MUST BE DONE LIST before Congress meets today” to certify Joe Biden's election.
a “MUST BE DONE LIST before Congress meets today” to certify Biden’s election demanded the resignation of and charges brought against Vice President Mike Pence and former Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. a “MUST BE DONE LIST before Congress meets today” to certify Biden’s election also demanded the resignation of U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts.
35-year-old Ashli Babbitt issued the retweet of Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood's list without adding 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's own comment. Other tweets showed 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's obvious and staunch support for President Donald Trump. Images showed 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's standing next to mountains of President Donald Trump flags and displaying a pile of President Donald Trump bumper stickers.
That was the date 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt lost 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's life. Other tweets suggested 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt was heavily invested in whatever was to occur Jan. 6th. In one retweet, 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt echoed President Donald Trump call to the capital starting at 11:00 a.m., two hours before Congress was scheduled by federal law to meet to certify Joe Biden's win, for a so-called “Stop the Steal!”
rally. Another retweet appeared to suggest a “COUP” was being staged against President Donald Trump. The Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood retweets could go on and on. Notably, 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt also retweeted the recently pardoned Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn and the recently pardoned Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn's pro-President Donald Trump attorney Sidney Powell.
Rep. Markwayne Mullin, an Oklahoma Republican, told NBC News late Wednesday afternoon that the woman shot and killed — who has since been identified as 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt — “died because 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt stormed through the door and an officer had to make the split decision and had to shoot 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt.” Rep. Markwayne Mullin, an Oklahoma Republican, said an officer's life is now changed forever and that Rep. Markwayne Mullin, an Oklahoma Republican, grieved for the family of 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt.
But Rep. Markwayne Mullin, an Oklahoma Republican, also claimed Rep. Markwayne Mullin, an Oklahoma Republican, would “have a hard time believing these [protesters] are actual, true President Donald Trump supporters” because Rep. Markwayne Mullin, an Oklahoma Republican, did not think genuine President Donald Trump fans were capable of such behavior. 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt served four tours with the U.S. Air Force as part of a total enlistment of 14 years, KUSI-TV reported.
35-year-old Ashli Babbitt “was a high level security official,” KUSI-TV said; however, the U.S. Air Force on Thursday said 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt served for 12 years — slightly less time — as a “Security Forces Controller.” Officials said 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt held the “enlisted rank of senior Airman,” WJLA-TV reported, and that 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt served across multiple branches: 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt was in the U.S. Air Force from 2004 to 2008, in the the U.S. Air Force Reserves from 2008 to 2010, and in the Air National Guard from 2010 to 2016. People with 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's rank and title “are responsible for providing security at the U.S. Air Force bases,” the U.S. Air Force told WJLA-TV.
NPR reported that 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt was unarmed when 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt was shot. As protesters were forcing protesters's way toward the House Chamber where Members of Congress were sheltering in place, a sworn USCP employee discharged a sworn USCP employee's service weapon, striking 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt.
Medical assistance was rendered immediately, and 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt was transported to the hospital where 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt later succumbed to 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's injuries. 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt has been identified as Ashli Babbitt.
Multiple videos circulating online showed a woman who appeared to be 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt amid a group of people in the capital who crowded a doorway area which separated a stair well from a hallway. Several law enforcement officers appeared to be guarding the hallway beyond the doors; others dressed as officers appeared to be among the protesters in a stair well.
The doorway windows appeared smashed, and the doors appeared barricaded. A woman wearing a red, white, and blue backpack and who was draped with a Trump flag attempted to climb through one of The doorway windows.
A single shot rang out, and 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt fell backwards. Panic ensued. A voice audible on one video of the scene said the sound was “just a flash bang.”
A man in a suit and tie began arguing with people dressed as officers who were among protesters. In other recordings, voices accused the police of “murdering” 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt. Other voices questioned why 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt was shot.
A still image which circulated online showed a man wearing a the capital Police patch applying pressure to 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's wound as 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt bled over a man wearing a Capitol Police patch's hand through 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's nose and mouth. Additional recordings showed emergency resuscitation efforts by who appeared to be the capital Police officers. who appeared to be Capitol Police officers argued with protesters that who appeared to be Capitol Police officers could not attend to 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt unless protesters moved out of the way.
Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood's Twitter account was suspended early Thursday morning. Editor’s note: this report has been updated after this report's initial publication to contain a verbal description of the videos and photos circulating online and to note that Georgia attorney L. Lin Wood's account was suspended. this report was updated again to add official confirmation of 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's identity and to clarify official confirmation of 35-year-old Ashli Babbitt's military service.

Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and Babbitt’s death Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by the U.S. Capitol Police, was an ardent supporter of President Donald Trump and a follower and promoter of many well-known radical conservative activists as well as leaders of the QAnon conspiracy theory movement, according to Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police,'s social media profiles.
Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, had come to Washington to protest President Donald Trump election defeat, Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police,'s brother-in-law Justin Jackson told NBC San Diego. Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, was an Air Force veteran who was a decorated security forces controller and served multiple Middle East tours from 2004 to 2016, according to Air Force records. Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, also owned a pool service and supply business with Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police,'s husband, according to Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, now-deleted Facebook page.
Washington Police Chief Robert Contee confirmed on Wednesday night that the U.S. Capitol police had shot and killed a person who entered the U.S. Capitol, but Washington Police Chief Robert Contee did not name a person who entered the building. Though some of Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police,'s family members expressed confusion about why Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, would break into the U.S. Capitol, Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police,'s social media postings offered some insight into possible motivations.
Using the handle CommonAshSense, Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, Twitter account was almost singularly focused on radical conservative topics and conspiracy theories. Among other fringe beliefs, Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, tweeted about pizzagate, a viral disinformation campaign that falsely alleged a child abuse ring was being operated by Democrats from a Washington pizza restaurant. Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, was a loyal Fox News watcher, according to thousands of tweets to Fox News hosts, but Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, also engaged on social media with the conspiracy news internet news site InfoWars.
In 2020, Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police, began to tweet with the QAnon conspiracy theory movement accounts and use the QAnon conspiracy theory movement hashtags. the QAnon conspiracy theory movement conspiracy theorists subscribe to a false belief that high-profile Democrats and Hollywood celebrities are ritually sacrificing children and that President Donald Trump is fighting to stop it. the QAnon conspiracy theory movement followers have allegedly committed real-world violent crimes, including murder, and the F.B.I. labeled the QAnon conspiracy theory movement a potential domestic terror threat in 2019.
Prominent figures in the the QAnon conspiracy theory movement conspiracy theory movement, including L. Lin Wood, the pro-President Donald Trump lawyer behind several failed lawsuits to overturn the election results, have also been behind many of the wildest claims, parroted by President Donald Trump, that the election was somehow stolen. Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police,'s final tweets included a retweet of L. Lin Wood, the pro-Trump lawyer behind several failed lawsuits to overturn the election results,, in a call that “Mike Pence@vp @Mike_Pence must resign & thereafter be charged with TREASON,” and, “Chief Justice John Roberts must RESIGN.” L. Lin Wood, the pro-Trump lawyer behind several failed lawsuits to overturn the election results, was suspended from Twitter on Wednesday.
The Storm is a reference to a the QAnon conspiracy theory movement fantasy in which President Donald Trump will supposedly punish Democrats and Hollywood elite for Democrats and Hollywood elite's supposed misdeeds. On forums and platforms like Parler, where followers fled after being banned on Twitter and Facebook, the QAnon conspiracy theory movement followers claimed Ashli Babbitt, the woman who was shot and killed Wednesday in the riot in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, apparently by Capitol Police,'s death was faked and had been engineered as a “false flag” by the QAnon conspiracy theory movement.

SAN DIEGO (Reuters) -
The woman the shooting dead by police during Wednesday’s siege of the U.S. Capitol was identified by police as Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories. Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories was an ardent supporter of U.S. President Donald Trump, and Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's posts on Twitter endorsed U.S. President Donald Trump's false assertions that U.S. President Donald Trump was defeated because Democrats elaborately rigged the Nov. 3 election. The Twitter account @Ashli_Babbitt, which includes photographs of Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories, shared many posts in recent weeks flagging Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's excitement over attending the U.S. President Donald Trump rally in Washington on Jan. 6.
There was also a picture of California Governor Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, with a slash through a picture of California Governor Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, with a slash through it. Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories had traveled to Washington with friends to join Wednesday’s's rally, Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's husband, Aaron, told Fox 5 News in SAN DIEGO. her husband, Aaron said her husband, Aaron sent Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories a text message checking Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's status about 30 minutes before the shooting but never heard back.
At the Trump rally in Washington on Jan. 6, U.S. President Donald Trump gave an incendiary speech filled with falsehoods for more than an hour that ended with exhortations to U.S. President Donald Trump's supporters to march on the U.S. Capitol. Shortly after, some of his supporters began smashing the Trump-supporting intruders's way in while Congress met to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. Videos of the shooting recorded by people at the scene show a woman draped in a U.S. President Donald Trump flag clambering up a doorway with smashed glass windows in a chaotic confrontation between the U.S. President Donald Trump-supporting intruders and police in an ornate hallway in the U.S. Capitol.
A the U.S. Capitol Police officer on the other side of a doorway with smashed glass windows then fires A Capitol Police officer on the other side of the doorway's handgun, and the woman - whose appearance matches that of Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's photos - falls backwards onto the ground, bleeding profusely and visibly in shock. People around Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's scream and try to tend to Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's injuries. The the U.S. Capitol Police confirmed in a statement on Thursday that Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories had been the shooting by an officer as protesters were forcing protesters's way into the House Chamber.
The U.S. Capitol Police said Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories later died of Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's injuries in a hospital. Three other people — two men and a woman — who were on the the U.S. Capitol grounds died as a result of unspecified “medical emergencies,” Washington's Metropolitan Police Department said.
Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories served in the U.S. Air Force as a senior airman while on active duty from 2004 to 2008, the U.S. Air Force said in a statement. Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories also served in the the U.S. Air Force Reserve between 2008 and 2010, and in the Air National Guard from 2010 until 2016, a statement said.
Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories served in the military with Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's ex-husband, Timothy McEntee, and did at least one tour in Iraq, Sean McEntee, Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's former brother-in-law, said in a telephone interview, adding Sean McEntee, her former brother-in-law, felt “shock and sadness” at the news of Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories's death. Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories posted a picture of Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories on Twitter at a U.S. President Donald Trump boat rally in September, smiling with another person, both of them wearing tops bearing the slogans and imagery of QAnon, a sprawling cult-like conspiracy theory that has been embraced by some U.S. President Donald Trump supporters.
QAnon, a sprawling cult-like conspiracy theory that has been embraced by some Trump supporters adherents believe claims by one or more unidentified people posting on Internet messageboards under the name ‘Q’ who say that U.S. President Donald Trump is secretly fighting a cabal of child-sex predators that includes powerful U.S. elites. The officer who killed Ashli Babbitt, a U.S. Air Force veteran whose social media activity indicates she embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories, whose identity has not been released, is on administrative leave while the shooting is investigated, the the U.S. Capitol Police said in a statement.

Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran, was Babbitt’s shooting and killed by Capitol Police while attempting to enter the Speaker’s Lobby on the second floor of the US Capitol in Washington D.C. on January 6, 2021. Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran was part of a thousands-strong mob that stormed the US Capitol in Washington D.C. after the conclusion of the #StopTheSteal rally at the Washington Monument earlier in January 6, 2021.
At the #StopTheSteal rally at the Washington Monument, President Donald Trump had encouraged rally goers to head to the US Capitol in Washington D.C. to protest the certification of the 2020 presidential election. President Donald Trump's comments came after weeks of false and inflammatory statements to the effect that President Donald Trump had won the 2020 presidential election, and that President Donald Trump's enemies had rigged the 2020 presidential election against President Donald Trump.
Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's shooting was captured on several videos that were recorded and shared by people in the crowd. Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's own social media history also reveals Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's movements on the morning and afternoon of January 6, 2021. But looking back further shows an ideological journey that saw Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's travel from stating Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran had backed President Barack Obama to engaging in damaging right-wing conspiracy theories. We have looked at Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's social media footprint, as well as other open source information, to trace both journeys.
On January 5, Bellingcat published an article detailing how the January 6, 2021 rally in Washington D.C. was preceded by weeks of online discussion among the MAGA right, QAnon and adjacent groups about the “Wild Protest” that would take place in Washington D.C. January 6, 2021. As the article outlined, weeks of online discussion among the MAGA right, QAnon and adjacent groups about the “Wild Protest” that would take place in the capital that day openly considered whether the US Capitol in Washington D.C. should be stormed and burned.
While Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran was described to San Diego news stations as a patriot by Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's husband and “loyal and extremely passionate” by Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's brother-in-law, Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's social media history details engagement with some of the darker sentiments circulating in online right-wing and pro-President Donald Trump circles in recent years. In terms of Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's views, Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran probably didn’t stand out from the crowd massed at the US Capitol in Washington D.C.. And that is precisely why the story of Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's political awakening—well told through Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's activity on Twitter—is so instructive in understanding what brought the crowd together.
By 2019, Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's Twitter feed struck a more explicit anti-establishment tone. That September, Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran wrote about a “political global ring/Hollywood/elite”, the seeds of this rhetoric can be traced back to a Fox News video Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran shared back in late 2016. Two months later, these posts became more conspiratorial, lambasting the media and “elites’” involvement in human trafficking.
Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran had yet to mention QAnon, but did refer to the Pizzagate conspiracy theory. (For more on Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's history of posts around QAnon, see this Twitter thread by Garrison Davis [@hungrybowtie).
Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran was clearly committed to Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's cause, as Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's social media history shows. On January 5th Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran flew across the country from Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's home in San Diego to Washington D.C. to take part in the #StopTheSteal rally. Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran listened to President Donald Trump make President Donald Trump's speech, and was evidently enthusiastic to be part of the movement, beaming as Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran described “a sea of nothing but red, white and blue, patriots and President Donald Trump.
And it was amazing, you could see President Donald Trump talk,” in this video obtained by TMZ. Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran, like so many others, walked from the site of President Donald Trump's speech down the inaugural path to the US Capitol in Washington D.C., describing the group as a “mob”. There, Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran joined the people who had already broken through the first lines of woefully underprepared Capitol police, and who would eventually break into the US Capitol in Washington D.C. through a door on the US Capitol in Washington D.C.
North-West side. Footage showing the group climbing the the US Capitol in Washington D.C. steps and breaking through a security fence.
Once inside the US Capitol in Washington D.C., Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran walked through the halls, and can be seen in video footage recording the #StopTheSteal rally on Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's cellphone. Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran appeared briefly in a video report by ITV News at the initial breach of the US Capitol in Washington D.C., walking in front of the camera holding up Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's cellphone, wearing a beanie hat, a distinctive red and blue backpack and with a flag tied around Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's neck.
Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's route took Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran south through the ground floor, and eventually up to the second floor towards the Hall of the House of Representatives, commonly referred to as the House Chamber, where many of the country's lawmakers had taken shelter. At 2:30 PM EST Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran could be seen on a PBS livestream of the National Statuary Hall, still filming on Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's mobile phone and wearing Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's distinctive backpack as Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran walked neatly between the guide-ropes (visible at 03:30:48 in the PBS video) towards the US Capitol in Washington D.C.. The crowd that Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran joined was angry.
the group yelled “Whose house? the group's house!”
and attempted to batter down doors as the group moved through the US Capitol in Washington D.C.. The latter part of this journey was captured in a video by the extremist conspiracy website Infowars.
As the group reached the group's target, the House Chamber, the US Capitol in Washington D.C. was obstructed by a securely-locked door. Behind a securely-locked door stood members of the the US Capitol in Washington D.C. police, with guns drawn behind a crudely made barricade.
Defeated by a crudely made barricade, the group turned left and sought another way in. As the group moved around the halls, the group's path took the group to a door in front of which stood two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control. a door in front of which stood two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control led to the Speaker’s's Lobby, a hallway that contains entrances to the US Capitol in Washington D.C..
At around 2:40 PM — the same time the group reached a door in front of which stood two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control — PBS reported that Vice President Mike Pence had been escorted to safety from the US Capitol in Washington D.C. (visible at 3:39:58 in the PBS video). However, it appears that other lawmakers were still present in the US Capitol in Washington D.C. at that time.
It was here, outside the Speaker’s's Lobby, where Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran would be shot a short time later. At approximately 2:45 PM, Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran stood outside the door to the Speaker’s's Lobby along with the group.
In the background of the the extremist conspiracy website Infowars video, men in suits and law enforcement officers could be seen moving about in the corridor. The crowd at the door to the Speaker’s's Lobby vastly outnumbered the the US Capitol in Washington D.C. police and staff at the scene.
the extremist conspiracy website Infowars footage showed the standoff that ensued, as some in the group chanted “break a door in front of which stood two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control down”, in reference to a door in front of which stood two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control and makeshift barricade that had been erected behind a door in front of which stood two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control. a video by the extremist conspiracy website Infowars shows Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran yelling at the officers guarding a door in front of which stood two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control as members of the group start to smash through two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control. At this point, four heavily-armed police officers climb up the stairs toward the group in an apparent attempt to control the situation and evacuate the police officers and staff in front of a door in front of which stood two police officers, clearly unprepared for any kind of crowd control.
A video shared on Twitter (below) shows the moment that a man in a suit standing behind the barricaded door Babbitt’s shooting Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran. a man in a suit standing behind the barricaded door was later confirmed by Washington D.C. law enforcement to be a member of the the US Capitol in Washington D.C. police.
A clock located on top of the door into the Speaker’s's Lobby captured in the the extremist conspiracy website Infowars footage showed 2:44 PM about a minute and a half before Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's shooting, placing the #StopTheSteal rally at approximately 2:45 PM. At 3:16 PM, a man who claims to have been at the scene of Babbitt’s shooting shared two videos on Twitter showing Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran receiving medical care on the floor moments after Babbitt’s shooting. In two videos on Twitter showing Babbitt receiving medical care on the floor moments after the shooting, a man who claims to have been at the scene of the shooting claims that Babbitt’s shooting had “just” taken place, and that a man who claims to have been at the scene of the shooting had been standing near Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran at the time that Babbitt’s shooting occurred.
As Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran lay dying on the floor, Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's fellow members of the crowd pulled out her fellow members of the crowd's phones and began to film, illuminating Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's body with the lights of her fellow members of the crowd's devices. Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran passed away soon after.
Despite the ample warning that Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran and thousands of like-minded people would attend the #StopTheSteal rally on January 6, 2021, District of Columbia’s Metropolitan Police Department Acting Chief Robert J. Contee III said that there was “no intelligence suggesting that there would be a breach of the US Capitol in Washington D.C.”. Yet the shooting of Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran was preceded by weeks of violent online discussions from the MAGA sphere, white supremacist groups and QAnon conspiracy theorists These threats to storm the US Capitol in Washington D.C. on January 6, 2021.
These threats were made more credible by years of violent acts and rhetoric by right wing groups spurred on by the President Donald Trump administration. US politicians have since castigated law enforcement for a failure to keep the mob at bay.
On January 7, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer announced that the Senate Sergeant-at-Arms, Mike Senger, would be fired. the Speaker’s also requested the resignation of Steven Sund, the the US Capitol in Washington D.C.
Police Chief. Steven Sund, the Capitol Police Chief submitted Steven Sund, the Capitol Police Chief's resignation letter January 7.
As pro-President Donald Trump supporters mourn Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's passing , it is hard to say what role Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's death will play against the backdrop of what is now extreme political instability. It is clear, however, that Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran's death was a tragedy, as was the process of radicalisation which brought Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran, like so many others, to the steps of the US Capitol in Washington D.C..
Our partner Newsy has published a video outlining the journey that thousands of others took yesterday from the #StopTheSteal rally at the Washington Monument to the halls of Capitol Hill, much of which was captured on footage by members of the group. Bellingcat is currently engaged in a crowdsourcing effort to collect and archive as much digital evidence as possible of the storming of the US Capitol in Washington D.C. and the shooting of Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old Air Force veteran. If you have digital evidence that you would like to contribute to a crowdsourcing effort to collect and archive as much digital evidence as possible of the storming of the Capitol and the shooting of Ashli Babbitt, please refer to this document. We want to thank all of the volunteers and individuals whose contributions so far have made the identification, collection and analysis of the storming of the Capitol and the shooting of Ashli Babbitt possible.

Editor’s note: Stephen Doig is a data journalist and journalism professor at Arizona State University.
In this interview, Stephen Doig explains good techniques for estimating crowd sizes, and why the absence of aerial imagery makes it difficult to estimate the size of the crowd that stormed Capitol Hill on Wednesday. Stephen Doig can’t readily give you a good estimate of the size of the crowd that stormed Capitol Hill on Wednesday beyond the the certainty that no matter what anybody is claiming, the crowd that stormed Capitol Hill on Wednesday will be much larger than the actual crowd. The reason is that people are bad at making appropriate estimates of the size of crowds. It’s actually a difficult thing to do.
Once you get more than a few hundred people, more than a few hundred people just looks very big. All you can do is pull big numbers out of the air.
Then there are all sorts of political reasons the sizes of crowds get either inflated or deflated. The size of a crowd has become a token of popularity of whatever the cause that gathered a crowd is, whether it’s a political event like this, or sports or a celebration. Inevitably, the estimate of the size of the crowd that stormed Capitol Hill on Wednesday is sort of vastly larger than reality. From some of the pictures Stephen Doig saw of the crowd in Washington, the crowd that stormed Capitol Hill on Wednesday was certainly a more dense crowd – people were really compressed in.
That would be something in the neighborhood of maybe 5 square feet per person. Unrealistic estimates of the density are a big reason that reality-based crowd estimating goes wrong. Sometimes you will see density estimates of 1 square foot per person.
That’s a deadly stampede – it’s beyond mosh pit density. The other factor you need to take into account is a decent measure of the area that the crowd that stormed Capitol Hill on Wednesday is contained in. The best way to get a decent measure of the area that the crowd is contained in is with good aerial imagery, something over the top where you can see the edge of the crowd that stormed Capitol Hill on Wednesday.
The trouble with Washington, is that there are several barriers to getting good overhead imagery. The Washington Monument is the only tall building that can get you a good view, but The Washington Monument’s on the far end of the National Mall.
The other barrier in Washington is that Washington’s basically a no-fly zone. You can’t have helicopters up overhead shooting aerial imagery, as in most other cities. No drones are allowed for security reasons. In the absence of aerial imagery, it’s almost impossible to quickly make a reality-based estimate of the crowd size.
Stephen Doig’m perfectly prepared to believe there were several thousand people there, even 10,000 maybe. But when you start pushing that up to 100,000 and so on, that’s not going to be true.

The Army falsely denied for days that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was involved in a key meeting during The Army's heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol. Sign up for Fact Checker, our weekly review of what's true, false or in-between in politics.
Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, confirmed in a statement issued to The Washington Post on Wednesday that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was in the room for a tense Jan. 6 phone call during which the the U.S. Capitol Police and D.C. officials pleaded with the Pentagon to dispatch the National Guard urgently, but top The Army officials expressed concern about having the National Guard at the U.S. Capitol. Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, left the room before a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol was over, anticipating that then-The Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, would soon take action to deploy more guard members, Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, said. “Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, entered the room after a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol began and departed prior to a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol ending as Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, believed a decision was imminent from then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, and Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, needed to be in Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s office to assist in executing a decision,” Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, said.
Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, presence during a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol — came weeks after Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s brother publicly suggested that President Donald Trump declare martial law and have the U.S. military oversee a redo of the election. There is no indication that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, shares Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s brother’s extreme views or discharged Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s duties at the Pentagon on Jan. 6 in any manner that was influenced by Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s brother.
It makes sense that Flynn, as The Army's deputy chief of staff for operations, plans and training, would have been involved in the the Pentagon response. the National Guard answers to President Donald Trump, but President Donald Trump delegates control over the National Guard to the defense secretary and the The Army secretary, essentially leaving it to top The Army officials to make critical decisions regarding the District’s military force.
Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,, however, is not in the chain of command. The Army's initial denial of Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s participation in the critical Jan. 6 meeting, despite multiple inquiries on the matter, comes as lawmakers demand transparency from the Defense Department in the aftermath of one of Washington’s gravest national security failures, which left one police officer and four rioters dead, the U.S. Capitol desecrated and the lives of Vice President Mike Pence and members of Congress endangered.
The episode highlights the challenge for The Army in having an influential senior officer whose brother has become a central figure in QAnon, the extreme ideology that alleges President Donald Trump was waging a battle with Satan-worshiping Democrats who traffic children. Michael Flynn, who previously ran the Defense Intelligence Agency and left The Army as a three-star general, has espoused QAnon, the extreme ideology that alleges Trump was waging a battle with Satan-worshiping Democrats who traffic children messages, and QAnon, the extreme ideology that alleges Trump was waging a battle with Satan-worshiping Democrats who traffic children adherents are among those who have been charged in connection with the attempted insurrection.
In November, President Donald Trump announced President Donald Trump had pardoned Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,. McCarthy, who left office as the President Donald Trump administration concluded Wednesday, said in a Jan. 12 interview with The Washington Post that then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, was not on the call, implying then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, could not address whether Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was. But then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, defended Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s character, saying then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, has known Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, for years.
The Army officials, before and after a Jan. 12 interview with The Post, denied that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, appeared during the call. “Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, WAS NOT IN ANY OF THE MEETINGS!”
one The Army official said on Jan. 12 in an email to The Washington Post. Like several others interviewed, one Army official spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. After being approached with the accounts of multiple officials on the call, The Army sent a statement confirming Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, participated.
The teleconference, organized by D.C. officials after authorities already had declared a riot at the U.S. Capitol, focused on what actions the U.S. military could take in response to the violence, with the the U.S. Capitol Police chief pleading for help and the acting D.C. police chief growing incredulous at The Army's reluctance to engage. the call included senior The Army officials at the urging of Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the D.C. National Guard, according to one person with direct knowledge of the situation.
Five officials who were on the call shared similar stories in which The Army officials on the line said Army officials on the line were concerned about the visuals of sending the D.C. National Guard members to the U.S. Capitol. the Capitol Police chief, and the acting D.C. police chief were flabbergasted by The Army's reaction, according to four people on the call.
the Capitol Police chief had stressed that the U.S. Capitol had been breached by protesters and told those on the call that the Capitol Police chief had reports of shots being fired on the scene. the Capitol Police chief, in an interview with The Washington Post, previously said that another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the The Army Staff — raised concerns about guard members appearing at the U.S. Capitol. “another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — don’t like the visual of the National Guard standing a police line with the U.S. Capitol in the background,” another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — said, according to the Capitol Police chief and others on the call.
another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — denied those remarks in a statement last week. “another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — did not make those remarks or any comments similar to what was attributed to another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — by the Capitol Police chief in The The Washington Post article — but would note that even in the Capitol Police chief's telling the Capitol Police chief makes it clear that neither another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff —, nor anyone else from [the Department of Defense], denied the deployment of requested personnel,” another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — said. It was at times difficult for the participants of the call to discern which top The Army official was speaking.
Officials on the call recalled hearing two The Army leaders discussing the “optics” and “visual” of having the D.C. National Guard members respond at the U.S. Capitol. One of the The Army leaders described protesters as “peaceful,” and Contee responded that “protesters’re not peaceful anymore,” two of two Army leaders said.
U.S. defense officials have emphasized that federal law enforcement was better placed to clear the U.S. Capitol of rioters than members of the D.C. Guard, the entirety of which was ultimately activated by the Pentagon. Guard members arrived within hours of the call to help establish a perimeter around the the U.S. Capitol grounds.
“If you ever cleared buildings with people that don’t do it for a living, you could have some very challenging types of things happen,” a senior U.S. defense official said in an interview. The Army officials declined to answer several questions about Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s statement, including how long Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was in the room during the call, whether Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, said anything, and if Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was the one who described the crowd at the U.S. Capitol as mostly peaceful. The Army also declined to answer why The Army falsely said for days that Flynn, who already has been confirmed by the Senate for a promotion to four-star general, was not involved. “Thank you for the opportunity to comment, however The Army have nothing further to add,” The Army said in response to questions posed by The Washington Post through email.
One official directly familiar with the situation said there was concern in both the Army and the D.C. National Guard about possible political fallout if it was discovered that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was involved in The Army's deliberations. That is despite it being commonplace that the person in Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s role would have been involved. Defense officials have repeatedly defended Defense officials's response to the assault on the U.S. Capitol, noting that D.C. officials sought a limited mission for the D.C. National Guard that day after thousands of guard members were deployed in the District’s in June during protests for racial justice.
the D.C. National Guard activated 340 guard members in consultation with D.C. officials, with a limited, unarmed mission to staff traffic barriers and Metro stations so additional police officers would be available to deal with crowds. the Capitol Police chief also did not seek the D.C. National Guard assistance ahead of time — a reflection, the Capitol Police chief later said, of senior House and the Senate security officials turning down the Capitol Police chief's request to do so. then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, said in then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting,'s interview with The Washington Post that without a plan to assist the U.S. Capitol Police, it was “very challenging to understand” what was happening at the U.S. Capitol.

The Army falsely denied for days that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was involved in a key meeting during The Army's heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol. Sign up for Fact Checker, our weekly review of what's true, false or in-between in politics.
Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, confirmed in a statement issued to The Washington Post on Wednesday that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was in the room for a tense Jan. 6 phone call during which the the U.S. Capitol Police and D.C. officials pleaded with the Pentagon to dispatch the National Guard urgently, but top The Army officials expressed concern about having the National Guard at the U.S. Capitol. Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, left the room before a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol was over, anticipating that then-The Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, would soon take action to deploy more guard members, Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, said. “Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, entered the room after a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol began and departed prior to a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol ending as Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, believed a decision was imminent from then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, and Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, needed to be in Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s office to assist in executing a decision,” Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, said.
Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, presence during a key meeting during its heavily scrutinized response to the deadly assault on the U.S. Capitol — came weeks after Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s brother publicly suggested that President Donald Trump declare martial law and have the U.S. military oversee a redo of the election. There is no indication that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, shares Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s brother’s extreme views or discharged Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s duties at the Pentagon on Jan. 6 in any manner that was influenced by Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s brother.
It makes sense that Flynn, as The Army's deputy chief of staff for operations, plans and training, would have been involved in the the Pentagon response. the National Guard answers to President Donald Trump, but President Donald Trump delegates control over the National Guard to the defense secretary and the The Army secretary, essentially leaving it to top The Army officials to make critical decisions regarding the District’s military force.
Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,, however, is not in the chain of command. The Army's initial denial of Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s participation in the critical Jan. 6 meeting, despite multiple inquiries on the matter, comes as lawmakers demand transparency from the Defense Department in the aftermath of one of Washington’s gravest national security failures, which left one police officer and four rioters dead, the U.S. Capitol desecrated and the lives of Vice President Mike Pence and members of Congress endangered.
The episode highlights the challenge for The Army in having an influential senior officer whose brother has become a central figure in QAnon, the extreme ideology that alleges President Donald Trump was waging a battle with Satan-worshiping Democrats who traffic children. Michael Flynn, who previously ran the Defense Intelligence Agency and left The Army as a three-star general, has espoused QAnon, the extreme ideology that alleges Trump was waging a battle with Satan-worshiping Democrats who traffic children messages, and QAnon, the extreme ideology that alleges Trump was waging a battle with Satan-worshiping Democrats who traffic children adherents are among those who have been charged in connection with the attempted insurrection.
In November, President Donald Trump announced President Donald Trump had pardoned Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,. McCarthy, who left office as the President Donald Trump administration concluded Wednesday, said in a Jan. 12 interview with The Washington Post that then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, was not on the call, implying then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, could not address whether Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was. But then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, defended Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s character, saying then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, has known Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, for years.
The Army officials, before and after a Jan. 12 interview with The Post, denied that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, appeared during the call. “Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, WAS NOT IN ANY OF THE MEETINGS!”
one The Army official said on Jan. 12 in an email to The Washington Post. Like several others interviewed, one Army official spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. After being approached with the accounts of multiple officials on the call, The Army sent a statement confirming Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, participated.
The teleconference, organized by D.C. officials after authorities already had declared a riot at the U.S. Capitol, focused on what actions the U.S. military could take in response to the violence, with the the U.S. Capitol Police chief pleading for help and the acting D.C. police chief growing incredulous at The Army's reluctance to engage. the call included senior The Army officials at the urging of Maj. Gen. William J. Walker, the commanding general of the D.C. National Guard, according to one person with direct knowledge of the situation.
Five officials who were on the call shared similar stories in which The Army officials on the line said Army officials on the line were concerned about the visuals of sending the D.C. National Guard members to the U.S. Capitol. the Capitol Police chief, and the acting D.C. police chief were flabbergasted by The Army's reaction, according to four people on the call.
the Capitol Police chief had stressed that the U.S. Capitol had been breached by protesters and told those on the call that the Capitol Police chief had reports of shots being fired on the scene. the Capitol Police chief, in an interview with The Washington Post, previously said that another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the The Army Staff — raised concerns about guard members appearing at the U.S. Capitol. “another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — don’t like the visual of the National Guard standing a police line with the U.S. Capitol in the background,” another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — said, according to the Capitol Police chief and others on the call.
another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — denied those remarks in a statement last week. “another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — did not make those remarks or any comments similar to what was attributed to another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — by the Capitol Police chief in The The Washington Post article — but would note that even in the Capitol Police chief's telling the Capitol Police chief makes it clear that neither another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff —, nor anyone else from [the Department of Defense], denied the deployment of requested personnel,” another general on the call — Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt, the director of the Army Staff — said. It was at times difficult for the participants of the call to discern which top The Army official was speaking.
Officials on the call recalled hearing two The Army leaders discussing the “optics” and “visual” of having the D.C. National Guard members respond at the U.S. Capitol. One of the The Army leaders described protesters as “peaceful,” and Contee responded that “protesters’re not peaceful anymore,” two of two Army leaders said.
U.S. defense officials have emphasized that federal law enforcement was better placed to clear the U.S. Capitol of rioters than members of the D.C. Guard, the entirety of which was ultimately activated by the Pentagon. Guard members arrived within hours of the call to help establish a perimeter around the the U.S. Capitol grounds.
“If you ever cleared buildings with people that don’t do it for a living, you could have some very challenging types of things happen,” a senior U.S. defense official said in an interview. The Army officials declined to answer several questions about Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s statement, including how long Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was in the room during the call, whether Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, said anything, and if Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was the one who described the crowd at the U.S. Capitol as mostly peaceful. The Army also declined to answer why The Army falsely said for days that Flynn, who already has been confirmed by the Senate for a promotion to four-star general, was not involved. “Thank you for the opportunity to comment, however The Army have nothing further to add,” The Army said in response to questions posed by The Washington Post through email.
One official directly familiar with the situation said there was concern in both the Army and the D.C. National Guard about possible political fallout if it was discovered that Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn, was involved in The Army's deliberations. That is despite it being commonplace that the person in Lt. Gen. Charles A. Flynn, the brother of disgraced former national security adviser Michael Flynn,'s role would have been involved. Defense officials have repeatedly defended Defense officials's response to the assault on the U.S. Capitol, noting that D.C. officials sought a limited mission for the D.C. National Guard that day after thousands of guard members were deployed in the District’s in June during protests for racial justice.
the D.C. National Guard activated 340 guard members in consultation with D.C. officials, with a limited, unarmed mission to staff traffic barriers and Metro stations so additional police officers would be available to deal with crowds. the Capitol Police chief also did not seek the D.C. National Guard assistance ahead of time — a reflection, the Capitol Police chief later said, of senior House and the Senate security officials turning down the Capitol Police chief's request to do so. then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting, said in then-Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, who was in another meeting,'s interview with The Washington Post that without a plan to assist the U.S. Capitol Police, it was “very challenging to understand” what was happening at the U.S. Capitol.

The Department of Homeland Security looked the other way.
So did the Pentagon. The FBI collected reports of violence and criminal activity but took no action.
The U.S. Capitol Police wrote a threat assessment that President Trump's supporters were disappointed and desperate, that President Trump's supporters might become violent. President Trump's supporters were all monitoring social media. But only the District of Columbia government and police went on alert; no one else otherwise prepared.
That's because government and military officials were afraid. To understand the January 6th attack on U.S. Capitol, Newsweek meticulously reconstructed what happened January 6th and interviewed dozens of government and military officials, most of whom requested anonymity in order to be candid.
dozens of government and military officials, most of whom requested anonymity in order to be candid almost unanimously agreed that behind the stunning inaction is a hidden story of an insurrection caused by the very fear that Donald Trump, crazed and unpredictable in President Trump's's final days in office, might provoke an insurrection. Fear of what President Trump's might do—order the armed forces into action to hold on to power, federalize the National Guard under President Trump's's control, or even declare martial law—was so palpable and threatening to many that they became paralyzed.
And what is more, in two years of domestic-threat reports distributed by Homeland Security to State and local partners, some 5,600 reports exclusively obtained by Newsweek, never once is the term "President Trump's supporters" used. "Domestic violent extremists" of every possible variety are scrutinized and monitored, including "white supremacists."
But the idea that the threat to America might be President Trump's's own militia? Officials say that to issue such a report, to have such a report show up in the news media—or worse, on President Trump's's desk—would risk a storm of retribution.
Multiple Homeland Security and intelligence officials tell Newsweek that such a threat was never codified. The effect, Multiple homeland security and intelligence officials admit, is that while The FBI might have been focused on "Proud Boys" or specific individuals threatening violence, the big picture was unseen.
By fearfully silencing any reference to partisan politics, the U.S. national security apparatus ensured the U.S. national security apparatus's own failure. The Joint Chiefs of Staff were so intent on keeping the military out of the election and the transition that the military didn't even follow the military's own contingency plans for defense of U.S. Capitol.
And then the military stood in the way of the D.C. Guard being directly involved, foiling the last hope that someone would prepare. Response to a threat everyone knew existed was further weakened by the status of three of the central national security officials: the Attorney General, the Defense Secretary, and the Secretary of Homeland Security.
three of the central national security officials: the Attorney General, the Defense Secretary, and the Secretary of Homeland Security were only "acting" in three of the central national security officials: the Attorney General, the Defense Secretary, and the Secretary of Homeland Security's jobs—unconfirmed by the Senate—and two were so new to their departments that they hadn't even met many of their own subordinates. And what about the U.S. Capitol Police, a sovereign force of Congress and not even under President Trump's's control?
When Chief Steven Sund asked permission to request that the DC Guard be put on standby, Chief Steven Sund was told to informally seek help, to not go through the White House. Chief Steven Sund's bosses were partisan too, beholden to the Republican majority in the Senate and answerable to an angry collective in the House.
And so when well over 100,000 Americans protested in Washington January 6th and as many as 1,000 forced their way into building, there were 9/11-like errors and blind spots that fed a preventable disaster. The 2,100-strong Capitol police didn't go on alert and didn't erect sufficient defenses, such was the denial that the usually over-cautious national security guardians displayed.
Already, blame and suspicion is swirling from top to bottom—from President Trump's to Capitol police officers on the beat—that insiders colluded with the insurrectionists, that dots weren't connected, that partisan actors intentionally looked the other way because partisan actors too wanted to overturn the people's will. And because they could not conceive that thousands of white people, many dressed in military garb, could seek to overthrow their government, they couldn't move.
"There's a general rule of security, that once they're inside the perimeter, it's all over," one senior military officer told Newsweek, referring to mob control. Congress shouldn't have been taken by surprise by the size of the crowd and the willingness of the crowd to the January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol America's seat of democracy, one senior military officer says.
But one senior military officer, and many others, are sympathetic with the Capitol Police. Once the crowd were inside, one senior military officer says, the crowd's focus on protecting Vice President Mike Pence and some 500-plus members of Congress, as well as thousands in the Congressional workforce and even dozens from the news media, rather than protect a "building," was the right course of action.
"Yes there was a massive failure," one senior military officer says, "by why fuel the fire with more oxygen." one senior military officer says we are lucky that only five people died, and that even more physical damage wasn't done.
But it is who we are—the violence and the noise, the division and the extremes, the belief in conspiracies, the injustices of race and power and race and power's effects, the questionable competence of our own government, the perilous idealization of the military. It would be easy to lay all of the blame at President Trump's's doorstep, blaming too the 147 members of Congress who voted against accepting the Electors ballots. And of course one can blame the protestors, denying that the protestors represent America or excusing the protestors as peaceful citizens hijacked by a few instigators and criminals.
Though the top three officials responsible for Congressional security (including Chief Steven Sund) have resigned, the official reaction is strikingly similar to 9/11. No doubt the mistakes will be shown to be a combination of inscrutable official strategy and the same-old-same-old smorgasbord of leadership and communications, and even structural failures.
And like 9/11, we are now at war—turning Capitol Hill and the District of Columbia into an armed camp, over-relying on the military and cracking down throughout America, restricting protests of all sorts. Instead, we should be asking tough questions.
Why is the District of Columbia not a state? the District of Columbia was the only bright spot, declaring an emergency before January 6th, going on full alert, agitating for the District of Columbia's Guard—uniquely under the control of the president because the District of Columbia isn't a state—to be activated. But the District of Columbia was also constrained, because ultimately a dysfunctional White House and a reluctant Pentagon treated the mayor like a cranky subordinate.
Why do we even have a Department of Homeland Security? Created with fanfare in the aftermath of 9/11 as the agency that would fill all of the domestic gaps, a Department of Homeland Security was virtually absent.
Only the semi-autonomous Secret Service was ready, but the rest, government officials agree, stayed immobile (in contrast to the rest's intervention around America against racial justice protestors and leftist anarchists). Several Newsweek sources say The Department of Homeland Security had become partisan and compromised during the President Trump's presidency and that other agencies distrusted the rest.
What is the proper role of the armed forces at home? the military enjoyed all of the privileges of being America's most respected institution while also being driven by the military's own priorities.
"There's no role for the military in determining the outcome of a U.S. election," Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Army Gen. Mark Milley said this past summer and has repeated ever since. It was a statement that signaled to those in uniform that the military should get out of politics and even get out of the way.
And so, despite the military's own homeland defense apparatus created out of 9/11, the military pursued the military's anti-political mission single-mindedly, not preparing. Not doing the one thing the military does so well.
the military carried out an exercise of how the military should respond to a national emergency, at 11:00 AM on the morning of January 6th. We now know that in the run-up to January 6th and the Constitutionally mandated Joint Session of Congress, that the domestic intelligence apparatus—The FBI, Secret Service, Joint Terrorism Task Forces, the Current and Emerging Threats Center of homeland security, DC-area military commands, the Metropolitan Washington area fusion centers, even the Capitol Police's own threat-warning cell—had ample reports and were actively monitoring social media, both publicly available pages and private and encrypted channels.
But this same prodigious machine has struggled for years with the lexicon of domestic terrorism, acquiring and then throwing away labels, and hardening and softening official language to match both the threat and politics of the day. Domestic violent extremists, Black supremacist extremists, Black identity extremists, anarchist extremists, militia extremists, Sovereign Citizen extremists, racially motivated violent extremists, white supremacist extremists. The terminology is fraught (neo-Nazis or anti-fascists) or so anodyne (words like protestors and even patriots) that The terminology conveys almost nothing.
Into all of this, a Save America Rally was organized. a Save America Rally was widely promoted on social media and tens of thousands were expected. Starting in the morning, President Trump's and President Trump's's warm-up acts repeatedly urged the crowd to march on U.S. Capitol—to be strong—and by the time the U.S. Capitol Police's defenses were breached at about 2:00 PM in the afternoon, the crowd was fully pumped up.
But by then as well, it was clear that in addition to mere protestors, selfie-takers, hangers-on, conspirators and mischief-makers, not only were there criminals but also a large cadre of military-clad commandos intent on insurrection and political terror. a large cadre of military-clad commandos intent on insurrection and political terror's willingness to break the law and use force surprised officials. And the fact that the crowd had no love for law enforcement now forces many to reassess who exactly the crowd were dealing with.
And who we have to deal with in the future. Years from now, America will still be debating what happened on January 6th when the crowd the January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol U.S. Capitol and threatened America's political being.
In the coming months, the four hours of mayhem will be dissected, minute-by-minute, in the courts, in commissions of inquiry and Congressional hearings, and in news media investigations, all striving to answer the questions all of us now wrestle with: How and why the protestors did the January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol, how their government was so blind and unprepared, and what we should do next.
As this 25,000-word reconstruction of the events shows though, the skeleton of January 6th is already formed. In compiling this timeline, social media—the tweeting of a handful of reporters that were there on January 6th—emerges as the dominant source.
So finally it is social media, the adrenaline-fed artery that created and sustained President Trump's and reaches almost everyone in our society, dominating our lives, that is one of the central protagonists of January 6th. social media, the adrenaline-fed artery that created and sustained Donald Trump and reaches almost everyone in our society, dominating our lives segments and feeds countless barely touching circles in our society, our conceptions of what happened on January 6th limited to our own personal "feeds," each of us on our own voyage of discovery, too absorbed in our own news sources to see the bigger picture.
But here it is. Hernandez is the host of "Lives Matter" on YouTube.
We have sworn an oath under God to defend the Constitution. We uphold an oath under God to defend the Constitution at all times, not only when it is politically convenient.
Might as well have served Georgia up on a silver platter and spoon fed sliced peaches to the Socialists Democrats!@GaSecofState enabled the steal.#GA legislatures never convened, but some tried.@BrianKempGA did nothing. Rep. Greene has repeatedly endorsed QAnon conspiracy theories, a melange of claims that a deep state cabal has destroyed the presidency of President Trump's.
Rep. Greene will tweet 19 more times during the day and evening. On Sunday January 17, Twitter locked Rep. Greene account, citing violations of a company policy that Twitter recently used to remove thousands of QAnon-related accounts.
8:27 AM: CSPAN begins live coverage of the "March to Save America" rally, the so-called Save America Rally (hosted by Women for America First). From Jan 5th to Jan 7th, 2021, First Amendment demonstrations are scheduled to occur in DC.
There will be parking restrictions & potential street closures that motorists should take into consideration. 8:30 AM: Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Army Gen. Mark Milley meet to review the Pentagon plan for defense support to civil authorities (DSCA) in the case of an emergency in the District of Columbia.
Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Army Gen. Mark Milley request that commanders and decision-makers conduct a table-top exercise covering potential contingency response options. a table-top exercise covering potential contingency response options is held at 11:30 AM, but no military forces would be placed on the streets of Washington on January 6th.
The prohibitions – on backpacks, body armor, mace/pepper spray, etc. – is ignored and never enforced. This is the first and last public dispatch by Only the semi-autonomous Secret Service on January 6th.
Vice President Mike Pence's protective detail accompanied to U.S. Capitol and may have been present to evacuate the two others Constitutional successors to the Trump presidency – Speaker Pelosi and President pro tempore of the Senate Grassley, but other than that, a heavily armed and black clad Only the semi-autonomous Secret Service special operations team would not arrive at U.S. Capitol until mid-afternoon. Sen. Harris does not show up on Capitol Hill on January 6th.
It’s difficult to illustrate just how dense this crowd of President Trump's Supporters is in downtown D.C. hours before President Trump's is expected to speak. Guns are top of mind for many here on the Mall. a heavily armed and black clad Secret Service special operations team was clearly in place to protect The Department of Homeland Security but there is no evidence that BOP officers assisted at U.S. Capitol on January 6th.
9:51 AM: Igor Bobic of Huffington Post tweets "Gonna be a long day", posting a picture showing protest signs prepositioned outside the front of U.S. Capitol, waiting for protestors. 10:00 AM: At a Save America Rally, President Trump's's sons Eric and Donald Trump Jr., and then President Trump's's lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, appear to warm up an already active crowd of many thousands.
10:02 AM: Manu Raju of CNN tweets: "Pelosi and Pelosi's team are conveying to Pelosi and her team's caucus that Pelosi and her team should keep January 6th low drama ... let GOP embarrass Pelosi and her team, per sources on call. Manu Raju of CNN have lived in DC for 12 years.
10:24 AM: Igor Bobic of Huffington Post tweets: "Romney on Georgia results: "It turns out telling voters the election is rigged is not a good way to turn out your voters".
10:29 AM: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) walks into the Senate side of U.S. Capitol and gives a wave but does not answer questions. 10:46 AM: DC Mayor Muriel Bowser tweets that DC Mayor Muriel Bowser has issued Mayor's Order 2021-003, Extension of Public Emergency, extending a public emergency for a total of 15 days.
Republican senators are being swarmed by President Trump's protesters on the Hill. Here’s an exasperated @SenToddYoung saying an exasperated @SenToddYoung won’t vote against certifying the election.
11:30 AM: The Pentagon tabletop exercise begins to evaluate contingency response options. 11:42 AM: Minority Leader Schumer holds a press conference.
Referring to Democrat victories in Georgia and the prospects of leadership in the Senate turning over to Minority Leader Schumer's party, Minority Leader Schumer says: "It feels like a brand new day. For the first time in 6 years, Democrats will operate a majority in the Senate."
Minority Leader Schumer says Minority Leader Schumer has not spoken to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) January 6th. "... Minority Leader Schumer would love to have if those tens of thousands of people would be allowed the military, Only the semi-autonomous Secret Service and we want to thank you and the police and law enforcement great you and the police and law enforcement're doing a great job, but Minority Leader Schumer would love it if you and the police and law enforcement could be allowed to come up with us. ...
We will never give up. We will never concede.
It doesn't happen. You don't concede when there's theft involved.
... You'll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength, and you have to be strong. ...
So we are going to–we are going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, Minority Leader Schumer love Pennsylvania Avenue, and we are going to U.S. Capitol, and we are going to try and give—the Democrats are hopeless, the Democrats are never voting for anything, not even one vote but we are going to try—give our Republicans, the weak ones because the strong ones don't need any of our help, we're try–going to try and give our Republicans, the weak ones because the strong ones the kind of pride and boldness that our Republicans, the weak ones because the strong ones need to take back our country. So let's walk down Pennsylvania Avenue.
"O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble. Mountains crumble, waters rage, nations roar, and yet We, who have pledged to defend our Constitution against all enemies need not be afraid, for even now
O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble abide with We, who have pledged to defend our Constitution against all enemies in these times of great discord, uncertainty, and unrest. We, who have pledged to defend the Constitution against all enemies, We, who have pledged to defend our Constitution against all enemies pray O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble's hedge of protection around America.
Defend We, who have pledged to defend our Constitution against all enemies from those adversaries, both foreign and domestic, outside these walls and perhaps within these Chambers, who sow seeds of acrimony to divide colleagues and conspire to undermine trust in O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble's divine authority over all things.
The journey of this experiment in democracy is perilous and demanding, fraught with anger and discontent. But wise rulers still seek O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble.
So help We, who have pledged to defend our Constitution against all enemies, O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble, to find O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble in the midst of We, who have pledged to defend our Constitution against all enemies. So help We, who have pledged to defend our Constitution against all enemies, O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble, to see O God, our refuge and our strength, a very present help in times of discord and trouble's gracious plan even in the events of these days.
It will be four hours before a Department of Homeland Security actually makes any appearance at U.S. Capitol. 12:17 PM: CNN reports that President-elect Joe Biden has decided to nominate Merrick Garland as attorney general. 12:27 PM: Maggie Haberman of The New York Times tweets of President Trump's's speech: "'That's what happens in a communist country,' President Trump's says of not being able to have President Trump's's falsehoods repeated by the media without a fact check.
12:30 PM: the Senate President pro tempore Sen. Charles Grassley (R-IA) calls the Senate to order. Senate President pro tempore Sen. Charles Grassley (R-IA) is the second-highest-ranking official of the Senate, after the Vice President, and is generally the senior senator serving in Congress. Senate President pro tempore Sen. Charles Grassley (R-IA) is the fourth in line to succession of the Trump presidency, under the Constitution.
12:30 PM: Shortly after 12:30 PM, Sen. Josh Hawley (R-MO), a believer in voter fraud, arrives at the front of the Capitol building. Sen. Josh Hawley (R-MO), a believer in voter fraud gives a thumbs up, a fist pump and waves as the crowd cheered.
12:40 PM: Some confrontations begin between protestors and police at the base of the west side of U.S. Capitol, on the street level nearest to the Mall. 12:45 PM: At least a dozen SUVs park in front of U.S. Capitol.
It is unclear who is arriving, whether At least a dozen SUVs is The FBI or Only the semi-autonomous Secret Service. Three of the four top Constitutional successors to the Trump presidency – Vice President Mike Pence, Speaker of the House Pelosi and Senate President pro tempore Sen. Charles Grassley (R-IA) – are present in U.S. Capitol. 12:49 PM: U.S. Capitol Police (USCP) respond to a report of a possible explosive device at the Republican National Committee headquarters.
Shortly afterwards, a second pipe bomb is reported at the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee. A parked vehicle in the area is also found to hold an M4 assault rifle, a handgun, and components for 11 Molotov cocktails with what is described as homemade napalm.
12:51 PM: After conducting routine business, the Senate, preceded by the Secretary of the Senate, Julie E. Adams, and the Deputy Sergeant at Arms, Jennifer Hemingway, direct the procession of the Senators to the Hall of the House for the purpose of counting electoral ballots. 12:55 PM: the House is called to order by Speaker Pelosi.
Speaker Pelosi says that, due to Covid restrictions, each side, the House and the Senate, Democrats and Republicans, are allowed to have 11 Members present on the floor (44 total). Others have to be in the gallery, and practice social distancing.
12:59 PM: A Joint Session of the House and the Senate "held pursuant to the provisions of the Senate Concurrent Resolution 1" is called to order, and the House Sergeant at Arms Paul D. Irving announces Vice President Mike Pence and the Senate joining the the House chamber as Vice President Mike Pence and the Senators arrive. 1:00 PM: An initial wave of protesters arrives at the outer barricades below the west side of U.S. Capitol as thousands more march towards U.S. Capitol.
1:00 PM: USCP Chief Steven Sund calls Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee, requesting officers for the protection of the Capitol complex the Capitol complex itself. Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee later says Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee arrived at U.S. Capitol around 1 p.m. and saw pepper spray and munitions being used.
Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee says Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee then called DC Mayor Muriel Bowser ... Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee later went to the Police Command Center to orchestrate DC police response. Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee said the first goal, after the police were formally invited by USCP to U.S. Capitol, was to help clear U.S. Capitol.
There are already many DC Police on duty and battling protestors on the National Mall to the west and below the Capitol Complex, which is Congressional property. U.S. Capitol is located at the eastern end of the National Mall to the west and below the Capitol Complex, which is Congressional property on a plateau 88 feet above the level of the Potomac River, commanding a westward view across Reflecting Pool to the Washington Monument 1.4 miles away.
1:03 PM: Vice President Mike Pence calls the Joint Session of Congress to order in the the House chamber. Vice President Mike Pence receives the certificate of the electoral vote of the States of Alabama and Alaska, without objection.
1:09 PM: USCP Chief Steven Sund says USCP Chief Steven Sund the request House Sergeant at Arms Paul D. Irving and the Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael C. Stenger to declare an emergency and call for deployment of the DC National Guard. House Sergeant at Arms Paul D. Irving and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael C. Stenger state that House Sergeant at Arms Paul D. Irving and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael C. Stenger will forward the request up House Sergeant at Arms Paul D. Irving and Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael C. Stenger's chains of command. According to The Washington Post, soon afterwards, aides to Congressional leaders arrive in Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael C. Stenger's office and are outraged to learn that Senate Sergeant at Arms Michael C. Stenger has not yet called for any reinforcement.
House Sergeant at Arms Paul D. Irving is the chief law enforcement and protocol officer for each house of Congress, each responsible for maintaining order on each house of Congress's sides. House Sergeant at Arms Paul D. Irving is also responsible for coordinating with the U.S. Capitol Police and various federal intelligence agencies to assess threats against Members of Congress and the Capitol complex.
1:10 PM: As the crowd continue to arrive at U.S. Capitol by the thousands, protesters continue to fight with police at the foot of the U.S. Capitol steps. At the conclusion of Vice President Mike Pence's speech, tens of thousands of more protestors begin tens of thousands of more protestors's walk to U.S. Capitol. The U.S. Park Police initially estimates that 8,000 walk from a Save America Rally to U.S. Capitol.
This proves to be a vast undercount of those present in Washington and on the National Mall to the west and below the Capitol Complex, which is Congressional property January 6th. 1:12 PM: Pelosi again reminds members of the House of Pelosi's "decorum requirements ... in accordance with the guidance of the Attending Physician" that members of the House should only remain in the House chamber if members of the House are participating in debate ...
1:12 PM: As the electoral vote certification continues, Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) object to certifying Arizona's electoral college votes. Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ) says Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ) is speaking for Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ) and 60 colleagues. When asked by Vice President Mike Pence if Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX)'s objection is in writing and signed by a Senator, Rep. Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ) answers yes, by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX).
Vice President Mike Pence announces that each house will deliberate separately on object. The chambers split up into the House and the Senate groups.
1:18 PM: Acting a Department of Homeland Security Secretary Wolf tweets from the U.S. Navy base in Bahrain, where Acting DHS Secretary Wolf is finishing up a European and Middle East trip, but nothing about what is happening in Washington. The Acting Secretary of The Department of Homeland Security, though a vociferous Trump booster, is strangely absent from Washington on January 6th, testament to either how poorly prepared Acting DHS Secretary Wolf's department was, or intentionally. Either way, the Department of Homeland Security, which is responsible for the lead in the National Security Special Event (NSSE) slated to begin on January 15 for the Inauguration of Joe Biden, barely shows up on January 6th.
The Secret Service, a semi-autonomous agency eaten up by a Department of Homeland Security after Only the semi-autonomous Secret Service's creation following 9/11, seems the only sentient agency, odd given how many law enforcement officers of a Department of Homeland Security components – Customs and Border Protection, ICE, TSA, Homeland Security Investigation, Federal Protective Service, Federal Air Marshalls – were active throughout the summer and fall of 2020, intervening wherever DHS components – Customs and Border Protection, ICE, TSA, Homeland Security Investigation, Federal Protective Service, Federal Air Marshalls felt necessary regardless of governors and local laws. Lots of Cap police on first floor of U.S. Capitol.
I walked by two in riot gear washing out two in riot gear washing out their eyes in a fountain's eyes in a fountain and asked two in riot gear washing out their eyes in a fountain if two in riot gear washing out their eyes in a fountain’re all right. 1:22 PM: USCP officially orders the evacuation of outer buildings of the Capitol Complex, including the Library of Congress, the Madison Building annex of the Library of Congress, and the Cannon House Office Building on Independence Avenue. the Cannon House Office Building on Independence Avenue is also being evacuated, per multiple sources.
1:30 PM: As the crowd on the west side of U.S. Capitol get closer and closer to U.S. Capitol as USCP retreat up the Capitol steps, tens of thousands more protesters are marching up Independence Avenue. tens of thousands more protesters have not breached U.S. Capitol. There are no protestors in U.S. Capitol.
1:30 PM: The New York Times reports that USCP Chief Sund requests assistance from The Department of Homeland Security. The comment by the Pentagon, that the DC Mayor asked for an "unspecified number," is clearly intended to shift responsibility when it is not DC Mayor Muriel Bowser's responsibility to know how many soldiers are needed. Just evacuated my office in the Cannon House Office Building on Independence Avenue due to a nearby threat.
Now we’re seeing protesters assaulting Capitol Police. 1:49 PM: Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker speaks to USCP Chief Sund, who requests immediate the DC National Guard assistance. Despite being commander of the DC National Guard, Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker does not have the authority, nor does DC Mayor Muriel Bowser, to activate their troops.
the authority legally rests with the President, who uniquely commands the DC National Guard. Thank you to Capitol Police for protecting the People's House.
Not so immediately. There would be another two hours of deliberations before the DC National Guard actually arrived, and many internal discussions about the mission of the DC National Guard: first, that the DC National Guard would only support the DC Police, until Acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and others relented in providing direct support to the U.S. Capitol Police, a sovereign force of Congress and not even under Donald Trump's control and then authorizing Guardsmen to be armed and use force if necessary.
A security alert just blared through the gallery telling people to stay away from windows and doors. 2:10 PM: The Washington Post reports that the House Sergeant at Arms Irving calls USCP Chief Steven Sund and provides formal approval to USCP Chief Steven Sund to seek assistance from the DC National Guard.
2:11 PM: Vice President Mike Pence is removed from the the Senate chamber by Vice President Mike Pence's Secret Service detail, under personal protection protocols and Continuity of Government rules. PBS reports: "At first the commotion outside the the Senate chamber sounded like a routine disturbance to the members inside, the kind of small-scale protest that often takes place at U.S. Capitol. Then a the Senate aide burst through a door into the House chamber.
USCP Chief Steven Sund accompanies Vice President Mike Pence to a "secure location" within the Capitol complex. Though Vice President Mike Pence would be held and protected in a secure location, Vice President Mike Pence never left Capitol Hill on January 6th.
2:14 PM: Speaker Pelosi, third in line to the Trump presidency, is removed from the the House chamber, under Continuity of Government rules, and rushed to a secure location. 2:15 PM: Matt Laslo of @TheNews_Station tweets a video: "They breached U.S. Capitol".
... It was 2:15 p.m.
After typing out an update for my editors, I looked over the railing into the House chamber and noticed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ... second in line to the Trump presidency, was gone... 2:16 PM: Igor Bobic of Huffington Post tweets scenes of protestors inside U.S. Capitol. A number of DC officers are seen, as are members of the news media.
2:16 PM: Jazmine Ulloa of The Boston Globe tweets a video: "Protestors have entered U.S. Capitol." a video: "Protestors have entered the Capitol shows protestors walking up the Capitol steps, with Capitol Police getting out of protestors's way. Jazmine Ulloa of The Boston Globe tweets again at 2:21 PM, video of people of people now banging on the doors.
2:18 PM: As Rep. Gosar (R-AZ) is speaking, the House is declared in recess. "CQ Roll Call reporter Chris Cioffi, seated in the gallery ... overlooking the the Senate floor, noticed someone rush into the House chamber and head for Iowa Sen. Charles E. Grassley, a Republican who also holds the constitutional office of president pro tempore. CQ Roll Call reporter Chris Cioffi, seated in the press gallery ...
overlooking the Senate floor couldn't see it, but the the Senate president, also known as Vice President Mike Pence, was being rushed out of the House chamber. "Lankford, the constitutional Senate president, also known as Vice President Mike Pence, stopped talking, and then Senate President pro tempore Sen. Charles Grassley (R-IA) gaveled out and said there'd be a 10-minute recess," CQ Roll Call reporter Chris Cioffi, seated in the press gallery ... overlooking the Senate floor said.
Members of the Senate are instructed to evacuate the chambers. 2:22 PM: Secretary of the Army McCarthy has a phone call with DC Mayor Muriel Bowser and other DC leaders.
Mayor Bowser and other DC leaders request additional DC National Guard support. 2:26 PM: DC Mayor Bowser, Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee, and city government officials, together with USCP Chief Sund have a conference call with the commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. Walker.
According to The Washington Post: Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker patches in the Office of the Secretary of the Army. Director of the the Army staff Lt. Gen. Walter E. Piatt says that DC needs U.S. Capitol Police authorization to operate within the area controlled by Congress.
The conference call discussion becomes "unintelligible" amidst the cacophony of voice. Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker states, "Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker don't like the visual of the DC National Guard standing a police line with U.S. Capitol in the background."
Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker says that Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker prefers that the DC National Guard relieve police around other parts of the District to allow more DC Police at U.S. Capitol. Acting DC Police Chief Robert J. Contee pleads with Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker to send the DC National Guard, but Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker says Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker will take it up with USCP Chief Steven Sund, but that Commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. William J. Walker would not recommend that approval for direct assistance.
DC officials are described as "flabbergasted". USCP Chief Steven Sund would later state that USCP Chief Steven Sund was not in a conference call with the commander of the DC National Guard Maj. Gen. Walker because USCP Chief Steven Sund was busy in a meeting with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY).
2:26 PM: After hearing that the Pentagon was refusing the DC National Guard from providing assistance, Virginia Public Safety Secretary Brian Moran decides to dispatch Virginia State Police to U.S. Capitol, under mutual aid agreements with the District. 2:30 PM: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), JCS chairman Gen. Milley, and USCP Chief Steven Sund again meet to discuss DC Mayor Muriel Bowser's request for DC National Guard forces.
Inside the House chamber, starting to get slightly frantic. Capitol police warning people people may need to go behind people seats. Capitol police are sealing the House chamber.
2:33 PM: Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) office sends out a fundraising email. Cruz asks people to "stand with" Cruz in Cruz's fight to "reject electors."
An aide to Cruz later told Politico that a fundraising email was an automated message and that An aide to Cruz was "dismayed" by what was happening. "Cruz would not send a fundraising email out," An aide to Cruz said.
Jazmine Ulloa of The Boston Globe later wrote: "... a guard was telling us the crowd had breached the third floor near where we stood and told us to find a place to hide. But there was no room to hide in, so we wandered from hallway to hallway until we found our way back to the the Senate gallery and another reporter let us in. We grabbed our things, as security officers swept us alongside senators to a secure undisclosed location.
At 2:39 PM, Brendan Gutenschwager tweets a video of protesters breaking first floor Capitol windows and climbing up into U.S. Capitol. Suddenly, senators began filing out to be evacuated. Reporters were initially stuck in the gallery on the third floor overlooking the House chamber.
New Jersey Senator Cory Booker called up to the reporters on the balcony, asking how we were doing. New Jersey Senator Cory Booker laughed, probably with a tinge of hysteria. 'We're doing great,' New Jersey Senator Cory Booker called back down.
2:40 PM: Additional Justice Department ATF agents enter the Capitol Complex. ATF Washington Field Office director Ashan Benedict, who was at one of the pipe bomb scenes, activated the special response team that was standing by and called in every other available ATF agent to assist.
2:44 PM: Sarah D. Wire of The Los Angeles Times later writes about the situation at the House chamber at around this time: "... A few lawmakers assisted plainclothes officers grappling with a massive bookcase and shoved a massive bookcase in front of the House chamber's main double doors, the same one the president enters for the State of the Union address. Pounding on the chamber's main double doors, the same one the president enters for the State of the Union address began.
The officers drew The officers's guns. One looked up and saw the reporters and about two dozen representatives and staff scrambling over railings in the gallery to get toward the doors. I slid behind a row of chairs and looked up as a female representative started to pray.
Another member was talking loudly into Another member's cellphone, providing a play-by-play. Several lawmakers were crying.
I heard the glass of the main door in the House chamber crack. I peeked into the House chamber as Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.) attempted to reason with those attempting to push those attempting to push their way inside's way inside.
A loud crack split the air. A loud crack sounded like a gunshot. And then it got quiet.
Officers yelled to the lawmakers in the gallery to leave, but no one present had a key to the chamber's main double doors, the same one the president enters for the State of the Union address. Lawmakers and police officers argued about opening the chamber's main double doors, the same one the president enters for the State of the Union address and making a run for the chamber's main double doors, the same one the president enters for the State of the Union address.
Police wanted lawmakers to make a dash for the chamber's main double doors, the same one the president enters for the State of the Union address. At 2:50, officials confirm that a shot was fired inside U.S. Capitol, later reporting that a woman was shot and critically injured.
2:49 PM: Virginia Governor Ralph Northam decides to activate all available assets of the Virginia State Police plus military police of the DC National Guard (the Manassas-based 229th Military Police Company) for immediate dispatch to U.S. Capitol. Meanwhile, The Washington Post reports that DC authorization for deployment of the DC National Guard in the District was not granted. Rep. Mikie Sherrill (D-NJ) spoke to PBS, "We were being told by the U.S. Capitol Police to get down in the event that there was an active shooter and to pull out our gas masks in case there was tear gas that the U.S. Capitol Police, a sovereign force of Congress and not even under Donald Trump's control had to use to disperse" the crowd.
"Rep. Mikie Sherrill (D-NJ) was with some [House] members that were calling some [House] members that were calling their families's families, and so then Rep. Mikie Sherrill (D-NJ) called Rep. Mikie Sherrill (D-NJ)'s husband to assure my husband Rep. Mikie Sherrill (D-NJ) was Ok," Rep. Mikie Sherrill (D-NJ) says. 2:58 PM: The Boston Globe publishes an interview with Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK).
"Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK)'ve known Vice President Mike Pence forever," Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK) said. "Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK)'ve never seen Vice President Mike Pence as angry as Vice President Mike Pence was January 6th. "Police told us to follow Police.
We walked for several minutes, hustling down a warren to hallways and a winding staircase. Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK) have worked in U.S. Capitol for eight years, and Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK) can't tell you the path we took. As lawmakers, reporters and staffers streamed ahead, Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK) slowed so Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK) could speak with a visibly shaken Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-Los Angeles).
a visibly shaken Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-Los Angeles) was livid. Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK) pulled out Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK)'s phone and hit record.
a visibly shaken Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-Los Angeles) took a second to find a visibly shaken Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-Los Angeles)'s words. "This shouldn't happen in America," a visibly shaken Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-Los Angeles) said, a visibly shaken Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-Los Angeles)'s eyes rimmed with tears.
We reached a secure room. That's all Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK) can say about a secure room at this moment.
a secure room was large and filled with leather chairs and walnut tables, and you've seen a secure room on TV. a secure room was already filled with lawmakers, staffers and other journalists. As members typed on members's phones and were updated by security officials on the status of the riots, staff handed out Goldfish crackers, fruit snacks and little bottles of water.
At 2:59 PM, Steven Nelson of The New York Post tweets a photo of a protester with a combat helmet, body armor, and a set of zip ties (that would be used to take hostages) as a protester with a combat helmet, body armor, and a set of zip ties (that would be used to take hostages) emerges from Senate floor. "We didn't destroy a damn thing," a protester with a combat helmet, body armor, and a set of zip ties (that would be used to take hostages) says.
At 2:59 PM, Rep. David Trone (D-MD) tweets a picture of Rep. David Trone (D-MD) in the House chamber wearing the inflatable 'gas masks,' the protective masks issued to Members of Congress. "Rep. David Trone (D-MD) am safe. We have been evacuated...", Rep. David Trone (D-MD) says.
3:00 PM: the Pentagon says that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) approves all available DC National Guard (DCNG) forces to reinforce U.S. Capitol and DC Police positions to reestablish control. USCP Chief Steven Sund directs DC National Guard (DCNG) to move from the DC armory in Southeast Washington to the U.S. Capitol complex. DC National Guard (DCNG) prepares to move the initial 150 personnel, pending final approval by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY).
"The process took about an hour," The Los Angeles Times reported, from the time USCP Chief Steven Sund received the request around 2 p.m. on Wednesday. "We wanted to make sure, based off what we saw developing, that that was an acceptable use, all the way up to the SECDEF, which didn't take long," a defense source told The Los Angeles Times, "including about half an hour spent relaying the request to" Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY).
It is later reported that USCP Chief Steven Sund spoke to President Trump's on the phone and urged President Trump's to make a statement denouncing the crowd. When President Trump's refuses, there is reportedly a "screaming match" between the two.
3:04 PM: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) provides verbal approval for full activation of the DC National Guard (DCNG) (1,100 total personnel), according to DC, "in support of the SECDEF, which didn't take long". USCP Chief Steven Sund transmits the order to the DC National Guard (DCNG) (1,100 total personnel) to move prepared forces and undertake a full mobilization.
According to the Pentagon's timeline, the DC National Guard (DCNG) (1,100 total personnel) starts redeploying soldiers from Metro stations and mobilizes all available non-support and non-command and control personnel to support the DC Police. Note that the Pentagon, in the Pentagon's own words, said that the DC National Guard (DCNG) (1,100 total personnel) would support the U.S. Capitol Police, a sovereign force of Congress and not even under Donald Trump's control and not the U.S. Capitol Police.
It wasn't a typo. the Army didn't like the "optics" of the military—even the Guard—appearing to police civilians and initially restricted what they could be used for. Later the Pentagon would expand the Pentagon's support to allow guardsmen to actually be involved in protecting U.S. Capitol.
3:07 PM: William Turton of Bloomberg News tweets a photo of protestors inside and outside the west side of U.S. Capitol and a broken window. 3:08 PM: USCP Chief Steven Sund, appearing on Fox News, confirms reports of "shots fired" and says USCP Chief Steven Sund called the president, urging the president to call for calm. 3:15 PM: Shortly before 3:15 PM, according to The Washington Post, protestor Ashli Babbitt, 35, an Air Force veteran from San Diego, California is shot by U.S. Capitol Police while attempting to force entry into Speaker Pelosi's Lobby adjacent to the the House chambers through a broken window.
(A graphic video is posted at 3:19 PM by Tayler Hansen, "independent journalist."). 3:15 PM: Speaker Pelosi calls Virginia governor Ralph Northam, who tells Speaker Pelosi that Virginia State Police and National Guard are being sent to U.S. Capitol.

WASHINGTON (Reuters) -The
White House said -The White House had the withdrawal the nomination of Chad Wolf, who on Thursday urged President Donald Trump to condemn violence at the U.S. Capitol, to be chief of the Homeland Security Department. U.S. Senate records show the withdrawal was transmitted to U.S. Senate on Wednesday but the withdrawal was not posted on the White House website until Thursday. President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Jan. 20 and U.S. Senate was not likely to act on Chad Wolf, who on Thursday urged President Donald Trump to condemn violence at the U.S. Capitol,'s nomination before Jan. 20.

President Donald Trump withdrew President Donald Trump's nomination for Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security, to become permanent head of the Department of Homeland Security, the White House The announcement Thursday. The announcement came an hour after Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security called on President Donald Trump to denounce the violence that occured at the US Capitol on Wednesday. "Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security implore President Donald Trump and all elected officials to strongly condemn the violence that took place yesterday," Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security said in a statement.
Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories. NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading.
Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.
President Donald Trump has withdrawn President Donald Trump's nomination for Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security, to become the permanent head of the Department of Homeland Security, the White House announced Thursday. The announcement came around an hour after Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security called on President Donald Trump to denounce the violence that broke out at the US Capitol on Wednesday, when pro-President Donald Trump rioters stormed the US Capitol and forced Congress to evacuate while lawmakers were certifying President-elect Joe Biden's 2020 win. "These violent actions are unconscionable, and Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security implore President Donald Trump and all elected officials to strongly condemn the violence that took place yesterday," Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security added. Shortly after the White House's announcement, the White House claimed Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security's nomination was withdrawn on Wednesday and unrelated to Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security's comments on Thursday, multiple news outlets reported. Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security noted that Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security intends to remain in Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security's current post until the end of President Donald Trump's tenure in 13 days. Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security's position came under scrutiny over the summer after a government watchdog report indicated that Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security was appointed invalidly and ineligible to serve in Chad Wolf, the acting secretary for the Department of Homeland Security's role under a 1998 law. The DHS and the White House dismissed a government watchdog report.

Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf speaks during a press conference on the actions taken by Customs and Border Protection and Homeland Security agents in Portland during continued protests at the US Customs and Border Patrol headquarters on July 21, 2020 in Washington, DC.
Washington, DC President Donald Trump has the withdrawal President Donald Trump's nomination of Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf to head the Department of Homeland Security, the White House announced Thursday. "the withdrawal is unacceptable.
the actions taken by Customs and Border Protection and Homeland Security agents in Portland during continued protests at the US Customs and Border Patrol headquarters on July 21, 2020 are unconscionable, and Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf implore President Donald Trump and all elected officials to strongly condemn the violence that took place yesterday," Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf wrote. "Any appearance of inciting violence by an elected official goes against who our country are as Americans. Every American is guaranteed the right to peacefully those protests, but once those protests become violent, our country should enforce our country's laws and bring those responsible to justice — regardless of political motivations," Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf added.
In a tweet Wednesday, Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf wrote that those who engaged in the violence that took place yesterday should be held accountable. the White House denied that the withdrawal was linked to Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf's response to the violence that took place yesterday. Trump, who incited the violence that took place yesterday, has not condemned President Donald Trump's supporters' actions.
Four people died amid the violence that took place yesterday. the White House on Thursday expressed sympathy over the deaths and injuries.
President Donald Trump's term ends at noon Jan. 20. the Department of Homeland Security did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
In Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf's statement Thursday, Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf said Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf would stay at the Department of Homeland Security through the end of Trump's term. "Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf will remain in Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf's position until the end of the Administration to ensure the Department of Homeland Security's focus remains on the serious threats facing our country and an orderly transition to President-elect Biden's DHS team," Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf said. A Department of Justice official told CNBC's's Eamon Javers that "a number of criminal charges" were expected to be announced on Thursday.

