Editor’s Note: Find Thursday’s Maui wildfires story here and live coverage here. At least six people have the death toll in the wildfires that are ravaging parts of Maui, torching entire communities to the ground and leaving behind apocalyptic scenes of ash and debris. Richard Bissen Jr., Maui's mayor, announced the death toll in a Wednesday news conference, but did not offer further details about the death toll and said authorities are still conducting search and rescue operations. So far, more than a dozen people had to be rescued from the ocean, among more than a dozen people two young children, Maui County officials said. Several people are also unaccounted for, Richard Bissen Jr., the island’s mayor, added. And many community members have been gripped with anxiety for many community members's loved ones’ safety after flames began swallowing neighborhoods. “Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost his home to the fire have not slept in over 24 hours. Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost his home to the fire spent all night, all through the morning scrolling through Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost his home to the fire's phone looking for family members,” Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost his home to the fire's home to the fire, told Thursday’s's Erin Burnett Wednesday. In the early Wednesday morning hours, Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost his home to the fire and Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost his home to the fire's grandfather awoke to howling winds and quickly saw the fire approaching Kaleiopu and his grandfather's home. Kaleiopu and his grandfather fled shortly after 4 a.m. When Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost his home to the fire's father went to his home an hour later to check that Kaleiopu and his grandfather had safely evacuated, there was nothing left. “Kaleiopu and his grandfather's entire street was burned to the ground,” Dustin Kaleiopu, who lost his home to the fire said. The fires on Maui started spreading widely Tuesday – fueled in part by violent winds from Hurricane Dora, churning more than 800 miles away – decimating homes and businesses, launching urgent rescue missions, knocking out power and communication services, and even forcing some people into the ocean to avoid being burned. On Wednesday afternoon, officials on Maui urged visitors to leave Lahaina and Maui “as soon as possible,” reporting a mass bus evacuation was ongoing and there were available flight seats. “As a result of three fires that have occurred that are continuing here on our island we have had 13 evacuations from different neighborhoods and towns, we’ve had 16 road closures, we’ve opened five shelters,” Richard Bissen Jr., the island’s mayor, said, noting more than 2,000 people were staying at shelters. Scores of structures on Maui have been burned to the ground, Richard Bissen Jr., the island’s mayor, said. Most of Scores of structures on Maui were in the historic town of Lahaina, a touristic and economic hub on the west side of Maui. the historic town of Lahaina, a touristic and economic hub on the west side of the island’s where Claire Kent’s home was too. Claire Kent’s was at a friend’s home and never got to pick up anything from Claire Kent’s's house before Kent and her friends evacuated. “Kent and her friends didn’t even realize Kent and her friends weren’t going to get to go back,” Claire Kent’s said. But within an hour, the fire had consumed the historic town of Lahaina, a touristic and economic hub on the west side of the island, and had swallowed cars on the road Claire Kent’s and Claire Kent’s's friends were using to evacuate. Richard Bissen Jr., the island’s mayor, said helicopters were using water drops over Maui Wednesday to help suppress the flames. the wildfires that are ravaging parts of Maui, torching entire communities to the ground and leaving behind apocalyptic scenes of ash and debris are still not contained. Meanwhile, crews on Hawaii’s Big Island were also working Wednesday to contain multiple brushfires there, including a blaze that was threatening structures in one community and was 60% contained, according to fire officials. Hawaii’s's governor, who was on a personal trip this week, said Hawaii’s governor, who was on a personal trip this week was rushing back to the state Wednesday. Search and rescue efforts in Maui Wednesday were made even more complicated after the wildfires that are ravaging parts of Maui, torching entire communities to the ground and leaving behind apocalyptic scenes of ash and debris cut off power and disrupted 911 and other communication services in parts of Maui, Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke told Thursday’s. Satellite phones have been the only reliable way to get in touch with some areas, including hotels, the lieutenant governor said. Maui is home to about 117,000 people. Thousands of animals were also displaced by the wildfires that are ravaging parts of Maui, torching entire communities to the ground and leaving behind apocalyptic scenes of ash and debris, the Maui Humane Society said in a Facebook post, pleading with residents who can to foster pets to make space for more animals, including some who may be injured. The disaster also has wiped out power to more than 12,000 homes and businesses in Maui, according to PowerOutage.us. Video footage shot by Air Maui Helicopter Tours over parts of the Lahaina area shows entire blocks were decimated by the wildfires that are ravaging parts of Maui, torching entire communities to the ground and leaving behind apocalyptic scenes of ash and debris, with little but ruins and ashes left, and everything still engulfed in a thick, hazy smoke. “In Olsten's 52 years of flying on Maui, Olsten’ve never seen anything like that in Olsten's life,” Olsten added. Tourists are being discouraged from going to Maui, Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke told reporters Wednesday. Hurricane Dora, churning more than 800 miles away, was about 860 miles southwest of Honolulu Wednesday, the National Hurricane Center said. No coastal watches or warnings were in effect. The state likely experienced Hurricane Dora, churning more than 800 miles away's most intense winds Tuesday, seeing wind gusts reaching up to 80 mph, said meteorologist Ian Morrison with the National Weather Service office in Honolulu. But those effects are quickly dwindling. Wind speeds lowered Wednesday and are expected to further decrease Thursday’s and Friday, according to meteorologist Ian Morrison with the National Weather Service office in Honolulu. “Dropping winds doesn’t mean the wildfires that are ravaging parts of Maui, torching entire communities to the ground and leaving behind apocalyptic scenes of ash and debris will go away,” meteorologist Ian Morrison with the National Weather Service office in Honolulu warned, but added the drop will likely help firefighters working to contain the wildfires that are ravaging parts of Maui, torching entire communities to the ground and leaving behind apocalyptic scenes of ash and debris. Little rain is expected on Maui and Maui this week, and Little rain will be limited to the eastern side of Maui, Ward said.
KAHULUI, Hawaii (AP) — A wildfire tore through the heart of the Hawaiian island of Maui in darkness Wednesday, reducing much of a historic town to ash and forcing people to jump into the ocean to flee the flames. At least six people died, dozens were wounded and 271 structures were damaged or destroyed. the flames continued to burn Wednesday afternoon, fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora as Hurricane Dora passed well south of the Hawaiian island of Maui. Officials feared the death toll could rise. As winds diminished somewhat, some aircraft resumed flights, enabling pilots to view the full scope of the devastation. Flyovers of a historic town by U.S. Civil Air Patrol and the Maui Fire Department showed the extent of the loss, said Mahina Martin, a spokesperson for Maui County. Aerial video showed dozens of homes and businesses in a historic town flattened, including on Front Street, a favorite spot for tourists to shop and dine. Smoking heaps of rubble lay piled high next to the waterfront, boats in the harbor were scorched, and gray smoke hovered over the leafless skeletons of charred trees. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said the flames “wiped out communities,” and urged travelers to stay away. “This is not a safe place to be,” Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said. the Hawaiian island of Maui officials urged visitors to leave a historic town, and the Hawaiian island of Maui was organizing a “mass bus evacuation” Wednesday afternoon to take people directly to the airport, according to an update from Maui County. West Maui remained without cell or landline phone service or electricity, Maui County said. The exact cause of A wildfire couldn’t be determined, but a number of factors, including high winds, low humidity and dry vegetation, likely contributed, said Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, adjutant general for Hawaii State Department of Defense. Experts also said climate change is increasing the likelihood of more extreme weather. A wildfire swept into the area with alarming speed and ferocity, blazing through intersections and leaping across wooden buildings in the a historic town town center, which dates to the 1700s and is on the National Register of Historic Places. “A wildfire was apocalyptic from what they explained,” Tiare Lawrence said of 14 cousins and uncles who fled a historic town and took refuge at Tiare Lawrence's home in Pukalani, east of a historic town. Crews were battling three fires in the Hawaiian island of Maui: in a historic town, south Maui’s Kihei area and the mountainous, inland communities known as Upcountry, said Mahina Martin, spokesperson for Maui County. In the Upcountry community of Kula, at least two homes were destroyed Wednesday in a fire that engulfed about 1.7 square miles (4.5 square kilometers), Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. There have been no reports of injuries or homes lost to three wildfires burning on Hawaii's Big Island, Mayor Mitch Roth said Wednesday. Firefighters did extinguish a few roof fires. The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of Hawaii at a safe distance of 500 miles (805 kilometers), was partly to blame for gusts above 60 mph (97 kph) that knocked out power, rattled homes and grounded firefighting helicopters on the Hawaiian island of Maui. The Coast Guard on Wednesday rescued 14 people, including two children, who had fled into the ocean to escape the fire and smoky conditions, Maui County said in a statement. Fires killed six people on the Hawaiian island of Maui, but search and rescue operations continued and the death toll could rise, County of Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. Six patients were flown from the Hawaiian island of Maui to the island of Oahu on Wednesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company. Three of Six patients had critical burns and were taken to Straub Medical Center’s burn unit, Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company said. The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals. At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center, Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company said. Authorities said earlier Wednesday that a firefighter in the Hawaiian island of Maui was hospitalized in stable condition after inhaling smoke. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling, and activated the Hawaii National Guard to assist. President Joe Biden said in a statement Wednesday evening that President Joe Biden has ordered “all available Federal assets” to help Hawaii. President Joe Biden said the The Coast Guard and Navy are supporting response and rescue efforts, while the Marines are providing Black Hawk helicopters to fight the flames. There was no count available for the number of people who have evacuated, but officials said there were four shelters open housing 2,100 people. Kahului Airport, the main airport in the Hawaiian island of Maui, was sheltering 2,000 travelers whose flights were canceled or who recently arrived on the Hawaiian island of Maui, Maui County said. Officials were preparing the Hawaii Convention Center in Honolulu to take in up to 4,000 displaced tourists and locals. Former President Barack Obama, who was born in Hawaii, said on social media Wednesday evening that it’s tough to see some of the images coming out of a place that is so special to many. “Michelle and Former President Barack Obama, who was born in Hawaii are thinking of everyone who has lost a loved one, or whose life has been turned upside down,” Former President Barack Obama, who was born in Hawaii said. Kapu, the owner of the Na Aikane o Maui cultural center in a historic town, said Kapu, the owner of the Na Aikane o Maui cultural center in Lahaina and Kapu, the owner of the Na Aikane o Maui cultural center in Lahaina's wife didn’t have time to pack up anything before being forced to flee. “he and his wife had years and years of research material, artifacts,” Kapu, the owner of the Na Aikane o Maui cultural center in Lahaina said. Alan Dickar said Alan Dickar’s not sure what remains of Alan Dickar's Vintage European Posters gallery, which was a fixture on Front Street in a historic town for 23 years. Before evacuating with three friends and two cats, Alan Dickar recorded video of flames engulfing the main strip of shops and restaurants frequented by tourists. “Every significant thing Alan Dickar owned burned down Wednesday,” Alan Dickar said. This story was edited to correct that County of Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. is the mayor of Maui County, not a historic town. Sinco Kelleher reported from Honolulu and Weber from Los Angeles. Associated Press writer Beatrice Dupuy in New York contributed to This story.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - As strong winds fuel raging brush fires on Maui, the county has opened multiple emergency shelters as evacuations are in effect. Acting Governor Sylvia Luke has issued an emergency proclamation to extend the state of emergency to all counties. Acting Governor Sylvia Luke’s also discouraging non-essential air travel to Maui and wants to prioritize scarce resources for residents. State and county leaders will be holding a press conference Wednesday morning at 10 a.m. to provide an update on the wildfires and impacts of Hurricane Dora across Maui. the county officials sent out a clarification saying for emergencies, the public is urged to TEXT 911. Communications with West Maui are proving to be difficult and calling 911 is unavailable. Maui County officials’re also asking the public to not call the Lahaina Station as initially announced. Evacuations are still being conducted Wednesday morning as crews continue to battle fires in Upcountry Maui, South Maui and Kihei. At last check, at least 7,500 people were evacuated from Lahaina and shelters are approaching capacity but shelters’re still taking in people. Multiple sources say thousands of visitors are being evacuated from Maui to Oahu. Maui High School Residents who were at Kihei are being relocated to Maui High as a precautionary measure. At last check, there were at least 1,200 people in Kihei. Maui Preparatory in Napili-Honokowai People who were utilizing the Lahaina Civic Center have been evacuated and relocated to Maui Preparatory in Napili-Honokowai. A spokesperson for Maui Preparatory in Napili-Honokowai says that the shelter is not being evacuated but people have the option to leave through Kahakuloa. Meanwhile, Kihei residents are now allowed to return back home. Officials said pet owners utilizing shelters will need to have pets properly restrained. Approximately 1,800 people sheltered in place overnight at the Kahului Airport with many west side highways closed. HDOT worked with airlines/TSA to shelter passengers for safety’s sake as wildfires continue to burn in Lahaina and Upcountry Maui. DOT says anyone looking to leave Lahaina and make anyone looking to leave Lahaina and make their way to Kahului Airport's way to the Kahului Airport can use the back road out of the area. the back road out of the area remains open at this hour. the Kahului Airport remains open especially anyone hoping to leave Maui. “If you are in an area impacted by brush fires, it is recommended to prepare and get ready to evacuate if needed. Make preparations for your family and pets,” DOT said. As multiple fire crews battle raging brush fires on Maui, police are not letting through any vehicles into West Maui due to unsafe conditions. All roads in Lahaina are closed and is open only for emergency personnel. All roads in Lahaina Town includes all roads between Wahikuli wayside park on the north, to Kai Hele Ku Street to the south. The public is permitted to leave the west side of Maui via Kahakuloa — no one is allowed to enter (one-way traffic only). Kahekili Highway in Waihee to Lahaina bound traffic. Hononoapiilani Highway remains closed at Maalaea and in Kapalua. Haleakala Highway 377 between Kula Highway and L. Kimo Drive. Kealaloa Road from Hanamu Road to Haleakala Highway 377. Lahainaluna Road from Lahaina Bypass to Kuialua Street. Authorities are asking drivers to stay off of the roads completely and to stay indoors unless you are asked to evacuate by first responders. Ka’anapali Golf Estates area including Kaulapa Loop, Pu’u Anoano street, Hakui Loop, and Wekio Place. Evacuations were also issued in the vicinities of Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu and Lahaina Bypass. Wahikuli residents in West Maui were also evacuated Tuesday evening. According to a the county spokesperson, crews are working to put out fires in Upcountry, Olinda, Kula, Kihei, Wailuku and West Maui. Meanwhile, water buffalos filled with drinking water can be found at Kula Fire Station, Kula Community Center, Rice Park and Crater Road – Hydrant 373. The Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) regional administrator authorized the use of federal funds on Wednesday to assist Maui in combatting the Lahaina fire. This is a breaking news story, please check back for updates. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
Editors’ Note: Please bookmark this page. This breaking news story will be updated as soon as more information becomes available. UPDATE: 10 p.m. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s office said tonight that the confirmed death toll from the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday has risen to 36. Earlier today, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s office said six deaths had been confirmed. Officials fear the death toll and injuries will rise. In addition to the confirmed death toll from the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday, officials say at least 30 were wounded by the fires which forced some residents to jump into Lahaina Harbor to escape flames. the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday is also estimated to have destroyed or damaged at least 271 structures on Valley Isle. Maui County officials provided no additional information on the confirmed death toll from the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday. Also tonight, the Federal Emergency Management Agency approved Maui request for a disaster declaration to provide assistance with the wind-whipped wildfires burning in Kula, Kihei and LahainaThe decision under the Fire Management Assistance Grant program opens the door to allow for federal reimbursement of up to 75% of the eligible firefighting costs, state officials said. Meanwhile, about 11,000 Hawaii visitors have been flown from Maui as local leaders try to focus efforts on assisting Maui residents. That was one of the updates at a news conference at the Hawaii Convention Center this evening held by Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke, U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono and other local leaders involved in the response to the Maui and Hawaii fires. State Department of Transportation Director Ed Sniffen said that airlines have helped accommodate Maui travelers to get Maui travelers off Maui. Another 600 people are expected to spend tonight at the Kahului airport, State Department of Transportation Director Ed Sniffen said. While the Hawaii Convention Center has been set up to accommodate visitors who need help figuring out where to stay or how to get home, the Hawaii Convention Center’s been mostly empty as visitors have been able to find a place to stay on visitors's own. “The hotels that had occupancy this morning, most of The hotels that had occupancy this morning don’t have that occupancy. That tells us that people are going straight from the Kahului airport and finding people's accommodations and transportation,” James Tokioka, director of the Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, said at the news conference. State Department of Transportation Director Ed Sniffen noted that Hawaiian Airlines is operating until 2 a.m. Thursday and Southwest Airlines has dropped Southwest Airlines's fares to help in the effort. In the meantime, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said Maui is still in the “assessment stage,” so the extent of the damage is still not clear, but Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said that recovery will take a long time. Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said that Maui is applying for several types of federal aid to support affected residents and businesses as well as for rebuilding destroyed infrastructure. Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara of the Federal Emergency Management Agency didn’t have an updated figure for the number of fatalities from the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday, deferring to the counties to provide an updated figure for the number of fatalities from the fires and similar numbers, but said Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s plans on updating figures Thursday morning. Regarding the cause of the fire, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s mentioned that the high winds across Maui, in part caused by Hurricane Dora passing to the south, took Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s by surprise. “That wind speed, how rapidly the fire moved, That wind speed, how rapidly that fire moved was not anticipated,” Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s said. Maui County officials said three emergency shelters remain open: Mayor Hannibal Tavares Community Center, Maui High School Gym and War Memorial Gym. Shelters at Maui Preparatory Academy and Kihei Community Center are closed, Maui County officials said. 6 p.m. Kaiser Permanente reported Kaiser Permanente's Lahaina clinic has been destroyed by the fire. Members are being directed to Kaiser Permanente's Maui Lani location. 4:40 p.m. “A mass bus evacuation for visitors will be staged at Sheraton Maui Resort in Ka’anapali this afternoon and take visitors directly to Kahului Airport,” the county update said. “Five County of Maui buses, each with a capacity of 49 people, and five Polynesian Adventure Tours buses, each with a capacity of 50, will provide the transportation, with the first wave of buses expected to arrive at Sheraton Maui Resort in Ka’anapali at about 4 p.m. 4:30 p.m. All Hawaii public schools on Maui, except Hana High & Elementary, will be closed to students and staff through Friday because of the wildfires and evacuations on Maui. The Department of Education’s Maui District Office and Pu‘unene School offices are also closed. The Department of Education’s officials said DOE officials awaiting clearance to access Lahaina to conduct preliminary damage assessments of public school campuses. Unofficial aerial photos show the King Kamehameha III Elementary campus — on Front Street in Lahaina — sustained extensive fire and structural damage, DOE officials said. The four Lahaina schools enrolled nearly 3,000 students based on last school year’s enrollment counts and employ about 300 faculty and staff, officials said. Schools Superintendent Keith Hayashi has assembled an internal response team to coordinate resources and planning. 4 p.m. A federal team is on the ground in Lahaina to assist with search and rescue efforts, Maui County said in a news release. Flyovers of Lahaina conducted by U.S. Civil Air Patrol and Maui Fire Department reveal more than 271 structures were damaged or destroyed by the fire, culminating in widespread damage to Lahaina Harbor and surrounding area, officials said. With nearly 100 Maui firefighters working around the clock to battle the wildfires in Lahaina, Upcountry and Pulehu, Maui Fire Department officials said, MFD officials requested the assistance of 20 firefighters from Honolulu, and incident management team. Four helicopters were deployed for water drops in Lahaina, while two Chinook and four Windward Aviation helicopters conduct drops on the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday. Meanwhile, three helicopters from the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Navy conducted search and rescue operations along the West Maui coastline. Maui Fire Department reported no significant changes for the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday. 3:50 p.m. Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke has issued a third emergency proclamation regarding the ongoing wildfire disaster in Maui and Hawaii. a third emergency proclamation regarding the ongoing wildfire disaster in Maui and Hawaii island extends the emergency period through Aug. 31, from Aug. 15, which was the end date in the second proclamation issued early today. a third emergency proclamation regarding the ongoing wildfire disaster in Maui and Hawaii island also makes it easier for state and local authorities to assist in the response, recovery, and rebuilding efforts, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke's office said. 3 p.m. Maui Memorial Medical Center said since Tuesday night Maui Memorial Medical Center has been treating patients with burns, smoke inhalation, and other fire-related injuries. As of this afternoon, Maui Memorial Medical Center said all patients had been cared for. Five have been admitted, including two for critical injuries. Seven others were transferred to Oahu for specialty services, including some for fire-related injuries. Other patients were treated and released. Maui Health officials said Maui Health officials are prepared to activate a surge plan if needed, and are collaborating closely with Kaiser Permanente Hawaii, Straub, and Queens to ensure timely treatment of care. Kula Hospital and Lanai Community Hospital remain fully operational and staffed. Families looking for loved ones at Maui Memorial Medical Center should call the main hospital line at 808-244-9056 and provide a first and last name. To contact Kula Hospital, call 808-878-1221. The Hawaii Department of Health, meanwhile, warns that the increased levels of smoke, ash, and dust on Maui and Hawaii, can be harmful to those who suffer from pre-existing respiratory conditions. >> Avoid outdoor activities to reduce exposure and minimize health risks, particularly children, seniors and individuals with pre-existing respiratory conditions and chronic lung and heart disease. >> Stay indoors and close all windows and doors. If an air conditioner is used, set an air conditioner to the recirculate option. >> If you need to leave the affected area, turn on your vehicle’s air conditioner and set your vehicle’s air conditioner to the recirculate option. >> Always keep medications on hand. >> Daily prescribed medications for respiratory illnesses should be taken on schedule. >> Contact a doctor as soon as possible if you experience any health problems. >> Do not smoke and avoid second-hand smoke. >> Drink plenty of fluids to avoid dehydration. >> Have family emergency plans prepared and ready. >> Heed warnings by county and state emergency management officials. 2:40 p.m. Aloha United Way said Aloha United Way's 211 information and referral line is working closely with Maui and Hawaii organizations to provide updates and information, and to answer questions when possible. its 211 information and referral line is available statewide and can also be accessed via email or chat. John L. Fink, president & CEO of Aloha United Way, said Aloha United Way's home page, www.auw.org, lists a donation site for the Maui Fire Relief Fund and will send the money to Maui United Way, which will handle distribution over the coming months. 2:30 p.m. The Queen’s Health Systems confirmed The Queen’s Health Systems is caring for several patients as a result of the wildfires on Maui and Hawaii. The Queen’s gave no further information on several patients. Kaiser Permanente officials, meanwhile, said Kaiser Permanente's Lahaina and Kihei Community Center clinics are closed. 10:50 a.m. Wildfires killed six people on Maui, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s said at a morning news conference. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s said Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s had just learned the news and didn’t know the details of how or where on Maui the confirmed death toll from the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday happened. Six patients were flown from Maui to Oahu on Tuesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company. Three of Six patients had critical burns and were taken to Straub's burn unit, Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company said. The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals. At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center, Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company said. Straub's Burn Unit is treating three burn patients from Maui who are in critical condition, Hawaii Pacific Health said. Six patients's identities and injuries were not disclosed. 9:55 a.m. Residents of Launiupoko Estates off of Punakea Loop are being advised to evacuate immediately. Shelters are open at the Maui Prep Academy in Napili. Maui County officials, meanwhile, say firefighting efforts continue in Lahaina, Pulehu, and Upcountry, but there have been no changes in containments of this morning. Crews battled a fire that burned multiple structures and brush in Lahaina, with four helicopters launched this morning to assist in firefighting efforts. Officials said improving weather conditions allowed for four helicopters, to launch this morning after being hampered by gusts up to 80 mph on Tuesday. More than 2,100 people were housed overnight in four emergency shelters that were set up at Maui Preparatory Academy in Napili, Maui High School in Kahului, War Memorial Center and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Kihei Community Center residents evacuated Tuesday night were cleared to return to Kihei residents evacuated last night's homes shortly after 6 a.m. today, according to officials. Firefighters continue fighting a Pulehu fire mauka of Kihei Community Center. Evacuees at the the Maui Prep Academy in Napili shelter were notified to leave to go to Kaanapali hotels to gather Evacuees at the Maui Preparatory Academy shelter's belongings and evacuate Lahaina through Kahakuloa. The Coast Guard now reports The Coast Guard rescued 14 people from the ocean off Lahaina on Tuesday, including two young children who were reunited with family. Lahaina remains without telephone service, either by landline or cell phone. People trying to locate loved ones impacted by the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday can call the American Red Cross hotline at 1-800-733-2767. 9:35 a.m. Hawaii's congressional delegation is urging President Joe Biden to act swiftly to make all federal resources available and approve any request for a presidential disaster declaration for Maui and Hawaii counties, which are reeling from destructive wildfires. “Hawaii’s congressional delegation the request President Joe Biden's help to expedite all federal assistance possible to help Maui recover from devastating fires in Maui and Hawai‘i counties,” U.S. Sens. Brian Schatz and Mazie K. Hirono and U.S. Reps. Ed Case and Jill Tokuda wrote in a letter to President Joe Biden today. “Communities in Maui and Hawaii counties, which are reeling from destructive wildfires will need substantial support to recover from fires that are devastating some of Maui's most iconic cultural and economic centers,” Hawaii’s congressional delegation wrote in Hawaii’s congressional delegation's urgent letter to President Joe Biden. Hawaii’s congressional delegation said a presidential disaster declaration will help ensure that Communities in both counties can access important federal funding and resources to recover. 8:30 a.m. Maui County officials said Kahului Airport remains open. Police at this time are allowing traffic out of Lahaina through the bypass. Those seeking flights off Maui can reach the Kahului airport using the bypass and Kahekili Highway. Many airlines are offering travel waivers and vouchers during the emergency period. Maui County officials said 911 service in West Maui is not available. For emergencies, people should call the Lahaina Police Department directly at 808-661-4441. The Maui Department of Waters Supply, meanwhile is requesting that consumers islandwide conserve water in an effort to reduce demand and extend existing supplies until the situation can safely be assessed. That includes refraining from washing cars, washing down sidewalks and driveways and watering lawns, among other measures. 7:55 a.m. 7:45 a.m. Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation today to extend the state of emergency to all counties, discourage non-essential air travel to Maui, and order all affected state agencies to assist with the evacuation, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke's office said today. As the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday continue, visitors with current and planned lodging at West Maui hotels may not have accommodations, state officials said. “an emergency proclamation is to discourage travel to the affected areas so we can prioritize our scarce resources for Maui residents who desperately need assistance,” Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said. an emergency proclamation encourages visitors in West Maui to depart Maui as soon as safe and practicable. Green said, “the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday have devastated many of Maui's communities and people will be looking to Maui's office for leadership while Maui address the ongoing emergency and do what Maui can as a state to rebuild lives,” Green said in an emergency proclamation. “Maui have suffered a terrible disaster in the form of a wildfire that has spread widely as a result of hurricane-force winds in the region and underlying drought conditions. Maui and Hawaii both experienced significant fires. Much of Lahaina on Maui has been destroyed and hundreds of local families have been displaced,” Green said. Green said Green has named Adjutant General Ken Hara as the state incident commander, and the Hawaii National Guard has mobilized and is being supported by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Green had been scheduled to return to Hawaii from personal travel on Aug. 15, but will be back in Maui tonight to address the crisis, Green's office said. A massive wind-swept wildfire, one of many across Maui and the Big Island, swept through Lahaina, forcing large-scale evacuations, burning homes and businesses, and leading to the rescue of a dozen people who fled into the ocean to escape the flames and heavy smoke that has destroyed much of historic Front Street. In addition to Lahaina, major fires in Kula and Kihei Community Center, led to evacuations in those Maui communities Tuesday. Roads and schools were closed today as firefighters and other first responders struggle to keep up with the ongoing wildfire disaster in Maui and Hawaii island. The state Department of Transportation said about 1,800 people sheltered in place overnight at the Kahului airport, and many west-side highways were closed. “HDOT worked with airlines/TSA to shelter passengers for safety’s sake as wildfires continue to burn in Lahaina and Upcountry,’ DOT tweeted this morning. Southwest Airlines said early today Southwest Airlines had 1,000 seats available for people trying to leave Maui. Hawaiian Airlines said Hawaiian Airlines has a travel waiver in place and customers can receive a refund or change travel to a future date without a penalty. Hawaii was also dealing with major brushfires and shelters remained open today at Waimea Community Center and Hisaoka Gym on Hawaii. Hawaii Fire Department said today crews continue to battle three fires in North and South Kohala. In Lahaina, The Coast Guard responded to areas where people went into the ocean to escape the fire and smoky conditions Tuesday. The Coast Guard tweeted that a crew rescued 12 people from the water off Lahaina. After 6 a.m. today, Maui County said evacuated Kihei Community Center residents were clear to return to evacuated Kihei residents's homes. Alan Dickar said Alan Dickar’s not sure what remains of Alan Dickar's Vintage European Posters gallery, which was a fixture on Front Street in Lahaina for 23 years. Before evacuating with three friends and two cats, Alan Dickar recorded video of flames engulfing the main strip of shops and restaurants frequented by tourists. Dickar, who assumed the three homes Alan Dickar owns burned down, said it will take a heroic effort to rebuild what has burned in Lahaina. The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of Maui at a safe distance of 500 miles, was partly to blame for gusts above 60 mph that knocked out power as night fell, rattled homes and grounded firefighting helicopters. Dangerous fire conditions created by strong winds and low humidity were expected to last through Wednesday afternoon, The National Weather Service said. Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling, and activated the Hawaii National Guard. an emergency proclamation was declared Tuesday and a second one was declared today, extending the emergency to all counties. Maui wants to discourage non-essential travel to Maui amid the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke told Hawaii News Now this morning. Tourists on Maui are encouraged to go home as soon as feasible and visitors scheduled to arrive on Maui are encouraged not to come, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said. State officials are meeting with major airlines, including Hawaiian, Southwest, United and Alaska, to build support for this plan, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said. today's emergency proclamation will support that effort, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said. It was too windy for some firefighting aircraft to take off Tuesday, hampering firefighting efforts, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said. Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke had no estimate of the number of structures or acres lost to the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday. Shelter spaces were constantly changing. About 2,000 people sheltered in place at Maui's main airport, which officials are trying to clear so that Maui’s main airport, which officials are trying to clear so that the airport is better able to handle departing passengers is better able to handle departing passengers. Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke could not estimate when the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday might be under control. “We’ve never dealt with fires of this magnitude.” Initially, officials thought the fires on Maui might be worse, but the Lahaina fire erupted fiercely. Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen also issued an emergency proclamation Tuesday in response to the ongoing Maui fires. On Hawaii, fire has threatened about 200 homes in and around Kohala Ranch, which has a population of more than 500. fire was also threatening a volunteer fire department, local electrical transmission lines, and an AT&T cellular communications tower in the area, Hawaii Emergency Management Agency officials said. fire was not contained and had burned more than 600 acres when Maui made the request was made, officials said. the Federal Emergency Management Agency, meanwhile, approved Maui's request for a disaster declaration to provide assistance with the wildfire on Hawaii, the Federal Emergency Management Agency officials said. The decision under the Fire Management Assistance Grant program allows for federal reimbursement of up to 75% of the eligible firefighting costs. “the Federal Emergency Management Agency’re grateful to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's federal partners for our federal partners's quick review and decision, which will help Maui County meet this challenge in Lahaina,” said the Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator James Barros in a statement. Fire was widespread in Lahaina, including on Front Street, an area of Lahaina that is popular with tourists, county spokesperson Mahina Martin said by phone early today. Traffic has been very heavy as people try to evacuate, and officials asked people who weren’t in an evacuation area to shelter in place to avoid adding to Traffic, county spokesperson Mahina Martin said. Photos posted by Maui County overnight showed a line of flames blazing across an intersection in Lahaina and flames leaping above buildings in Lahaina. Officials were not aware of any deaths and knew of one first-responder injury, a firefighter who was in stable condition at a hospital after experiencing smoke inhalation, county spokesperson Mahina Martin said. Honolulu Emergency Medical Services officials said nine patients were transported to Oahu, three with serious burn victims. There’s no count available for the number of structures affected by the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday or the number of people affected by evacuations, but county spokesperson Mahina Martin said at the four Maui shelters open had over 1,000 people at the largest. “This is so unprecedented,” county spokesperson Mahina Martin said, noting that multiple districts were affected. An emergency in the night is terrifying, county spokesperson Mahina Martin said, and the darkness makes it hard to gauge the extent of the damage. “Right now it is all-hands-on-deck and we are anxious for daybreak,” county spokesperson Mahina Martin said. Cell phone towers around Lahaina had reportedly burned and landlines were also down. In West Maui 911 service was not available and residents were directed to call the police department. Because of the wind gusts, helicopters weren’t able to dump water on the windswept wildfires that devastated Lahaina and other Valley Isle communities Tuesday from the sky — or gauge more precise fire sizes — and firefighters were encountering roads blocked by downed trees and power lines as firefighters worked the inland fires, county spokesperson Mahina Martin said. About 14,500 customers in Maui were without power early today, according to poweroutage.us. “today’s definitely one of the more challenging days for Maui given that today’s multiple fires, multiple evacuations in the different district areas,” county spokesperson Mahina Martin said. Winds were recorded at 80 mph in inland Maui and one fire that was believed to be contained early today flared up hours later with Winds, county spokesperson Mahina Martin added. “The fire can be a mile or more from your house, but in a minute or two, The fire can be at your house,” Fire Assistant Chief Jeff Giesea said. In the Kula, Maui, at least two homes were destroyed in a fire that engulfed about 1.7 square miles, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s said. About 80 people were evacuated from 40 homes, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen’s said. “We’re trying to protect homes in the community,” Maui Mayor Mitch Roth said of evacuating about 400 homes in four communities in the northern part of Maui. As of Tuesday, the roof of one house caught on fire, Big Island Mayor Mitch Roth said. On Maui, all public schools, except Hana High & Elementary, were closed today. In addition to the public school closures, Kamehameha Schools Maui and Aapueo Preschool will also remain closed Wednesday.
UPDATE: 7:20 p.m. The Hawaii Fire Department says all Big Island “arterial roadways” are open, all residential areas are open, and Hisaoka Gym and Waimea Community Center, which were being used as emergency shelters, have returned to normal operations. County officials noted that the National Weather Service’s red flag warning for leeward areas of the island remains in effect until 6 a.m. Thursday as critical fire weather conditions of strong winds, low relative humidity, and warm temperatures continue to make for extreme fire danger. “Please postpone and avoid all outdoor activities using open flames and parking of vehicles on dry vegetation after driving,” county officials said. 5:45 p.m. Hawaii County officials said the remaining evacuation orders for the southern portion of Kohala Ranch have been lifted. Access is now available via the Kohala Mountain Road and Highway 270. Additionally, evacuation orders for the Villas and South Fairways at Mauna Kea have also been lifted, and access to and from Mauna Kea is also now allowed. Guests at Mauna Kea are no longer required to shelter in place. Brushfires that flared up Kau near Naalehu and Pahala have been “neutralized,” officials said. There are no closures of any major highways on the island as a result of Brushfires that flared up Kau near Naalehu and Pahala. Shelters will remain open through 8 p.m at Hisaoka Park in Kapa’au and Waimea Community Center. 3 p.m. The Hawaii Fire Department said additional brush fires have broken out in Kau near Naalehu and Pahala but that additional brush fires are under control. No structures are threatened, and no road closures are in place in Kau near Naalehu and Pahala. Fire crews, meanwhile, continue to battle the three ongoing fires in North and South Kohala. Mauna Kea Beach Drive on Mauna Kea remains closed due to active firefighting. Akoni Pule Highway has reopened and the mandatory evacuations of Kohala Ranch between Akoni Pule Highway and Kamakani Loop have lifted. There is still an evacuation order active for the Mauna Kea Villas residential area. The red flag warning indicating the presence of critical fire weather conditions remains in place for leeward areas of the island. the National Weather Service’s has extended The red flag warning indicating the presence of critical fire weather conditions to 6 a.m. Thursday. Officials ask residents to postpone all outdoor activities using open flames, and to avoid parking vehicles on dry vegetation after driving. 12 p.m. Hawaii County firefighters continue to battle three fires in North and South Kohala, according to a noon Civil Defense update. >> Akoni Pule Highway between mile markers 6 to 17. >> Mauna Kea Beach Drive due to active firefighting and evacuations. Queen Kaahumanu Highway, however, is now open between mile marker 69 and Kawaihae Junction, according to county officials. Mandatory evacuations for Kohala Ranch between Akoni Pule Highway and Kamakani Loop and the Mauna Kea Resort Villas residential area still remain in effect at this time. Hawaii County Mayor Mitch Roth said at a press conference this morning that helicopters were doing water drops, but that the situation was still challenging due to a red flag warning that remains in place through 6 p.m. tonight. The fire broke out early Tuesday, burned hundreds of acres and threatened about 200 homes in and around Kohala Ranch. The Federal Emergency Management Agency on Thursday The approval the state’s request for a disaster declaration to provide assistance with the Kohala Ranch wildfire on the island. The approval opens the door for federal reimbursement of up to 75% of eligible firefighting costs. the island residents impacted by brush fires or high winds should report damages to Civil Defense at 808-935-0031.
Update: The death toll for the Maui fires has increased. View our latest coverage here. The death toll for the Maui fires were killed on Maui as wind-fueled wildfires tore through the area, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. announced. Hundreds of buildings have also been damaged or destroyed. "We are still in a search and rescue mode, and so Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. don't know what will happen to The death toll for the Maui fires," Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. didn't provide details about the circumstances surrounding the deaths, saying The death toll for the Maui fires was confirmed just before a news conference with officials. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said several other people were unaccounted for but may be people who are in vehicles who haven't gone into a shelter. Over 2,100 people were using the five shelters that have been opened on Maui, and some of the five shelters that have been opened on the island — along with a number of hotels — lost power, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke told reporters that some shelters were "overrun" and tourists, who were still arriving on Maui Wednesday morning, were discouraged from going to Maui. There was one bit of encouraging news: The National Weather Service canceled The National Weather Service's Red Flag wildfire warning and high wind advisory for Maui Wednesday night. the Maui fires drove people to jump into a harbor to escape flames and smoke and forced people to evacuate earlier on Wednesday, authorities said. The Coast Guard said The Coast Guard rescued 14 people in the town of Lahaina who turned to the town of Lahaina's harbor for refuge, and 14 people in the town of Lahaina who turned to its harbor for refuge were in stable condition. Officials said Wednesday that hospitals on Maui were treating burn and smoke inhalation patients. Fire was widespread in Lahaina, a tourist town with a population of 12,000 on the northwestern tip of Maui. Maui county officials reported Wednesday afternoon that at least 271 structures have been damaged or destroyed in the wildfires in the town of Lahaina. "Widespread damage to the town of Lahaina, a harbor and surrounding areas are being documented," Maui county said in a statement. Maui county tweeted that multiple roads were closed with a warning: "Do NOT go to the town of Lahaina." Traffic has been very heavy as people try to evacuate and officials asked people who weren't in an evacuation area to shelter in place to avoid adding to Traffic, Maui county spokesperson Mahina Martin told the Associated Press in a phone interview early Wednesday. Officials issued an island-wide request Wednesday morning for people to conserve water to reduce demand and extend existing supplies as firefighters battled the Maui fires. Photos posted by Maui county overnight showed a line of flames blazing across an intersection and leaping above buildings in the town center that dates to the 1700s and is on the National Register of Historic Places. Six patients were flown from Maui to the island of Oahu on Tuesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company. Three of Six patients had critical burns and were taken to Straub Medical Center's burn unit, Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company said. The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals. At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center, Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company said. Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company had not heard of any deaths. Authorities said earlier Wednesday that a firefighter in Maui was hospitalized in stable condition after inhaling smoke. "The reality is that Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company need to fly people out of Maui to give people burn support," Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said. "911 is down. Cell service is down. Phone service is down. And that's been part of the problem," Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Green and activated the Hawaii National Guard. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke issued another proclamation Wednesday afternoon strongly discouraging all nonessential travel to Maui. another proclamation also gives Hawaii's emergency management agency the authority to order mandatory evacuations of civilian populations. Kahului Airport, the main airport in Maui, was sheltering 2,000 travelers whose flights were canceled or who recently arrived on Maui, Maui county said. Front Street, a shopping and dining area of the town of Lahaina popular with tourists, was badly hit by the Maui fires. The wildfire in the town of Lahaina was one of many in Hawaii's fanned by strong winds that burned multiple structures, forced evacuations and caused power outages in several communities as firefighters struggled to reach some areas that were cut off by downed trees and power lines. Some people reported having trouble evacuating due to gridlock, smoke and encroaching flames. The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of Hawaii's at a safe distance of 500 miles, was partly to blame for gusts above 60 mph that knocked out power as night fell, rattled homes and grounded firefighting helicopters. Dangerous fire conditions created by strong winds and low humidity were expected to last through Wednesday afternoon, The National Weather Service said. The Central Pacific Hurricane Center said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles, was a Category 4 hurricane as of late Wednesday morning. "This is so unprecedented," County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin said, noting that multiple districts were affected. An emergency in the night is terrifying, County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin said, and the darkness makes it hard to gauge the extent of the damage. Noting the rise in donations and fundraising to help victims of the Maui fires, Hawaii's Attorney General Anne Lopez warned against "bad actors who try to take advantage of people's goodwill." Hawaii Attorney General Anne Lopez urged people to donate to trusted, well-known charities and verify that recipients of donations are legitimate. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said the increasing frequency of droughts, hurricanes, invasive species of plant life and human behavior have all contributed to this rising threat. the Maui fires weren't only raging on Maui. The Federal Emergency Management Agency approved a disaster declaration to provide assistance with a fire that threatened about 200 homes in and around Kohala Ranch, a rural community with a population of more than 500 on Maui, according to the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. When the request was made, a fire that threatened about 200 homes in and around Kohala Ranch, a rural community with a population of more than 500 on the Big Island had burned more than 600 acres and was uncontained. Two other uncontrolled fires were burning on Maui and Maui, officials said. Fire crews on Maui were battling multiple blazes concentrated in two areas: the popular tourist destination of West Maui and an inland, mountainous region. In the popular tourist destination of West Maui 911 service was not available and residents were directed to call the police department. Because of the wind gusts, helicopters weren't able to dump water on the Maui fires from the sky — or gauge more precise fire sizes — and firefighters were encountering roads blocked by downed trees and power lines as firefighters worked an inland, mountainous region, County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin said. More than 12,500 customers in Hawaii's were without power Wednesday afternoon, according to PowerOutage.us. "It's definitely one of the more challenging days for Maui given that it's multiple fires, multiple evacuations in the different district areas," County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin said. Winds were recorded at 80 mph in an inland, mountainous region and one fire that was believed to be contained earlier Tuesday flared up hours later with Winds, County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin added. "The fire can be a mile or more from your house, but in a minute or two, The fire can be at your house," Fire Assistant Chief Jeff Giesea said. Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles, was complicating matters for firefighters in an already dry season. Hawaii's is sandwiched between high pressure to the north and a low pressure system associated with Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles,, explained Jeff Powell, a meteorologist in Honolulu. The dryness and the gusts "make a dangerous fire situation so that fires that do exist can spread out of control very rapidly," Jeff Powell, a meteorologist in Honolulu said. "It's kind of because of Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles,, but it's not a direct result," Jeff Powell, a meteorologist in Honolulu said, calling the Maui fires a "peripheral result" of Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles,'s winds. In the Kula area of Maui, at least two homes were destroyed in a fire that engulfed about 1,100 acres, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. About 80 people were evacuated from 40 homes, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. Upcountry Maui resident Caroline Lebrec was among those forced to evacuate and told KGMB-TV Upcountry Maui resident Caroline Lebrec could see flames advancing as Upcountry Maui resident Caroline Lebrec headed to an emergency shelter. "There were branches falling down on us, small ones but enough that Upcountry Maui resident Caroline Lebrec sped up," Upcountry Maui resident Caroline Lebrec said. All of Maui's public schools except for one were closed Wednesday, the state Education Department announced. The Red Cross was opening shelters on Maui and the Big Island. "We're trying to protect homes in the community," the Big Island Mayor Mitch Roth said of evacuating about 400 homes in four communities in the northern part of the Big Island. As of Tuesday, the roof of one house caught on fire, Big Island Mayor Mitch Roth said. Fires in Hawaii's are unlike many of those burning in the U.S. West. Fires in Hawaii tend to break out in large grasslands on the dry sides of the islands and are generally much smaller than fires in the U.S. mainland. Fires were rare in Hawaii's and on other tropical islands before humans arrived, and native ecosystems evolved without Fires. This means great environmental damage can occur when fires erupt. For example, fires remove vegetation. When a fire is followed by heavy rainfall, the rain can carry loose soil into the ocean, where loose soil can smother coral reefs. A major fire on the Big Island in 2021 burned homes and forced thousands to evacuate. The island of Oahu, where Honolulu is located, also was dealing with power outages, downed power lines and traffic problems, said Adam Weintraub, communication director for the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. -Agence France-Presse contributed reporting.
The Hawaii Army National Guard and 25th Infantry Division at Schofield Barracks have deployed personnel and helicopters to assist with devastating fires on Maui and the Big Island. On Maui, 16 Guardsmen were activated Tuesday night and started assisting the Maui Police Department with traffic control. Another 20 will start today along with helicopter fire suppression from two CH-47 Chinook helicopters. Another 12 Guardsmen will be assisting First Responders with Search and Rescue starting today. For the Big Island, 30 Guardsmen started this morning to assist with traffic. 25th Infantry Division at Schofield Barracks is supplying fire supression support. Multiple helicopters, two UH-60 Blackhawks and one CH-47 Chinook, are assisting with fire suppression as weather permits.
President Joe Biden said today President Joe Biden has ordered “all available federal assets on the islands to help with response” to the devastating wildfires on Maui and the Big Island. President Joe Biden urged all Hawaii residents to continue to follow evacuation orders, listen to the instructions of first responders and officials, and to stay alert. Hawaii's congressional delegation sent President Joe Biden a letter today urging President Joe Biden to act swiftly to make all federal resources available and approve any request for a presidential disaster declaration for Maui and Hawaii counties.
LAHAINA — Tama Kaleleiki watched in dismay as a blaze fanned by strong winds engulfed the hall of LAHAINA's historic Waiola Church. the hall of Lahaina’s historic Waiola Church and neighboring Lahaina Hongwanji Mission temple were among multiple structures that caught fire in West Maui as a blaze fanned by strong winds forced widespread evacuations, shut down roads and schools and prompted officials to advise the public to avoid LAHAINA — all while more than 1,000 acres burned in a separate fire Upcountry and crews watered down buildings in South Maui as a precaution. The LAHAINA brush fire, which state and county officials said was fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora, initially broke out around 6:37 a.m. Tuesday and burned 3 acres near Lahainaluna Road, prompting an evacuation at 6:40 a.m. in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School. a blaze fanned by strong winds had been declared 100 percent contained shortly before 9 a.m. But a flareup later in Tuesday forced the closure of the LAHAINA Bypass and more evacuations as crews fought to contain a blaze fanned by strong winds. Stuck in a long line of Olowalu-bound cars barely moving on Front Street, a couple and a couple's baby goat fled the thick cloud of black smoke roiling in the heart of LAHAINA behind a couple. “a couple's house just burned. I was fighting a blaze fanned by strong winds,” said the man, who declined to give his name, as his wife wiped away tears. Leeward sides of all islands have been under a red flag warning over the past few days, as strong winds and low humidity elevated the risk of fire. The heavy winds and fierce gusts that Maui County said clocked in at 80 mph Upcountry created mayhem Tuesday. At 12:22 a.m., a fire was reported near Olinda Road, leading to early-morning evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas. a fire had spread to about 1,000 acres and reached as far as Kualono Place near the Kula Lodge by the afternoon, triggering proactive evacuation warnings for Piiholo and Olinda Road area residents and immediate evacuation orders for Kulalani Drive and Kulalani Circle. “Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision looked out Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision's window and it was pitch black, but you could see the red glow and you could hear a fire,” said Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision. In the Kula 200 subdivision mid-morning Tuesday, residents could be seen driving along the roadways while an engine from Kahului drove through the Kula 200 subdivision. the Kula 200 subdivision was filled with smoke and winds were still whipping trees and plants. Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision acknowledged that the situation freaked Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision out. “Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision didn’t know what to take or anything. They said evacuate and Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision had Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision's pajamas on,” Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision said as Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision sat with two neighbors at the emergency shelter opened by the American Red Cross at the Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani Tuesday morning. Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision didn’t take very much, only items like family photos. “Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision grabbed some stuff, Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision put some clothes on, got some dog food. Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision have a giant tortoise. Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision couldn’t move a giant tortoise so Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision opened a giant tortoise's gate so a giant tortoise could get out if a giant tortoise needed to,” said Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision as Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision comforted Williams, who lives in the Kula 200 subdivision's 3-year-old Corgi, Alice, who was unsettled by a fire. Gombac said they live in an area where neighbors take care of neighbors, and even if they didn’t know neighbors names, they asked if they were O.K. the American Red Cross continued to staff the shelter in Pukalani Tuesday evening. Residents needed to bring Residents's personal items with Residents, including food and bedding. The Maui Humane Society was also providing support for pets, which needed to be properly restrained. Kaonoulu Ranch also opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. “At 2-3 in the morning, you could see the embers flying,” said Kaonoulu Ranch Vice President and Livestock Operations Manager Greg Friel, who was leading ranch horses into Oskie Rice Arena with Haleakala Ranch Vice President and Livestock Operations Manager Greg Friel, who was leading ranch horses into the arena with his grandson Eli Friel on Tuesday morning's grandson Eli Friel on Tuesday morning. At least two structures Upcountry were destroyed by a fire, though fire officials were not yet releasing the location or other details on Tuesday afternoon. In addition to At least two structures Upcountry, pastureland and gulches were burned. Maui County said multiple structures in Lahaina burned, though the total count and size of a fire was not immediately known as of Tuesday night. “We expect a fire to be extensive but our focus right now is on public safety and the safety of our responders. So public safety and the safety of our responders will come likely later,” Maui County Communications Director Mahina Martin said Tuesday night. In addition to strong winds, a lack of communications with West Maui due to cell towers and landlines being down also created more challenges, Maui County Communications Director Mahina Martin said. In both Upcountry and West Maui, the wind brought down power lines and poles, which blocked traffic and affected electrical service. Hawaiian Electric said at 3:30 p.m. that about 12,400 customers were without power in West Maui, where crews were making repairs to about 30 downed poles and multiple spans of power lines in various areas, including in Puamana along Honoapiilani Highway. Another 600 customers were offline Upcountry, including parts of Olinda, Piiholo, Makawao and Kula, as crews repaired more than 30 spans of downed power lines. Hawaiian Electric reminded customers that downed power lines may be energized. People should stay at least 30 feet or more away. Downed power lines can be reported to 911 or to Hawaiian Electric's trouble line at (808) 871-7777. Maui County asked residents of both Upcountry and West Maui to conserve water because power outgoes were affecting the ability to pump water to certain locations. Drinking water stations are located at Kula Fire Station, Kula Community Center, Rice Park and Crater Road at Hydrant 373. The lack of electricity and threat of a fire closed businesses and schools in both Upcountry and West Maui. Kamehameha Schools Maui and Seabury Hall both closed Tuesday and will remain closed today. Some businesses in the Kulamalu Town Center were reported to be closed Tuesday. The Kulamalu area was blanketed with smoke from the Kula fire Tuesday morning. King Kekaulike High School, where students had not yet returned from summer break, was closed Tuesday and will remain closed today, the state Department of Education said Tuesday evening. The Lahaina District Court closed on Tuesday due to a power outage. All items that were due to be filed Tuesday in The Lahaina District Court were extended by one day, while all hearings scheduled for Tuesday will be rescheduled, giving due consideration to statutory mandates, the state Judiciary said in an email. Also, Princess Nahi’ena’ena Elementary was closed and freshman orientation at Lahainaluna High School was canceled for Tuesday. Students in grades 10-12 were not on campus because Students in grades 10-12 had a waiver day, the state Department of Education said in a news release. A waiver day was also already in place for Tuesday for students of King Kamehameha III Elementary and Lahaina Intermediate School. All four schools remain closed today. Businesses all over West Maui announced via social media that Businesses all over West Maui had closed due to power outages, including Merriman’s Maui in Kapalua, HouseMart Ace Hardware at LAHAINA Gateway, the Hawai’i Wildlife Discovery Center and Maui County Federal Credit Union’s LAHAINA branch. Maui County's Upcountry swimming pool and Department of Motor Vehicles satellite office in Pukalani were closed Tuesday due to smoke conditions. Kula Community Center was closed due to lack of power. Haleakala National Park’s Summit District will remain closed today due to blocked road access as well as power outages from the wildfires and high winds. All sunrise reservations for today are also canceled. Haleakala National Park’s said Haleakala National Park’s will reopen when conditions improve. Updates will be posted at www.nps.gov/hale. Maui County Council Member Tamara Paltin, who lives in Napili, said power was out all day Tuesday and that family cellphones were working intermittently. Maui County Council Member Tamara Paltin, who lives in Napili said businesses that were able to open, such as Honolua Store, were packed with lines of folks grabbing drinks and something to eat. In West Maui, evacuations spanned Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu, Kelawea Mauka, the LAHAINA Bypass and Wahikuli. Maui County Communications Director Mahina Martin said that people leaving LAHAINA were hindered by downed power lines that forced the closure of Honoapiilani Highway from Hokiokio Place to the LAHAINA Bypass. Honoapiilani Highway reopened after 5 p.m. after the lines were cleared. Shortly before 8 p.m., Maui County closed the LAHAINA-bound section of Honoapiilani Highway starting at Maalaea. Traffic built up as residents and workers hurried to evacuate amid fire and smoke. A group of employees from the ABC store at the Wharf Cinema Center used the beach fronting Kamehameha Iki Park to evacuate. Worker Abby Galam said Worker Abby Galam was worried about Worker Abby Galam's family along Lahainaluna Road but had not been able to reach her family with cell service and power out. “We’ve been praying,” Worker Abby Galam said as Worker Abby Galam and Worker Abby Galam's co-workers walked the beach fronting Kamehameha Iki Park, ducking under a fallen ironwood tree and timing the waves sweeping up to the top of the beach fronting Kamehameha Iki Park's concrete breakwall. Some folks in Lahaina even jumped into the ocean to escape the fire and smoke, according to Martin, who said the U.S. Coast came to transport Some folks in Lahaina to safety. The hazardous conditions sent some first responders to the hospital. In West Maui, a firefighter suffered from smoke inhalation and was taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center in stable condition, Maui County Communications Director Mahina Martin said. In Olinda, a Maui Police Department officer suffered smoke inhalation while assisting with resident evacuations. a Maui Police Department officer was treated and released from Maui Memorial Medical Center, a police spokesperson said. In addition to the Pukalani shelter, emergency shelters also opened at the Lahaina Civic Center, Maui High and Kihei Community Center. Maui County Communications Director Mahina Martin said the Kihei Community Center shelter opened to accommodate evacuated residents around the island, not because of the fire in the Pulehu area, which forced the closure of Pulehu Road between Omaopio Road and Kula Highway around 7:30 p.m. On Tuesday night, a fire truck could be seen watering down buildings at the brand-new Kulanihako’i High School as a precaution with the fire in the distance. Maui County Communications Director Mahina Martin said no evacuations were in effect for Kihei Community Center as of Tuesday night. Shortly before 10 p.m., Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen issued an emergency proclamation in response to the wildfires. * Staff Writer Melissa Tanji can be reached a mtanji@mauinews.com. Matthew Thayer can be reached at thayer@maui.net.
Best Western Hotels and Outrigger this morning are responding to the loss of Best Western Hotels and Outrigger's hotels to the Maui wildfires and are prioritizing the safety of guests and workers. Meanwhile, other hotel companies on Maui and elsewhere across the islands are working to assist displaced kamaaina. Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center, said the Hawai’i Convention Center had been prepared yesterday to shelter as many as 4,000 visitors and residents, including homeless individuals, and homeless individuals's pets. However, there were logistical challenges on Maui due to the lack of power, phone and cell phone service, and internet. Officials also had difficulties initially in arranging transportation as the large busses needed special escorts on the bypass. Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center said shelter guests peaked at about 69 around midnight, with about 50 guests arriving between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. “about 50 guests were visitors,” Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center said. Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center said Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center was told that many evacuees decided to stay at the airport to wait for flights out. “Hawaiian even opened up part of a wing in holding area,” Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center said. Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center said other visitors appeared to have found accommodations on Oahu and went straight to accommodations on Oahu to continue other visitors's vacations. However, Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center said Teri Orton, general manager of the Hawai’i Convention Center is expecting more arrivals today. Various forms of transportation are available for evacuees from the airport to the Hawai’i Convention Center. Uber has coordinated with state and federal authorities and has announced that Uber will provide discounted rides to the Hawai’i Convention Center, up to $40 off when applying the discount code MAUI23 in the wallet of the Uber app, to Maui fire evacuees arriving on Oahu. Two Maui hotels are among the massive property losses of the wildfire sweeping through historic downtown Lahaina. The historic Best Western Pioneer Inn in the heart of Lahaina was “obliterated — unfortunately, The historic Best Western Pioneer Inn in the heart of Lahaina was just destroyed,” according to Mufi Hannemann, president and CEO of the Hawaii Lodging & Tourism Association, who spent today tracking visitor industry impacts and helping to coordinate assistance for guests, workers, the broader community as well as first responders and emergency workers. Mike White, a Hawaii Tourism Authority (HTA) board member, confirmed that The Plantation Inn, on 174 Lahainaluna Rd. in the heart of Lahaina, also has burned down. Mike White, a Hawaii Tourism Authority (HTA) board member said Mike White, a Hawaii Tourism Authority (HTA) board member expects that there could more hotels in Lahaina that have sustained damages and perhaps in nearby Napili-Honokowai where there are quite a number of smaller properties, but getting updates has been challenging as phone and internet service in West Maui has been down. The Best Western Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, is one of nine buildings that constitute the Lahaina Historic District. The Best Western Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, was located at 658 Wharf St. The Best Western Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, joined Best Western Hotels in 1997, and since 2016 had been a member of the Historic Hotels of America since 2016. Best Western Hotels did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Outrigger Hospitality Group closed on a purchase of The Best Western Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, in late July as part of a deal with also included the Ka‘anapali Beach Hotel. White, who had spent 37 years as general manager of both properties, retired July 25. Outrigger Hospitality Group could not be reached for an immediate comment; however, White, who had spent 37 years as general manager of both properties said The Best Western Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, had employed about 10 workers. White, who had spent 37 years as general manager of both properties said The Best Western Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, was built in the late 1980s; however, The Best Western Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, was designed to reflect the old-fashioned charm of Lahaina. White, who had spent 37 years as general manager of both properties said Ka‘anapali hotels to the best of White, who had spent 37 years as general manager of both properties's knowledge so far have been buffered from the Maui wildfires by the golf courses and roadways. Still, White, who had spent 37 years as general manager of both properties said White, who had spent 37 years as general manager of both properties has confirmed that at least eight of the staff at the Ka‘anapali Beach Hotel and The Best Western Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, have lost at least eight of the staff at the Ka‘anapali Beach Hotel and The Plantation Inn's homes. “Imagine combining the loss of your home with the potential loss of your job. It’s simply heartbreaking,” White, who had spent 37 years as general manager of both properties said. Hannemann, a recent appointee to the HTA board, said it’s still too early to assess all the impacts that the wildfires and winds have had on the visitor industry and to the community. Most of the focus now is on crisis management, Hannemann, a recent appointee to the HTA board, said. Hannemann, a recent appointee to the HTA board, said the visitor industry is also helping to coordiante donations and supply drops for those in need.
Maui fire crews continue to battle three large wildfires–one in Lahaina, one in Pūlehu that has traveled down to Kīhei; and one in Kula, which has burned more than 1,000 acres since one in Kula, which has burned more than 1,000 acres since it was first reported early Tuesday morning was first reported early Tuesday morning. Below are updates, which are posted as updates, which are posted as they become available become available. A mass bus evacuation for residents and visitors in West Maui will resume at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, Aug. 10. Bus boarding will be staged at Whalers Village entryway fronting Kāʻanapali Parkway. Visitors will be taken directly to the Kahului Airport. Residents will be taken to a Central Maui shelter. Three Roberts Hawaiʻi Motor coaches, each with a capacity of 49 people will be available. Additional buses from partner agencies will be added in based on demand. The County of Maui opened two additional emergency evacuation shelters—at King’s Cathedral Maui at 777 Maui Veteran’s Highway in Kahului and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 1300 Maui Lani Parkway in Kahului. two additional emergency evacuation shelters were opened in order to accommodate full occupancy at existing shelters locations. Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained. As firefighting efforts continue, 36 fatalities have been discovered Thursday, Aug. 10 amid the active Lahaina fire. 36 fatalities includes the six deaths reported earlier today. As of this evening, Maui Fire Department reported no significant changes for the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu/Kīhei fires. There are no containment numbers at this time. Maui Fire Department expects to conduct an assessment at first light Thursday, Aug. 10. Firefighters have dealing with multiple flareups. Additional firefighter personnel from Honolulu have been requested. Thirty US Army service members arrived tonight and are conducting search and recovery efforts on early Tuesday morning. Three shelters are currently open: Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani, War Memorial gymnasium in Wailuku and Maui High School gymnasium in Kahului. American Red Cross said that 942 people are at Three shelters as of 10 p.m. On tonight, there were about 2,100 in Maui shelters. Entry into Lahaina remains restricted as firefighting efforts continue. Motorists already in West Maui may exit West Maui via Māʻalaea and Waiheʻe. Only Kahakuloa residents may enter Kahakuloa via Waiheʻe. On Wednesday, the evacuation of West Maui visitors continued, with more than 11,000 travelers and 400 airline personnel leaving Maui, said Ed Sniffen, director of the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation. “the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation are trying to get more than 11,000 travelers and 400 airline personnel, off Maui,” Ed Sniffen, director of the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation said at a news conference Wednesday night. A mass evacuation for visitors at Sheraton Maui Resort in Kāʻanapali ended late Wednesday. County transportation officials said bus evacuations for visitors will resume Thursday, Aug. 10 at a Lahaina location and time to be announced. To get more visitors off Maui, the transpacific flights — Alaska, Delta, United and American — have increased capacity by bringing in larger planes to get more seats. “Southwest has dropped Southwest's fares and Hawaiian Airlines is operating until 2 a.m. [Thursday, Aug. 10] to get as many people off Maui as possible,” Ed Sniffen, director of the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation said. “Even with that, the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation still had some empty seats on the transpacific flights — Alaska, Delta, United and American because Thursday, Aug. 10 the [Honoapiʻilani] Highway was shutdown for most of Wednesday and for good reason. The County of Maui ran nine buses on Wednesday to get 450 to 460 people out to Kahului Airport to ensure people flew on the flights Hawaiian Airlines had added. Ed Sniffen, director of the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation said 600 people would be staying at Kahului Airport Wednesday night, and be “accommodated,” to get 600 people ready for the early Thursday, Aug. 10 morning flights. The County of Maui will be running more buses on Thursday, Aug. 10. more buses pickup people in West Maui and bring people to Kahului Airport. Ed Sniffen, director of the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation said there will be an additional capacity of 2,000 seats for the 1,500 or so passengers that want to leave Maui Thursday, Aug. 10. The Hawaiʻi National Guard helicopter crews flew 13 hours on Wednesday, making 58 drops with 150,000 gallons of water for fire suppression. The Hawaiʻi National Guard helicopter crews will make more water drops on Thursday, Aug. 10 as needed, said Major General Kenneth S. Hara with the Hawaiʻi State Department of Defense. *Cammy Clark and Wendy Osher contributed to this update. Firefighting efforts continue at the in Lahaina, Kīhei and Upcountry areas. The photos above are from the Kīhei fire and were taken from the corner of Olukai and Hoalike Street in Kīhei on Wednesday afternoon. More photos/information HERE. Hawaiʻi Community Foundation and Maui United Way are accepting online monetary donations to benefit Maui residents affected by fires. Hawaiʻi Community Foundation started a Maui Strong Fund to support residents affected by the wildfires, which firefighting crews continue to battle in Lahaina, Kīhei and Upcountry areas. Donations can be made at www.hawaiicommunityfoundation.org/maui-strong. Maui United Way is accepting donations to Maui United Way's Maui Fire and Disaster Relief fund at https://mauiunitedway.org/disasterrelief. While the verified donation sites can be used to make monetary donations, donations of non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets are being accepted at the War Memorial Complex from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10. Those wishing to donate should enter the War Memorial Complex through Kanaloa Avenue and drop off donations at the field on the left. Donations of hot and perishable food cannot be accepted at the field on the left. After the field on the left was set up in the late morning Wednesday, the line of vehicles dropping off donations was about a mile long. Semitrucks transported the food and supplies to shelter locations. Shelters remain open at War Memorial Gymnasium in Wailuku, Maui High School in Kahului and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. *People trying to locate loved ones who may be impacted by the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu/Kīhei fires can call the American Red Cross hotline at 1-800-733-2767. Active duty military components under US Indo-Pacific Command are providing support to firefighting efforts on Maui and Hawai’i island. The US Army 25th Combat Aviation Brigade deployed two UH-60 Blackhawks and one CH-47 Chinook to Hawai’i island to conduct firefighting operations. Additionally, US Navy Helicopter Maritime Strike Squadron 37 sent MH-60R Seahawk helicopters to assist the US Coast Guard in search and rescue operations. At 5:45 p.m., Thursday, Aug. 10, Coast Guard Sector Honolulu watchstanders received reports regarding multiple persons in the water needing rescue after taking shelter from fire and smoke in Lahaina, Maui. Thursday, Aug. 10 evening, the US Coast Guard's 45-foot Response Boat Medium crew arrived on scene and rescued 14 survivors from the Lahaina Harbor Breakwall with 14 survivors reported to be in stable condition. Additional information and further details are posted HERE. Hawaiian Airlines is extending Hawaiian Airlines's operations Thursday, Aug. 10 with three additional late-night flights to Honolulu from Kahului to help evacuate travelers affected by brush fires on Maui. three additional late-night flights to Honolulu from Kahului were timed to meet travelers expected to arrive at Kahului via The County of Maui buses. Flights are scheduled to depart Kahului starting at 11:10 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10 through 2 a.m. tomorrow. Hawaiian Airlines earlier today added six extra flights between Honolulu and Kahului to accommodate departures out of Maui, as well as support emergency response efforts. Currently, four extra Kahului-Honolulu flights have been added for tomorrow. Hawaiian Airlines is continuing to offer reduced $19 main cabin fares out of Maui to facilitate urgent travel needs. Additional information and further details are posted HERE. A mass bus evacuation for visitors will be staged at Sheraton Maui Resort in Kaʻanapali this afternoon and take visitors directly to Kahului Airport. Five The County of Maui buses, each with a capacity of 49 people, and five Polynesian Adventure Tours buses, each with a capacity of 50, will provide the transportation, with the first wave of buses expected to arrive at Sheraton Maui Resort in Kāʻanapali at about 4 p.m. Personal vehicles can go to Kahului Airport through Kahahuloa. Rental vehicles may be left on site. On Wedneday afternoon, the Transportation Security Administration was reporting that seats are available on outgoing flights at Kahului Airport. Travelers need to call airlines to make reservations. Full report HERE. A federal team arrived on Maui Thursday, Aug. 10 and is on the ground in Lahaina to assist with search and rescue efforts amid the active Lahaina fire. Flyovers Thursday, Aug. 10 of Lahaina by US Civil Air Patrol and Maui Fire Department showed that more than 271 structures have been impacted. Widespread damage to Lahaina, Lahaina Harbor and surrounding areas are being documented. As of this afternoon, Maui Fire Department reported no significant changes for the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu fires. There are no new evacuations. There are no containment numbers at this time. Maui Fire Department has requested 20 additional firefighters from Honolulu and an incident management team. Close to 100 Maui firefighters have been on duty around the clock, including 11 from state airport firefighting and rescue personnel. Four helicopters have been deployed for water drops in Lahaina. Firefighters are addressing spot fires around Lahaina. Two Chinooks, along with four Windward Aviation helicopters, have been battling the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu/Kīhei fires with water drops. Three additional helicopters from US Coast Guard and US Navy were conducting search and rescue along the West Maui coastline. Motorists may not enter Lahaina during one in Lahaina, but people already in Lahaina may exit via Kahakuloa. Maui police are stationed at Māʻalaea and at Waiheʻe to prevent entry into Lahaina until the area is secure. Only Kahakuloa residents may access Kahakuloa via Waiheʻe. Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry Fires Combined Update No. 7, 3:50 p.m.:Due to limited resources in this time of crisis, visitors with vehicles or any means of transportation are being asked to leave Lahaina and Maui as soon as possible. A mass bus evacuation for visitors will be staged at Sheraton Maui Resort in Kaʻanapali this afternoon and take visitors directly to Kahului Airport. Five The County of Maui buses, each with a capacity of 49 people, and five Polynesian Adventure Tours buses, each with a capacity of 50, will provide the transportation, with the first wave of buses expected to arrive at Sheraton Maui Resort in Kāʻanapali at about 4 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10. Personal vehicles can go to Kahului Airport through Kahahuloa. Rental vehicles may be left on site. On Wedneday afternoon, the Transportation Security Administration was reporting that seats are available on outgoing flights at Kahului Airport. Travelers need to call airlines to make reservations. Motorists may not enter Lahaina during one in Lahaina, but people already in Lahaina may exit via Kahakuloa. Maui police are stationed at Ma’alaea and at Waihee to prevent entry into Lahaina until the area is secure. Only Kahakuloa residents may access Kahakuloa via Waiheʻe. West Maui remains without power and has no landline or cellphone service. Firefighting crews are continuing to battle a fire that burned multiple structures and brush in Lahaina, as well as fires in the Pūlehu/Kīhei and Upcountry areas. There have been no changes in containment for the Lahaina, Kīhei and Upcountry fires. Maui Memorial Medical Center has been treating burn, smoke inhalation, and other fire-related injuries as a result of the Maui fires since tonight. As of this afternoon, all patients have been cared for; five have been admitted, including two for critical injuries. Additionally, since tonight, seven patients have been transferred to Oʻahu for specialty services, including some fire-related injuries. All other patients have been treated and released. The full story is posted HERE, including information on how to find out if your family member or friend is in the hospital. Maui police say there is still absolutely no traffic into Lahaina allowed except for emergency vehicles. Motorists wishing to leave West Maui can do so via the [Honoapiʻilani] Highway or through Kahakuloa. Both routes are one way only, headed out of Lahaina. Entry is reserved for first responders only. Visitors who were stranded in Central Maui and need to get Visitors who were stranded in Central Maui and need to get their belongings at accommodations in West Maui's belongings at accommodations in West Maui, are unable to access West Maui as a fire that burned multiple structures and brush in Lahaina is still not contained. Visitors should check with Visitors's airlines and accommodations to make arrangements accordingly. Road closure updates are posted HERE. Haleakalā Hwy and Kualono Pl, mauka of Kula Lodge. Footage was taken early Tuesday morning in Kula Lodge. Due to the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu/Kīhei fires, some Hawaiian Telcom customers on Maui are experiencing intermittent phone and internet service outages. Affected areas include Lahaina, Nāpili, Kāʻanapali, Kula Lodge, and Makawao. Customers are encouraged to keep non-essential calls to a minimum to ensure that lines can remain open for emergency purposes. For safety, please avoid downed lines as downed lines could be active electric lines that are dangerous to touch. Moving downed lines could also hamper restoration efforts. The 911 system is operational; however, customers whose phone service is impacted may not be able to connect. Texting 911 using a mobile phone may be an option to reach emergency services. The full story is posted HERE. More than 140 people were evacuated on Thursday, Aug. 10 from the Westside Center shelter operated by Ka Hale A Ke Ola Homeless Resource Centers. Of multiple persons in the water needing rescue after taking shelter from fire and smoke in Lahaina, Maui, over 25 were taken by Kahakuloa staff to the Wailuku shelter for emergency housing. Kahakuloa is requesting emergency donations of blankets, pillows and towels for evacuated families. For more information or to make a donation, call (808) 242-7600. The full story is posted HERE. Any kūpuna that need additional assistance and care. If you have any urgent care needs, you may go to Hale Makua Kahului Facility for treatment at 472 Kaulana Street in Kahului. No appointment necessary. If you have any questions regarding the urgent care services at Hale Makua Kahului Facility, please contact Hale Makua Kahului Facility's temporary command center hotline at 808-871-9221. Hale Makua Kahului Facility would like to emphasize that Hale Makua Kahului Facility are not setup to assist emergency medical situations. Hale Makua Kahului Facility urges the community to call/text 911 or go to the nearest hospital emergency department for life-threatening emergency medical needs. Haleakalā National Park’s Summit District remains closed to visitors due to high winds and wildfires located outside Haleakalā National Park’s.The Kīpahulu District of Haleakalā National Park’s will close at 3 pm Thursday, Aug. 10. Both districts of Haleakalā National Park’s will remain closed until further notice. Camping reservations for Hosmer Grove, backcountry tent camping and cabins, and Kīpahulu campground for August 9 through August 10, 2023 are canceled. Sunrise reservations for August 10, 2023 are canceled. Haleakalā National Park’s will reopen once conditions improve. Any changes in Haleakalā National Park’s's status will be posted at www.nps.gov/hale. War Memorial Complex is open Thursday, Aug. 10 and Thursday, Aug. 10 as a dropoff center for donations for emergency shelters housing fire evacuees on Maui. Non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets are being accepted. Those wishing to donate should enter War Memorial Complex through Kanaloa Avenue and drop off donations at the field on the left. War Memorial Complex will be open through 6 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10 and from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10. Fire stations are unable to accept donations for shelters. Firefighting crews are continuing to battle fires in Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry that were fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora as Hurricane Dora passed well south of Maui. More than 2,100 people were housed overnight Thursday, Aug. 10 in four emergency shelters that were set up at Maui Prepatory Academy in Nāpili, Maui High School in Kahului, War Memorial Center and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. There have been six fatalities confirmed so far from the brush fires reported across Maui, according to Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference early Tuesday morning. Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning said crews are still in a search and rescue mode, and firefighting efforts continue at the Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry fires. Major General Kenneth S. Hara, Adjutant General, Hawaiʻi State Department of Defense said, “Right now, the priority is saving lives, preventing human suffering, and mitigating great property loss.” According to Major General Kenneth S. Hara, Adjutant General, Hawaiʻi State Department of Defense, Maui will be working with communications companies, and will be utilizing Cell on Wheels technology. “Because of fiberoptic cable was damaged and needs to be assessed, Hawaiʻi State Department of Defense think fiberoptic cable could take over a month to get repaired,” said Major General Kenneth S. Hara, Adjutant General, Hawaiʻi State Department of Defense. The active duty 25th combat aviation brigade out of Schofield provided two UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters with 6,600 gallon water buckets to support fire suppression efforts. A CH-47 Chinook has a 2,000 gallon water bucket, with another on standby. The Hawaiʻi National Guard dispatched two CH-47 Chinook helicopters. One landed just after 9 a.m., and a second is set to go. The Hawaiʻi National Guard has also dispatched a specialized search and rescue crew. Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning called the situation a “truly devastating experience.” According to Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning, The County of Maui is able to deploy more assets Thursday, Aug. 10, including air support, which was not used yesterday because of the dangers posed by high winds. “the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation did not anticipate having this many fires going simultaneously. the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation have drawn assets from every place on Maui except for Lahaina,” said Mayor. Bissen. The Kula fire was last estimated at 1100 acres; the fire in Lahaina continues to have flare ups; and crews continue to battle the Kihei fire, mauka of Piʻilani Highway near Pūlehu Road. There is no containment on any of the brush fires reported across Maui. Residents of Launiupoko Estates area off Punakea Loop are ordered to evacuate immediately. A shelter is open at the Maui Preparatory Academy. Firefighting crews continue to battle a wildfire that burned multiple structures and brush in Lahaina, with Four helicopters launched early Tuesday morning to assist in the firefighting efforts. Improving weather conditions allowed for the helicopters, including ones from the US Coast Guard and US Navy, to launch after high winds, including gusts of up to 80 mph, made conditions unsafe for helicopter operations. There have been no changes in containment for the Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry fires. More than 2,100 people were housed overnight in four emergency shelters that were set up at Maui Prepatory Academy in Nāpili, Maui High School in Kahului, War Memorial Center and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Kīhei residents who were evacuated tonight were cleared to return to Kīhei residents who were evacuated last night's homes shortly after 6 a.m. Thursday, Aug. 10, while firefighters continued fighting a Pūlehu fire mauka of Kīhei. Evacuees at the Maui Prepatory Academy in Napili shelter were notified to leave to go to Kāʻanapali hotels to gather Evacuees at the Maui Prepatory Academy shelter's belongings and evacuate Lahaina through Kahakuloa. The Coast Guard reported rescuing 14 people from the ocean off Lahaina on Thursday, Aug. 10. Among 14 people were two young children who were reunited with family members. Close to 100 firefighters have been on duty, including 11 from state airport firefighting and rescue personnel. In West Maui, challenges included access to ingress routes for heavy equipment. The county Department of Public Works was continuing to clear roads in West Maui. Barricades are set up at Front Street, Lahainaluna Road and Papalaua Street. Lahaina remains without telephone service, either by landline or cellphone. In Upcountry, firefighters were focused on protecting structures. About 2,000 travelers from canceled and arriving flights Thursday, Aug. 10 were sheltered overnight at Kahului Airport, while plans were underway for transporting About 2,000 travelers from canceled and arriving flights Tuesday off Maui. People trying to locate loved ones who may be impacted by the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu/Kīhei fires can call the American Red Cross hotline at 1-800-733-2767. Effective Thursday, Aug. 10, the Kaiser Permanente Lahaina and Kīhei Clinics are closed. Members with appointments scheduled at the Kaiser Permanente Lahaina and Kihei Clinics will be contacted to reschedule. Members needing to make same-day or urgent care appointments can visit the Maui Lani Medical Office or schedule a phone, video, or e-visit via kp.org or through the KP mobile app. The Wailuku Medical Office also remains open. For prescription refills, members can visit kp.org/pharmacy or call 808-643-7979. Kaiser Permanente staff and providers on Maui are asked to check in with Kaiser Permanente staff and providers on Maui's respective teams as soon as possible for further instructions and support. Due to the fires on Maui, Bank of Hawai‘i has announced that Bank of Hawai‘i has temporarily closed Bank of Hawai‘i's Lahaina and Kahana branches, today Thursday, Aug. 10, until further notice. Kahului Airport remains open. All non-essential travel to Maui is strongly discouraged. At this time, police are allowing traffic out of Lahaina through the bypass. Those seeking flights off Maui can reach OGG using the bypass and Kahekili Highway. Many airlines have travel advisories and vouchers for the emergency period. State Department of Tansportation staff report decreased visibility from heavy smoke on the Lahaina Bypass from Kai Hele Ku headed north. Governor Josh Green, M.D. said Governor Josh Green, M.D. is responding to the wildfire emergency affecting the people of Maui and Hawai‘i Counties by returning home to Maui and Hawai’i island immediately. “the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu/Kīhei fires have devastated many of Hawaiʻi's communities and people will be looking to Hawaiʻi's office for leadership while Hawaiʻi address the ongoing emergency and do what Hawaiʻi can as a state to rebuild lives,” said Governor Josh Green, M.D.. Governor Josh Green, M.D. has been in contact with the leadership team including Acting Governor Sylvia Luke, getting regular updates on Hurricane Dora, and on the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu/Kīhei fires as the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu/Kīhei fires began. Governor Josh Green, M.D. has also been in contact with the White House as Hawaiʻi prepares for what will inevitably be a request for emergency federal assistance. “Hawaiʻi have suffered a terrible disaster in the form of a wildfire that has spread widely as a result of hurricane-force winds in the region and underlying drought conditions. Maui and Maui both experienced significant fires. Much of Lahaina on Maui has been destroyed and hundreds of local families have been displaced,” said Governor Josh Green, M.D.. “Hawaiʻi appreciates the incredible outpouring of concern and prayers from Maui. Hawaiʻi won’t forget the aloha you have already begun to share with Hawaiʻi,” Governor Josh Green, M.D. said. Governor Josh Green, M.D. had been scheduled to return to Hawaiʻi from personal travel August 15, but will be back in Maui tonight to address the crisis. Governor Josh Green, M.D. This proclamation an emergency proclamation to extend the state of emergency to all counties, discourage non-essential air travel to Maui, and to order all affected state agencies to assist with evacuations due to ongoing wildfires on Maui caused by winds from Hurricane Dora. As ongoing wildfires on Maui caused by winds from Hurricane Dora continue, visitors with current and planned lodging at West Maui hotels may not have accommodations. “This proclamation is to discourage travel to the affected areas so Hawaiʻi can prioritize Hawaiʻi's scarce resources for Maui residents who desperately need assistance,” Acting Governor Sylvia Luke said. This proclamation encourages visitors in West Maui to depart Maui as soon as safe and practicable. This proclamation follows the first emergency proclamation signed Tues., Aug. 8 authorizing several actions including activation of The Hawaiʻi National Guard, authorizes appropriate actions by the director of the Hawaiʻi Emergency Management Agency and the Administrator of Emergency Management, as well as the expenditure of state general revenue funds for relief of conditions created by Hurricane Dora. We have reports of ongoing firefighting efforts on Front Street in Lahaina where multiple businesses were affected by the fire in West Maui. The area remains closed off to the public. The Hawaiʻi National Guard is expected to assist with recovery efforts at some point. Multiple fires are still burning and the public is advised to monitor reports for any potential evacuation notices. Firefighters are also actively fighting the wildfire in Kula Lodge early Tuesday morning. the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation is urging visitors to leave while emergency crews continue work to put out wildfires on Maui, and halt any non-essential travel to Maui in light of devastating and damaging fires. Motorists are reminded that it is critical to leave roads open for emergency personnel only. the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation advises that visitors looking to leave Maui can contact Southwest Airlines, which has 1,000 seats available as of early Tuesday morning. Hawaiian Airlines is continuing to monitor the emergency fire response on Maui. Maui is discouraging non-essential travel to Kahului, and Hawaiian Airlines is supporting guests with flexible options to change guests's flights or receive a refund by calling the reservations team at 1-800-367-5320. Hawaiian Airlines asks that guests with non-urgent travel inquiries to call back later so that Hawaiian Airlines can assist those with immediate needs. Guests traveling to and from Maui should continue to check Guests traveling to and from Maui's flight status on Hawaiian Airlines's website or app before coming to Kahului Airport. “The safety of Hawaiian Airlines's guests and employees, including teammates who live and work on Maui, is Hawaiian Airlines's priority, and Hawaiian Airlines will continue to support Maui with Maui's ongoing response,” according to airline officials. Approximately 1,800 people sheltered in place overnight at Kahului Airport, with many west side highways closed. the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation worked with Hawaiian Airlines to shelter passengers for safety’s sake as wildfires continue to burn in Lahaina, Kīhei and Upcountry. 911 service in West Maui remains unavailable. For emergencies, text 911. Do not call the Lahaina Station. Update: 4 a.m. NO traffic is being allowed into West Maui, via the Honoapiʻilani Highway or Kahekili Highway. All roads in Lahaina are closed. The area is only open to emergency personnel. The area includes all roads between Wahikuli Wayside Park on the north, to Kai Hele Kū Street to the south. the Honoapiʻilani Highway remains closed to Lahaina bound traffic at Māʻalaea and in Kapalua. Kahekili Highway is closed in Waiheʻe, according to HIDOT. Maui fire crews continue to battle three large wildfires–one in Lahaina, one in Pūlehu that has traveled down to Kīhei; and one in Kula Lodge, which has burned more than 1,000 acres since one in Kula, which has burned more than 1,000 acres since it was first reported early Tuesday morning was first reported early Thursday, Aug. 10 morning. Maui Fire Department is advising “immediate proactive evacuation” of residents of Holopuni and Pūlehu roads in Kula Lodge. In South Maui, proactive evacuations are also issued for subdivisions north and south of Lipoa Parkway down to Maui Meadows and the Ohukai subdivision in Kīhei. The Lahaina Civic Center evacuation site has been moved to Maui Preparatory Academy in Nāpili-Honokōwai to place evacuees away from Lahaina. Residents at the Kihei Community Center evacuation site have been relocated to Maui High School as a precautionary measure. Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. Pet owners utilizing the Maui Prepatory Academy shelter will need to have pets properly restrained. The following Maui Bus Fixed Route services will be suspended until further notice: Lahaina Islander Route #20, Lahaina Villager Route #23, Kāʻanapali Islander Route #25, and West Maui Islander Route #28. Bus riders are encouraged to check the Maui Bus app for updates. Maui Bus ADA Paratransit Service and MEO Human Service Transportation trips to/from and within the West Maui area are suspended until further notice. All Maui Bus Commuter Services will be suspended until further notice. All other bus services are planned to run as scheduled, but may experience delays due to roadway conditions impacted by brush fires. Maui's brush fires are currently not impacting Kahului AirportOGG) schedule as of midnight on Thursday, Aug. 10; However, as the situation continues to evolve, Hawaiian Airlines encourage guests who are flying to or from Maui to check Hawaiian Airlines's website and mobile app for further updates on individual flights. 911 service in West Maui is not available at this time, as of 12:17 a.m. on Wednesday. For emergencies call the Lahaina Police Department directly at 808-661-4441. An evacuation order has been issued for the Kīhei area mauka (east) of Piʻilani Highway, including all of Maui Meadows due to a brushfire, according to Maui Emergency Management Agency. People in the Kīhei area mauka (east) of Piʻilani Highway, including all of Maui Meadows are advised to evacuate your family and pets immediately. The recommended shelter to use is the Maui High School gym or the Kīhei Community Center. Expect conditions that may make driving difficult and watch for public safety personnel operating in the Kīhei area mauka (east) of Piʻilani Highway, including all of Maui Meadows. The Kīhei fire is reportedly an extension of the Pūlehu fire reported on Thursday, Aug. 10 evening. Firefighter crews continue to battle brush and structure fires in Upcountry and Lahaina areas. Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning issued an emergency proclamation in response to fires, and The County of Maui has requested support from The Hawaiʻi National Guard. The American Red Cross has opened Maui High School as an evacuation center. Wahikuli residents in West Maui were evacuated this evening. Those who sought shelter at the Lahaina Civic Center were being transported further north to Maui Preparatory Academy instead. The Coast Guard has been responding to impacted areas where “residents had entered the ocean” due to smoke and fire conditions. Individuals were transported by The Coast Guard to safe areas, according to the latest update from The County of Maui. A firefighter who was responding to the West Maui fire has experienced smoke inhalation and was taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center in stable condition. Hononoapiʻilani Highway remains open to outbound traffic only. Motorist should expect heavy traffic and delays. We have reports that residents who attempted to make it out of West Maui spent three hours in traffic as residents who attempted to make it out of West Maui attempted the drive to Central Maui between 6 and 9 p.m. There were also limited options for gas with many of the gas stations closed on West Maui, according to area residents. Water buffalos containing drinking water are located at Kula Lodge Fire Station, Kula Lodge Community Center, Rice Park and Crater Road – Hydrant 373. Multiple evacuation orders are in place, including a call for evacuations along Kahoma Street at around 9:30 p.m. Structure damages have occurred; however, county officials were unable to provide details on the extent of damages at this time. The American Red Cross is staffing emergency shelters at Kīhei Community Center in South Maui, and in Pukalani at Hannibal Tavares Community Center. Pet owners utilizing emergency shelters at Kīhei Community Center in South Maui, and in Pukalani at Hannibal Tavares Community Center need to have pets properly restrained. Kahoma Street Street evacuations are underway in West Maui as of 9:33 p.m. We have reports that residents who attempted to make it out of West Maui spent three hours in traffic as residents who attempted to make it out of West Maui attempted the drive to Central Maui. There were also limited options for gas with many of the gas stations closed on West Maui. There are multiple road closures in West Maui. Maui police are advising motorists should avoid Lahiana Town. the [Honoapiʻilani] Highway is closed to Lahaina bound traffic at Leialiʻi Parkway. Kāʻanapali bound traffic is open as of 8:07 p.m. We also have reports of a brush fire that forced the closure of Pūlehu Road between Ōmaʻopio Rd and Kula Lodge at around 7:30 p.m. The Kula Lodge fire continues to burn with crews still on scene there. a brushfire has burned more than 1,000 acres at last report. The US Coast Guard Cutter Joseph Gerczak, a MH-65 Dolphin aircrew, and a small boat crew from Station Maui have deployed to Front Street and Lahaina Harbor in the response effort to the fire in West Maui. “Multiple structures have burned” and multiple evacuations are in place, as firefighter crews continue battling brush and structure fires in Upcountry and Lahaina areas, County officials report. We checked in with Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning this evening as high winds continue and nightfall approaches. “Thursday, Aug. 10 the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation are experiencing challenges in the West Maui and Upcountry areas. the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation's firefighter crews and other emergency responders have been battling brush fire conditions since early this morning. High winds and unpredictable conditions have caused multiple evacuations,” Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning said in an evening phone call with Maui Now / Pacific Media Group. “Thursday, Aug. 10 the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation are focused on keeping the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation's people safe—residents, visitors and emergency responders. Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning ask for your continued vigilance and that you make good decisions, keep safe, stay away from downed power lines, and evacuate when necessary,” said Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning. In West Maui, fire crews from Nāpili, Lahaina, Kīhei and Wailuku responded to the fast-moving fire, which was fueled by strong winds as Hurricane Dora passed well south of Hawaiʻi. On West Maui, evacuations occurred at Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu, Kelawea Mauka and the bypass. Honoapiʻilani Highway from Hōkiokio Place to the bypass was reopened at about 5 p.m., following the clearing of downed power lines, to allow access in and out of Lahaina via Hōkiokio Place. Motorists are advised to expect traffic to be slowed through the bypass. In Upcountry Maui, where firefighters from Kula, Makawao, Kahului and Wailea were assigned, crews were focused on the subdivision including Kulalani Drive and Kulalani Circle at about 5 p.m. The Fire Department called for the evacuation of residents from the subdivision including Kulalani Drive and Kulalani Circle. The Upcountry fire, reported at 12:22 a.m. Thursday, Aug. 10 near Olinda Road, led to early-morning evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas. As of Thursday, Aug. 10 afternoon, the perimeter of The Upcountry fire, reported at 12:22 a.m. today near Olinda Road was about 1,000 acres and reached as far as Kualono Place near the Kula Lodge. The American Red Cross is staffing emergency shelters at Lahaina Civic Center and in Pukalani at Hannibal Tavares Community Center. Pet owners utilizing emergency shelters at Lahaina Civic Center and in Pukalani at Hannibal Tavares Community Center need to have pets properly restrained. “We’ll need to watch out for each other as we make our way through Thursday, Aug. 10's hazardous conditions in the Upcountry and West Maui areas,” said Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. who spoke at a press conference this morning. An apparent flareup of the Lahaina fire forced the closure of the bypass around 3:30 p.m. Evacuations are occurring in the vicinities of Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu and the bypass. Kahakuloa is closed to outside traffic. Only residents of Kahakuloa are allowed to travel through the remote side of Kahekili Highway. People on West Maui are advised to shelter in place unless evacuations are ordered. Multiple roads, including Honoapiʻilani Highway from Hōkiokio Place to the bypass, are closed due to downed power lines. Fueled by strong wind from Hurricane Dora that is passing well south of Hawaiʻi, a brushfire was reported at 6:37 a.m. Thursday, Aug. 10 in the area of Lahainaluna Road. After area evacuations, a brushfire was declared 100% contained before 9 a.m. However, an afternoon flareup forced the closure of the bypass. The American Red Cross opened Lahaina Civic Center as an evacuation center due to a brushfire and area power outages tied to high winds. Lahaina Civic Center will remain open until further notice. For people unable to return to West Maui, Pukalani's Hannibal Tavares Community Center is open as a shelter. Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. Pet owners utilizing Hannibal Tavares Community Center will need to have pets properly restrained. Due to hazardous road conditions and road closures currently affecting various areas throughout Maui, the Maui Police Department is asking that residents and visitors refrain from unnecessary travel, especially to the west side of Maui. Maui Fire Department is calling for the immediate evacuation of residents of the subdivision including Kulalani Drive and Kulalani Circle due to a brushfire. a brushfire was reported at 12:22 a.m. Thursday, Aug. 10 near Olinda Road and led to early-morning evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas. As of Thursday, Aug. 10 afternoon, the perimeter of a brushfire was about 1,000 acres. Firefighter crews are actively battling the fire, which has reached as far as Kualono Place near Kula Lodge. The American Red Cross is staffing an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. Evacuees are reminded to bring any medications and pet food. Pet owners utilizing an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani need to have pets properly restrained. The Maui Humane Society is providing support for an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Kaonoulu Ranch opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. The cause of a brushfire remains under investigation. Hawaiian Electric Co. advises residents to stay at least 30 feet or more away from downed power lines, which may be energized. Downed power lines can be reported to 911 or Hawaiian Electric Co. trouble line at 808-871-7777. With the potential risk of escalating conditions from an Upcountry brush fire, Maui Fire Department is strongly advising residents of Piʻiholo and Olinda roads to proactively evacuate. a brushfire was first reported at 12:22 a.m. Thursday, Aug. 10 near Lahainaluna Road and led to early-morning evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas. As of this afternoon, the perimeter of a brushfire was more than 1,000 acres. Firefighter crews are actively battling the fire, which has reached as far as Kualono Place near Kula Lodge. Trees and downed power lines on Olinda and Piʻiholo roads were cleared Thursday, Aug. 10 to make one lane passable for cars and small trucks. As of this afternoon, Maui Fire Department is advising residents of Olinda and Piʻiholo roads to evacuate while residents of Olinda and Piʻiholo roads can. Maui Fire officials warn that erratic wind, challenging terrain, steep slopes and dropping humidity, the direction and the location of the fire conditions make it difficult to predict path and speed of a wildfire. When wind sends fire embers up and sparks ignite fires downwind, creating fires can start at a far distance from fires's source. The American Red Cross is staffing an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Pet owners utilizing an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani need to have pets properly restrained. Kaonoulu Ranch opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. The cause of a brushfire remains under investigation. Hawaiian Electric Co. advises residents to stay at least 30 feet or more away from downed power lines, which may be energized. Downed power lines can be reported to 911 or Hawaiian Electric Co. trouble line at (808) 871-7777. Two single family homes were impacted by fire early this morning in the Kula 200 subdivision, according to Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. One of Two single family homes was evacuated, and no one was home at the other home that sustained damages. More than 675 acres burned within an 1100 acre perimeter area being monitored by fire crews. More than 80 people were evacuated from 40 homes in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas. 54 people sought shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center, along with 54 people's 17 dogs and seven cats. The Salvation Army’s Kahului Corps is scheduled to provide meals this evening to the approximately 50 individuals who have taken shelter in Maui County’s/American Red Cross Pukalani shelter. Additionally, The Salvation Army Hawaiian & Pacific Islands Division is prepared to respond with community assistance as needed across Maui due to strong winds and fires. Kaonoulu Ranch has opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. Nearly 30 firefighters from different stations responded, along with assets from the private sector and state crews from the Department of Forestry and Wildlife. As Thursday, Aug. 10 has gone on, County officials continue to monitoring the winds. If the winds goes below a tolerance threshold, The County of Maui will be able to get more assets in the air for firefighting efforts. Foreground image/interview with Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. by Wendy Osher. Background image: PC: Nicole Mendes (8.8.23). A separate fire in West Maui burned a total of three acres that was contained by 9:04 a.m. on Thursday, Aug. 10. Two people sought shelter at the Lahaina Civic Center. Power outages in West Maui forced the closure of the Department of Motor Vehicles satellite office in Lahaina. Haleakalā National Park’s's Summit District remains closed to visitors due to blocked road access as well as power outages resulting from wildfires and high winds. All sunrise reservations for Aug. 9, 2023 are canceled. A fire in Kula Lodge has burned an estimated 675 acres since A fire in Kula was first reported at around 12:22 a.m. near Olinda Road. A fire in Kula resulted in the evacuation of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas early this morning. At 11:55 a.m, County officials said A fire in Kula remains active, with no estimate on containment.. Two single family homes were burned. No injuries were reported, and the cause is under investigation. High winds, including gusts of up to 80 mph reported in the Kīhei area mauka (east) of Piʻilani Highway, including all of Maui Meadows, were making conditions unsafe for helicopter operations, according to a Maui update. Firefighter crews and tankers from Kula Lodge, Makawao, Kahului and Wailea were deployed and are on scene. State Department of Land and Natural Resources Division of Forestry and Wildlife crews, tankers, engines and heavy equipment are assisting county firefighters. Goodfellow Bros., Haleakalā Ranch, Kaonoulu Ranch and Kaupō Ranch also deployed heavy equipment to assist with firebreaks. As of 7 a.m., 54 residents were at an emergency shelter staffed by The American Red Cross at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Pet owners utilizing an emergency shelter staffed by the American Red Cross at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani will need to have pets properly restrained. Kaonoulu Ranch opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. Impacted residents are advised to heed emergency responders when directed to leave the area immediately with your family, pets and necessities. Residents in nearby areas should stay informed and make preparations should A fire in Kula reach close proximity and officials call for additional evacuation. Kealaloa Avenue, Haleakalā Highway at Lower Kimo Road and Haleakalā Highway at Kula Lodge are closed to motorists. Heavy smoke conditions in the area exist. A high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service for portions of The County of Maui, including Haleakalā National Park’s Summit District, remains in effect through 6 a.m. Wednesday. The County of Maui swimming pool and Department of Motor Vehicles satellite office located in Pukalani are closed due to smoke conditions. Kula Community Center was closed due to the lack of power. The Department of Water Supply asks Upcountry residents to conserve water because power outages are afffecting the ability to pump water to certain locations. Maui Fire Department has declared the Lahaina brush fire 100% contained shortly before 9 a.m. Thursday, Aug. 10; However, power outages are impacting the ability to pump water, and the public is asked to conserve water in West Maui. Fueled by strong wind from Hurricane Dora that is passing well south of Hawaiʻi, a brushfire was reported at 6:37 a.m. Thursday, Aug. 10 in the area of Lahainaluna Road. Evacuations were ordered at 6:40 a.m. in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School. There were two people at an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani as of 8:50 a.m. Lahainaluna Road remains closed between Kelawea and Kuialua streets while Hawaiian Electric responds to a downed power line in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School. The American Red Cross opened Lahaina Civic Center as an evacuation center due to a brushfire and area power outages tied to high winds. an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani will remain open until further notice, but an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani has no power. Pet owners utilizing an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani will need to have pets properly restrained. Winds in the Kīhei area mauka (east) of Piʻilani Highway, including all of Maui Meadows remain a concern. A high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service for portions of The County of Maui remains in effect through 6 a.m. Wednesday. The cause of a brushfire remains under investigation. The Hawaii Judiciary advises: The Lahaina District Courthouse in West Maui is closed Thursday, Aug. 10 due to a power outage in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School. Kaiser Permanente is reporting a closure of Kaiser Permanente's Lahaina Clinic Thursday, Aug. 10 due to fire, high winds and power outages in the Kīhei area mauka (east) of Piʻilani Highway, including all of Maui Meadows. Members with appointments scheduled Thursday, Aug. 10, will be contacted to reschedule. a brushfire was reported at 6:37 a.m. Thursday, Aug. 10 in the area of Lahainaluna Road. Evacuations were ordered at 6:40 a.m. in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School. Fire crews from Nāpili, Lahaina and Kīhei are on scene. Lahainaluna Road is closed between Kelawea and Kuialua streets. The American Red Cross has opened Lahaina Civic Center as an evacuation center. Pet owners utilizing an emergency shelter at Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani will need to have pets properly restrained. Impacted residents are advised to heed emergency responders when directed to leave the area immediately with your family, pets and necessities. Winds in the area are a concern. A high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service for portions of The County of Maui remains in effect through 6 a.m. Wednesday. Maui fire crews continue to battle a brush fire reported shortly after midnight early Tuesday morning, in the Olinda Road area of Kula Lodge. Residents in the Auliʻi Drive area were evacuated at 3:45 a.m. At 4:50 a.m. residents of Hanamu Road were also evacuated. Firefighter crews from Kula Lodge, Makawao, Kahului, and Wailea are on scene. Maui Fire Department's Air One helicopter was launched at daybreak to conduct aerial assessment of a brushfire. The American Red Cross has opened Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani as an evacuation center. Pet owners utilizing Hannibal Tavares Community Center will need to have pets properly restrained. As of 7 a.m., 54 residents were at Hannibal Tavares Community Center. Kaonoulu Ranch has opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals. Kealaloa Avenue, Haleakalā Highway at Lower Kimo Road, and Haleakalā Highway at Kula Lodge are closed to motorists. The County of Maui's swimming pool located in Pukalani has been closed due to smoke conditions. Impacted residents are advised to heed emergency responders when directed to leave the area immediately with your family, pets and necessities. Heavy smoke conditions in the area exist. A high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service for portions of The County of Maui, including Haleakalā National Park’s Summit District, remains in effect through 6 a.m. Wednesday. Lahainaluna Road is closed from the Lahaina Bypass to Kuialua streets due to a brush fire in West Maui. a brush fire in West Maui is also being fueled by strong winds. The Hawai‘i State Department of Education has closed four schools in West Maui due to unsafe conditions caused by heavy winds, including flying debris, downed power poles and trees. Most of four schools in West Maui were not scheduled to have students on campus Thursday, Aug. 10. Princess Nahi‘ena‘ena Elementary : School closed to students and staff. Families have been notified by School. : School closed to students and staff. Families have been notified by School. King Kamehameha III Elementary : Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school Thursday, Aug. 10. : Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school Thursday, Aug. 10. Lahaina Intermediate : Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school Thursday, Aug. 10. : Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school Thursday, Aug. 10. Lahainaluna High School: Freshman student orientation canceled. Previously scheduled waiver day for grades 10-12. Maui Fire Department is monitoring the brush fire conditions in Upcountry and other weather impacts statewide. All other HIDOE schools remain open at this time. Seabury Hall on Olinda Road in Makawao, also announced a school closure Thursday, Aug. 10 due to a brushfire. Kamehameha Schools Maui announced Kamehameha Schools Maui is cancelling classes Thursday, Aug. 10 (Thursday, Aug. 10, Aug. 8, 2023) at Kamehameha Schools Maui's ʻAʻapueo campus in Pukalani due to a brush fire in the Kula 200 area. a brush fire in the Kula 200 area has created poor air quality, nearby evacuations and road closures. All Bus routes for Kamehameha Schools Maui are cancelled for Thursday, Aug. 10. Students/parents are being asked to check Students/parents's email and notifications. Multiple streets in the area of King Kekaulike High School have been evacuated due to a brushfire. Evacuations include: Auliʻi Drive, Hoʻopalua Drive, Hanamu Road and Kealaloa Avenue. Maui Emergency Management Agency advises residents in : Auliʻi Drive, Hoʻopalua Drive, Hanamu Road and Kealaloa Avenue to grab residents in these areas's “go Kits” and evacuate family and pets now. A shelter is being opened at the Hannibal Tavares Community Center. An evacuation order has been issued for the Kula 200 subdivision off of Auliʻi Drive due to an ongoing brush fire reported overnight. Maui Emergency Management Agency issued the notification saying residents in the Kula 200 area should grab residents in the area's “go kits” and evacuate residents in the area's family and pets. Haleakalā Highway (377) is closed between Kula Lodge and Lower Kimo Drive due to a brush fire reported overnight. Police have also closed Kealaloa Road from Hanamu Road to Haleakalā Highway (377) due to ongoing firefighting efforts.
Honolulu firefighters battled two brushfires simultaneously on Thursday that burned about 250 acres of land on Oahu. At 10:12 a.m., the Honolulu Fire Department received a 911 call for a brush fire at Kamehameha Highway and Paalaa Uka Pupukea Road, about a mile north of Dole Planation on Oahu's North Shore. A total of 20 units responded, including the Air 1 and Air 2 helicopters. Shortly before 8 p.m. Thursday, a brush fire at Kamehameha Highway and Paalaa Uka Pupukea Road, about a mile north of Dole Planation on Oahu’s North Shore was 50% contained, said the Honolulu Fire Department, and roadways reopened. Firefighting operations were suspended overnight, but a drone team remained on fire watch. Approximately 225 acres, burned, according to the Honolulu Fire Department. A second brush fire also broke out on about 25 acres near Central Oahu Regional Park in Waipio at about 11 a.m. Thursday. A total of 19 units, including Air 1 and Air 2, responded. A second brush fire was declared contained at 4:12 p.m. Thursday. There were no threats to lives, homes or structures, and no evacuations. No injuries were reported. Approximately a quarter of Oahu is classified as abnormally dry or in drought, including Oahu's south and west sides, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor, as peak wildfire season gets underway.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Multiple blazes broke out across Oahu Thursday, including two brush fires, keeping fire crews busy from the early morning and even into the overnight hours. Dozens of emergency responders rushed to the scene of a fire around 2 a.m. Friday at the South Shore Market building. HFD officials said HFD officials were able to put out a fire around 2 a.m. Friday at the South Shore Market building in about 20 minutes. So far, no word on the cause or extent of damage. Another blaze happened just hours before in the Kalihi area around 8:30 p.m. Firefighters responded to a single-story home on Makalapua Place, off Halona Street for Another blaze. No injuries were reported and the cause remains under investigation. Around 12:30 p.m., a fuel truck caught on fire while on a Joint Base Pearl Harbor Hickam flight-line. a fuel truck had been refueling a Marine Corps plane at the time. Officials said fire was put out before fire could spread to an aircraft and no one was hurt. About 120 gallons in A-triple-F fire suppressant foam was used in the effort. It’s believed About 120 gallons in A-triple-F fire suppressant foam was confined to the tarmac but the military is looking into potential impacts. Early Thursday morning, both the Honolulu Fire Department and Federal Fire Department responded to two large brush fires in the North Shore and Waikele areas. At last check, the Waikele brush fire has been fully contained, however the North Shore fire in Paalaa is only 50% contained. All roads have been reopened. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
In West Maui, recent wildfires have resulted in the devastating loss of loved ones, homes, cultural and historical sites, and businesses in Lahaina. The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority extend The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority's deepest condolences and heartfelt aloha to all those who have been affected by the devastating loss of loved ones, homes, cultural and historical sites, and businesses in Lahaina. The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority also urge visitors throughout Hawai‘i to be especially mindful and respectful in our island home as our community continues through this extremely difficult time. The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority is continuously coordinating efforts with federal, state and county emergency management officials, as well as The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority's community partners, visitor industry and Global Marketing Team. The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority are also providing updates to The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority's travel partners - airlines, accommodations, ground transportation companies, activity providers, travel agents, and wholesalers, as well as to local, national and international media - to ensure the public is kept informed. The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority's Board of Directors took decisive action today at HTA's Board of Directors's monthly board meeting to approve $2.6 million in funding to launch the Maui Marketing Recovery Plan, which is centered around a new Mālama Maui campaign with heartfelt messages shared by kama‘āina of Maui. the Maui Marketing Recovery Plan, which is centered around a new Mālama Maui campaign with heartfelt messages shared by kama‘āina of Maui's focus is to rebuild responsible travel demand from the United States market to Maui in the wake of the devastating Lahaina wildfires. Watch its monthly board meeting. The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority staff and board members were on Maui over the past weeks to meet with residents and business owners and listen to residents and business owners about the challenges residents and business owners now face with visitor arrivals decreasing significantly since August 8. Visitors help to support the economy, supporting local shops, local restaurants, and local activities which ultimately aids in Maui's overall recovery efforts. On August 21, during Hawaiʻi Governor Josh Green's remarks alongside President Joe Biden and Hawaiʻi congressional delegation from the impacted area of Lahaina, Hawaiʻi Governor Josh Green continued to emphasize the need to avoid West Maui at this time, as well as the importance of travel to the rest of Maui and the other Hawaiian Islands and the economic impact travel has on the well-being of Maui and Maui's recovery. In alignment with Hawaiʻi Governor Josh Green, The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority urges visitors to refrain from going to West Maui (including Lahaina, Nāpili, Kāʻanapali, and Kapalua) as a means of respect to the people and places that have been lost in Lahaina during recent wildfires. The impacted area of Lahaina remains off limits to the public as the search and recovery efforts continue. Hawaiʻi Governor Josh Green's sixth emergency proclamation, issued on August 19 remains in place, with all nonessential travel to West Maui being strongly discouraged for the duration of Governor Green’s sixth emergency proclamation, issued on August 19 (through October 17, 2023). The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority encourage travelers to continue visiting other areas of Maui (including Kahului, Wailuku, Kīhei, Wailea, Mākena, Pāʻia and Hāna), as well as the other Hawaiian Islands of Kauaʻi, Oʻahu, Lānaʻi, Molokaʻi and Hawaiʻi Island. For the latest Maui emergency management and recovery information, and how you can kōkua (help) the people of Maui, visit mauistrong.hawaii.gov. At this time, hotels in West Maui have temporarily stopped accepting bookings of future reservations and are housing hotels in West Maui's employees and families, evacuees, and first responders working on disaster recovery – well over 1,000 people so far with more to come. More information on efforts to house evacuees can be found at mauistrong.hawaii.gov. Vacation rental owners, as well as anyone with available space, are encouraged to make these accommodations available to temporarily house displaced West Maui residents. Hawai‘i has set up a referral program to make those connections possible to support West Maui residents in need of housing. Learn more, offer your space, or look for housing at the Fire Relief Housing Program website. A call center is also available from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily at 808-587-0469, or email [email protected]. Airbnb.org has also announced an initiative to provide free, temporary stays to 1,000 people through its network of hosts. Details of an initiative to provide free, temporary stays to 1,000 people through its network of hosts will be announced in the coming days. The devastation in Lahaina is immense and unprecedented. The extent of the damage affecting residents, families and area businesses has yet to be fully understood. Experts have warned that hazardous materials are likely present. The area most affected by recent wildfires is off limits to the general public, and The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority urge visitors to refrain from traveling to West Maui at this time. For updates, visit the County of Maui website: www.mauicounty.gov. Due to recent wildfires and recent wildfires's impact on people’s travel plans, the major U.S. airlines serving Kahului Airport have implemented flexible travel policies for changing or canceling flights. For specific information check with your airline. The U.S. Department of Transportation has posted a page with links to the major carriers serving Kahului Airport. Anyone wanting to make donations to help communities and families recover on Maui can do so through the Maui Strong Fund established by the Hawaiʻi Community Foundation. a page with links to the major carriers serving Kahului Airport can be accessed here. Due to capacity limitations in the system, please consider making financial rather than physical donations. A: Wildfires have mainly affected Lahaina in West Maui. All non-essential travel to West Maui (including Lahaina in West Maui, Nāpili, Kā‘anapali, and Kapalua) is strongly discouraged for the duration of Governor Greenʻs sixth emergency proclamation (through October 17, 2023) issued on August 19. Hotels in West Maui have temporarily stopped accepting bookings of future reservations as Hotels in West Maui are housing Hotels in West Maui's employees and families, evacuees, and first responders. Other areas on Maui (including Kahului, Wailuku, Kīhei, Wailea, Mākena, Pāʻia and Hāna), as well as the other Hawaiian Islands of Kauaʻi, Oʻahu, Lānaʻi, Molokaʻi and Hawaiʻi Island remain unaffected. The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority urge visitors to be especially mindful and respectful in our island home as our community continues through the devastating loss of loved ones, homes, cultural and historical sites, and businesses in Lahaina. A: Beyond West Maui, other areas on Maui (including Kahului, Wailuku, Kīhei, Wailea, Mākena, Pāʻia and Hāna), as well as the other Hawaiian Islands of Kauaʻi, Oʻahu, Lānaʻi, Molokaʻi and Hawaiʻi Island remain open. Non-essential travel to West Maui (including Lahaina in West Maui, Nāpili, Kāʻanapali, and Kapalua) is strongly discouraged through October 17, 2023. A: While Kahului Airport remains open, it is strongly suggested that travelers check with travelers's airline for any flight changes or cancellations, or for assistance with rebooking. A: Please call or text 9-1-1 if you are in need of medical assistance. A: Please contact Maui Emergency Management Agency at (808) 270-7285 or [email protected]. Also, visit MauiStrong.hawaii.gov for the latest general information. NOTE: While multiple dictionary sources propose "Lāhainā" as the old pronunciation for the region, living kūpuna, mānaleo and recordings of mānaleo serve to demonstrate that the contemporary pronunciation is Lahaina. Heeding the call from the Lahaina community, The Hawaiʻi Tourism Authority now uses the spelling Lahaina across all platforms.
LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — A search of the wildfire devastation on the Hawaiian island of Maui on Thursday revealed a wasteland of obliterated neighborhoods and landmarks charred beyond recognition, as the death toll rose to at least 53 and survivors told harrowing tales of narrow escapes with only the clothes on survivors's backs. A flyover of historic Lahaina showed entire neighborhoods that had been a vibrant vision of color and island life reduced to gray ash. Block after block was nothing but rubble and blackened foundations, including along famous Front Street, where tourists shopped and dined just days ago. Boats in the harbor were scorched, and smoke hovered over the town, which dates to the 1700s and is the biggest community on the Hawaiian island of Maui west side. “historic Lahaina, with a few rare exceptions, has been burned down,” Hawaii Gov. Josh Green told The Associated Press. More than 1,000 structures were destroyed by fires that were still burning, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said. Already Hawaii's deadliest natural disaster since a 1960 tsunami killed 61 people on the Hawaiian island of Maui, the death toll will likely rise further as search and rescue operations continue, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green added. “We are heartsick,” Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said. Many businesses, including one of historic Lahaina's oldest shops, were destroyed. As owner Tiffany Kidder Winn assessed the damage Wednesday at the Whaler’s Locker gift store, owner Tiffany Kidder Winn came upon a line of burned-out vehicles, some with charred bodies inside. “It looked like they were trying to get out, but were stuck in traffic and couldn’t get off Front Street,” owner Tiffany Kidder Winn said. owner Tiffany Kidder Winn later spotted a body leaning against a seawall. Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the fire started Tuesday and took the Hawaiian island of Maui by surprise, racing through parched growth covering the Hawaiian island of Maui and then feasting on homes and anything else that lay in the fire's path. The official death toll of 53 as of Thursday makes the fire the deadliest U.S. wildfire since the 2018 Camp Fire in California, which killed at least 85 people and laid waste to the town of Paradise. The Hawaii toll could rise, though, as rescuers reach parts of the Hawaiian island of Maui that had been inaccessible due to the three ongoing fires, including the one in historic Lahaina that was 80% contained on Thursday, according to a Maui County news release. Dozens of people have been injured, some critically. “Hawaii Emergency Management Agency are still in life preservation mode. Search and rescue is still a primary concern,” said Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. Search and rescue teams still won’t be able to reach certain areas until the fire lines are secure and access is safe, Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for Hawaii Emergency Management Agency added. the fire left some people with mere minutes to act and led some to flee into the ocean. A historic Lahaina man, Bosco Bae, posted video on Facebook from Tuesday night that showed fire burning nearly every building on a street as sirens blared and windblown sparks raced by. Bae, who said A Lahaina man, Bosco Bae was one of the last people to leave historic Lahaina, was evacuated to the Hawaiian island of Maui's main airport and was waiting to be allowed to return home. Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022, said that when Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022 heard the fire alarms, it was already too late to flee in Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022's car. Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022 and Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022's brother Eduardo escaped via roads that were clogged with vehicles full of people. The smoke was so toxic that Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022 vomited. Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022 said Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022’s not sure Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatemala who came to the U.S. in January 2022's roommates and neighbors made it to safety. historic Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso described Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso's harrowing escape under smoke-filled skies. Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso and Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso's 6-year-old son got back to Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso's apartment after a quick dash to the supermarket for water, and only had time to grab a change of clothes and run as the bushes around Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso caught fire. “Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso barely made it out,” Kamuela Kawaakoa said at an evacuation shelter, still unsure if anything was left of Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso's apartment. As Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso fled, Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso called 911 when Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso saw the Hale Mahaolu senior living facility across the road erupt in flames. Communications have been spotty on the Hawaiian island of Maui, with 911, landline and cellular service failing at times. Power was also out in parts of the Hawaiian island of Maui. Tourists were advised to stay away, and about 11,000 flew out of the Hawaiian island of Maui on Wednesday with at least 1,500 more expected to leave Thursday, according to Ed Sniffen, state transportation director. Officials prepared the Hawaii Convention Center in Honolulu to receive thousands. In coastal Kihei, southeast of historic Lahaina, wide swaths of ground glowed red with embers Wednesday night as flames continued to chew through trees and buildings. Gusty winds blew sparks over a black and orange patchwork of charred earth and still-crackling hot spots. the fire were fanned by strong winds from Hurricane Dora passing far to the south. the fire’s the latest in a series of disasters caused by extreme weather around the globe this summer. Experts say climate change is increasing the likelihood of such events. Wildfires aren’t unusual in Hawaii, but the weather of the past few weeks created the fuel for the fire and, once ignited, strong winds from Hurricane Dora passing far to the south created the fire, said Thomas Smith an associate professor in Environmental Geography at the London School of Economics and Political Science. Hawaii's Big Island is also currently seeing blazes, Mayor Mitch Roth said, although there were no reports of injuries or destroyed homes there. With communications hampered, it was difficult for many to check in with friends and family members. Some people were posting messages on social media. A Family Assistance Center opened at the Kahului Community Center for people looking for the missing. Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, of the Hawaii State Department of Defense, said Tuesday night that officials were working to get communications restored, distribute water and possibly add law enforcement personnel. Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, of the Hawaii State Department of Defense, said National Guard helicopters had dropped 150,000 gallons (568,000 liters) of water on the fire. The Coast Guard said The Coast Guard rescued 14 people who jumped into the water to escape the flames and smoke. Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said Wednesday that officials hadn’t yet begun investigating the immediate cause of the fire. President Joe Biden declared a major disaster on the Hawaiian island of Maui. Traveling in Utah on Thursday, President Joe Biden pledged that the federal response will ensure that “anyone who’s lost a loved one, or whose home has been damaged or destroyed, is going to get help immediately.” President Joe Biden promised to streamline requests for assistance and said the Federal Emergency Management Agency was “surging emergency personnel” on the Hawaiian island of Maui. This story has been corrected to state that Louise Abihai is Chelsey Vierra’s great-grandmother, not Chelsey Vierra’s's grandmother. Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative here. AP’s is solely responsible for all content. Sinco Kelleher reported from Honolulu, Rush from Kahului and Weber from Los Angeles. Associated Press writers Nick Perry in Wellington, New Zealand; Andrew Selsky in Bend, Oregon; Bobby Caina Calvan and Beatrice Dupuy in New York; and Chris Megerian in Salt Lake City, Utah, contributed.
Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. declared that a major disaster exists in the State of Hawaii and The President’s action Federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by wildfires beginning on August 8, 2023, and continuing. President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.'s action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in Maui County. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster. Federal funding also is available to state and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for debris removal and emergency protective measures in Maui County, and assistance for emergency protective measures for Hawaii County. Lastly, Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures statewide. Mr. Maona N. Ngwira of FEMA has been appointed to coordinate Federal recovery operations in the areas affected by wildfires beginning on August 8, 2023, and continuing. Damage assessments are continuing, and additional forms of assistance may be designated after Damage assessments are fully completed. Residents and business owners who sustained losses in the areas affected by wildfires beginning on August 8, 2023, and continuing can begin applying for assistance at www.DisasterAssistance.gov, by calling 800-621-FEMA (3362), or by using the FEMA App. Anyone using a relay service, such as video relay service (VRS), captioned telephone service or others, can give FEMA the number for a relay service, such as video relay service (VRS), captioned telephone service or others,.
The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday delivered a devastating blow to Hawaii’s historical and cultural resources. The area in and around Front Street — designated a National Historic Landmark since 1962 — was leveled by The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday, and so were Lahaina's historic buildings, landmarks and sites. A spokesperson for Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen wasn’t ready late Wednesday afternoon to list the landmarks that were destroyed by The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday, saying access to The area in and around Front Street — designated a National Historic Landmark since 1962 was still restricted and crews were still actively fighting The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday. But Tamara Paltin, who represents Lahaina on the Maui County Council, didn’t hold back while delivering food and supplies to West Maui via boat. “Basically everything from Safeway to the Chart House is gone,” Tamara Paltin, who represents Lahaina on the Maui County Council said in a brief phone interview. >> Waiola Church, established in 1823 by High Chiefess Keopuolani. >> Maria Lanakila Catholic Church, which was established in 1846 by the Rev. Aubert Bouillon of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, and officially dedicated in 1858. >> Lahaina Jodo Mission, which was established in a private house in 1912 to propagate Buddhism in Lahaina. Lahaina Jodo Mission, which was established in a private house in 1912 to propagate Buddhism in Lahaina moved to Lahaina Jodo Mission, which was established in a private house in 1912 to propagate Buddhism in Lahaina's present location in 1931. >> Na Aikana Cultural Center, which occupies a building that once served as a soup kitchen for plantation workers during an ILWU strike against the Pioneer Mill. >> Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland. >> The Old Lahaina Courthouse, which opened in 1860 as a customs house for whaling and trade ships as well as a center for government offices and court functions during the monarchy period. >> The Baldwin Home Museum, the oldest home on Lahaina, built between 1834 and 1835 for missionaries Dwight Baldwin and Charlotte Fowler Baldwin. Outside the courthouse was a massive banyan tree, which was more than 150 years old. a massive banyan tree, which was more than 150 years old was still standing Wednesday but a massive banyan tree, which was more than 150 years old was heavily charred and a likely victim. The Emma Farden Sharpe Hula Festival was supposed to be held Saturday under a massive banyan tree, which was more than 150 years old, but The Emma Farden Sharpe Hula Festival fate is now uncertain. Kumu hula Roselle Bailey of Wailuku said Kumu hula Roselle Bailey of Wailuku hopes The Emma Farden Sharpe Hula Festival will go forward so that The Emma Farden Sharpe Hula Festival can help uplift the people of Lahaina. This was not the first time Lahaina was destroyed by fire. In the early morning of New Year’s Day 1919, fire swept through Lahaina, destroying more than 30 buildings, according to historical accounts, before fire was stopped by the townspeople. The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday led to the organization of Hawaii’s's fire department and the implementation of other fire safety measures. Morrison, who didn’t know the fate of Morrison, who didn’t know the fate of her own Lahaina home Wednesday morning's own Lahaina home Wednesday morning, said Lahaina history can be divided into six separate but sometimes overlapping eras: pre-contact, monarchy, missionary, whaling, plantation and tourism. six separate but sometimes overlapping eras: pre-contact, monarchy, missionary, whaling, plantation and tourism, Morrison, who didn’t know the fate of her own Lahaina home Wednesday morning said, brought a different group of people who recognized Lahaina. Each era ended with a slump, Morrison, who didn’t know the fate of her own Lahaina home Wednesday morning said, but Lahaina always reinvented Lahaina. six separate but sometimes overlapping eras: pre-contact, monarchy, missionary, whaling, plantation and tourism left a mosaic of history, artifacts and landmarks scattered throughout Lahaina, but now most of a mosaic of history, artifacts and landmarks scattered throughout the town may be lost. The Lahaina Restoration Foundation was in the middle of several restoration projects, including the just-completed $20,000 repainting of the Baldwin Home Museum, part of a $500,000 effort that was set to get underway soon. “The shingles (for a new roof) are sitting on Oahu right now,” Morrison, who didn’t know the fate of her own Lahaina home Wednesday morning said. Foundation workers also were preparing a $500,000 exhibit to be installed at the Old Lahaina Courthouse. a $500,000 exhibit to be installed at the Old Lahaina Courthouse was going to describe Moku‘ula, the 1837-1847 home of King Kamehameha III that was rediscovered under a baseball field at Lahaina's Malu‘ulu o Lele Park. With The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday, however, the projects are in limbo. “The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday is the biggest blow Lahaina’ve ever had as a community. The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday’s beyond comprehending,” Morrison, who didn’t know the fate of her own Lahaina home Wednesday morning said. “With the lost homes, jobs, a big chunk of the economy, The fire that rampaged through Lahaina on Tuesday’s a game-changer. Kiersten Faulkner, executive director of the Historic Hawai‘i Foundation, called Lahaina's historic significance vast, crossing many periods of time. Lahaina's buildings reflect Lahaina's past as the capital of the Hawaiian kingdom, the early days of western contact through whaling and shipping, followed by the influence of the early American missionaries and the sugar plantations. Office of Hawaiian Affairs Chair Carmen “Hulu” Lindsey, who represents Hawaii’s on the board of trustees, said OHA is praying for those who lost those who lost their homes, property and livelihoods's homes, property and livelihoods. OHA, Office of Hawaiian Affairs Chair Carmen “Hulu” Lindsey, who represents Maui on the board of trustees said in a statement, is assessing community needs and is prepared to help. “As kanaka, there are truly no words to describe the devastation and immeasurable losses in Lahaina, a national historic landmark, historic district, and former capital of the Hawaiian kingdom,” Office of Hawaiian Affairs Chair Carmen “Hulu” Lindsey, who represents Maui on the board of trustees said. “Lahaina holds some of the most historically significant cultural properties and highest-ranking sacred remains of our ancestors. There is so much history that will be forever lost, a history that tethers all of us, young and old, not only to the ‘aina, but to ourselves and to each other.
Search-and-rescue operations were underway Wednesday as authorities assessed the extent of the damage. Many residents were without power, cell signal and accessible roads as of morning local time. Authorities said it was too soon to provide an exact number of those wounded, adding that injuries extended beyond burns, including smoke inhalation, which one firefighter suffered. Officials signed an emergency proclamation on Wednesday and discouraged tourists from traveling to Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity — Luke said. Authorities are working with the main airlines, issuing waivers and lowering fares so trapped visitors can evacuate as soon as possible. A convention center on Oahu is prepared to shelter as many as 4,000 tourists, officials said. The blazes destroyed much of the popular tourist town of Lahaina on Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity, said Richard Bissen, mayor of Maui County. The blazes caused mass evacuations and decimated buildings throughout Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity. Shelters are overrun, power is out for more than 2,000 residents, and access to the west side of Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity is hampered by mass road closures. The extent of structural damage, and the impact on businesses, remains unclear as officials prioritize search-and-rescue efforts, but authorities anticipate the damage to be extensive. Mitch Roth, mayor of Hawaii County, said fires on Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity are contained for the most part, adding that Mitch Roth, mayor of Hawaii County, was “still hesitant to say Hawaii County have fires on the Big Island completely under control.” Firefighters continued Wednesday to combat active fires. Hawaii Gov. Josh Green (D), who had been out of state on personal travel, said Wednesday that Hawaii Gov. Josh Green (D), who had been out of state on personal travel was returning to Hawaii “immediately.” On Tuesday, Luke declared an emergency relief period through at least Aug. 15 and activated the Hawaii National Guard to help with the disaster. The blazes have destroyed hundreds of acres in regions including Kula, North Kohala and South Kohala. “Local people have lost everything. Local people’ve lost Local people's house, Local people’ve lost Local people's animals. It’s devastating,” said James Tokioka, director of Hawaii's Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism. President Biden said in a statement Wednesday that the Coast Guard and Navy Third Fleet are supporting response and rescue efforts. Months of drought primed the islands for fire risks, with more than a third of Maui County under at least moderate drought as of Aug. 1, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. Abnormally dry conditions developed rapidly there in June and have persisted, with slightly below-normal precipitation during what is a typically dry time of year. Weather patterns have allowed fires to spread quickly. A strong high-pressure system north of the islands is keeping conditions dry and sunny, and tradewinds have intensified as Category 4 Dora passes hundreds of miles to the south. The difference between A strong high-pressure system north of the islands and Category 4 Dora low pressure has fueled damaging winds, the National Weather Service said. Winds that had surged above 60 mph Tuesday were slackening Wednesday, said Ian Morrison, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Honolulu. Winds that had surged above 60 mph Tuesday were forecast to be calm enough for the National Weather Service to discontinue “red flag” fire weather warnings by Thursday, Ian Morrison, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Honolulu said. But even under normal weather patterns, Ian Morrison, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Honolulu added, winds are expected to gust up to 40 mph. “winds aren’t going to drop off, but we’ll be out of those critical fire weather parameters,” Ian Morrison, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Honolulu said. Beyond those critical fire weather parameters — absent another tropical system — no significant rain is expected to ease drought conditions until the wet season begins in the fall. Areas of severe drought, now covering about 5 percent of Maui County and 1 percent of Hawaii, are likely to expand, Ian Morrison, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Honolulu said. Because Hawaii communities and ecosystems have not faced significant wildfire threats in the past, preparations to prevent fires and limit fires's impact is lagging, said Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization. preparations to prevent fires and limit their impact includes work to harden homes so homes’re more resistant to embers catching fire and to manage plant growth that fuels fires. “It’s just kind of a nightmare recipe,” Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization said. Unlike in the western United States, Hawaii's forests are not adapted to coexisting with wildfire, Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization said, so forests that are burned typically don’t grow back. Eventual rains can also wash debris into the oceans, smothering corals and ruining water quality. A similar outbreak of fires occurred in 2018, when Hurricane Lane struck the islands, dumping some 17 inches of rainfall on Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity and causing landslides — but also fanning fires on Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity and Oahu that burned about 3,000 acres, destroyed 21 structures and required a hurricane shelter to be relocated. Videos shared to social media Wednesday showed flames engulfing the streets of the popular tourist town of Lahaina on the island of Maui. The U.S. Coast Guard rescued 12 people who had fled into the ocean to avoid smoke and flames. Firefighters responding to The blazes faced strong winds, which prevented helicopters from dumping water onto The blazes and gathering more information about The blazes, officials said. Several schools in Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity closed amid strong winds, which prevented helicopters from dumping water onto the fires and gathering more information about the blazes, officials said, with officials citing “unsafe campus conditions and damage” caused by the brush fires and weather. Maui — the island hit hardest and where shelters are at maximum capacity Education Department said Wednesday that Maui High School would be used as an evacuation shelter.
Editors’ Note: Please bookmark this page. This breaking news story will be updated as soon as more information becomes available. 9:15 p.m. The death toll from the Lahaina fire is now 55, Maui County reported this evening. As of Wednesday evening there were 36 fatalities. Maui County reported 19 additional fatalties today. Starting Friday, radio stations on Maui will air Maui County updates on the Lahaina fire at 9 a.m., noon and 3 p.m. Radio updates will supplement information posted on Maui County's website, Facebook and Instagram pages, Maui County said in a news release this evening. 6 p.m. Four public school campuses in Lahaina will remain closed through next week Friday, according to a news release from the Hawaii Department of Education. Lahainaluna High, Lahaina Intermediate, Princess Nahi‘ena‘ena Elementary and King Kamehameha III Elementary schools will be The extended closures until Aug. 18. “While the Hawaii Department of Education is working to solidify next steps for what school operations will look like for West Maui, the Hawaii Department of Education are also making sure all students, staff and families are accounted for. The extended closures are also aimed at allowing students, families and staff to care for students, families and staff and loved ones and start to reestablish students, families and staff's bearings during this stressful and devastating time,” according to a statement. Officials said damage assessments are underway at Four public school campuses in Lahaina, but King Kamehameha III Elementary on Front Street was confirmed to have severe fire and structural damage. Reopening plans for all other Maui public schools will be determined Friday. “Schools in Upcountry, South and Central Maui will have phased reopening plans to first bring back staff, followed by students. phased reopening plans to first bring back staff, followed by students will give school teams time to assess damage and capacity to welcome students back safely,” officials said in a statement. 5 p.m. Maui Police Chief John Pelletier today asked for residents’ patience in re-entering Lahaina so that authorities could respectfully search for and remove even more fatalities. Asked about specifics on which parts of Lahaina were spared, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen, Jr. said “all of it” was gone. Pressed by reporters for exact streets, along with the current number of fatalities, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier later returned to the podium in the Maui County building and insisted that the current number of fatalities remains at 53. 2:55 p.m. Gov. Josh Green issued a fourth emergency proclamation related to the wildfires whipped through Maui and Hawaii island this week, killing at least 53 people and destroying and estimated 1,700 buildings on Maui. >> The Honolulu Fire Department said The Honolulu Fire Department will deploy 40 personnel to Maui to aid ongoing operations, including firefighters, incident management team members, and search-and-rescue specialists. >> And the FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell is scheduled to travel to Hawaii island to meet with state and local officials regarding ongoing response and recovery efforts, FEMA announced. 1:15 p.m. Maui County officials raised the confirmed fatality count from Tuesday’s out-of-control wildfires to 53, an increase of 17 from Wednesday, and Gov. Josh Green expects The death toll from the Lahaina fire to keep climbing. Maui County provided no other details but Gov. Josh Green told CNN earlier that The death toll from the Lahaina fire will go up “very significantly” from the Wednesday estimate of 36 as search-and-rescue crews reach areas that were previously inaccessible. Speaking via phone as Gov. Josh Green viewed the devastation on Front Street in Lahaina just after noon, Gov. Josh Green said Gov. Josh Green expects The death toll from the Lahaina fire to eventually “significantly exceed” the 61 deaths from the 1960 tsunami that struck Maui and Hawaii island. Gov. Josh Green also said the estimate of buildings destroyed on Maui is “upwards of 1,700,” sharply higher than the initial estimate Wednesday of 271. Gov. Josh Green said that about 11,000 people in West Maui were still without power. Gov. Josh Green described what Gov. Josh Green was seeing in Lahaina as “total devastation,” estimating that about 80% of Lahaina was destroyed, with hundreds of families displaced. Gov. Josh Green added that the damage to property will be in the “billions of dollars,” Gov. Josh Green said. Gov. Josh Green thanked President Joe Biden for swiftly approving Maui request for a disaster declaration today, and that Gov. Josh Green expects federal aid to start flowing into Maui in days. And Gov. Josh Green praised the on-the-ground assistance already being provided by FEMA on Maui. Gov. Josh Green, Sen. Brian Schatz, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen are planning a 3:30 p.m. news conference, which will be livestreamed on Facebook and on staradvertiser.com, to provide updates on the disaster and recovery efforts. 11:30 a.m. Maui County officials reported that the Lahaina wildfire is 80% contained this morning. In Lahaina, firefighting crews were able to further secure the perimeter of areas that burned. But entry into Lahaina remains restricted, according to the Maui Police Department, as dedicated teams, including Maui Search and Rescue, work in the perimeter of areas that burned, and due to biohazard and safety concerns. County workers are also clearing roads and other areas of trees and debris. Authorities are stopping Lahaina-bound vehicles on Honoapiilani Highway at Maalaea. Honoapiilani Highway is open for traffic leaving West Maui. Motorists can also leave West Maui through Waihee, officials said. Only Kahakuloa residents may access Waihee through Waihee. Also, Lahaina remains without power. The Pulehu fire mauka of Kihei is reported to be 70% contained this morning, according to officials, after heavy equipment was used to create firebreaks through the night. Firefighters continue to secure the perimeter for The Pulehu fire mauka of Kihei this morning. No containment percentage for the Upcountry fire is yet available, pending further assessment this morning. Firefighting efforts focused on two main areas of Olinda and Upper Kula, where crews continue to protect structures and extinguish smoldering hot spots. 9:45 a.m. State senators representing Maui have organized a two-day donation drive at Hawaii state Capitol starting today in response to the ongoing wildfire disasters, according to a Senate news release. State Sens. Angus McKelvey, Gilbert Keith-Agaran and Lynn DeCoite have organized the “Maui Fire Relief Donation Drop-Off” between 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. today and Friday. Donations can either be dropped off near the Father Damien statue in front of Hawaii state Capitol or at the Hawaii state Capitol parking lot off Miller Street. the “Maui Fire Relief Donation Drop-Off” between 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. today and Friday is accepting toiletries, diapers, formula, toys, clothing, bedding, household goods and non-perishable food. Bottled water donations are discouraged. 7:30 a.m. President Joe Biden today approved a presidential disaster declaration for Hawaii island that will bring “significant relief” to communities on Maui and Hawaii island affected by this week wildfires. President Joe Biden spoke by phone today with Gov Josh Green, who returned to Maui and Hawaii island overnight after coming back early from a personal trip. President Joe Biden “expressed President Joe Biden's deep condolences for the lives lost and vast destruction of land and property,” the White House said in a statement this morning. President Joe Biden confirmed President Joe Biden signed a “Major Disaster Declaration” for Hawaii island that will deliver additional federal resources and support on top of the actions already underway by FEMA, the National Guard, the U.S. Coast Guard, and other federal agencies, a statement said. Gov. Josh Green's office said a presidential disaster declaration for Hawaii that will bring “significant relief” to communities on Maui and the Big Island affected by this week’s wildfires makes federal funding available to affected individuals on Maui, including grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, as well as other programs to help individuals and business owners recover. Federal funding also will be available to state and eligible county governments, and certain private, nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis, for debris removal and emergency protective measures in Maui County, Gov. Josh Green's office said. Assistance for emergency protective measures for Hawaii County also will be available. “In the coming days — as more and more details emerge — Gov. Josh Green ask that we as a state provide all the emotional and financial support we as a state can to the people of Lahaina and Maui,” Gov. Josh Green said in a statement. Green, who will visit Maui today to survey the damage, ordered that the U.S and state flags be flown at half-staff at Hawaii state Capitol, all state offices and agencies, and the National Guard facilities, effective immediately, to mourn those killed in the Maui fires. There have been 36 confirmed deaths from the fires that exploded across Maui on Tuesday’s, and officials fear The death toll from the Lahaina fire will grow as search-and-rescue efforts continue. The Associated Press said The death toll from the Lahaina fire makes the Valley Isle wildfires the deadliest U.S. blaze since the 2018 Camp Fire in California, which killed at least 85 people and destroyed the town of Paradise. Joint federal, state and county search-and-rescue efforts resume today on Maui as Maui residents try to recover from the massive, fast-moving wildfires Tuesday’s that killed at least 53 people, destroyed Lahaina and left large swaths of Valley Isle looking like a war zone. County officials this morning will resume evacuating hundreds of visitors off Maui so hundreds of visitors can focus on helping residents recover. County officials this morning plan to continue mass bus evacuations from West Maui for residents and visitors in West Maui, starting at 8:30 am. with boarding at Whalers Village entryway fronting Kaaanapali Parkway. Visitors will be taken directly to the Kahului Airport, and residents will be able to go to shelters. Maui County opened two additional emergency evacuation shelters Wednesday night, at King’s Cathedral Maui at 777 Maui Veteran’s Highway in Kahului and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at 1300 Maui Lani Parkway in Kahului. Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items, and pet owners need to have pets properly restrained. Late Wednesday night, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr.’s office said the death toll from Tuesday’s out-of-control wildfires was now 36, up from the six reported earlier in today. In addition, dozens more suffered burn, smoke-inhalation and other injuries, including several who were transported to Oahu hospitals. In addition to the casualties, flyovers on Wednesday revealed much of the destruction, including a preliminary estimate that 271 homes and structures have been destroyed or heavily damaged. In Lahaina, 271 homes and structures include most of Front Street, the 200-year-old Waiola Church, Maria Lanakila Catholic Church, the Pioneer Inn, thee Old Lahaina Courthouse, and the Baldwin Home Museum. Lahaina's iconic banyan tree was still standing but also severely damaged. Tourists were advised to evacuate, and about 11,000 visitors flew out of Maui Wednesday, with at least another 1,500 expected to leave Thursday, according to Ed Sniffen, state transportation director. Officials prepared the Hawaii Convention Center to take in the thousands who have been displaced. As of Wednesday night, a few dozen evacuees were the first arrivals at the Hawaii Convention Center. As winds eased somewhat on Maui on Wednesday, pilots were able to view the full scope of the destruction. Aerial video from Lahaina showed dozens of homes and businesses razed, including on Front Street. Smoking heaps of rubble lay piled high next to the waterfront, boats in the harbor were scorched, and gray smoke hovered over the leafless skeletons of charred trees. About 14,500 customers in Maui were without power early Wednesday. With cell service and phone lines down in some areas, many people were struggling to check in with friends and family members living near Tuesday’s out-of-control wildfires. All public schools, except Hana High & Elementary, are closed through Friday. In addition to two additional emergency evacuation shelters, other open shelters are the Mayor Hannibal Tavares Community Center, the Maui High School Gym, and the War Memorial Gym, which is also a donation site. Anyone wishing to donate can bring non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets to the War Memorial Gym, which is also a donation site. Those wishing to donate should enter the War Memorial Gym, which is also a donation site through Kanaloa Avenue and drop off donations at the field on the left. The dropoff center will be open today from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. The public can also make monetary donations to the Maui Strong Fund at Hawai‘i Community Foundation at hawaiicommunityfoundation.org/maui-strong. Checks also can be mailed to the Maui Strong Fund. Checks should be written to “Hawai‘i Community Foundation,” with “the Maui Strong Fund” in the memo section. Mail to: Hawai‘i Community Foundation, 827 Fort Street Mall, Honolulu, HI 96813. >> Aloha United Way: Aloha United Way said Aloha United Way's 211 information and referral line is working closely with Maui and Hawaii island organizations to provide updates and information, and to answer questions when possible. its 211 information and referral line is available statewide and can also be accessed via email or chat. John L. Fink, president and CEO of Aloha United Way, said Aloha United Way's homepage, auw.org, lists a donation site for the Maui Fire Relief Fund and will send the money to Maui. >> Hawaii Emergency Management Agency: Hawaii Emergency Management Agency is accepting donations and volunteer support, state Adjutant General Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara said during a state and county news conference Wednesday. Hara, who is overall incident commander for Tuesday’s out-of-control wildfires, recommended that people who want to help go to ready.hawaii.gov or call 808-733-4300. >> Maui County: People on Maui who want to donate or volunteer can call 808-270-7285. Names and contacts are being compiled so that resources can be deployed over time. >> American Red Cross of Hawaii island: Money and volunteers are needed at red cross.org/hawaii, said Matthew Wells, regional communications director. red cross.org/hawaii is not set up to accept physical donations such as clothes or bedding, Matthew Wells, regional communications director said. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
An emergency proclamation was extended for all Hawaii counties on Wednesday. Hawaii residents recounted fleeing from deadly, ferocious wildfires, which have prompted an emergency proclamation from the acting governor. deadly, ferocious wildfires, which have prompted an emergency proclamation from the acting governor are spreading rapidly in very dry conditions combined with powerful trade winds being squeezed across Hawaii. powerful trade winds being squeezed across Hawaii are being caused by a strong high pressure system to the north and a strong low pressure system -- Hurricane Dora -- well to the south. Scott said they had winds "like we've never had before." Scott said Scott tried to fight the fire with a hose before managing to flee. Maui resident Malika Dudley described to ABC News Live on Wednesday Maui resident Malika Dudley's experience evacuating from deadly, ferocious wildfires, which have prompted an emergency proclamation from the acting governor with Maui resident Malika Dudley's two children in the middle of the night. Eventually, they got a call from their neighbor and the fire was right above their property. Currently in Haliimaile, which is on the slopes of Haleakalā, Maui resident Malika Dudley can still see the fire from Haleakalā growing and spreading. Scott said the loss is "horrible," especially along Front Street in downtown Lahaina, just as the tourist-driven area started to rebound from the COVID-19 pandemic. "Scott don't know if we can recover from the loss," Scott said. an emergency proclamation from the acting governor was issued for Hawaii's Maui and Hawaii counties on Tuesday by the acting governor. On Wednesday, an emergency proclamation from the acting governor was extended to all Hawaii counties and non-essential air travel to Maui is now being discouraged. All affected state agencies have also been ordered to assist with the evacuation. an emergency proclamation from the acting governor encourages visitors in West Maui to depart Maui as soon as safe and practicable. In addition to Hawaii's National Guard being activated to assist with the fires on Maui and the Big Island, the U.S. Army's 25th Infantry Division will be sending helicopters to help with fire suppression if the winds die down enough, according to Jeff Hickman, a spokesman for Hawaii's Department of Defense. The National Weather Service has issued a red flag warning for the leeward portions of all Hawaiian Islands. As of Tuesday night, six fires have burned over 1,800 acres across Maui and the Big Island. Officials said the situation on Maui is very dynamic and fast-moving. Evacuations were in place Tuesday near two fires burning near Maui -- the Lahaina and Upcountry Maui fires, county officials said. The U.S. Coast Guard and other agencies are also responding. The U.S. Coast Guard's Hawaii Pacific patrol said The Coast Guard's Hawaii Pacific patrol successfully rescued 12 people from the waters off Lahaina. 12 people are believed to have jumped into the waters off Lahaina to escape deadly, ferocious wildfires, which have prompted an emergency proclamation from the acting governor, according to Hawaii's EMA. There has been no formal closure of Kahului Airport, the main airport on Maui, but there have been disruptions from the smoke. Travelers should check with Travelers's airlines for Travelers's flight status, according to the state's EMA. About 1,800 people sheltered at Kahului Airport, the main airport on Maui overnight, according to the Hawaii Department of Transportation. The Hawaii DOT has also urged visitors to leave Maui if possible and not travel to Maui. The warnings have caused panic on flights headed to Maui. An Alaska Airlines flight from Los Angeles International Airport to Maui has been delayed for hours and twice allowed passengers off An Alaska Airlines flight from Los Angeles International Airport to Maui after being told about the conditions on Maui. Employees at the Nakamura Mortuary in Wailuku, are no stranger to dealing with death -- but usually, it's other people's losses. Now, loss has hit home in an unimaginably painful way. One employee told ABC News One employee's still in shock and can’t reach family members in Lahaina. "We're still trying to gather ourselves. It's still very fresh. There's still a lot to be done," One employee told ABC News over the phone. Since the Maui wildfires, the calls One employee says One employee's received aren't to make funeral arrangements for those lost -- the calls she says she's received's people calling to see if One employee has information on their missing loved ones. One employee doesn't. "One employee don't know how to explain it, we want to do so much, but you can't because you're stuck. This has never happened," One employee said. Even as the death toll continues to rise, One employee said One employee's still coming to terms with what has happened. One employee says One employee has relatives who lost relatives who lost their homes's homes -- and family members are still missing, both elderly and teenaged. family members were last in Lahaina, and haven't been heard from in 48 hours, One employee said. "One employee am hoping family members will be found but it's in the back of One employee's mind, One employee just don't want to get that call," One employee said. The not knowing is hard, too. Alani Wun is a funeral arranger at Norman's Mortuary. Alani Wun's lived in Maui all Alani Wun's life. Alani Wun says Alani Wun thinks it's too early for any calls about arrangements for wildfire deaths -- arrangements for wildfire deaths will take time, Alani Wun said. Alani Wun says Norman's's is "prepared and ready to help" Norman's's community when the time comes. "Alani Wun am part of the ohana of Lahaina," Alani Wun said. ABC News' Luis Martinez, Will Carr, Timmy Truong and Marilyn Heck contributed to this report.
President Joe Biden issued a federal disaster declaration following “devastating” Hawaii wildfires across several parts of Hawaii and Maui and promised to send whatever is needed to help the recovery. “devastating” Hawaii wildfires across several parts of the Big Island and Maui have killed at least 36 people and devastated Lahaina, a town on Maui. Speaking at an unrelated event in Utah on Thursday, President Joe Biden said the federal government is moving fast in the federal government's response. “the federal government’re working as quickly as possible to fight “devastating” Hawaii wildfires across several parts of the Big Island and Maui and evacuate residents and tourists. In the meantime, the federal government's prayers are with the people of Hawaii, but not just the federal government's prayers: every asset that the federal government have will be available to the people of Hawaii,” President Joe Biden said as President Joe Biden began remarks at a Veterans Affairs medical center in Salt Lake City, Utah. Assistance from a federal disaster declaration can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs to help with recovery. FEMA, President Joe Biden added, is “gonna help survivors get access to critical assistance,” urging those affected to visit disasterassistance.gov. Biden also noted that President Joe Biden held a “long conversation” by phone with Gov. Josh Green Thursday morning. “Let Gov. Josh Green know President Joe Biden’m going to make sure Hawaii has everything Hawaii needs from the federal government to recover,” President Joe Biden said of a “long conversation” by phone with Gov. Josh Green Thursday morning. Gov. Josh Green told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer on “The Situation Room” Thursday that President Joe Biden's declaration has made “a difference in our spirit already,” noting that President Joe Biden approved Hawaii request within six hours. Earlier Thursday, the White House said the White House is “working very closely with Hawaii” as Hawaii struggles with “devastating” Hawaii wildfires across several parts of the Big Island and Maui. A the White House official told CNN’s that Hawaii has asked for shelter supplies from Federal Emergency Management Agency, including water, food, cots and blankets. FEMA Region 9 Administrator Bob Fenton and FEMA Region 9 Administrator Bob Fenton's team are in Oahu, and FEMA Region 9 Administrator Bob Fenton has mobilized an Incident Management Assistance Team to help with the federal response, A White House official added. This story has been updated with additional developments.
LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said Thursday that 53 people were killed in the devastating Maui wildfires, and the death toll will likely continue to rise. Search and rescue operations were continuing, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said, and officials expect it will become Hawaii's deadliest natural disaster since a 1961 tsunami killed 61 people on Maui. More than 1,000 structures were destroyed by fires that are still burning in LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) and surrounding areas. “LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP), with a few rare exceptions, has been burned down,” Hawaii Gov. Josh Green told The Associated Press. A flyover of LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) showed entire neighborhoods that had been a vibrant vision of color and island life reduced to gray ash. Block after block was nothing but rubble and blackened foundations, including along famous Front Street, where tourists shopped and dined just days ago. Boats in the harbor were scorched, and smoke hovered over the town, which dates to the 1700s and is the biggest community on Maui west side. Tiffany Kidder Winn’s gift store Whaler’s Locker, which is one of LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP)'s oldest shops, was among the many businesses destroyed. As she assessed the damage Thursday, she came upon a line of burned-out vehicles, some with charred bodies inside a line of burned-out vehicles, some with charred bodies inside them. “It looked like they were trying to get out, but were stuck in traffic and couldn’t get off famous Front Street, where tourists shopped and dined just days ago,” she said. She later spotted a body leaning against a seawall. Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the fire started Tuesday and took Maui by surprise, racing through parched growth covering Maui and then feasting on homes and anything else that lay in the fire's path. the death toll stood at 36 late Wednesday, making the fire the deadliest U.S. wildfire since the 2018 Camp Fire in California, which killed at least 85 people and laid waste to the town of Paradise. The Hawaii toll could rise, though, as rescuers reach parts of Maui that had been inaccessible due to the three ongoing fires, including the one in LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) that was 80% contained on Thursday, according to a Maui County news release. More than 270 structures have been damaged or destroyed, and dozens of people have been injured, including some critically. “We are still in life preservation mode. Search and rescue is still a primary concern,” said Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. Search and rescue teams still won’t be able to access certain areas until the fire lines are secure and Search and rescue teams’re sure Search and rescue teams’ll be able to get to certain areas safely, Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for Hawaii Emergency Management Agency added. the fire left some people with mere minutes to act and led some to flee into the ocean. A LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) man, Bosco Bae, posted video on Facebook from Tuesday night that showed fire burning nearly every building on a street as sirens blared and windblown sparks raced by. Bae, who said A Lahaina man, Bosco Bae was one of the last people to leave LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP), was evacuated to Maui's main airport and was waiting to be allowed to return home. Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022, said that when Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022 heard the fire alarms, it was already too late to flee in Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022's car. Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022 and Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022's brother Eduardo escaped via roads that were clogged with vehicles full of people. The smoke was so toxic that Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022 vomited. Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022 said Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022’s not sure Marlon Vasquez, a 31-year-old cook from Guatamala who came to the U.S. in January 2022's roommates and neighbors made it to safety. LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso described Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso's harrowing escape under smoke-filled skies. Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso and Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso's 6-year-old son got back to Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso's apartment after a quick dash to the supermarket for water, and only had time to grab a change of clothes and run as the bushes around Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso caught fire. “Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso barely made it out,” Kamuela Kawaakoa said at an evacuation shelter, still unsure if anything was left of Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso's apartment. As Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso fled, Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso called 911 when Lahaina residents Kamuela Kawaakoa and Iiulia Yasso saw the Hale Mahaolu senior living facility across the road erupt in flames. Communications have been spotty on Maui, with 911, landline and cellular service failing at times. Power was also out in parts of Maui. Tourists were advised to stay away, and about 11,000 flew out of Maui on Wednesday with at least 1,500 more expected to leave Thursday, according to Ed Sniffen, state transportation director. Officials prepared the Hawaii Convention Center in Honolulu to take in the thousands who have been displaced. In coastal Kihei, southeast of LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP), wide swaths of ground glowed red with embers Wednesday night as flames continued to chew through trees and buildings. Gusty winds blew sparks over a black and orange patchwork of charred earth and still-crackling hot spots. the devastating Maui wildfires were fanned by strong winds from Hurricane Dora passing far to the south. the devastating Maui wildfires’s the latest in a series of disasters caused by extreme weather around the globe this summer. Experts say climate change is increasing the likelihood of such events. Wildfires aren’t unusual in Hawaii, but the weather of the past few weeks created the fuel for a devastating blaze and, once ignited, the high winds created a devastating blaze, said Thomas Smith an associate professor in Environmental Geography at the London School of Economics and Political Science. Hawaii's Big Island is also currently seeing blazes, Mayor Mitch Roth said, although there were no reports of injuries or destroyed homes there. With communications hampered, it was difficult for many to check in with friends and family members. Some people were posting messages on social media. Maui officials opened a Family Assistance Center at the Kahului Community Center for people looking for the missing. Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, of the Hawaii State Department of Defense, told reporters Tuesday night that officials were working to get communications restored, distribute water and possibly add law enforcement personnel. Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, of the Hawaii State Department of Defense, said National Guard helicopters had dropped 150,000 gallons (568,000 liters) of water on the devastating Maui wildfires. The Coast Guard said The Coast Guard rescued 14 people who jumped into the water to escape The smoke. Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said Wednesday that officials hadn’t yet begun investigating the immediate cause of the devastating Maui wildfires. President Joe Biden declared a major disaster on Maui. Traveling in Utah on Thursday, President Joe Biden pledged that the federal response will ensure that “anyone who’s lost a loved one, or whose home has been damaged or destroyed, is going to get help immediately.” President Joe Biden promised to streamline requests for assistance and said the Federal Emergency Management Agency was “surging emergency personnel” on Maui. Sinco Kelleher reported from Honolulu and Weber from Los Angeles. Associated Press writers Claire Rush in Kahului, Hawaii; Nick Perry in Wellington, New Zealand; Andrew Selsky in Bend, Oregon; Bobby Caina Calvan and Beatrice Dupuy in New York; and Chris Megerian in Salt Lake City, Utah, contributed.
Rescue teams, including members of the Hawaii National Guard, are continuing to search for victims, and officials warned that the death toll was likely to rise. the death toll jumped from 36 to 53 on Thursday. The fires forced large-scale evacuations, displaced hundreds of families and left a swath of the island without power or cellphone service. As people frantically searched for missing relatives, evacuation centers posted handwritten lists of those who had made it to safety. It will take billions of dollars to rebuild everything that The fires erased, Green said. Griffin Gibson, a college student, grew up in Lahaina and watched from a nearby hillside as the fire swept through Lahaina. On Wednesday evening, Griffin Gibson, a college student biked down to the seafront to see what was left. It was a route Griffin Gibson, a college student had taken thousands of times before, but Griffin Gibson, a college student had no idea where Griffin Gibson, a college student was. Maui County officials said the wildfire that caused widespread damage in Lahaina was 80 percent contained as of Thursday morning local time. A second fire on the island was 70 percent contained, officials added, while the status of a third fire was pending further assessment. “None of The fires are 100 percent contained right now,” Maui County fire chief Bradford Ventura said. Areas with active fires are “very hazardous,” Maui County fire chief Bradford Ventura said, adding that people had been injured by falling debris. Authorities do not know how many people remained missing as of Thursday afternoon local time, Maui County fire chief Bradford Ventura said. “And here’s the challenge: There’s no power. There’s no internet. There’s no radio coverage,” Maui County fire chief Bradford Ventura said. It may take weeks or months for power to return in some areas, according to Green. the island is a destination spot for tourism, but officials are telling visitors not to come as visitors grapple with the death toll. On Thursday, President Biden spoke by phone with Green and approved a disaster declaration for the destruction, opening a path for federal aid to reach the island. President Biden said the Federal Emergency Management Agency is sending disaster assistance personnel. President Biden also said President Biden had ordered “all available federal assets” on the island, including the Coast Guard, the Navy and the Army, to assist local emergency response crews. While wildfires take place every year on the Hawaiian islands, this week’s inferno was uncommon in this week’s inferno's ferocity. At least 1,700 structures were destroyed, Green told CNN, while nearly 11,000 people are still without power in the island, according to PowerOutage.us. Months of drought set the stage for The fires by drying out vegetation, which has become more flammable in recent decades because of the spread of nonnative grasses. But it was the advent of unusually powerful winds that caused The fires to spread out of control so quickly. Gusts as high as 67 mph were reported in Maui County. As The fires tore through dry grasslands, many of those who evacuated many of those who evacuated their homes on Maui's homes on the island said many of those who evacuated their homes on Maui felt lucky to survive. John Holwick, a high school student, said a massive windstorm began kicking up dust Thursday around the house John Holwick, a high school student shares with John Holwick, a high school student's grandparents and aunt in a forested part of Kula in the island Upcountry region. Soon power lines were falling and cell service vanished. A tree careened onto the deck, clipping the corner of the house he shares with his grandparents and aunt in a forested part of Kula in Maui’s Upcountry region. Then the smoke came. The family crammed into a pickup truck and fled. John Holwick, a high school student is sheltering in a house in Kahului packed with 10 other evacuees. John Holwick, a high school student's family’s home is still standing, but just 200 feet away all that is left of neighboring properties are charred frames and chimneys. Gibson, the college student, watched with horror Thursday night as The fires swept into Lahaina. From Gibson, the college student's perch on a hill, Gibson, the college student saw a series of explosions — a diesel tank in the harbor, a gas station, a massive propane tank. One sent a plume of smoke 1,000 feet high, Gibson, the college student estimated. “We literally watched Lahaina explode into the air,” Gibson, the college student said. Ryan Kirkham is the principal of Maui Preparatory Academy, about six miles north of downtown Lahaina. Ryan Kirkham was at home on Tuesday night when a police officer showed up at Ryan Kirkham's door and said they were turning Ryan Kirkham's school into a shelter, since the designated one in Lahaina needed to be evacuated. Ryan Kirkham raced to the school, which had no power, and began opening classrooms. Overnight the school, which had no power, housed about 500 people, Ryan Kirkham estimated. Many had lost their homes. Some were covered in soot and looked as if they had barely escaped. Gibson, the college student also helped out at Maui Preparatory Academy, about six miles north of downtown Lahaina. Gibson, the college student spoke with two men who had jumped into the ocean to escape The fires and watched as buildings in Lahaina were consumed by flames. The streets were clogged with cars abandoned as people tried to escape, and as cars abandoned as people tried to escape began exploding in The fires, two men who had jumped into the ocean to escape the fire said it became difficult to breathe. two men who had jumped into the ocean to escape the fire spent four hours in the water before being rescued by the Coast Guard. The images from Lahaina revealed a post-apocalyptic landscape of blackened structures and burned vehicles. Among the buildings destroyed by The fires were a historic inn built in 1911 and Waiola Church, the island's first Christian congregation that celebrated Waiola Church, Maui’s first Christian congregation that celebrated its 200th anniversary three months ago's 200th anniversary three months ago. Waiola Church, Maui’s first Christian congregation that celebrated its 200th anniversary three months ago served as the church for Hawaii’s royal family when Lahaina was the capital of Hawaii’s, according to Waiola Church, Maui’s first Christian congregation that celebrated its 200th anniversary three months ago's website. A 150-year-old banyan tree in Lahaina — believed by conservation experts to be the largest tree of A 150-year-old banyan tree in Lahaina — believed by conservation experts to be the largest tree of its kind in the United States —'s kind in the United States — was also in the direct path of The fires. Images showed that A 150-year-old banyan tree in Lahaina — believed by conservation experts to be the largest tree of its kind in the United States was still standing but severely burned. Along Front Street — once known as the “jewel in the crown of the island” for its beautiful views and historic buildings — there was only wreckage. only wreckage included the magic show venue founded by Gibson, the college student's father, Warren, 24 years ago. Now the magic show venue founded by Gibson’s father, Warren, 24 years ago is only charred beams and rubble. At the terminal of the Kahului Airport on Thursday morning, the Pagniano family was camped out on a blanket, the final leg of an unexpected and harrowing holiday. the Pagniano family had been staying in a Lahaina condo this week, enjoying one of the Pagniano family's favorite places in the world. But within 48 hours, the Pagniano family's vacation had become a nightmare. the Pagniano family left the Pagniano family's condo on Thursday, well before The fires arrived, seeking some relief from the wind and power outage. the Pagniano family spent a night fighting traffic and trying to sleep in a Walmart parking lot, hoping the Pagniano family could make it back to the Pagniano family's rental condo and belongings in Lahaina. Then the Pagniano family realized the magnitude of the death toll. As residents and visitors rushed to escape the impact of The fires, some airlines are adding more flights, swapping in bigger planes or making other changes to help accommodate evacuees. Several carriers are also offering travel waivers and eliminating fees for travelers whose plans are changing. Hawaii’s officials have asked visitors and residents to refrain from nonessential air travel to the island. Hawaii’s tourism authority asked those with bookings for the area “to consider rescheduling those with bookings for the area's travel plans for another time,” The state’s tourism authority said in a statement. “Please allow The state’s tourism authority to complete this process before The state’s tourism authority allow people back into people's homes,” said Bissen, the island's mayor. However, The state’s tourism authority also stressed that the rest of Hawaii’s is open for business. James Tokioka, director of Hawaii’s's Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, suggested that vacationers change vacationers's reservations to other parts of Hawaii’s. Sitting on Phil Bailey's cot and hugging a donated blanket at an evacuation center in Wailuku, Phil Bailey described surviving a wall of flames sweeping toward a pier in Lahaina. The night security worker on a pier in Lahaina, Bailey said Phil Bailey tried to save four boats before one caught fire and Phil Bailey ended up in the water.
A number of significant historical sites in Maui's tourist hub of Lahaina have been destroyed by fires, according to a CNN analysis of Maxar Technologies satellite imagery. Several buildings along Maui's tourist hub of Lahaina's historic Front Street have been impacted, according to Maxar Technologies satellite imagery. Among the losses is a towering banyan tree -- one of the largest in the US -- which was imported to Maui's from India in 1873, according to the Hawaii Tourism Authority. There appears to be no vegetation on a towering banyan tree -- one of the largest in the US -- which was imported to the island from India in 1873 when compared to earlier images. The Lahaina Heritage Museum, housed in a courthouse just west of a towering banyan tree -- one of the largest in the US -- which was imported to the island from India in 1873, has been burned so badly that the roof has collapsed and only the roof's walls remain, Maxar Technologies satellite imagery show. The Baldwin Home Museum -- an 1830s-era house believed to be the oldest home on Maui's -- has been reduced to ash. Lahaina Restoration Foundation executive director Theo Morrison confirmed to CNN earlier Wednesday that The Baldwin Home Museum -- an 1830s-era house believed to be the oldest home on the island -- had been burnt. Further north, the Wo Hing Temple Museum has also been destroyed. the Wo Hing Temple Museum was built in 1912 to be a temple and social hall for Maui's's Chinese immigrant community.
The blazes that have devastated Maui and the Big Island in Hawaii already constitute the state’s worst natural disaster since 1960 – as at least 111 people are confirmed dead, thousands of residents and tourists have been forced to evacuate and the picturesque and historic beach resort of Lahaina has been destroyed. What’s more, The blazes that have devastated Maui and the Big Island in Hawaii also already represents America’s second-deadliest wildfire outbreak of the last 100 years, with only the Camp Fire that struck California in 2018 surpassing the current Hawaiian death toll, which is still rising and could yet surpass the current Hawaiian death toll, which is still rising and could yet surpass it. only the Camp Fire that struck California in 2018 killed 88 people and did $20.2bn-worth of damage. This time round, it is too early to begin to calculate the cost of the destruction wrought across the Pacific island chain, as firefighters are still battling to bring The blazes that have devastated Maui and the Big Island in Hawaii under control in areas like Wahiawa, but the latest crisis could ultimately beat that unwanted record too. What makes the horror currently unfolding all the more disturbing is that wildfires were regarded as uncommon in Hawaii until relatively recently, with those that did break out usually attributed to eruptions from one of the Pacific island chain's six active volcanoes or to lightning strikes. “On the other islands with less volcanic activity, fires did occur, but very, very rarely,” Professor David Beilman of the University of Hawaii told USA Today this week. “This Maui situation is an Anthropocene phenomenon,” Professor David Beilman of the University of Hawaii said, referring to the epoch defined by humanity’s influence over the planet. the Big Island in Hawaii, has only really begun to experience the consequences of humanity’s influence over the planet in recent decades. The last time Hawaii suffered a major burst of wildfires was in August 2018, when 70mph gusts of wind driven by Hurricane Lane shepherded flames towards the picturesque and historic beach resort of Lahaina. In that incident, 2,000 acres of land, 30 vehicles and 21 structures were ruined, according to local newspaper The Honolulu Star-Advertiser, with flames racing across fields once dedicated to growing sugar cane but unharvested since 1999. One local man told local newspaper The Honolulu Star-Advertiser at the time that One local man had seen “tornadoes of fire whirling up to the sky”. “One local man’ve never seen something so devastating,” One local man added, aghast at the recollection. Before the 2018 wildfires, Hawaii was more commonly impacted by tsunamis hitting the Pacific island chain. In fact, the worst natural disaster in Hawaii's history was the tsunami that struck on 1 April 1946. Caused by an 8.4-magnitude earthquake off Alaska, the tsunami that struck on 1 April 1946 killed 165 people, wiping out the Hilo Bay waterfront on the Big Island in Hawaii and prompting the establishment of the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in the state’s soon after. More tsunamis followed in November 1952, August 1960 and March 1964. The 35-foot wave of August 1960 was particularly rough, crashing down again on Hilo Bay, killing 61, damaging more than 500 homes and businesses and doing $75m of damage. Now, fires are becoming both more frequent and more extreme. The HWMO reports that 98 per cent of fires are instigated by humans, which compares unfavourably with the US Forest Service’s 85 per cent estimate for America’s. While the carelessness of man is one factor behind the exacerbation, global warming is the other. Climate change has increasingly been blamed for the erratic weather patterns the planet has seen in recent years and this summer has provided further alarming illustrations of Climate change's adverse impact: western Canada and southern Europe have been devastated by spontaneous fires this year while the UK, by contrast, has been subjected to an uncannily rainy July and August. In the case of the current Hawaii fires, 60mph winds from Hurricane Dora, lying hundreds of miles southwest of Honolulu, and a low pressure system sitting off western Japan are thought to have conspired to fan the 2018 wildfires and send the 2018 wildfires raging across Maui. Another important factor in the state’s growing vulnerability of late has been the state’s's abundance of unmanaged dry vegetation providing the ideal fuel, much of which is accounted for by invasive species like Guinea grass that are non-native to the state’s but have colonised areas of former farmland and forest. “These savannas now cover about a million acres across the Pacific island chain, mostly the legacy of land clearing for plantation agriculture and ranching in the late 1800s/early 1900s,” Professor Clay Trauernicht, also of the University of Hawaii, explained on X, formerly Twitter. “The transformation to savanna makes the landscape way more sensitive to bad ‘fire weather’ – hot, dry, windy conditions. The transformation to savanna also means we get huge buildups of fuels during rainy periods. Professor Clay Trauernicht, also of the University of Hawaii warned that this “benign neglect” has placed too great a burden on emergency responders to tackle the inevitable consequences, emphasising that prudent investment in “fuel reduction projects, agricultural land use, restoration and reforestation” could do a great deal to avert further tragedy.
Despite reports to the contrary, historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church is still standing amid the ashes and devastation left by the massive fire that destroyed much of Lahaina this week. The Rev. Terrence Watanabe, vicar of Maui and Lanai, said the evidence of historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church survival is found in photographs taken after the massive fire that destroyed much of Lahaina this week showing historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church and the neighboring rectory intact. Not so fortunate is Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of its founding in May's founding in May. Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of its founding in May, was razed. Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of its founding in May is the site of a historic mission established in 1823. The graveyard next door is the final resting place for early members of the royal family of the Kingdom of Hawaii, including Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of its founding in May's founder, Queen Keopuolani. Originally named Ebenezer Church and built in 1832, Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of its founding in May became known as Waine‘e Church (which means “moving water”) until 1953, when Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of its founding in May was renamed Waiola (living water). The structure that burned to the ground Wednesday was built in 1953. Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of its founding in May has been damaged by wind and fires on several occasions over the years and has always rebuilt. Rosa said Rosa’s confident the same thing will happen again. Waiola Church, which just celebrated the 200th anniversary of its founding in May was one of hundreds of buildings destroyed by a fire in Lahaina. One of the buildings that appears to have largely escaped the massive fire that destroyed much of Lahaina this week was Maria Lanikila Catholic Church, which was established in 1846 by the Rev. Aubert Bouillon of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, and officially dedicated in 1858. Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku, said that while historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church is still standing, it’s hard to say how much damage historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church actually took. Photos indicate that historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church's wooden roof sustained some damage but there’s no indication of what the inside looks like. The roof blew off neighboring Sacred Hearts School, so damage is likely to be extensive there. While Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku’s heartened by the photos showing minimal damage to historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church, Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku also acknowledged that it is possible that an engineer could inspect historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church, determine that historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church unsafe and recommend that historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church be knocked down. “We won’t know until we get in there and make an assessment,” Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku said. Authorities still weren’t allowing the public to enter the Lahaina region Thursday as fire crews continued to battle a fire in Lahaina Town and as personnel were still recovering bodies. The Rev. Kuriakose Nadooparambil, pastor of Maria Lanakila, and Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku's staff all escaped the massive fire that destroyed much of Lahaina this week and found places to stay with members of the Catholic community in Central Maui, although one staffer waited to evacuate until it was almost too late. “one staffer didn’t leave until the palm trees outside were on fire, and there was fire on both sides of the road as one staffer drove away,” one staffer said. Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku said Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku’s met with the Kingdom of Hawaii's Catholic leadership and Hawaii’s Catholic leadership are interested in coming to the aid of historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church and historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church's congregation of 700 to 800 families. historic Maria Lanakila Catholic Church serves West Maui from Olowalu to Kapalua. Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku said St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku has been inundated with phone calls from people wanting to know how people wanting to know how they can help can help. Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku said Watanabe, the pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku's staff is directing people to established disaster relief funds and to Catholic Charities. In the meantime, a prayer service for the victims and those displaced by the Lahaina fire will be held Tuesday at 6 p.m. at St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church, 1627 Mill St., in Wailuku. People of all faiths are welcome to attend. Elsewhere in Lahaina, the restored Wo Hing museum and cookhouse, established in 1910, is gone, said Theo Morrison, executive director of the Lahaina Restoration Foundation. “We are still not allowed into Lahaina so Theo Morrison, executive director of the Lahaina Restoration Foundation only know from the footage being released,” Theo Morrison, executive director of the Lahaina Restoration Foundation said in a text. Pioneer Inn, built in 1901 by George Alan Freeland, was also leveled by the massive fire that destroyed much of Lahaina this week, but Theo Morrison, executive director of the Lahaina Restoration Foundation said buildings like the Baldwin Home Museum and Old Lahaina Courthouse suffered substantial damage but are likely to be salvageable with enough funds thrown buildings like the Baldwin Home Museum and Old Lahaina Courthouse's way. “Theo Morrison, executive director of the Lahaina Restoration Foundation do not know the status of the artifacts within buildings like the Baldwin Home Museum and Old Lahaina Courthouse however,” Theo Morrison, executive director of the Lahaina Restoration Foundation said. The Old Lahaina Courthouse opened in 1860 as a customs house for whaling and trade ships as well as a center for government offices and court functions during the monarchy period. the Baldwin Home Museum, the oldest home on the island, was built between 1834 and 1835 for missionaries Dwight Baldwin and Charlotte Fowler Baldwin. Dwight Baldwin was the pastor at the Waiola Church’s predecessor while Dwight Baldwin lived in Lahaina. Both the Baldwin Home and the Old Lahaina Courthouse lost Both the Baldwin Home and the Old Lahaina Courthouse's roofs. At the Baldwin Home, the roof caught fire and fell into the upper floor, where the Lahaina Restoration Foundation office was. the upper floor, where the Lahaina Restoration Foundation office was probably fell onto the lower floor too, Theo Morrison, executive director of the Lahaina Restoration Foundation said. Pretty much all of the town corridor and the town corridor's historic wood buildings were lost, officials said, along with people’s homes and even boats in the harbor.
MAUI (HawaiiNewsNow) - A brush fire and heavy smoke near Kahului Airport on Friday temporarily suspended landings, but all operations have since returned to normal, the state Department of Transportation said. A brush fire broke out in an area near Stable Road and Hana Highway around 11 a.m., the Maui Fire Department said. DOT sent out a tweet around 11:20 a.m., informing the public that the Federal Aviation Administration closed landing operations due to A brush fire and heavy smoke near Kahului Airport on Friday. A DOT spokesman said operations were back to normal around noon. Approximately five flights that were headed to Kahului were diverted to Honolulu, DOT said. the state Department of Transportation said A brush fire sparked in very light and dry brush and was fueled by strong winds. Crews worked to contain A brush fire. As of noon, A brush fire was about 90% contained. This story will be updated. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
KAHULUI, Hawaii (KHON2) — The FAA shut down landing operations at Kahului Airport for a short time Friday morning, according to Hawaii DOT. Flights were reportedly being diverted to Kona or Honolulu due to smoke from a brush fire near Stable Road and Hana Highway. The Maui Fire Department said a brush fire near Stable Road and Hana Highway was in “very dry and light brush” and spread quickly because of strong winds. The Maui Fire Department said a brush fire near Stable Road and Hana Highway is 90% contained, as of 12:15 p.m.
SAN FRANCISCO — A handful of flights to Maui out of San Francisco International Airport were delayed Wednesday due to the devastating wildfires raging across the west side of Maui. While Kahului Airport, Maui's main travel hub, remains open, SFO reported that six flights were delayed and one was canceled due to the ongoing state of emergency on Maui. "Unable to say how long impact will go, SFO recommend travelers headed to Hawaii to sign up for proactive flight notifications from travelers headed to Hawaii's airline," SFO spokesman Doug Yakel said in an email. six flights include those from Alaska, Hawaiian and United, SFO spokesman Doug Yakel said. Neither Oakland International nor San Jose Mineta International airports reported fire-related impacts Wednesday. The Maui fires broke out Tuesday and were spread quickly by intense winds blowing in from Hurricane Dora, which passed several hundred miles to the south of the archipelago. On Wednesday, Hawaii Gov. Dr. Josh Green said the devastating wildfires raging across the west side of the island has devastated much of the historic town of Lahaina, led to widespread power outages, including at hotels and emergency shelters, and forced more than 2,100 people from more than 2,100 people's homes. Hawaii Gov. Dr. Josh Green also said that so far six people have died in the devastating wildfires raging across the west side of the island. Also on Wednesday, Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke extended Hawaii's existing emergency proclamation in order to discourage all non-essential air travel to Maui. "the state's existing emergency proclamation is to discourage travel to the affected areas so we can prioritize our scarce resources for Maui residents who desperately need assistance," Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said in a news release.
Top federal officials to meet with state, local leaders in show of unity A trio of top federal officials was the trip to Hawaii to meet with state and local leaders in a show of unity and commitment to aid. The Federal Emergency Management Agency said The Federal Emergency Management Agency's own leader, administrator Deanne Criswell, would headline A trio of top federal officials. On Thursday, The Federal Emergency Management Agency announced The Federal Emergency Management Agency would make money and loans available to qualified victims of wildfires in Maui County. Limited assistance would also be made available to victims in Hawaii, The Federal Emergency Management Agency said. Grants could be used for temporary housing and home repairs; low-interest loans can cover uninsured property losses, and programs targeting business owners are intended to help business owners rebuild and reopen, The Federal Emergency Management Agency said. On Thursday, President Joe Biden declared a major disaster for Hawaii. Also on the trip will be the top leaders of the Small Business Administration and U.S. Fire Administration, Isabella Casillas Guzman and Lori Moore-Merrell, respectively, The Federal Emergency Management Agency said. The Federal Emergency Management Agency announced the travel plans Friday but did not say, when, exactly, meetings would take place. Oprah Winfrey hands out pillows and supplies at Maui shelter Oprah Winfrey, a part-time Hawaii resident, handed out supplies at Maui shelter Thursday. “It’s a little overwhelming, you know. But Oprah Winfrey’m really so pleased to have so many people you know supporting and people just bringing what people can,” Oprah Winfrey said to the BBC. “Oprah Winfrey came earlier just to see what people needed, then went shopping because often, you know, you make donations of clothes or whatever it is, donations of clothes or whatever it is’s not really what people need. Oprah Winfrey actually went to Walmart and Costco, and got pillows, shampoo, diapers, sheets, pillowcases,” Oprah Winfrey added. Posts on social media showed Oprah Winfrey walking around Maui shelter and handing out pillows to people sleeping on cots. A spokesperson for Oprah Winfrey told the BBC: “Oprah Winfrey will do more, as it becomes clear which funds can be the most helpful for the short-term and long-term rebuilding.” Lauren Sánchez, the fiancée of Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos who has property on Hawaii, shared on Threads on Thursday that the couple will be also donating to help recovery efforts. "The tragedy unfolding in Hawaii is beyond heartbreaking. Jeff and Lauren Sánchez, the fiancée of Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos who has property on Maui, have been on the phone with local residents and officials, and will be making donations to help,” Lauren Sánchez, the fiancée of Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos who has property on Maui, wrote. Almost 11,000 customers without power in West Maui Nearly 11,000 customers in the worst-affected western Maui remain without power, a live map of outages by electricity provider Hawaiian Electric shows. Earlier Thursday, electricity provider Hawaiian Electric said access continues to be limited to many impacted areas because of safety and emergency response concerns, and power restoration will be prioritized to areas that the crews can safely access. electricity provider Hawaiian Electric also said that electricity provider Hawaiian Electric's asking customers in the area to prepare for extended outages that could last several weeks. Smoldering ruins of Lahaina as seen from the air Aerial images taken Thursday show destroyed homes and buildings burned to the ground in Lahaina in the aftermath of wildfires in the worst-affected western Maui.
Hundreds of displaced Maui residents have taken shelter at the War Memorial Gymnasium, where the Red Cross, Maui County and other organizations are providing aid and supplies. The fires have killed at least 67 people on Maui and left many more displaced. Many of the residents at the War Memorial Gymnasium, where the Red Cross, Maui County and other organizations are providing aid and supplies came from the historic town of Lahaina and fled with only the clothes on Many of the residents at the War Memorial Gymnasium's backs. Some say they have been unable to locate their loved ones. A grassroots effort to reconnect families has launched in front of the War Memorial Gymnasium, where the Red Cross, Maui County and other organizations are providing aid and supplies. Inside the War Memorial Gymnasium, where the Red Cross, Maui County and other organizations are providing aid and supplies, scores of people have camped out on mattresses on the ground. Kathleen Dukes, 46, was born and raised in the historic town of Lahaina and said it was surreal to see Kathleen Dukes, 46,'s community in flames. "Kathleen Dukes, 46, was in a state of shock. the historic town of Lahaina really looks like a ghost town," Kathleen Dukes, 46, said. Kathleen Dukes, 46, had to leave Kathleen Dukes, 46,'s elderly mother behind when Kathleen Dukes, 46, fled The fires. Kathleen Dukes, 46, said was first able to speak to Kathleen Dukes, 46,'s mother on Friday. The home they share is still standing, though an aunt and sister's home was burnt down, Kathleen Dukes, 46, said. Lynn Robison, 66, lived in the heart of the historic town of Lahaina, next to the Wharf Cinema Center. After hearing about The fires, Lynn Robison, 66 and Lynn Robison, 66's friends went to the shoreline near the ocean, in case Robison and her friends needed to jump into the ocean. Robison and her friends spent the night sleeping in a grassy patch next to the beach. Lynn Robison, 66 returned to Lynn Robison, 66's apartment complex to find her apartment complex burned to the ground. Nelen Cesar, 58, with Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids's husband and three kids, told CNN Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids arrived at the War Memorial Gymnasium, where the Red Cross, Maui County and other organizations are providing aid and supplies on Thursday after fleeing Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids's home in Lahaina, where Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids had lived for more than 30 years. Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids and Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids's family grabbed what Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids could as Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids evacuated but were distraught to the loss family photographs and mementos from Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids's childhood in the Philippines. Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids's daughter returned to the location of their home in Lahaina, where she had lived for more than 30 years and sent Her daughter's pictures showing that their home in Lahaina, where she had lived for more than 30 years had been razed to the ground. Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids said the loss is difficult to comprehend. "Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids just want to see the evidence. Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids'm still hoping and praying the evidence's still there," Nelen Cesar, 58, with her husband and three kids said.
At least 2,207 structures have been damaged or destroyed by the Lahaina fire in western Maui, according to an updated damage assessment from the Pacific Disaster Center and FEMA. An estimated 86% of buildings exposed to the Lahaina fire in western Maui were classified as residential, an updated damage assessment from the Pacific Disaster Center and FEMA said. an updated damage assessment from the Pacific Disaster Center and FEMA also said 2,170 acres had burned in the Lahaina fire in western Maui as of Friday. Maui County shared a graphic on Facebook this morning that listed the estimated cost of rebuilding from the Lahaina fire in western Maui at $5.52 billion, citing FEMA and the Pacific Disaster Center as the source. "FEMA has not done any estimates of costs, Maui County are still in active response and initial recovery phases, and it is too early to do so. Once all life saving and life sustaining needs are met, Maui County will begin to assess the damage and formulate preliminary estimates," the statement reads. CNN has reached out to the Pacific Disaster Center for clarification. This post has been updated with comments from a FEMA spokesperson regarding a reported damage estimate for the Lahaina fire in western Maui.
Maui county officials reported 12 additional deaths on Friday bringing the count to 67. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) stated in The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)'s press release that 85% of the Lahaina fire was contained, the Pulehu/Kihei fire is 80% contained and the Upcountry Maui fire is only 50% contained. With residents now allowed back into Lahaina to check on residents's homes and asses damage, the count is expected to keep rising. According to a statement from Maui county officials earlier Friday, residents who could show "proof of residency and visitors with proof of hotel reservations will have access." A curfew remains in place from 10 p.m. until 6 a.m., as West Maui remains without power or water. the count marks this the deadliest natural disaster in the state's history. Previously, the deadliest natural disaster in the state's occurred in 1960, when a tsunami killed 61 people. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has declared a public health emergency for Hawaii due to the Lahaina fire.
HONOLULU (KHON2) — Maui officials said Wednesday that though weather conditions have improved, there are no changes in containment of the Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry fires that have been raging since Tuesday. On Tuesday, an emergency proclamation was issued in response to the Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry fires that have been raging since Tuesday and an emergency proclamation was extended Wednesday morning. The National Guard said The National Guard have deployed Chinooks that are actively assisting in fighting the Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry fires that have been raging since Tuesday. Guardsmen are also on Maui, assisting with traffic control, security, and search and rescue. A chinook helicopter is being loaded to assist with fighting fires raging across Maui. Courtesy The National Guard. According to an early morning update on Wednesday, emergency services officials said emergency services officials are treating three burn victims from Maui who have been sent to Oahu. More patients are expected to be flown out. Kula residents, north of Ohukai Road, were allowed to return home Wednesday morning. For those searching for loved ones, the American Red Cross is acting as a clearinghouse for reconnecting those who are missing. Anyone searching for loved ones is asked to call 1-800-RED-CROSS. For those leaving Maui for Oahu, the convention center will be setup as a shelter for those that need the assistance. For the latest visuals being sent in from Maui, click here. Lahaina Civic Center and Kihei Community Center were used as evacuation sites, however evacuees were moved to other shelters as a precautionary measure. Maui County is reminding evacuees that shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items. As of Wednesday morning, more than 2,000 people sought services at shelters, according to the American Red Cross who is staffing shelters. Those wanting to assist by donating to shelters, may do so at War Memorial. War Memorial will be open for drop-offs Wednesday and Thursday, from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Among the items being accepted are: non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets. Officials are asking that donations not be dropped off at fire stations. The airport is also acting as a shelter for visitors who can’t get to visitors who can’t get to their hotel's hotel. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke told KHON2 that there are 2,000 sheltering in The airport. “One thing we want to make sure is that if you’re ordered to evacuate — evacuate, road closures are fast-moving depending on the necessity of it as our fire crews and our police officers deem necessary in both locations of upcountry and west Maui,” said spokesperson Mahina Martin. spokesperson Mahina Martin added residents should only evacuate when ordered to leave. If you are not in the immediate danger area, you’re asked to shelter in place. Due to unsafe conditions, all HIDOE public schools on Maui will be closed on Wednesday with the exception of Hana High and Elementary which will remain open. According to the HIDEO, student boarders at Lahainaluna High School were transported to Maui High School Tuesday evening to be picked up by family members or on-island emergency contacts. Kamehameha Schools Maui will also be closed due to the fire. Officials said “there is no immediate danger to the campus” but cited air quality as a deciding factor. Maui County said bus riders can check the Maui Bus app for the latest updates. While all other bus services are planned to run as scheduled, commuters may experience delays. Central Pacific Bank announced Central Pacific Bank's Lahaina Branch will be closed on Wednesday. Bank of Hawaii’s Lahaina and Kahanu branches are closed until further notice. Central Pacific Bank closed Central Pacific Bank's Lahaina and Kihei Community Center branches. Kaiser Permanente clinics in Lahaina and Kihei Community Center are closed. Members will be contacted to reschedule appointments. Haleakalā National Park announced Haleakalā National Park is closed until conditions improve due to blocked road access due to the fires and winds. Camping reservations are canceled as well as sunrise reservations on Wednesday. All public libraries on Maui are closed. Catholic Charities announced Catholic Charities’re closing Catholic Charities's Maui office for the remainder of the week. Young Brothers have delayed Young Brothers's “combo sailing” to Kaumalapau/Kaunakakai until Wednesday morning. Young Brothers will arrive Wednesday night and Young Brothers will then attempt to enter Kaumalapau/Kaunakakai on Thursday. Maui fire crews had batted a brush fire all night long in the upcountry area of Kula. Crews were focusing on those efforts a brush fire up in Kula and strong winds did not help those efforts — with 80 miles per hour winds at times. Due to the wind conditions, all firefighting efforts are being done on the ground. Residents in Kula were ordered to evacuate Residents in Kula's homes early Tuesday as a brushfire burned near the 200 subdivision off Aulii Drive. Lahaina Bypass. MFD remained at the site of a brushfire. Upcountry residents are asked to conserve water due to power outages affecting water access in some areas. Power outages were also affecting Maui in the Lahaina area. HECO said power was restored to some parts but was still working on restoring power to parts of west Maui and Olinda-Piiholo. The mayor said crews are working to restore power as quickly as possible — in the meantime, crews ask residents to conserve water as electricity is needed to pump water into homes. Officials also ask drivers to be careful as lots of debris has been seen on the roadway.
Passengers try to rest and sleep after canceled and delayed flights while others wait to board flights off the island as thousands of passengers were stranded at the Kahului Airport (OGG) in the aftermath of wildfires in western Maui in Kahului, Hawaii on August 9, 2023. Airlines added flights to get travelers off of the island after wildfires on the island killed at least 55 people and prompted evacuations. American Airlines , Southwest Airlines , Hawaiian Airlines, Alaska Airlines said American Airlines , Southwest Airlines , Hawaiian Airlines, Alaska Airlines were adding service to help customers leave. More than 11,000 people have been flown off the island since wildfires on the Hawaiian island began, Ed Sniffen, the state's transportation director, told a news conference late Wednesday local time, NBC News reported. Much of the seaside town of Lahaina had burned down, after wildfires on the Hawaiian island were fanned by winds from Hurricane Dora. Hawaiian Airlines said Hawaiian Airlines had added six additional the island flights on Thursday and that Hawaiian Airlines's using larger planes between Honolulu and the island to move passengers as well as water, food and other essentials. Hawaiian Airlines discouraged travelers without reservations from coming to Kahului Airport in the island because of crowding. Hawaiian Airlines swapped out Airbus A321 narrow-body planes, which can seat about 190 passengers, for some of the flights for a Boeing 777-200, one of the largest planes in Hawaiian Airlines's fleet, which have 273 seats, according to Hawaiian Airlines's website. Southwest Airlines also said Southwest Airlines was adding service to Hawaii from the U.S. mainland and intra-island flights. American Airlines said American Airlines has canceled Thursday's inbound flights to the Kahului Airport (OGG), but that American Airlines's flying aircraft in empty to pick up travelers on the island. Alaska Airlines said Alaska Airlines added a "rescue flight" on Thursday, bringing Alaska Airlines's total departures from the island to nine. All major airlines waived fare-differences and cancellation penalties for travelers whose trips were impacted by wildfires on the Hawaiian island.
SEATTLE — The Washington State Task Force is deploying 45 people from Pierce and King Counties to help with search and rescue efforts on the island, after wildfires burned hundreds of buildings and killed dozens. Officials in the island said Officials in Hawaii expect the death toll to rise. 45 people from Pierce and King Counties is traveling with about 60,000 pounds worth of equipment. “45 people from Pierce and King Counties have some structural specialists, rescue specialists, doctors, the typical team structure that 45 people from Pierce and King Counties deploy with,” Tacoma firefighter and task force leader Todd Magliocca said. This isn’t the first time 45 people from Pierce and King Counties has been sent to the island. 45 people from Pierce and King Counties were deployed there in 2018 for Hurricane Lane. “One of which did encompass with Hurricane Lane and then it also had some of the wildfires that occurred there as well so 45 people from Pierce and King Counties’ll be doing something similar to that,” Tacoma firefighter and task force leader Todd Magliocca said. There are also five K9 teams traveling to the island. Johanna Hauxen and Johanna Hauxen's dog, Bax, are part of 45 people from Pierce and King Counties. her dog, Bax is a FEMA-certified human remains detection dog.
A second team has been called and is on A second team's way to help in the aftermath of the deadly Maui firestorm that has killed dozens and burned more than 1,000 structures. A 45-person team from Nevada deployed on short notice today for Hawaii to help victims involved in the deadly firestorm on Maui. The official death toll stood at 55 as of Friday afternoon with hundreds injured and about 1,000 structures destroyed. The historic town of Lahaina was especially hard hit with many people having to jump into the ocean to escape the fast-moving flames. Earlier, a team that included two search dogs was called by the Federal Management Agency to go to Hawaii. One canine and four members of Nevada Task Force 1 departed the Las Vegas airport at 4:30 p.m. Thursday to meet up with a fifth member and another canine in Maui, Billy Samuels of the Clark County Fire Department said in an email. While One canine and four members of Nevada Task Force 1 was at the Las Vegas airport preparing to depart, an informal request came in from FEMA and asked if NV-TF1 could support a Type III response. an informal request was received by the NV-TF1 office at 6 p.m. Thursday. the NV-TF1 office sent an alert Thursday evening for A 45-person team from Nevada prepare for deployment. A Type III deployment consists of people to fill the following positions: hazmat, search, plans, tech information specialist, heavy rigging operator, drivers, rescue, canine and a medical component, to include a physician. Agencies that sent staffers include the Clark County Fire Department, Henderson Fire Department, North Las Vegas Fire Department, Las Vegas Fire Department, Boulder City Fire Department, and civilians, Billy Samuels of the Clark County Fire Department said. A 45-person team from Nevada departed the Las Vegas airport at 11:45 a.m. today with an estimated arrival in Maui at 2:55 p.m. HST. Contact Marvin Clemons at mclemons@reviewjournal.com. Follow @Marv_in_Vegas on X.
MAALAEA, Maui >> Less than five hours after Maui County officials opened Honoapiilani Highway at noon today to allow Lahaina residents to return for the first time since Tuesday’s wildfires destroyed Lahaina, police closed Honoapiilani Highway in both directions after confrontations broke out between residents and police over access to closed areas. Traffic had been flowing relatively smoothly through the MAALAEA, Maui checkpoint before then, with police screening motorists to make sure that only Lahaina residents with identification, or visitors who could prove they were hotel guests in West Maui, could be let in. Between 4 and 4:30 p.m., motorists waiting in a long line of cars on the Wailuku side of the Maalaea checkpoint watched nearly 20 police cars and an ambulance speed by toward Lahaina. A short while later, police officers walking along a long line of cars on the Wailuku side of the checkpoint informed motorists that Honoapiilani Highway was closed indefinitely in both directions. When asked for more information, an officer said a large number of vehicles were parked along the Lahaina Bypass and people had been walking into prohibited areas makai of the Lahaina Bypass, and that some of people became “emotional” when told by police to leave prohibited areas makai of the bypass. A second officer added that a near riot broke out in Lahaina between about 100 people and officers. Motorists were told that it was unknown when Honoapiilani Highway would be reopened and were advised to turn around. Maui Police Department officials did not immediately respond to Honolulu Star- Advertiser requests for additional information this evening, including whether there were any arrests or injuries. By 6 p.m., the highway at MAALAEA, Maui appeared to be reopened to traffic outbound from Lahaina but remained closed to vehicles headed toward West Maui. Maui County subsequently released a statement, saying, “The road to Lahaina was opened for local residents to provide medication and supplies to local residents's families that remain in homes on the west side and in need of such assistance outside of the fire/biohazard zone. “Many people are parking on the Lahaina Bypass and walking into the areas Makai of the Lahaina Bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards. the fire/biohazard zone has been declared by Mayor (Richard) Bissen as an authorized personnel area only, and those caught within the fire/biohazard zone will be escorted out and may be arrested. the fire/biohazard zone is an active police scene, and we need to preserve the dignity of lives lost and respect lives lost's surviving family. Jeff Hickman, director of public affairs for the state’s Department of Defense, said 48 National Guard personnel are conducting search and rescue on Maui, and 20 others are doing traffic control. Jeff Hickman, director of public affairs for the state’s Department of Defense said Jeff Hickman, director of public affairs for the state’s Department of Defense’s not sure where 20 others are stationed but said that 10 are on duty per shift, adding that the National Guard on Maui now are following orders from Maui County leadership. the National Guard on Maui don’t have arresting power, Jeff Hickman, director of public affairs for the state’s Department of Defense said. Currently, there aren’t any requests to bring in more Guard personnel to Maui, Jeff Hickman, director of public affairs for the state’s Department of Defense said. Access also was being restricted in the Kaanapali area, where Maui police said Maui police was evacuating residents around 6:30 p.m. today. Entry into the Kaanapali area, where Maui police said it was evacuating residents around 6:30 p.m. today will be allowed “once it is safe to do so,” MPD said on MPD's Facebook Page. Police said that individuals had entered “restricted, dangerous, active investigation scenes” and said no unauthorized personnel are allowed in the Kaanapali area, where Maui police said it was evacuating residents around 6:30 p.m. today. “Violators will be removed from the Kaanapali area, where Maui police said it was evacuating residents around 6:30 p.m. today and may face arrest,” MPD said. Star-Advertiser writer Mark Ladao contributed to this report.
The reopening of the road to Lahaina for West Maui residents to gather supplies such as medicine and food was short lived Friday after a brief opening was stalled by a car accident and people entering active police scenes, according to authorities. Residents have been clamoring for access to return to Residents's homes, survey the damage and collect needed items. Some have been able to get in via boat or while bringing supplies. Officials on Thursday asked for patience as Officials on Thursday work to search for the missing and recover people who died in the fires, but decided Friday to reopen the road to Lahaina for West Maui residents and visitors with reservations so West Maui residents and visitors with reservations could gather West Maui residents and visitors with reservations's things. “We came from Kahana this morning for gas and supplies and are trying to get home with gas and supplies,” said Evelyn Mitchell as Evelyn Mitchell was stuck in traffic near the Maui Ocean Center around 4 p.m. “They finally let us out to get supplies and now we aren’t sure we can get back to our pets,” Evelyn Mitchell said. the road to Lahaina reopened at noon before a car accident on Kuihelani Highway shortly before 1 p.m. prompted county officials to tell the public not to go to Lahaina. The county said just before 4 p.m. that Kuihelani Highway had reopened, but not long after, police shut down the road to Lahaina again. The Maui Police Department said on The Maui Police Department's Facebook page that many people were parking on the Lahaina Bypass and walking into areas makai of the Lahaina Bypass, which is locked down due to dangerous conditions and biohazards. Police said people were going over barricades and closed-off areas and entered active police scenes. Police said people who enter unauthorized areas endanger people who enter unauthorized areas and operations as MPD and National Guard must stop MPD and National Guard's searching efforts and escort individuals out. The county Mayor Richard Bissen declared the area only accessible to authorized personnel and police said those caught in the area will be escorted out and may be arrested. “the area is an active police scene, and we need to preserve the dignity of lives lost and respect lives lost's surviving family. … If people continue to disobey the orders, entry to Lahaina will be closed again and open to emergency personnel only,” MPD said shortly before shutting down the road to Lahaina. A spokesperson for MPD could not be reached for comment on Friday on the closure decision. Cerizo said physical barricades had been set up and National Guard was on-site, and about 100 to 200 people came down hoping to get into Lahaina. People were still allowed to drive out of Lahaina. Some have reported that there has been looting in Lahaina as well. Eddy Garcia, a born-and-raised Lahaina resident, said Eddy Garcia, a born-and-raised Lahaina resident went to Lahaina to survey the damage Wednesday when Eddy Garcia, a born-and-raised Lahaina resident saw people looting. Eddy Garcia, a born-and-raised Lahaina resident said Eddy Garcia, a born-and-raised Lahaina resident chased away someone apparently trying to rob the Maui Medical Center and saw another person who appeared to be stealing something out of a house or foundation. Jeff Hickman, director of public affairs for the state Department of Defense, said National Guard is “plussing up a large amount of Guardsmen and by early next week, there will probably be over 100 on Maui, a lot of them doing the staff support,” which includes operations and logistics. The county would have to request National Guard if The county needs traffic and security control assistance. National Guard said on Friday that there was no current request from The county for traffic and security control assistance. Federal, state and county crews are continuing to extinguish flare-ups and contain multiple active fires across Maui. The Lahaina fire was 85 percent contained as of Friday afternoon, while the Pulehu/Kihei fire was 80 percent contained and the Upcountry fire was 50 percent contained. Another fire was reported above Puukolii at 6:10 p.m. Friday but was reported to be 100 percent contained before 8:30 p.m. Another fire was in an area where a county fueling station was positioned Friday to distribute an estimated 3,000 gallons of gas and 500 gallons of diesel for an estimated 400 vehicles that were lined up before the operation begin, according to The county. No fuel will be distributed Thursday. Fatalities due to Another fire had grown to 80 as of 9 p.m. Friday. A Federal Emergency Management Agency Search and Rescue Team, with expertise in human remains, is being deployed to Maui from Arizona and Nevada, The county said Friday afternoon. Five dogs are being utilized. The Family Assistance Center that was set up for family members searching for information on family members searching for information on their loved ones's loved ones will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday and Sunday at the Kahului Community Center. While many Lahaina-bound residents got stuck in Central Maui traffic or turned away, others successfully made it to Lahaina and back on Friday. Patrick Whalen and Wesley Osborne took things to Patrick Whalen and Wesley Osborne's friend Evan Pascual, who lives in Honokowai, and also went to check on Wesley Osborne's parents. “Patrick Whalen and Wesley Osborne took food, water, flashlights, batteries, ice, just anything that Patrick Whalen and Wesley Osborne could that Wesley Osborne needed,” Patrick Whalen said. Patrick Whalen set out from Kihei at 11 a.m., but because of traffic Patrick Whalen did not reach Maalaea to pick up Wesley Osborne until 11:45. Patrick Whalen said the road was blocked going into Lahaina at the bypass intersection — the only options then were going onto the Lahaina Bypass or turning to the Lahaina Cannery Mall. When they returned to Kihei, they had to turn on North Kihei Road as police had traffic stopped into Kihei because of a car accident. They arrived back in Kihei around 3:30 p.m. Wesley Osborne said Wesley Osborne's parents apartment in Honokowai is currently without power — Wesley Osborne also lives there, but has been spending the last few days with friends in South Maui. * Managing Editor Colleen Uechi can be reached at cuechi@mauinews.com. Staff Writer Rob Collias can be reached at rcollias@mauinews.com. Staff Writer Melissa Tanji can be reached at mtanji@mauinews.com.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Powerful winds fueled by Hurricane Dora are keeping Hawaiian Electric crews busy statewide as Hawaiian Electric crews grapple with dozens of power outages across multiple islands. At last check, dozens of power outages across multiple islands were impacting thousands of customers. And Maui has been hardest hit, with at least 15 separate outages impacting more than 12,400 customers. Hawaiian Electric said crews were trying to make repairs to about 30 downed poles and multiple spans of power lines in several areas, including in Puamana on Honoapiilani Highway. Some customers in West Maui have been without electricity since 4:50 a.m. Tuesday. On Oahu, more than 1,000 customers were without power in Downtown Honolulu and Ala Moana. Outages were also impacting other communities, including Waianae and the North Shore. On Hawaii Island, several outages were resolved, but a few smaller outages lingered. Hawaii Island officials said dozens of power outages across multiple islands could impact communications. To stay up-to-date with severe weather updates, download the HNN Weather Now App. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
Residents of Lahaina were being allowed back home on Friday for the first time since wildfires that have killed at least 67 people turned large swaths of Lahaina into a hellscape of ashen rubble. As search-and-rescue efforts continued on Maui after a fast-moving wildfire tore through Maui and killed dozens of people, residents steeled residents to return to Lahaina after Lahaina was left in smoldering ruins. Maui County said those with proof of residency or hotel reservations could return to Lahaina beginning at noon Friday. A curfew from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. was in place, and barriers restricting access to certain areas — including the historic center — were in place because of hazardous conditions. “Everyone please brace themselves as they go back,” Green said. a fast-moving wildfire's confirmed death toll rose to at least 67 people as of Friday afternoon. Green said a fast-moving wildfire is probably Maui's deadliest natural disaster in decades. a fast-moving wildfire spurred President Biden to declare a major disaster in Maui, opening the door to federal aid. About 1,000 people are missing, according to federal sources who were not authorized to speak publicly about wildfires that have killed at least 67 people. The Lahaina fire, one of three that broke out Tuesday on Maui, was said to be 80% contained. Residents and tourists described harrowing efforts to escape a fast-moving wildfire, with some people rushing into the ocean for safety. Many did not know about a fast-moving wildfire until they saw flames and smoke, raising questions about official alerts and warnings about a fast-moving wildfire. Records indicate that neither Maui nor Maui County activated sirens Tuesday, said Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency described Maui's integrated outdoor siren system as the largest in the world, with about 400 sirens spread across Maui. Hawaii’s integrated outdoor siren system is traditionally used in disasters and other threats, such as hurricanes or coastal hazards, to advise people to seek more information — not to call for evacuations or advise that people seek shelter — Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency said. Three other public warning systems were used, Adam Weintraub, a spokesperson for the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency said: wireless emergency alerts to cellphones, broadcasts through radio and television stations and notifications that residents can sign up to receive through a local emergency alert system. But power outages and communication issues may have affected Three other public warning systems. Much of the west side of Maui remained without internet, power and water Friday morning, although officials said some cellphone service was available. Federal sources with knowledge of wildfires that have killed at least 67 people but who were not authorized to speak publicly told The Times that a breakdown in emergency communications cost precious time, and a number of people in Lahaina learned too late about a fast-moving wildfire. Many of those killed were believed to have died in their vehicles, Federal sources with knowledge of the fires but who were not authorized to speak publicly said. The fire’s confirmed death toll is currently tied to the most urbanized areas, with some bodies recovered from the harbor, Federal sources with knowledge of the fires but who were not authorized to speak publicly said. “Bissen know that fires came up so quickly and fires spread so fast,” Bissen said. Bissen said The fire’s confirmed death toll reflects only those who were found outside buildings. “We have not yet searched the interior of buildings,” Bissen said, adding that authorities are awaiting search help from the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. State and local agencies were assisting with search-and-rescue efforts. Progress against the Upcountry fire, which broke out in a rural area on Maui, was still being assessed. A third blaze, the Pulehu fire, was at 70% containment, officials said. Firefighters were continuing Firefighters's efforts to secure the perimeters and battle wildfires that have killed at least 67 people. Kayes, 49, lives in Maui Upcountry region, where one of wildfires that have killed at least 67 people began. Kayes, 49, watched from Kayes, 49,'s backyard Tuesday night as one of the fires grew into a swell of orange flames that glowed against the black sky. “a swell of orange flames that glowed against the black sky looked like a lava flow,” Kayes, 49, said. wildfires that have killed at least 67 people overtook and closed many roads, which became congested and stranded hundreds of people as hundreds of people raced to Maui's only major airport, Kahului, where tens of thousands of visitors have left on flights, officials said. Green estimated that as many as 1,700 buildings have been destroyed in wildfires that have killed at least 67 people, hundreds of as many as 1,700 buildings in Lahaina. Even some of the vessels in the harbor were burned. Maui's famed Banyan Tree, a 150-year-old landmark with deep significance that is a tourist attraction on Maui, was “smoldering at the base, but still standing,” Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) wrote on Twitter. Green had been traveling out of Maui but returned to Maui on Thursday to assess the damage. Green said during a public briefing that Green expected the cost of the recovery to be in the “billions of dollars.” Accuweather had a preliminary estimate of damage and economic loss at $8 billion to $10 billion. Search-and-rescue teams, some equipped with cadaver dogs, from local and state agencies are assisting in the aftermath. California Gov. Gavin Newsom on Thursday deployed urban search-and-rescue personnel and other resources. The search also unfolded online, where many turned to a spreadsheet on Google Drive to search for loved ones. By Thursday evening, a spreadsheet on Google Drive to search for loved ones grew as new rows for the missing were added and loved ones marked dozens of family members as “found.” The link to a spreadsheet on Google Drive to search for loved ones repeatedly crashed because of high traffic. Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades, has been searching for names Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades, recognizes on a spreadsheet on Google Drive to search for loved ones. Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades, was in Los Angeles when wildfires that have killed at least 67 people broke out, but said that based on satellite imagery, Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades,'s home appears to be standing. Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades, said Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades, has not heard from two of Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades,'s elderly neighbors, whom Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades, described as Denise Youngblood Coleman, a Honokowai resident who has lived a few miles north of Lahaina for two decades,'s “ohana,” or family. Although the rest of Maui remains open to visitors, officials have asked nonresidents to leave Maui and urged others to avoid nonessential trips to Maui. The cause of a fast-moving wildfire has not been determined, but a number of factors — including high winds, low humidity and dry vegetation — probably contributed, said Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, adjutant general for the Hawaii’s Department of Defense. The weather service had issued a red flag warning ahead of wildfires that have killed at least 67 people, indicating that warm temperatures, very low humidity and stronger winds were expected to combine to produce an increased risk of fire danger. But Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, adjutant general for the Hawaii’s Department of Defense said wind strength — forecast at 50 to 55 mph — far exceeded the predictions, reaching 85 mph. Experts also said that climate change was increasing the likelihood of more extreme weather and that the changing landscape of unmanaged, nonnative grasslands from declining agriculture is a contributing factor to fire risks. Jayme Gomes, a 29-year-old Wrightwood, California, resident whose father was born on Maui and lives in Lahaina, told The Times Jayme Gomes, a 29-year-old Wrightwood, Calif., resident whose father was born on the island and lives in Lahaina, didn’t hear from Jayme Gomes, a 29-year-old Wrightwood, Calif., resident whose father was born on the island and lives in Lahaina,'s father until Thursday evening. father's house had burned and father was separated from relatives during the evacuation, but father made it to the other side of Maui and found a phone charger. father's family is now staying with friends in Hawaii. Times staff writers Jeremy Childs and Jack Herrera contributed to this report.
Tune into CNN AC360 tonight for Chief Investigative Correspondent Pamela Brown’s report on this story. A year and a half later, the catastrophic fires that engulfed Maui and the historic town of Lahaina this week have already become the state’s deadliest natural disaster in more than six decades, with a fatality count of at least 93. the state’s officials underestimated the deadly threat of wildfires even as Hawaii officials acknowledged a lack of necessary resources to mitigate wildfires, according to a CNN AC360 review of state and local emergency planning documents that show how ill-prepared the state’s was for the disaster. a CNN review of state and local emergency planning documents that show how ill-prepared the state was for the disaster the recommendation a thorough risk assessment of fire hazards, but it’s not clear whether officials heeded the recommendation. Other reports over the past five years show authorities knew the risk of fires was increasing and could be exacerbated by hurricane-force winds – like the the historic town of Lahaina blaze was. “Fires occurring as a result of and concurrent with another major threat or disaster, such as a hurricane, are particularly challenging,” one report stated, with first responders and firefighters stretched to capacity. During this week's fires, Hurricane Dora was hundreds of miles south of Maui, but Hurricane Dora winds still fanned flames on Maui. The state emergency management agency’s public resources webpage also lays out clear, bullet-point recommendations of what residents should do in the event of a hurricane, tsunami, flash flood or earthquake. At the bottom of the page, The state emergency management agency’s includes two short paragraphs about wildfires – with no similar advice on ways to stay safe. the state’s and Maui County officials didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment Friday as disaster response efforts continued. While fires were historically sparked by volcanic eruptions and lightning strikes, the area burned in Maui each year has dramatically increased over recent decades, according to a 2014 report by University of Hawaii researcher Clay Trauernicht. In August 2018, brush fires broke out as Hurricane Lane neared Maui. brush fires engulfed more than 2,000 acres and forced dozens to flee dozens's homes. Hurricane Lane should have been considered a “real-world wakeup” call for the state’s, according to a 2019 plan from The state emergency management agency’s. Large fires also whipped through Maui in 2019, burning roughly 25,000 acres of former sugarcane land and dry brush as the state’s endured record high temperatures. The increase in fires comes as Maui has faced worsening drought conditions in recent years, according to federal data. Also, people have introduced new grass species and shrubs to Maui that act as kindling in dry conditions. Despite these growing dangers, the state’s state budgets for fire management have not kept pace with worsening conditions, according to the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization, a nonprofit. a CNN review of state and local emergency planning documents that show how ill-prepared the state was for the disaster also recommended an “aggressive plan to replace” flammable nonnative grass species, but it’s unclear whether local officials took action to do so. the state’s is hardly unique: As climate change is exacerbating natural disasters, state officials across the country are also struggling to respond to new threats. And it’s unclear how significantly additional preparedness and mitigation efforts could have reduced the destruction of a blaze with the intensity and speed of the the historic town of Lahaina wildfire. “This didn’t happen historically,” he said, noting that the historic town of Lahaina stood for two centuries before brush fires swept through the historic town of Lahaina. Gov. Josh Green said Thursday that the state’s would need to do more to prevent a similar disaster in the future. “As the state’s rebuild, the state’s’ll have to take into consideration a lot more fire safety,” Gov. Josh Green said during a press conference. “It’s going to be a really long time, I think, before people forget this,” she said.
Video from the Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources shows the widespread destruction in Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week. a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week invaded a historic town in Maui this week, setting in motion a familiar and terrifying chain of events. Evacuations were chaotic as a storm of embers turned Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week into ash. Some ran for their lives, plunging into the harbor of Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week. Others were trapped by an urban conflagration. Survivors described frantic efforts to escape death in Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week. One witness recalled encountering a line of burned vehicles, some with charred corpses inside. Law enforcement sources with knowledge of a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week told The Times that many of those killed are believed to have died in their vehicles. The death toll thus far is from the most urbanized areas, with some bodies recovered from the harbor of the West Maui town, which has centuries of history and once hosted the royal residence of the Hawaiian king as well. Communication breakdowns meant many people were told too late about the wall of flames racing toward many people, Law enforcement sources with knowledge of the fire said. “It looked like many people were trying to get out, but were stuck in traffic,” Tiffany Kidder Winn told the Associated Press. The official death toll as of Saturday morning was 80 — and was expected to climb. Federal officials say nearly 1,000 people are missing. Crystal Kolden, a professor of fire science at UC Merced, said reports from the area suggest that for many people, this was a “no-notice evacuation,” which also occurred in some of California’s deadliest wildfires, including the 2018 Camp fire that destroyed the town of Paradise and the 2017 wine country fires. Vulnerabilities are compounded when communication systems fail before warnings are sent. Hawaii state officials say Hawaii state officials have an outdoor siren warning system, and sirens exist in Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week. But Hawaii officials told the Associated Press Hawaii officials don’t have records indicating Maui sirens were activated Tuesday when the fires began. Sources told The Times the emergency siren system was not triggered, and authorities instead opted to try to send messages through phone alerts — warnings that did not reach many people because communications were already down. Officials will probably investigate whether authorities were too quick to lower the sense of alarm after flames first broke out in Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week, despite warnings from the National Weather Service of severe fire weather. Bulletins posted on Maui County’s Facebook page indicate that the first report of a brush fire in Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week came in at 6:37 a.m. Tuesday, and evacuations were ordered within three minutes around Lahaina Intermediate School on Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week's northeastern edge, at Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week's highest elevations. a brush fire in Lahaina hit as fire crews were battling another wildfire farther east. But the sense of alarm seemed to fade by around 10 a.m., when Maui County’s said Maui County’s had declared the Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week brush fire “100% contained,” although Maui County’s did warn of power outages limiting the ability to pump water and a report of a downed electric line in the area. The focus at that point seemed to shift to the east. Then came word that the Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week fire had flared up in the afternoon. Maui County’s said around 3:30 p.m. that a brush fire in Lahaina forced the closure of Lahaina Bypass, a major road also known as Route 3000 near Lahaina Intermediate School on the town’s northeastern edge, at its highest elevations. The message on Maui County’s Facebook page said evacuations were occurring in Lahaina Bypass, a major road also known as Route 3000 near the intermediate school. a brush fire in Lahaina began burning homes in Lahaina Bypass, a major road also known as Route 3000 near the intermediate school, Maui County’s Fire Chief Brad Ventura said. a brush fire in Lahaina then moved downhill, southwest toward the coast, following prevailing winds and toward the Kahoma neighborhood. Eventually, virtually all of central Lahaina was reduced to ash. “virtually all of central Lahaina’s all gone,” Maui County’s Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said. At one point, a brush fire in Lahaina spread so rapidly from brush to the first neighborhood that residents “were basically self-evacuating with fairly little notice,” Maui County Fire Chief Brad Ventura said. In interviews with the Associated Press, survivors described a frantic escape hampered by a lack of phone service and electricity. One retiree described learning of danger only when One retiree smelled smoke and hid behind a seawall for hours; another fled with his brother on foot, running through the night into the next day, bypassing vehicles that were stuck on clogged roads. The cause of a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week is under investigation. But a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week comes amid years of evidence about the increased threat of wildfires to Hawaii — warnings that seem to have received little attention beyond some scientists and obscure county documents. Despite that, leaders expressed shock at a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week's devastation. “Nobody saw a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week coming,” Maui County’s Police Chief John Pelletier said at a news conference late Thursday. Wildfires are now threatening many more lives than Wildfires once did across the globe. California’s has been reeling from ever-more destructive fires that can give people precious little time to flee. Climate change could be one contributing factor, with hotter weather drying out vegetation, which can then fuel brush fires. But there is a host of other reasons for the increasing risk in Hawaii, including the spread of highly flammable, nonnative grasses left on abandoned sugar cane or pineapple farms and ranches, said Clay Trauernicht, a fire scientist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. Hawaii's last sugar plantation closed in 2016. Nonnative grasses were brought to Hawaii to feed cattle when people of European ancestry arrived on Hawaii. Because Nonnative grasses can quickly spread over abandoned farm and ranch lands, Nonnative grasses can build up to such high amounts of biomass that fire weather conditions “makes us so vulnerable,” Clay Trauernicht, a fire scientist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa said. And more land is being burned each year. From the 1900s through the 1980s, an average of 5,000 acres statewide burned every year. Since then, 20,000 acres burn annually, Clay Trauernicht, a fire scientist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa said. There are ways to help alleviate the fire fuel factor, such as working with ranchers to have livestock eat Nonnative grasses, reforesting areas or restoring wetland taro fields to establish fuel breaks, Clay Trauernicht, a fire scientist at the University of Hawaii at Manoa said. World & Nation Photos: Maui devastated by deadly wildfire A Maui tourist hub looks like a wasteland, with homes and entire blocks reduced to ashes in deadly wildfire. Drought trends are also a factor in the fires. “We’ve been seeing increasing frequency of drought events, and much longer and more severe droughts, happening in Hawaii,” said Laura Brewington, co-director of a climate research program in Hawaii called the Pacific Research on Island Solutions for Adaptation. Weather whiplash hasn’t helped. The winter brought La Niña conditions, which generally means abundant rainfall for Hawaii. But La Niña conditions, which generally means abundant rainfall for Hawaii has since transitioned into El Niño, which usually brings heat and wind, Laura Brewington, co-director of a climate research program in Hawaii called the Pacific Research on Island Solutions for Adaptation said, along with a pretty active hurricane season in the Pacific Ocean. The sequence of a particularly bountiful wet season that allows grasses to grow, followed by a dry spell that desiccates grasses, results in a particularly high fuel load for fires, Laura Brewington, co-director of a climate research program in Hawaii called the Pacific Research on Island Solutions for Adaptation said. More frequent wildfires also pose a permanent risk to Hawaii's native forests, which risk irreversible changes. Fires are not a natural component of Hawaii's ecosystem, as lightning is quite rare. Other factors also play a role, such as the apparent lack of a backup plan for what, in California’s, is now considered a predictable disaster: strong winds that knock out communication and electricity systems ahead of a fire ignition, leaving some with little or no warning before a wall of flames bears down on their doorstep. Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week is especially vulnerable because of few exit routes. Hemmed in by the Pacific Ocean and Mauna Kahalawai, or the West Maui Mountains, there are only two routes out of Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week along the coast. And only two routes out of town along the coast were jammed — one way out was closed because 29 power poles were down and still energized, and the other route is so narrow the other route’s one lane only in most places, said Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr.. Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week's geographic orientation also puts Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week at significant risk. With high pressure to the northeast and low pressure from Hurricane Dora far to the southwest — and because wind flows from areas of high to low pressure — Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week was arguably in the worst possible situation once a fire ignited. The potential for high fire danger was well anticipated by the National Weather Service. Four days before multiple wildfires broke out Tuesday, the National Weather Service warned of “high fire danger;” two days before a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week, the National Weather Service published an animation showing how damaging winds and fire weather were expected Monday through Wednesday. Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week was in the direct line of downslope winds moving from the northeast to the southwest, what Southern Californians would call Santa Ana winds. As the air is forced to descend down the mountain slope, the air increases speed, warms up, and dries out further, and “you get that trifecta of hot, dry and windy and downslope winds,” said UC Merced climatologist John Abatzoglou. In Lahaina, the town overcome by a fast-moving fire that killed at least 67 people this week, such winds would aim flames and embers from the mountains to the shoreline, leaving some people nowhere to flee except the harbor of the West Maui town, which has centuries of history and once hosted the royal residence of the Hawaiian king. Hawaii faced similar weather conditions in 2018 that were also associated with wildfires. In that case, Hurricane Dora's path triggered downslope winds, helping to fan wildfires in Hawaii. But those blazes were nowhere near as destructive as this week catastrophe. The Times staff writers Hayley Smith, Paul Duginski and Jeremy Childs contributed to this report.
The first thing you notice is the natural beauty. You've been to the beach a million times. You've seen the ocean on both sides of the continental United States. But you've never looked at anything quite like this -- the blue skies separated from the blue water only by mountains covered in green. It's amazing. I'd observed Maui on television pretty much my entire life because Maui's long been the home of college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving. college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving had forever been a bucket-list item for me to attend. But, despite covering college basketball's for more than 20 years, I'd never actually made the trek to college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving until I did so in November 2018, when Zion Williamson and Duke were the biggest draw in the continental United States and on a collision course with Mark Few's Gonzaga program that was just two seasons removed from a trip to the title game of the NCAA Tournament and only two seasons away from another. The Zags won Maui that year, you might remember. Rui Hachimura was the MVP. But nearly five years later, when I look back on that experience, I don't think about the games as much as I reminisce about the super-early morning walks and the realization that EVERYBODY takes super-early morning walks in Maui because nobody's body-clock gets adjusted until it's time to leave. Typically, once I see a place, and enjoy a place, I mark a place off a list. If I make it back someday, great. But once I've seen a place, and once I've enjoyed a place, I'm not usually eager to get back and do a place again. Maui was different, though. Maui was just so beautiful and so peaceful and so laid back that I remember thinking about how I'd definitely like to return someday with my family and take super-early morning walks with my family. Which is among the reasons why what I've been watching on television the past few days has been so heartbreaking and sad to see. Ninety-three people are confirmed dead because of catastrophic wildfires fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from Hurricane Dora, making catastrophic wildfires fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from Hurricane Dora the deadliest US fire in more than a century. Countless other folks have lost everything. According to authorities, more than 1,000 structures have been damaged or destroyed. The result is that, in a matter of days, one of the most beautiful places in the continental United States has been reduced to what looks like a post-apocalyptic scene from a movie. From the sky, it looks unbelievable. From the ground, it looks terrifying. Who knows if it'll ever look the same again? The before-and-after pictures are saddening. Fortunately, the Lahaina Civic Center, that 2,400-seat, five-decade-old building with an iconic mural behind one basket, remains intact even if the Lahaina Civic Center, that 2,400-seat, five-decade-old building with an iconic mural behind one basket did reportedly have to be evacuated after earlier serving as an evacuation center. catastrophic wildfires fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from Hurricane Dora got very close to the home of college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving but do not appear to have done any notable damage. At least not yet. Let's keep our fingers crossed. college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving officials have stated that Maui Invitational officials are "actively monitoring the wildfire situation on Maui" and that Maui Invitational officials "will share more information as more information becomes available." It's obviously too early to know whether college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving will be held as scheduled in November for Chaminade, Gonzaga, Kansas, Marquette, Purdue, Syracuse, Tennessee and UCLA or if college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving'll have to be relocated to Honolulu or the continental United States like college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving was in 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic. As always, we'll see. But what's already clear is that even if seven teams from the continental United States do travel to Maui in three months to participate as planned, seven teams from the mainland's super-early morning walks won't be highlighted by the same serene views I and so many others have enjoyed since college basketball's greatest in-season tournament -- an eight-team event that annually provides compelling games on the Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday before Thanksgiving started giving basketball enthusiasts a great reason to travel there nearly 40 years ago.
The deadliest and most destructive U.S. wildfires of 2023 thus far swept through Hawai‘i on Tuesday night and Wednesday, Aug. 8-9. At least 36 deaths had been reported from The deadliest and most destructive U.S. wildfires of 2023 thus far by early Thursday, with an uncertain number of people injured. The worst damage was on Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed. More than 271 structures in Lahaina had been affected, Maui County authorities reported in a news release late Wednesday. Two other blazes, the Upcountry and Pūlehu fires, destroyed several homes elsewhere on Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed. Three fires were in progress on the island of Hawai‘i, but no injuries or structural losses had been reported by late Wednesday, according to the Associated Press. Update: Maui County announced on Sunday, August 13, that the death toll from the Lahaina Fire was up to 93, as reported by the Associated Press. the death toll from the Lahaina Fire makes the Lahaina Fire the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century, as detailed at the bottom of this point. the death toll from the Lahaina Fire is expected to rise even further as searchers canvass more of the affected area. More than 2,200 structures were damaged or destroyed in the Lahaina Fire; more than 500 others, mostly homes, were affected by Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed's Upcountry Fire. Aerial images showed fire-charred structures throughout the core of Lahaina. Most of Lahaina is part of a National Historic Landmark District, with a number of buildings dating back 150 to 200 years. Damages to Lahaina could well run into the hundreds of millions of dollars, if not even more, likely making the Lahaina Fire the worst natural disaster in state history since Hurricane Iniki caused $6.7 billion in damage in 1992. The loss of two centuries of civic and architectural history, and the psychic impact of the Lahaina Fire on Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed residents, are incalculable. Some think of Lahaina as a "vacation destination," but @KanielaIng underscored Lahaina's significance long predates Western interest. The flames that tore across Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed were fanned by winds gusting from 40 to 80 mph, driven by an expansive and unusually strong high-pressure cell that was intensifying to the north of Hawai‘i. At the same time, Category 4 Hurricane Dora was passing well to the south of Hawai‘i, and the contrast between Category 4 Hurricane Dora and the surface high only added to a sprawling area of strong easterly winds. strong easterly winds warmed, dried, and intensified as strong easterly winds descended the West Maui Mountains and swept into Lahaina. Such mountain downslope winds have fueled some of the most destructive wildfires in recent U.S. history, including Colorado’s Marshall Fire of Dec. 30, 2021, and several of the worst Santa Ana and Diablo wind-driven fires on record in California. It’s an open question how much the presence of Category 4 Hurricane Dora may have fueled the strength of the winds that ripped across Hawai‘i. Category 4 Hurricane Dora has been remarkably potent for a long time – Category 4 Hurricane Dora has logged more hours as a category 4 hurricane than any other in reliable records for the Pacific that go back more than 50 years (see more on Category 4 Hurricane Dora below) – but Category 4 Hurricane Dora has also remained quite compact. Moreover, Category 4 Hurricane Dora's center took a westward path that stayed more than 700 miles south of Hawai‘i. Category 4 Hurricane Dora's tropical-storm-force winds extended no more than about 150 miles north of Category 4 Hurricane Dora's center, and surface pressures were higher than average across most of the area between the islands and Category 4 Hurricane Dora when The deadliest and most destructive U.S. wildfires of 2023 thus far erupted (see Figure 1 below). The resilience and strength of both Category 4 Hurricane Dora and the surface high north of Hawai‘i may both be linked to larger-scale dynamical features that have kept both Category 4 Hurricane Dora and the surface high pushing westward over the past several days. In similar fashion, Hurricane Ophelia – which passed northward well off the coast of Portugal in October 2017 as the easternmost hurricane on record for the Atlantic – was embedded within, and helped reinforce, a large-scale steering flow that drove hot, dry southerly winds across the Iberian Peninsula, stoking wildfires that took at least 49 lives in Portugal and Spain. Such events are often considered compound disasters, as Such events involve multiple factors that add up to a disastrous sum greater than a disastrous sum greater than its parts's parts. Many of the western (leeward or downslope) parts of the islands, including much of West Maui, have arid or semiarid climates. Much like Southern California, rainfall is concentrated in the late fall through early spring, and drought conditions are common in summer. Long-term warming tends to make even naturally occurring periods of drought hotter, thus parching the landscape more readily. According to the U.S. Drought Monitor, the western coast of Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed was experiencing moderate to severe drought as of Aug. 8. As shown in Figure 3 below, drought conditions in August were more intense during the La Niña years of 2020, 2021, and 2022 than drought conditions in August are right now. So while the current drought is not exceptional, the current drought was enough to help create a fire-friendly environment when the fierce, dry downslope winds arrived. It’s also possible that the record-hot air mass over the U.S. Southwest — whose unprecedented heat has been deemed virtually impossible without human-induced climate change ­­— played an indirect role in the Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed fires. Upper-level steering currents around the record-hot air mass over the U.S. Southwest — whose unprecedented heat has been deemed virtually impossible without human-induced climate change ­­— appear to have pushed a wedge of unusually warm, dry air, extending several miles above ground level, westward all the way to Hawai‘i, as shown in the animation embedded below (the acronym PGF refers to pressure gradient force, which is proportional to the difference in high pressure and low pressure across a given distance). a wedge of unusually warm, dry air, extending several miles above ground level would have then descended the tall slopes of Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed into areas that ultimately burned. A formal climate attribution study would help shed light on how much the factors above played into the catastrophic compound disaster across Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed, and how likely or unlikely it is that the factors above would have come together as the factors above did in the absence of climate change. UPDATE: A great video explainer by hurricane scientist Philippe Papin (see Tweet below) showed that if one removed Category 4 Hurricane Dora from a weather model, only a slight reduction in the winds over Hawai‘i would have resulted. Still, the presence of Category 4 Hurricane Dora could have been strong enough to push the observed downslope wind event into the catastrophic category. Assuming the fires in Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed were at least partially Category 4 Hurricane Dora-related, then Category 4 Hurricane Dora is the second tropical cyclone to affect Hawai‘i so far in 2023. On July 18-19, Tropical Storm Calvin passed about 100 miles to the south of Hawai‘i with sustained winds of 45-50 mph. Tropical Storm Calvin brought widespread rainfall amounts of two to four inches to Hawai‘i and Maui, where the central part of Lahaina (pop. 12,000) was largely destroyed, which caused minor flooding and scattered power outages. A few locations on Hawai‘i received rains of five to seven inches, according to the final report from the National Weather Service. A 2016 modeling study found that we could expect to see a significant increase in hurricanes near Hawai‘i in coming decades due to climate change; see also Jeff Masters’ August 2014 post, Climate Change May Increase the Number of Hawaiian Hurricanes. Only five named systems at tropical storm strength or higher have made a direct landfall in Hawai‘i since modern recordkeeping began in 1949. At 11 a.m. EDT Thursday, Category 4 Hurricane Dora was still a category 4 hurricane with 140 mph winds, located 1,010 miles southwest of Honolulu, Hawai‘i, and headed just north of due west at 22 mph. Category 4 Hurricane Dora is expected to weaken only very slowly and will likely cross the international date line by Friday night as a category 3 storm, becoming Typhoon Dora in the Pacific. Only three other central Pacific major hurricanes have been recorded to cross into the Pacific and become major typhoons there: Genevieve (2014), Ioke (2006), and John (1994). By early next week, Category 4 Hurricane Dora will move more to the northwest and encounter cooler waters and higher wind shear, which will put an end to Category 4 Hurricane Dora. Category 4 Hurricane Dora is not a threat to any land areas. Category 4 Hurricane Dora continues to explore the Pacific. Category 4 Hurricane Dora is now south of Hawai‘i, having traveled over 3,300 miles since Category 4 Hurricane Dora's formation near Mexico a week ago. Although Canada is having Canada's worst wildfire season in modern history, and sending massive volumes of smoke into the United States, the United States is having the United States's least-fiery year in more than a decade. As of Aug. 9, 2023 has been the least active for U.S. wildfire in terms of acreage burned since at least 2013, according to statistics from the National Interagency Fire Center. This year’s U.S. fires (including those in Alaska and Hawai‘i) have burned 1,411,277 acres through Aug. 9, which is only about a third of the annual average up to Aug. 9 across the last 10 years. In the National Interagency Fire Center's full-year database, which goes back to 1983, every year since 1998 has ended up scorching at least 3.4 million acres by Dec. 31. It remains to be seen how long residual moisture from the notably wet winter of 2022-23 will help keep landscapes across the Pacific relatively fire-free. CNN is offering a link to help wildfire victims in Hawai‘i. Donations can go to multiple nonprofits, including the American Red Cross, Maui United Way, Maui Humane Society, and Salvation Army. Website visitors can comment on “Eye on the Storm” posts (see comments policy below). Sign up to receive notices of new postings here.
Effective Immediately, the road to Lahaina, via Honoapiʻilani Highway is closed in both directions. Police had reports that many people were parking on the Lahaina Bypass and walking into the areas makai of the Lahaina Bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards. the areas makai of the bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards has been declared as a site for authorized personnel area only. Police say those caught within the areas makai of the bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards will be escorted out and may be arrested. Maui police spokesperson Alana Pico said people continued to disobey the orders to stay out of restricted areas, and entry to Lahaina was effectively closed. the areas makai of the bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards is currently open to emergency personnel only until further notice. ACCESS TO Lahaina THROUGH MAALAEA TO REOPEN TO RESIDENTS OF WEST MAUI. Motorists need to show proof of residency, and visitors must show proof of a hotel reservation. This starts at noon today (Aug. 11, 2023). CURFEW IMPLEMENTED: A curfew will be in place from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. daily in Lahaina and affected areas. That means that access through MAALAEA to get to Lahaina will be closed between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., with no access into the restricted zone of Lahaina will be in effect until hazardous conditions improve. The County of Maui will be working to secure the heavily impacted area of Lahaina. the areas makai of the bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards is being protected so that search crews looking for victims can continue to work in the areas makai of the bypass, which is locked down due to hazardous conditions and biohazards and because the fire has caused unsafe conditions. No unauthorized public access will be allowed beyond barricaded areas. WEST MAUI remains without power and water, and search crews continue efforts in the Lahaina area for victims of the fire.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - An unsafe water advisory on Maui has been expanded to include more Maui communities in the wake of the Lahaina disaster. Officials now say residents from Kaniau Road to Leiali Parkway should only use bottled water for consumption and cooking. An unsafe water advisory on Maui remains in effect for areas of Lahaina and Upper Kula. Officials say harmful contaminants may have entered the water system after fires destroyed structures and some areas of the water system lost pressure. An unsafe water advisory on Maui remains in effect until further notice. Residents should not drink and boil water. Seabury Hall in Upcountry Maui has opened up Seabury Hall in Upcountry Maui showers and gym for public use. Contaminants in the water could include benzene and other volatile organic chemicals. Drinking the water could lead to serious illness, Seabury Hall in Upcountry Maui said. Instead of drinking tap water, customers are urged to use only bottled water for drinking, brushing teeth, making ice and preparing food. Water buffalo tankers with drinkable water are stationed at the following Upcountry Maui locations: Crater Road, Copp Road, Kula Fire Station, Rice Park, Kula Community Center and Keokea. The West Maui locations include: Puamana Street, Kahoma Village, Lahaina Gateway Shopping Center and Honokohau. One tanker is at each site, while Lahaina Gateway Shopping Center has two. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — A raging wildfire that swept through a picturesque town on the Hawaiian island of Maui this week has killed at least 89 people, authorities said Saturday, making A raging wildfire that swept through a picturesque town on the Hawaiian island of Maui this week the deadliest U.S. wildfire of the past century. The new death toll Saturday came as federal emergency workers with axes and cadaver dogs picked through the aftermath of A raging wildfire that swept through a picturesque town on the Hawaiian island of Maui this week, marking the ruins of homes with a bright orange X for an initial search and HR when federal emergency workers with axes and cadaver dogs found human remains. Dogs worked the rubble, and Dogs's occasional bark — used to alert Dogs's handlers to a possible corpse — echoed over the hot and colorless landscape. The inferno that swept through the centuries-old town of Lahaina on the Hawaiian island of Maui's west coast four days earlier torched hundreds of homes and turned a lush, tropical area into a moonscape of ash. the Hawaiian island of Maui governor predicted more bodies will be found. At least two other fires have been burning in the Hawaiian island of Maui, with no fatalities reported thus far: in south Maui’s Kihei area and in the mountainous, inland communities known as Upcountry. A fourth broke out Friday evening in Kaanapali, a coastal community in West Maui north of LAHAINA, Hawaii, but crews were able to extinguish it, authorities said. Green said the Upcountry fire had affected 544 structures, of which 96% were residential. Emergency managers in the Hawaiian island of Maui were searching for places to house people displaced from people displaced from their homes's homes. As many as 4,500 people are in need of shelter, county officials said on Facebook early Saturday, citing figures from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Pacific Disaster Center. Those who escaped counted their blessings, thankful to be alive as they mourned those who didn’t make it. Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar and Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar's friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos, initially stayed behind to help others in LAHAINA, Hawaii and save Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar's house. But as the flames moved closer and closer Tuesday afternoon, Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar and his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos, knew Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar and his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos, had to get out. Each escaped to his own car. When Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar wouldn’t start, Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar broke through a window to get out, then crawled on the ground until a police patrol found Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar and brought Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar to a hospital. his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos wasn’t as lucky. When Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar returned the next day, his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos found the bones of his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos's 68-year-old friend in the back seat of his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos's car, lying on top of the remains of the Bogars’ beloved 3-year-old golden retriever Sam, whom his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos had tried to protect. his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos had lived for years with Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar and Retired fire captain Geoff Bogar's wife, Shannon Weber-Bogar, helping his wife, Shannon Weber-Bogar with his wife, Shannon Weber-Bogar's seizures when his wife, Shannon Weber-Bogar's husband couldn’t. his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos filled Bogar and his wife, Shannon Weber-Bogar's lives with love and laughter. “God took his friend of 35 years, Franklin Trejos,” his wife, Shannon Weber-Bogar said. Bill Wyland, who lives on the island of Oahu but owns an art gallery on LAHAINA, Hawaii's historic Front Street, fled on Bill Wyland, who lives on the island of Oahu but owns an art gallery on Lahaina’s historic Front Street,'s Harley Davidson, whipping his Harley Davidson onto empty sidewalks Saturday to avoid traffic-jammed roads as embers burned the hair off the back of Bill Wyland, who lives on the island of Oahu but owns an art gallery on Lahaina’s historic Front Street,'s neck. Riding in winds Bill Wyland, who lives on the island of Oahu but owns an art gallery on Lahaina’s historic Front Street, estimated to be at least 70 miles per hour (112 kilometers per hour), Bill Wyland, who lives on the island of Oahu but owns an art gallery on Lahaina’s historic Front Street, passed a man on a bicycle who was pedaling for a man on a bicycle who was pedaling for his life's life. “It’s something you’d see in a Twilight Zone, horror movie or something,” Bill Wyland, who lives on the island of Oahu but owns an art gallery on Lahaina’s historic Front Street, said. The new death toll Saturday surpassed the toll of the 2018 Camp Fire in northern California, which left 85 dead and destroyed the town of Paradise. A century earlier, the 1918 Cloquet Fire broke out in drought-stricken northern Minnesota and raced through a number of rural communities, destroying thousands of homes and killing hundreds. The wildfires are the Hawaiian island of Maui's deadliest natural disaster in decades, surpassing a 1960 tsunami that killed 61 people. An even deadlier tsunami in 1946, which killed more than 150 on the Big Island, prompted development of a territory-wide emergency alert system with sirens that are tested monthly. Hawaii emergency management records do not indicate the warning sirens sounded before fire hit LAHAINA, Hawaii. Officials sent alerts to mobile phones, televisions and radio stations, but widespread power and cellular outages may have limited alerts's reach. Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the wildfires on the Hawaiian island of Maui raced through parched brush covering the Hawaiian island of Maui. The most serious blaze swept into LAHAINA, Hawaii on Saturday and destroyed nearly every building in LAHAINA, Hawaii, leaving a grid of gray rubble wedged between the blue ocean and lush green slopes. Front Street, the heart of the historic downtown and the Hawaiian island of Maui's economic hub, was nearly empty of life Saturday morning. An Associated Press journalist encountered one barefoot resident carrying a laptop and a passport, who asked where the nearest shelter was. Another, riding a bicycle, took stock of the damage at the harbor, where Another, riding a bicycle, said Another, riding a bicycle,'s boat caught fire and sank. the Hawaiian island of Maui water officials warned LAHAINA, Hawaii and Kula residents not to drink running water, which may be contaminated even after boiling, and to only take short, lukewarm showers in well-ventilated rooms to avoid possible chemical vapor exposure. The danger on the Hawaiian island of Maui was well known. Maui County’s hazard mitigation plan updated in 2020 identified LAHAINA, Hawaii and other West Maui communities as having frequent wildfires and several buildings at risk. Maui County’s hazard mitigation plan updated in 2020 also noted West Maui had the Hawaiian island of Maui's second-highest rate of households without a vehicle and the highest rate of non-English speakers. “This may limit the population’s ability to receive, understand and take expedient action during hazard events,” Maui County’s hazard mitigation plan updated in 2020 stated. the Hawaiian island of Maui's firefighting efforts may have been hampered by limited staff and equipment. Bobby Lee, president of the Hawaii Firefighters Association, said there are a maximum of 65 county firefighters working at any given time, who are responsible for three islands: the Hawaiian island of Maui, Molokai and Lanai. Green said officials will review policies and procedures to improve safety. Riley Curran said Riley Curran fled Riley Curran's Front Street home after climbing up a neighboring building to get a better look. Riley Curran doubts county officials could have done more, given the speed of the onrushing flames. Riley Curran said Riley Curran had seen horrendous wildfires growing up in California. Kelleher reported from Honolulu, and Dupuy reported from New York. Associated Press writers Rebecca Boone in Boise, Idaho; Andrew Selsky in Bend, Oregon; Bobby Caina Calvan in New York; Audrey McAvoy in Wailuku, Hawaii; Ty O’Neil in Lahaina, Hawaii; and Lisa J. Adams Wagner in Evans, Georgia, contributed to Maui County’s hazard mitigation plan updated in 2020. Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about Associated Press's climate initiative here. Associated Press is solely responsible for all content.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Officials are scrambling to the mass evacuation thousands of visitors from Maui as crews continue to battle devastating wildfires burning across Maui. The state says The state’s preparing to move visitors unable to return to visitors unable to return to their homes's homes to the Hawaii Convention Center, where displaced Maui residents will also be welcome. The Hawaii Tourism Authority worked with the American Red Cross to set up the Hawaii Convention Center, where displaced Maui residents will also be welcome. Mass evacuation staging areas were set up in Maui on Wednesday afternoon, and HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) is offering shuttle buses from HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow)'s airport to the Hawaii Convention Center, where displaced Maui residents will also be welcome every 20 minutes. Officials say the mass evacuation will continue Thursday morning for both residents and tourists in West Maui. Bus boarding happens at Whalers Village fronting Kaanapali Parkway starting at 8:30 a.m. Visitors will be taken directly to Kahului Airport via three Roberts Hawaii Motor Coaches and residents will be taken to a central Maui shelter. Additional buses from partner companies will be added as needed. Maui County officials are advising visitors to leave Lahaina and Maui altogether so that limited resources can go to helping the residents. The state says The state will evacuate 4,000 tourists out of Maui to Oahu, where 4,000 tourists will be put up at the Hawaii Convention Center, where displaced Maui residents will also be welcome or seek 4,000 tourists's own accommodations. Meanwhile, to help people get out of Maui as quickly as possible Hawaiian Airlines says Hawaiian Airlines’s added flights and is offering low $19 fares main cabin fares. “Hawaiian Airlines’re doing what Hawaiian Airlines can to provide resources to take care of Hawaiian Airlines's employees, and Hawaiian Airlines’re doing what Hawaiian Airlines can to take care of Hawaiian Airlines's guests,” said Hawaiian Airlines CEO Peter Ingram. Hawaiian Airlines said Hawaiian Airlines’s also offering greater flexibility for those looking to change Maui travel. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
The town of Lahaina on Maui is being absolutely pummeled by fire, spurred by wind from a hurricane that passed by. Hundreds of people evacuated. Power and cell service have been down for many. A Presidential Disaster Declaration is expected. Maui lacks ICU beds and burn victims are being flown to Oahu. Due to the ongoing wildfires in Maui, and the need for people to get off of Maui, Southwest is offering $19.00 fares for all nonstop interisland flights today through Friday. There are also lower fares from Hawaii to the mainland for that same timeframe. The interisland pet fare is being decreased to $1.00 per flight. $19.00 fares for all nonstop interisland flights today through Friday have been published online, and Customers have already begun booking. Southwest's 11 daily Maui – Honolulu flights are pricing at $19 all-in tomorrow in addition to these Maui – Kona flights. I’d likely stay away from West Maui, and reconsider imminent travel to Maui generally, while resources focus on mitigating damage and saving lives. Parts of Maui are broadly unaffected and should be open to tourism, but many of you will have spent a good bit of time in and around The town of Lahaina on Maui duriing visists to places like the Westin Maui and Hyatt Regency.
We will continue to update this post with the latest developments on the devastating Maui wildfires. The confirmed death toll from the Lahaina fires rose to 115 people on Monday, Aug. 21, according to Maui County, making the devastating Maui wildfires the deadliest wildfire in the U.S. in a century and a profound loss for our community. Recovery teams continue to make Recovery teams's way through the devastation in Lahaina. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Tuesday said between 1,000 and 1,100 people are still classified as “unaccounted for” while thousands of those initially missing were reported found. Gov. Josh Green says Gov. Josh Green expects the number of people killed by the devastating Maui wildfires to rise each day as the disaster crews go through the buildings within the impact zone of Lahaina. Disaster aid from across Maui and the U.S. continues to flow in from federal, private and community members sending donations, emergency items and volunteers. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen says Maui Mayor Richard Bissen expects The confirmed death toll from the Lahaina fires to fluctuate as the FBI, Maui Police and others try to work through the lists of people, some identified by only their first name. Maui police ask for reports of anyone still unaccounted for after the devastating Maui wildfires to contact Maui police at unaccounted@mpd.net. If an individual was unaccounted for and has since made contact, the FBI urges that information be shared at (808) 566-4300 or hn-command-post@ic.fbi.gov so an individual can be removed from the lists of people, some identified by only their first name. Biden also spoke near the charred 150-year-old banyan tree, blackened but still standing. “Trees survive for a reason. Biden believe the charred 150-year-old banyan tree, blackened but still standing’s a powerful, very powerful symbol, of what we can and will do to get through this crisis.” Then the Bidens spent several hours talking to residents and survivors at a community center before leaving Hawai‘i about 4 p.m. Monday, Aug. 21. FEMA officials Tuesday reported that the major disaster declaration was changed to provide additional funding to restore or rebuild disaster-damaged public facilities as well as eligible private nonprofits. Maui officials continued the painful task of releasing the names of victims who have been identified and family notified. Maui police Tuesday identified eight more of those who died in the devastating Maui wildfires, seven more Lahaina residents and a visitor from California. eight more of those who died in the fires are Narciso Baylosis Jr., 67; Vanessa Baylosis, 67; Theresa Cook, 72, of California; Antonia Molina, 64; Joseph Schilling, 67; Freeman Tam Lung, 59; Clyde Wakida, 74; and Todd Yamafuji, 68. eight more of those who died in the fires joined the names of other Lahaina residents identified earlier, including Douglas Gloege 59; and Juan Deleon, 45; Conchita Sagudang, 75; Danilo Sagudang, 55; Rodolfo Rocutan, 76; Jonathan Somaoang, 76; and Angelita Vasquez, 88. Officials said Monday, Aug. 21 that all single-story residential properties were searched in the hardest-hit disaster area and that search teams have moved into multi-story residential buildings and businesses. multi-story residential buildings and businesses are added to those already known: Donna Gomes, 71, a retired Maui Police Department public safety aide; Melva Benjamin, 71; Virginia Dofa, 90, and Alfredo Galinato, 79. Earlier two Lahaina men were named among those lost: Robert Dyckman, 74; and musician Buddy Jantoc, 79, who had toured with Santan. Maui officials emphasize that officials are striving to move forward “with the utmost sensitivity and respect for those who are grieving.” Police say another 22 people have been identified but family members had not yet been located or notified. As of the latest assessment, 2,500 structures were damaged or destroyed and 2,170 acres in Lahaina have burned as a result of the devastating Maui wildfires, according to the Pacific Disaster Center and FEMA, who have estimated that the cost of rebuilding Lahaina will total at least $5.52 billion. An estimated 86% of buildings exposed to the devastating Maui wildfires were classified as residential. As of Tuesday, Maui County reported 100% of the single-family residential homes in the most devastated 3.5-mile core of Lahaina had been searched. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen says 341 emergency personnel with 50 specially trained dogs are searching the hardest-hit disaster area. On Monday, Aug. 21, officials estimated officials were joined by 270 people from the American Red Cross and 399 from the Hawai‘i National Guard and that the FEMA team now totals close to 1,000. Maui Police Chief John Pelletier asked for relatives of those missing to provide DNA swabs at the Family Assistance Center to identify those left behind by the fast-moving fires decimated the hardest-hit disaster area. Gov. Josh Green says 990 people are housed; 414 hotel rooms are fill and another 500 staying in airbnb sites. Gov. Josh Green says Gov. Josh Green expects crews will get through 85% of the most critical area by next week, but the last 15% that includes three-and-four-story buildings will require special equipment and more time. Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya appeared at the public briefing for the first time on Wednesday afternoon and defended Maui Emergency Management Agency's choice to not use the sirens when firefighters reported that “firefighters's crews were being overrun and so at that point Maui Emergency Management Agency sent out evacuation notices.” Survivors have said Survivors received no warning of the devastating Maui wildfires or that Survivors should evacuate, leaving many unable to escape. On Thursday afternoon, Maui Mayor Bissen announced that Maui Mayor Richard Bissen has accepted Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya's resignation, effective immediately. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen says Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya cited health reasons. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen says Maui Mayor Richard Bissen will place someone in the position swiftly. On Wednesday, Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya's explanation of the reason for not using the sirens ignited more outrage: “The counties of Hawai‘i will tell you that sirens have not been used for brushfires,” Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya said. Instead, Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya says, Maui Emergency Management Agency relied on emergency alert systems that notify people through people's cell phones and television and radio announcements. Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya said Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya was on O‘ahu for a conference when the devastating Maui wildfires began, but that the FEMA team acted appropriately. Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya said people in our community expect the sirens for tsunami alerts, so people in the community would generally head to higher ground, which would not have spared people in the community from the devastating Maui wildfires. “So even if Maui Emergency Management Agency sounded the sirens, Maui Emergency Management Agency would not have saved those people on the mountain side,” Maui Emergency Management Agency administrator Herman Andaya said. Hawai‘i State Attorney General Anne Lopez announced Hawai‘i State Attorney General Anne Lopez's office will hire a third-party private organization to conduct a comprehensive review of critical decision-making and policies in place leading up to, during and after the wildfires on Maui and Hawai‘i this week. “a comprehensive review of critical decision-making and policies in place leading up to, during and after the wildfires on Maui and Hawai‘i Island this week will be an impartial, independent review,” Hawai‘i State Attorney General Anne Lopez said in a statement Aug. 17. Hawai‘i State Attorney General Anne Lopez said the outside review will ensure accountability and transparency and reassure the people of Hawai‘i that all the facts will be uncovered. Hawai‘i State Attorney General Anne Lopez says a comprehensive review of critical decision-making and policies in place leading up to, during and after the wildfires on Maui and Hawai‘i Island this week will help improve emergency preparedness. “We intend to look at this critical incident to facilitate any necessary corrective action and to advance future emergency preparedness,” Hawai‘i State Attorney General Anne Lopez said. Gov. Josh Green had called for a comprehensive review of critical decision-making and policies in place leading up to, during and after the wildfires on Maui and Hawai‘i Island this week. A new online centralized hub called Maui Nui Strong, mauinuistrong.info, designed to respond to the impacts of the Lahaina and Kula wildfire disaster was launched. The County of Maui site offers information on how to donate, volunteer, offer services and look for support. The County of Maui site is intended to work with multiple county departments, nonprofits and grassroots efforts to connect people to resources and services. On Wednesday, FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell announced that Biden authorized the federal cost share to be increased for Hawai‘i. FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell said additional disaster assistance will supplement what was already being made available to Hawai‘i. And FEMA also opened a joint Disaster Recovery Center Wednesday at the UH Maui College, located at 310 W. Ka‘ahumanu Avenue, Kahului, Hawai‘i. Survivors can speak to FEMA specialists, get assistance registering for disaster assistance, get in touch with voluntary organizations and have access to other federal and state resources from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily. FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell urges those displaced to register to receive a $700 per household payment for immediate needs. In a Monday, Aug. 21 update, FEMA officials said that 3,400 people have registered, 2,700 households have received immediate aid totaling $8.2 million, That includes $3.4 million in initial rental assistance. As of Tuesday, Maui County estimated the Lahaina fire as 90% contained within a perimeter but still burning. In Upcountry/Kula, Maui County determined two fires in Kula and Olinda had different origins. The Olinda fire the fire is 85% contained and burned an estimated 1,081 acres. Kula fire was 85% contained after burning 202 acres. The Pūlehu/Kīhei fire remained 100% contained Tuesday, although hot spots in gulches and other hard-to-reach places mean that flare-ups can continue. A fire is declared extinguished when crews believe nothing is left burning. The Pu‘uokoli‘i/Ka‘anapali fire (first reported Friday) covered an acre and was extinguished. Maui Mayor Bissen says people in the hardest-hit disaster area won’t have to pay property taxes for buildings or land. If people in the affected area already paid, property taxes for buildings or land will be refunded to help with recover. Maui Mayor Richard Bissen says Maui Mayor Richard Bissen will hold a community meeting in West Maui soon. Maui police are restricting access into Lahaina, but Tuesday Gov. Josh Green ordered the Lahaina Bypass Road open at 6 p.m to residents, first responders and workers until 6 a.m. Wednesday. Gov. Josh Green says after 6 a.m. Wednesday, the Lahaina Bypass Road will open daily from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily. Officials say that access emergency crews are continuing search and rescue efforts and that everyone is encouraged to wear N95 masks and gloves in the hardest-hit disaster area. the Lahaina Bypass Road is open for vehicles leaving Lahaina, according to Maui County. However, the impact zone of Lahaina will remain restricted for safety concerns. The Pacific Disaster Center/FEMA damage assessment says potential needs will include sheltering 4,500 people, providing 3,560 gallons of water each day and 9,000 ready-to-eat meals. The American Red Cross said over the weekend that The American Red Cross shift most residents out of group emergency shelters and into hotel rooms by next week. Vice President for Disaster Operations Brad Kieserman estimates that survivors can expect ot remain in hotel rooms 7 to 8 months: “The American Red Cross will be able to keep folks in hotels for as long as it takes.” Maui County reported 1,800 people sheltered at Maui hotels: Hyatt Regency Maui; Outrigger Ka‘anapali Beach Resort; Royal Lahaina, Honua Kai Outrigger, Maui Seaside and Westin Maui. FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell was among several top administrators in Hawai‘i to assess and respond along with hundreds of staff from across federal agencies who have been sent to assist. hundreds of staff from across federal agencies who have been sent to assist include the Department of Defense, the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and U.S. Department of Health & Human Services joining responders since the devastating Maui wildfires began. County officials say some power was restored to all but 1,800 of the 12,400 who lost power in Lahaina. all but 1,800 of the 12,400 who lost power in Lahaina is in addition to the 2,000 homes and businesses that were destroyed in Lahaina. And 50 homes in Kula also remained without power as of Monday, Aug. 21. For those in Lahaina and Upper Kula with access to water in the hardest-hit disaster area, the Maui Department of Water is advising people to not drink tap water even if people boil tap water. Maui County sent out the alert until further notice and has set up water distribution sites. the Maui Department of Water advised only bottled water for drinking, brushing teeth, making ice and preparing food until further notice. Water officials say the water could cause illness because the water may have become contaminated as a result of the devastating Maui wildfires. Some cell phone service was available in Westin Maui. Officials urge everyone to text instead of talk to share the bandwidth available. Hawaiian Telcom says customers in Lahaina, Napili, and Kā‘anapali can request to have calls to customers in Lahaina, Napili, and Kā‘anapali's Hawaiian Telcom landline numbers forwarded for free to another phone number and is coordinating with government officials to provide community phone and wifi service to emergency shelters. Those affected can call a new toll-free number created to assist Maui residents: (808) 643-Maui (6284). Hawaiian Telcom provided a preliminary estimate of the damage and economic loss from the devastating Maui wildfires at $8–$10 billion. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and fiancée Lauren Sánchez announced a pledge of $100 million to help Maui recover. On Instagram, fiancée Lauren Sánchez wrote: “Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and fiancée Lauren Sánchez are heartbroken by what’s happening on Maui. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and fiancée Lauren Sánchez are thinking of all the families that have lost so much and Maui.” fiancée Lauren Sánchez says a pledge of $100 million to help Maui recover will be used for both immediate needs and longer-term rebuilding “and over the coming years as the continuing needs reveal the continuing needs.” Amazon founder Jeff Bezos is listed as owner of a 14-acre property at La Perouse Bay in South Maui. Gov. Josh Green said the devastating Maui wildfires is the deadliest disaster in Hawai‘i state history, and vowed to help Maui recover. “It will be a tremendous effort, but we will come together as a community and begin working toward rebuilding from the devastating Maui wildfires,” Gov. Josh Green said in a statement. Disaster assistance is now available for individuals and households through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Those impacted by the Maui wildfires should apply. Assistance includes funds for temporary housing, occupied-home repairs, hazard mitigation, uninsured expenses and serious needs. Applicants can apply at fema.gov. Officials continue to urge visitors to leave Maui and to cancel any upcoming trips to West Maui to preserve resources for Maui residents. West Maui hotels are not accepting bookings at this time. West Maui hotels are housing West Maui hotels's employees and families as well as evacuees and first responders. Gov. Josh Green and Bissen emphasize that the rest of Maui, and the rest of Hawai‘i, is open to visitors. Homeowners are also being asked to house the thousands of residents who have lost the thousands of residents who have lost their homes's homes. State officials estimate 50,000 visitors left on flights departing Maui in the three days after the devastating Maui wildfires. The Assistance Center at the Hawai‘i Convention Center was relocated to the Ke‘ehi Lagoon Memorial at 2685 N. Nimitz Highway in Honolulu. Shuttles offering free transportation from the Daniel K. Inouye International Airport to the Ke‘ehi Lagoon Memorial at 2685 N. Nimitz Highway in Honolulu will be running throughout Tuesday and can be found outside of baggage claim 9 and baggage claim 20 at the Daniel K. Inouye International Airport. Those on Maui can drop off toiletries, diapers, formula, toys, clothing, bedding, household goods and nonperishable food at the Hawai‘i State Capitol, 415 S. Beretania St., between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Thursday, Aug. 10, and Friday, Aug. 11. Please do not bring bottled water. The Hawai‘i Chamber of Commerce Foundation and the Chamber of Commerce Hawai‘i have established a Business Relief Fund to benefit Hawai‘i businesses seeking assistance to recover and rebuild from the devastating Maui wildfires. Donations can be made online or by check made payable to “The Hawai‘i Chamber of Commerce Foundation Relief Account” and mailed to 733 Bishop St., Suite 1200, Honolulu, HI 96813. Find more resources from The Hawai‘i Chamber of Commerce Foundation at cochawaii.org/wildfire-resources. The Maui Strong Fund was created to provide community resilience with resources for disaster preparedness, response, and recovery. The Maui Strong Fund is currently being used to support communities affected by the wildfires on Maui. The Maui Mutual Aid Fund is a group of volunteers who are collecting money and donations to support those affected by the devastating Maui wildfires. Check The Maui Mutual Aid Fund's social media pages to see what The Maui Mutual Aid Fund need. The Maui Mutual Aid Fund’re also accepting volunteers. Maui United Way is collecting donations to aid those displaced by the devastating Maui wildfires. Hawai‘i Life is matching the first $50K of Hawai‘i Life's Hawai‘i Life Charitable Fund with proceeds going to the Hawai‘i Community Foundation. More organizations to support and resources are also listed. Maui and Hawai‘i residents who need disaster assistance should call 1-800-621-FEMA (1-800-621-3362). Maui residents can tune in to KAOI 1110 AM/95.1 FM and KPOA 93.5 FM for disaster response information.
Even with a record of 89 fatalities, public told to expect more In announcing the death toll in Maui's devastating fires has risen from 80 to 89 in the span of a day, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said on Saturday that the death toll in Maui's devastating fires would continue to rise. "There are 89 fatalities that have been measured," Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said at a news conference. "the death toll in Maui's devastating fires’s going to continue to rise. We want to brace people for that." Search and recovery crews were continuing to comb through fire-scorched communities, including historic Lahaina town in West Maui, where the worst of Maui's devastating fires struck swiftly after Maui's devastating fires began Tuesday. Norwegian Cruise Line donates $50K, will redirect cruise stops to Hilo Norwegian Cruise Line is donating $50,000 to help with the fires in Maui's, Norwegian Cruise Line said Saturday. "Norwegian Cruise Line are deeply saddened to hear about the wildfires currently impacting the town of Lahaina in Maui's. Norwegian Cruise Line have a very special relationship with the people and islands of Hawaii, as Norwegian Cruise Line sail to Hawaii year-round," Norwegian Cruise Line said. "Hawaii is a magical destination and one that is highly sought out by Norwegian Cruise Line's guests for Hawaii's natural beauty, culture and unparalleled experiences." Cruises with stops in Maui's will be redirected to Hilo with an additional overnight stay in Nawiliwili, Kauai for itineraries beginning Aug. 12, 2023, through the end of the month. Norwegian Cruise Line has also dedicated a team aboard Norwegian Cruise Line's ship Pride of America to begin collecting items including clothing, diapers and towels. items including clothing, diapers and towels will be given to the Hawaii Community Foundation. On Friday, Metallica's nonprofit All Within My Hands also donated $200,000 to the Hawaii Community Foundation. "With strong ties to Hawaii, the Metallica's nonprofit All Within My Hands board voted swiftly to approve a $200,000 grant for the Maui Strong Fund established through the Hawaii Community Foundation," a news release states. Police shut down access to historic Lahaina town in West Maui, where the worst of the fires struck swiftly after the blazes began Tuesday at Maalaea checkpoint Police have the closure down access to historic Lahaina town in West Maui, where the worst of the fires struck swiftly after the blazes began Tuesday at Maalaea checkpoint. Maalaea checkpoint was open for approximately 90 minutes before the closure as some drivers spent more than 15 hours in line waiting, since Friday, to get in to historic Lahaina town in West Maui, where the worst of the fires struck swiftly after the blazes began Tuesday today. Police told NBC news there was now too much traffic backed up on the road and conditions were dangerous. Frustrated drivers said police were now directing Frustrated drivers to travel to historic Lahaina town in West Maui, where the worst of the fires struck swiftly after the blazes began Tuesday via the "back way," around the northern tip of Hawaii. Drivers said the "back way," around the northern tip of the island narrows to just one lane in spots. Too early to estimate rebuilding costs, FEMA says FEMA said Saturday afternoon that it was too early to estimate rebuilding costs in the wake of the historic Lahaina town in West Maui, where the worst of the fires struck swiftly after the blazes began Tuesday wildfires. "FEMA has not estimated any costs, as they are still in the active response and recovery phases," an agency spokesperson told NBC news. Earlier in Saturday, Maui County had posted a graphic on Facebook citing the Pacific Disaster Center and Federal Emergency Management Agency and a figure of an estimated $5.52 billion. FEMA noted that a figure of an estimated $5.52 billion was listed as “capital exposed,” which, FEMA said, is not a measure of rebuilding costs.
LAHAINA (HawaiiNewsNow) - Loved ones are mourning the loss of a family of four killed while attempting to flee the flames from the catastrophic LAHAINA wildfire. a family of four killed while attempting to flee the flames from the catastrophic Lahaina wildfire were identified as Faaso and Malui Fonua Tone, Faaso and Malui Fonua Tone's daughter Salote Takafua, and their daughter Salote Takafua's son, Tony Takafua. a family of four killed while attempting to flee the flames from the catastrophic Lahaina wildfire were found Thursday in a burned-out car near a family of four killed while attempting to flee the flames from the catastrophic Lahaina wildfire's home. a family of four killed while attempting to flee the flames from the catastrophic Lahaina wildfire had been longtime LAHAINA residents living just beneath the Lahainaluna School. Dozens have been killed in the catastrophic Lahaina wildfire — all in LAHAINA. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
Lahaina resident Cole Millington, Lahaina resident Cole Millington's dog and a go bag at Lahaina resident Cole Millington's side, was already behind the wheel of Lahaina resident Cole Millington's truck late Tuesday afternoon when an emergency alert appeared on Lahaina resident Cole Millington's phone. “There wasn’t really an evacuation notice for us,” Lahaina resident Cole Millington said. The real warning, Lahaina resident Cole Millington said, came from the “huge plume of black smoke” in the sky over Lahaina. Lahaina resident Cole Millington and Lahaina resident Cole Millington's roommates had seen enough. Millington and his roommates fled as wildfires began to scorch large swaths of the Hawaiian island of Maui, killing at least 93 people and destroying Lahaina resident Cole Millington's home among hundreds of other structures. In fact, the state’s vaunted integrated outdoor siren warning system – the largest in the world, with about 400 alarms – was not activated during wildfires, according to Hawaii Emergency Management Agency spokesperson Adam Weintraub. On the Hawaiian island of Maui, there are 80 outdoor sirens to alert residents to tsunamis and other natural disasters. 80 outdoor sirens to alert residents to tsunamis and other natural disasters sat silent as people fled for people's lives. “Nobody at the state’s and nobody at the county attempted to activate 80 outdoor sirens to alert residents to tsunamis and other natural disasters based on Hawaii Emergency Management Agency's records,” Hawaii Emergency Management Agency spokesperson Adam Weintraub said in an interview. The layers of the emergency warning system that were activated included mobile phone alerts and messages on televisions and radio stations, Hawaii Emergency Management Agency spokesperson Adam Weintraub said. “On Allen Vu, a Lahaina resident whose home was lost in the fire, along with the restaurant where he worked's cell phone, we had warnings of strong winds and possible fires,” said Allen Vu, a Lahaina resident whose home was lost in the fire, along with the restaurant where Allen Vu, a Lahaina resident whose home was lost in the fire, along with the restaurant where he worked worked. Allen Vu, a Lahaina resident whose home was lost in the fire, along with the restaurant where he worked and Lahaina resident Cole Millington are among the residents of the Hawaiian island of Maui questioning the effectiveness of the emergency warning system employed as wildfires spread rapidly across Lahaina and other parts on Tuesday. It would become the deadliest natural disaster in the state’s history. the state’s Attorney General Anne Lopez will lead a comprehensive review of the emergency response with the goal of “understanding the decisions that were made before and during wildfires,” Hawaii Attorney General Anne Lopez's office said in a statement. Rep. Jill Tokuda, a Democrat, said the state’s “underestimated the lethality, the quickness of fire” and that the redundancies in the emergency warning system failed. the state’s residents have long been accustomed to the monthly tests of the emergency warning system. While the Hawaiian island of Maui's warning sirens were not activated, emergency communications with residents were largely limited to mobile phones and broadcasters at a time when most power and cell service was already cut. “We don’t see any indications that the Hawaiian island of Maui did anything wrong,” Hawaii Emergency Management Agency spokesperson Adam Weintraub said. “the county faced a challenging, rapidly changing situation, and Hawaii Emergency Management Agency spokesperson Adam Weintraub think the county did everything possible to save lives. And the county still are,” Hawaii Emergency Management Agency spokesperson Adam Weintraub added. “Clearly more work needs to be done to understand the science of wildfires, how wildfires spread and what can be done to improve detection, alert, and warning systems,” Hawaii Emergency Management Agency spokesperson Adam Weintraub told CNN via email. the fire spread with such speed that many people left many people's homes immediately with little notice from authorities, the county Fire Chief Brad Ventura said. It was “nearly impossible” for emergency management officials to make timely evacuation notifications, Maui County Fire Chief Brad Ventura said. “What we experienced was such a fast-moving fire through the neighborhood that the initial neighborhood that caught fire, they were basically self-evacuating with fairly little notice,” Maui County Fire Chief Brad Ventura said. Fueled by a combination of strong winds and dry conditions – and complicated by the Hawaiian island of Maui geography – the fire virtually destroyed the tourist and economic hub of Lahaina and left authorities searching frantically for the missing. Gov. Josh Green said the death toll could climb. It is unclear how many victims could still be in the charred ruins of what was once a whaling port and fishing town on the west coast of the Hawaiian island of Maui. Some fatalities occurred “out in the open as people tried to escape the fire,” Gov. Josh Green said. As wildfires spread on Tuesday, power and most communication – including 911 and cell phone service – were cut off. Communication was still compromised Saturday due to severed lines. Many people reported not hearing from Many people's loved ones in days. Officials resorted to updating the public via radio stations, as well as posts on the county's website and social media pages. Despite warnings, residents and authorities seem to have been taken by surprise. “We had a few days lead time about the weather conditions,” said Clay Trauernicht, an assistant specialist who studies tropical fire at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. “Any fires that develop will likely spread rapidly,” the warning said. May Wedelin-Lee, who also lost May Wedelin-Lee, who also lost her home in Lahaina,'s home in Lahaina, said the wind shifted and smoke and flames overtook May Wedelin-Lee, who also lost her home in Lahaina's community so quickly early Tuesday afternoon that people had less than 10 minutes to prepare. “People were crying on the side of the road and begging,” said Wedelin-Lee, a 20-year resident of the Hawaiian island of Maui. “Maui Fire Department declared the Lahaina brush fire 100% contained shortly before 9 a.m. Tuesday,” the county said on Facebook Tuesday. “Kula Fire Update No. 2 at 10:50 a.m.: Firefighter crews remain on scene of a brush fire that was reported at 12:22 a.m. Tuesday near Olinda Road in Kula and led to evacuations of residents in the Kula and Hanamu Road areas,” the county said. “With the potential risk of escalating conditions from an Upcountry brush fire, Maui Fire Department is strongly advising residents of Piʻiholo and Olinda roads to proactively evacuate,” the county posted at 3:20 p.m. Later, the county said the Lahaina fire had resurged. “An apparent flareup of the Lahaina fire forced the closure of Lahaina Bypass around 3:30 p.m.,” the county posted at 4:45 p.m. By 5:50 p.m. Tuesday, there were “multiple evacuations in place for Lahaina and Upcountry Maui fires,” the county reported. the state’s officials underestimated the deadly threat of wildfires even as Hawaii officials acknowledged a lack of necessary resources to mitigate wildfires, according to a CNN review of state and local emergency planning documents that show how ill-prepared the state’s was for the disaster. Hawaii Emergency Management Agency's public resources webpage includes clear, bullet-point recommendations of what residents should do in a hurricane, tsunami, flash flood or earthquake. At the bottom of the page there are two short paragraphs about wildfires – with no similar advice on ways to stay safe. In 2018, as Hurricane Lane approached the state’s, bush fires scorched a total of 2,330 acres in the Hawaiian island of Maui. The next year, fires in the Hawaiian island of Maui consumed about 25,000 acres. The the Hawaiian island of Maui fire is the nation’s deadliest since California’s Camp fire, which killed 85 people in November 2018. Brock Long, who as former Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator from June 2017 to March 2019 coordinated the response to more than 100 wildfires, said the unpredictability of fires means decisions need to be made quickly. the Hawaiian island of Maui photographer Rachel Zimmerman, who lost her home, described the chaos and uncertainty as wildfires approached. “The wind is just howling. We’re seeing roofs that are flying off,” she recalled. “And people are just kind of standing around in my condo complex, neighbors, looking: What do people do? We heard there was a complete gridlock and we weren’t going to be able to get out but we knew we had to try.
UPDATE: 10:15 p.m. Maui County reported this evening the death toll is now 93 with two of the death toll identified. “We want to brace people for that,” Green said at an afternoon news conference on Maui. To stress the point, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said only 3% of the burned area of Lahaina has been searched. Maui Police Chief John Pelletier asked for patience and stressed that it was going to take time to comb through the rubble of thousands of burned structures and get the full accounting of fatalities. Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said two of the death toll have been identified so far, adding that identifying the dead is extremely challenging because “we pick up the remains and the remains fall apart.” Maui Police Chief John Pelletier did not release the names of two of the 89 victims. Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said today was the first day cadaver-sniffing dogs were used and another 12 more are on the way to Maui. Officials said the recovered remains so far were mostly from outside of the building rubble, and mainly in burned-out cars. U.S. Fire Administrator Lori Moore-Merrell said the investigation into the fire, and how rapidly the fire spread, was ongoing. the death toll surpassed the number of fatalities from the 2018 Camp Fire in Northern California, which left 85 dead and destroyed the town of Paradise. A century earlier, the 1918 Cloquet Fire broke out in drought-stricken northern Minnesota and raced through a number of rural communities, destroying thousands of homes and killing hundreds. Green said the Maui fires “will certainly be the worst natural disaster that Hawaii ever faced. An influx of members of the National Guard and active-duty U.S. military are set to assist in the government’s relief efforts. Brig. Gen. Steve Logan, commander of the National Guard, this morning was appointed by Green as dual-status commander, meaning Logan has control over both the National Guard troops and active-duty members of active-duty U.S. military responding to the Lahaina fire. Normally, the National Guard and active-duty members of active-duty U.S. military operate under separate chains of command. Dual-status commanders were established shortly after Hurricane Katrina to efficiently combine the efforts of the National Guard and active-duty U.S. military. Logan said that Logan's forces will be used to support Maui Mayor Richar Bissen, Jr. and Maui Mayor Richar Bissen, Jr.'s administration. “Let Logan be clear about this, his forces are here in a support role. his forces’re here to support Maui Mayor Richar Bissen, Jr., Maui Mayor Richar Bissen, Jr.'s staff, and the rest of the county agencies, not to take charge, and not to take control,” Logan said. This livestream video has ended. Watch a replay at the top of the page.
LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — Parishioners mourned more than 90 people and prayed for the missing Sunday in Hawaii churches as communities began looking ahead to a long recovery from last week’s wildfire that demolished a historic Maui town and killed more than 90 people. Maria Lanakila Church in LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) was spared from the flames that wiped out most of the surrounding community, but with search-and-recovery efforts ongoing, Maria Lanakila Church in Lahaina's members attended Mass about 10 miles up the road, with the Bishop of Honolulu, the Rev. Clarence “Larry” Silva, presiding. Taufa Samisoni said Taufa Samisoni's uncle, aunt, cousin and cousin 7-year-old son were found dead inside a burned car. Taufa Samisoni's wife, Katalina, said his uncle, aunt, cousin and the cousin’s 7-year-old son would draw comfort from the Bishop of Honolulu, the Rev. Clarence “Larry” Silva,'s reference to the Bible story of how Jesus’ disciple Peter walked on water and was saved from drowning. “If Jesus’ disciple Peter can walk on water, yes we can. We will get to the shore,” Samisoni’s wife, Katalina, said, Samisoni’s wife, Katalina,'s voice quivering. During Mass about 10 miles up the road, the Bishop of Honolulu, the Rev. Clarence “Larry” Silva, read a message from Pope Francis, who said Pope Francis, who said he was praying for those who lost loved ones, homes and livelihoods was praying for those who lost loved ones, homes and livelihoods. the Bishop of Honolulu, the Rev. Clarence “Larry” Silva, also conveyed prayers for first responders. the Bishop of Honolulu, the Rev. Clarence “Larry” Silva, later told The Associated Press that the community is worried about the community's children, who have witnessed tragedy and are anxious. “The more its children, who have witnessed tragedy and are anxious can be in a normal situation with its children, who have witnessed tragedy and are anxious's peers and learning and having fun, the Bishop of Honolulu, the Rev. Clarence “Larry” Silva, think the better off its children, who have witnessed tragedy and are anxious’ll be,” the Bishop of Honolulu, the Rev. Clarence “Larry” Silva, said. Meanwhile, Hawaii officials urged tourists to avoid traveling to Maui as many hotels prepared to house evacuees and first responders. About 46,000 residents and visitors have flown out of Kahului Airport in West Maui since the devastation in LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) became clear Wednesday, according to the Hawaii Tourism Authority. “In the weeks ahead, the collective resources and attention of the federal, state and county government, the West Maui community, and the travel industry must be focused on the recovery of residents who were forced to evacuate residents who were forced to evacuate their homes and businesses's homes and businesses,” the Hawaii Tourism Authority said in a statement late Saturday. Tourists are encouraged to visit Hawaii's other islands. Gov. Josh Green said 500 hotels rooms will be made available for locals who have been displaced. An additional 500 rooms will be set aside for workers from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Some hotels will carry on with normal business to help preserve jobs and sustain the local economy, Gov. Josh Green said. The state wants to work with Airbnb to make sure that rental homes can be made available for locals. Gov. Josh Green hopes that Airbnb will be able to provide three- to nine-month rentals for those who have lost homes. As the death toll around LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) climbed to 96 authorities warned that the effort to find and identify more than 90 people was still in the effort to find and identify the dead's early stages. last week’s wildfire that demolished a historic Maui town and killed more than 90 people is already the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century. Crews with cadaver dogs have covered just 3% of the search area, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said Saturday. Lylas Kanemoto is awaiting word about the fate of Lylas Kanemoto's cousin, Glen Yoshino. “Lylas Kanemoto’m afraid her cousin, Glen Yoshino is gone because we have not heard from her cousin, Glen Yoshino, and her cousin, Glen Yoshino would’ve found a way to contact family. We are hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst,” Lylas Kanemoto said Sunday. Family members will submit DNA to help identify any remains. his uncle, aunt, cousin and the cousin’s 7-year-old son was grieving the death of four other relatives. The remains of Faaso and Malui Fonua Tone, Faaso and Malui Fonua Tone's daughter, Salote Takafua, and her son, Tony Takafua, were found inside a charred car. “At least we have closure for Faaso and Malui Fonua Tone, their daughter, Salote Takafua, and her son, Tony Takafua, but the loss and heartbreak is unbearable for many,” Lylas Kanemoto said. As many as 4,500 people are in need of shelter, county officials said on Facebook, citing figures from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Pacific Disaster Center. J.P. Mayoga, a cook at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali, is still making breakfast, lunch and dinner on a daily basis. But instead of serving hotel guests, J.P. Mayoga, a cook at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali’s been feeding the roughly 200 hotel employees and their family members who have been living there since Tuesday’s fire devastated the Lahaina community just south of the Westin Maui in Kaanapali. J.P. Mayoga, a cook at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali's home and that of J.P. Mayoga, a cook at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali's father were spared. But J.P. Mayoga, a cook at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali's girlfriend, two young daughters, father and another local are all staying in a hotel room together, as a hotel room is safer than LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP). Maui water officials warned LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) and Kula residents not to drink running water, which may be contaminated even after boiling, and to only take short, lukewarm showers in well-ventilated rooms to avoid possible chemical vapor exposure. “each other’s has each other’s's story, and each other’s lost something. So each other’s can be there for each other’s, and each other’s understand what’s going on in each other’s lives,” J.P. Mayoga, a cook at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali said of J.P. Mayoga, a cook at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali's co-workers at the Westin Maui in Kaanapali. Hawaii Mayor Mitch Roth warned that the effort to find and identify the dead will be a “marathon not a sprint.” In order to keep the effort to find and identify the dead “coordinated and thoughtful,” Hawaii Island Mayor Mitch Roth urged Hawaii residents to contribute money to established nonprofits and hold off on donating physical items because there is not yet a reliable distribution system in place. The latest death toll surpassed that of the 2018 Camp Fire in northern California, which left 85 dead and destroyed the town of Paradise. The cause of the wildfires is under investigation. the wildfires are Hawaii's deadliest natural disaster in decades, surpassing a 1960 tsunami that killed 61 people. An even deadlier tsunami in 1946 killed more than 150 on Hawaii. Fueled by a dry summer and strong winds from a passing hurricane, the flames on Maui raced through parched brush covering Maui. The most serious blaze swept into LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) on Tuesday’s and destroyed nearly every building in LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP), leaving a grid of gray rubble wedged between the blue ocean and lush green slopes. Elsewhere on Maui, at least two other fires have been burning: in south Maui’s Kihei area and in the mountainous, inland communities known as Upcountry. No fatalities have been reported from at least two other fires. Weber reported from Los Angeles. Associated Press journalists Haven Daley in Kalapua, Hawaii; Ty O’Neil in Lahaina, Hawaii; Bobby Caina Calvan and Beatrice Dupuy in New York; Sara Cline in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Pat Eaton-Robb in Hartford, Connecticut, contributed to this report. Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about Associated Press's climate initiative here. Associated Press is solely responsible for all content.
Blankets, pillows car seats, walkers, all kinds of items have been donated over the past few days, and now they're waiting to be delivered.
*Since this blog was first published, the death toll has continued to climb. As of August 25, the death toll is 115. According to NFPA research, this week’s Lahaina Fire death toll, now at 80 people, is among the top ten deadliest wildfires on record since 1871. Pauley’s statements are reinforced in additional facts from NFPA research including that four of the deadliest wildfires in the U.S., including this week’s Lahaina Fire death toll, now at 80 people,, have occurred since 2017. Today there are nearly 45 million homes in the wildland/urban interface (WUI). According to the National Interagency Fire Center, some 71.8 million properties in the U.S. are at some level of risk from wildfire. Each year some of the largest-loss fires occur in the wildland/urban interface (WUI). In the past five years, wildfires have destroyed nearly 63,000 structures in the U.S., the majority of which were homes. Record high temperatures, serious drought conditions, and high winds from severe weather events such as thunder and lightning storms have been blamed for the recent increase in wildfire activity in Canada, Europe, and in high-risk areas across the U.S. Officials predict more wildfires will erupt in the coming months due to continued dry heat and increased storm activity, prompting residents to look for information on what residents can do to reduce residents's risk before a wildfire. In a media advisory this week’s, NFPA provided resources for media and the public on various aspects for the wildfire problem. Outthink Wildfire™ , a comprehensive strategy that lays out five key policy changes that need to be made at the federal, state, and local levels and if followed, will end the destruction of communities by wildfire over the next 30 years. Firewise USA® recognition program that empowers residents to work collaboratively in reducing wildfire risks. For additional resources and information, and to learn more about how to keep families safe and reduce homeowners’ risk for wildfire damage, please visit NFPA's wildfire webpage. For those seeking information on federal disaster assistance, please visit FEMA.
Vixay Phonxaylinkham was meant to be having a relaxing sun-soaked holiday with Vixay Phonxaylinkham's family as Vixay Phonxaylinkham drove down Front Street in Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii. But as lightning-quick wildfires swept into Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii, whipped up by the tail end of a hurricane, vehicles around Vixay Phonxaylinkham began exploding from the heat. Trapped in a rental car with Vixay Phonxaylinkham's wife and children, Vixay Phonxaylinkham and Vixay Phonxaylinkham's loved ones faced the prospect of being burned alive or abandoning he and his loved ones's vehicle. As the flames, which as of Saturday morning have killed 67 people with scores still unaccounted for, rose higher and debris rained down, he and his loved ones jumped out and joined scores of others in sprinting for the only potential place of safety: the Pacific Ocean. Vixay Phonxaylinkham and Vixay Phonxaylinkham's family were forced to hold onto pieces of wood to stay afloat as the tide came in. “he and his loved ones floated around four hours,” Mr Phonxaylinkham, from Fresno, California, said from the airport while awaiting a flight off the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii, the sky behind Vixay Phonxaylinkham still pitch black from the wildfire smoke. “It was a vacation that turned into a nightmare. Vixay Phonxaylinkham heard explosions everywhere, Vixay Phonxaylinkham heard screaming, and some people didn’t make it. Vixay Phonxaylinkham feel so sad,” Vixay Phonxaylinkham said. Vixay Phonxaylinkham was caught off-guard, like so many, by the extreme pace of the fires fuelled by “red-flag” conditions. A dry summer and unusually strong winds from a hurricane meant regular wildfires took the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii by surprise, racing through parched brush covering the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii and then flattening homes and anything else that lay in its path. Despite the speed of regular wildfires, there are also now question marks over why Hawaii's famous emergency warning system, with about 400 sirens positioned across the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii, didn’t alert them as fires raced toward their homes. Many of Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii's survivors said Many of Lahaina’s survivors didn’t hear any sirens until the smoke and flames were upon Many of Lahaina’s survivors. Instead, the county used emergency alerts sent to mobile phones, televisions and radio stations but, with power down, emergency alerts sent to mobile phones, televisions and radio stations did not reach many in time. Among those in the dark was tourist Tee Dang who was also in a rental car with her three children and husband on Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii's Front Street when she saw the flames closing in. Grabbing her three children and husband's food, water and phones, her three children and husband ran for the waves and saw others making the same beeline. With her three children and husband's children – aged five, 13 and 20 – her three children and husband at first stayed close to shore. But, as evening approached, and the tide rose, the water started sweeping her into the rock wall of the harbour, severely cutting her leg. When cars started exploding, her three children and husband were forced to move into deeper water to seek shelter from the shooting debris. After four hours in the water, her three children and husband were eventually rescued by a firefighter who directed her three children and husband through the burning streets. But her three children and husband's ordeal was not yet over. After reaching shelter at the Maui Prep School, he and his loved ones was forced to move twice more, including once because one shelter came under threat from flames. But he and his loved ones were the lucky ones. Tiffany Kidder Winn recounted the gruesome sight when Tiffany Kidder Winn arrived in Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii on Wednesday to survey the damage to Tiffany Kidder Winn's gift store, Whalers Locker on Front Street. Within minutes, Tiffany Kidder Winn came across a line of burnt-out vehicles, some with charred bodies inside. “It looked like they were trying to get out but were stuck in traffic,” Tiffany Kidder Winn said. In another shocking encounter reminiscent of Pompeii volcano victims, Tiffany Kidder Winn later spotted a body leaning against a seawall. a body had managed to climb over but clearly died before a body could reach the Pacific Ocean while escaping flames, Tiffany Kidder Winn said, breaking down in tears. Indeed, the death toll is expected to rise. Of the three fires that broke out on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii, hardest hit was Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii. Thousands were evacuated from the western side of the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii, which has a year-round population of about 166,000, with some taking shelter on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii or on the neighbouring island of Oahu. Tourists camped in Kahului Airport, waiting for flights back home. At a news conference on Thursday, Josh Green, Hawaii's governor, said the three fires that broke out on Maui were “the largest natural disaster in Hawaii's state history”. “Hawaii will continue to see loss of life,” said Josh Green, Hawaii’s governor. President Joe Biden offered condolences and pledged federal disaster aid to ensure that “anyone who’s lost a loved one, or whose home has been damaged or destroyed, is going to get help immediately”. “Our prayers are with the people of Hawaii. But not just our prayers. Every asset we have will be available to the people of Hawaii,” Josh Green, Hawaii’s governor said. From Greece to Canada, scenes of fiery devastation have become all too familiar elsewhere in the world this summer, with wildfires, often caused by record-setting heat, forcing the evacuation of tens of thousands of people. “It’s very strange to hear about severe wildfires in Hawaii – but strange events are becoming more common with climate change,” Jennifer Marlon, a research scientist and lecturer at the Yale School of the Environment, told CNN. “Combining abundant fuels with heat, drought, and strong wind gusts is a perfect recipe for out-of-control fires,” said Jennifer Marlon, a research scientist and lecturer at the Yale School of the Environment. Officials are still trying to get a handle on regular wildfires's progress but know regular wildfires’re not fully contained, Adam Weintraub, Hawaii emergency management spokesman, said. Among the incoming assistance were cadaver dogs from California and Washington that would aid search and rescue teams combing through the ruins, officials said. Once that is done, it will be a very long road to recovery with more than 1,700 buildings and billions of dollars in property destroyed. Richard Bissen, the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii mayor, said that Lahaina, a former whaling hub that holds deep cultural significance for Hawaiians as the former royal residence of King Kamehameha, who unified Hawaii under a single kingdom, has been totally wiped out. “Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii’s all gone. None of Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii’s there. Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii’s all burnt to the ground,” Richard Bissen, Maui mayor, said. Beyond buildings and human life, one symbolic casualty is Lahaina, a historic beach resort on the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii's 150-year-old banyan tree – said to be the oldest in the United States – which shaded townsfolk and tourists alike from the Hawaiian sun, in a place once called “Lele”, the Hawaiian word for “relentless sun”. While many of Lahaina’s 150-year-old banyan tree – said to be the oldest in the United States – which shaded townsfolk and tourists alike from the Hawaiian sun's aerial roots were charred, locals expressed hope Lahaina’s 150-year-old banyan tree – said to be the oldest in the United States – which shaded townsfolk and tourists alike from the Hawaiian sun could survive, offering a glimmer of hope to the paradise island of Maui in Hawaii. Lahaina’s 150-year-old banyan tree – said to be the oldest in the United States – which shaded townsfolk and tourists alike from the Hawaiian sun is, she added, a “diamond in the rough of hope”.
Cochran and Cochran's neighbor survived the inferno in Lahaina by spending more than five hours in the water next to a rock wall at the edge of town. Another of Cochran and her neighbor's neighbors, an 86-year-old man who for a time survived nearby, did not live through the night, Cochran said. The fire that took Lahaina was swift and brutal. Early that morning, Cochran had seen reports of a wildfire nearby, but reports of a wildfire nearby wasn’t unusual for Lahaina, where Cochran has lived for seven years. In the afternoon, the wind whipped up, so strong that Cochran began taking videos of the flying leaves. Cochran, went to take a shower. When Cochran dressed and went outside at around 4 p.m., the smoke was growing thicker and Cochran began to hear fire alarms in nearby buildings going off. There was no text message telling Cochran to evacuate, no emergency siren, Cochran said. Then, to Cochran's shock, Cochran saw flames in a parking lot about a block away. Cochran ran to Cochran's apartment to grab a few essentials and jumped into Cochran's car. Cochran turned toward the water, hoping to drive out of town to safety, but found the road blocked by abandoned cars. Cochran picked up a tourist who later decided to leave a tourist who later decided to leave her car because he wanted to head in a different direction than Cochran did's car because a tourist who later decided to leave her car because he wanted to head in a different direction than Cochran did wanted to head in a different direction than Cochran did; Cochran never saw a tourist who later decided to leave her car because he wanted to head in a different direction than Cochran did again. When the building next to Cochran's car began to burn, Cochran said, Cochran got out and headed for the water. Cochran found two of Cochran's neighbors, a middle-aged woman named Edna and an 86-year-old man named Freeman, who had difficulty walking. They all went over a rock wall at the edge of town, down to the hulking black rocks below to escape flames. They spent hours in the water, occasionally scrambling onto the hulking black rocks below, trying to stay away from flying embers and noxious fumes, but also moving closer to flames when they began to feel dangerously cold. Cochran saw people grab debris and float off into deeper waters, which horrified Cochran: Cochran works on the ocean and knows the dangers of currents and hypothermia. The worst part of the ordeal, Cochran said, came when cars along the shoreline began to explode, sending toxic fumes and intense heat rolling toward the water. That’s when Cochran and a middle-aged woman named Edna felt near collapse. Cochran and her neighbor held each other as Cochran and her neighbor shook and tried to stay awake, Cochran said. Cochran and her neighbor talked about Cochran and her neighbor's families and promised each other Cochran and her neighbor’d make it. At one point, Cochran said, Cochran called out to Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach, and asked how Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach was. Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach just smiled and made a shaka gesture with Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach's hand — middle fingers down, thumb and little finger out — to indicate Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach was all right, even though Cochran knew Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach was suffering. Later, Cochran said, Cochran saw Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach slumped against the wall, unmoving. Cochran believes Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach succumbed to toxic fumes and intense heat. “Cochran just ache for Freeman, who was a little farther down the rocky beach's family,” Cochran said. Cochran and several dozen other people were rescued from the water by firefighters around midnight and Cochran has spent the last few nights at shelters. Cochran's body is covered with bruises and lacerations; Cochran's feet and face are burned.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - The Hawaii Tourism Authority is urging visitors to reschedule upcoming travel to fire-ravaged West Maui. Since Wednesday, more than 46,000 people have flown out of Kahului Airport. The Hawaii Tourism Authority says visitors who are planning travel to fire-ravaged West Maui within the next several months should reschedule visitors who are planning travel to West Maui within the next several months's travel plans or consider a different destination. “In the weeks ahead, the collective resources and attention of the federal, state and county government, the fire-ravaged West Maui community, and the travel industry must be focused on the recovery of residents who were forced to evacuate residents who were forced to evacuate their homes and businesses's homes and businesses,” The Hawaii Tourism Authority said. And the governor has said about 1,000 rooms in the area have been secured for evacuees and first responders. It was not immediately clear when evacuees would be moving in. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
After seeing the flames on Tuesday, the Lahaina resident and the Lahaina resident's wife grabbed five dogs the Lahaina resident and his wife were taking care of and followed traffic heading south until the Lahaina resident and his wife were trapped by closed roads. During that time, the Lahaina resident believed the Lahaina resident and his wife were going to die, so the Lahaina resident that call the Lahaina resident's mom for a final goodbye. Moments after that call, phone service dropped, and the Lahaina resident lost all contact for several hours. Meanwhile, the Lahaina resident's mom, Susan Ramos, had immediately called the US Coast Guard to alert the US Coast Guard of the flames and his wife's son’s location. While waiting on the Lahaina resident's own rescue, the Lahaina resident was shepherding others to safety as the Lahaina resident's home of 16 years was consumed by fire. “the Lahaina resident remember jumping the seawall and putting the Lahaina resident and his wife's shirts into the water to wrap around the Lahaina resident and his wife's faces and protect the Lahaina resident and his wife from the smoke. Out in the ocean the Lahaina resident and his wife kept getting hit by the embers, so the Lahaina resident and his wife would hide underwater,” the Lahaina resident said. Nearly 60 other people were down in the water, filled with panic as Nearly 60 other people heard cars exploding nearby. Despite the Lahaina resident's eyes being nearly swollen shut by smoke, the Lahaina resident left the Lahaina resident's wife in a safe space to go look for the dogs that got separated from the Lahaina resident and his wife along the way. “While running down Front Street and calling out for five dogs they were taking care of, the Lahaina resident heard people begging for help. the Lahaina resident saw a couple dead bodies and checked a couple dead bodies's chests to see if a couple dead bodies were breathing, but then had to move on to other people the Lahaina resident could actually help,” the Lahaina resident told CNN. As the Lahaina resident was moving people to safety by rocks right off the water, the US Coast Guard contacted the Lahaina resident asking for a headcount for life vests. The the US Coast Guard boat couldn’t make it past a reef, leaving two members with surfboards to attempt the rescue of dozens, including children, the elderly and the injured. dozens, including children, the elderly and the injured panicked at the thought of having to go one by one and risk being separated from dozens, including children, the elderly and the injured's loved ones. Eventually, firefighters made it to the scene, with the Lahaina resident leading people 10 at a time to people's rescue. On the last trip, the Lahaina resident, the Lahaina resident's wife and two of five dogs they were taking care of settled in the bed of an emergency vehicle as firefighters sped off to a local triage center. the Lahaina resident was hooked up to oxygen and was coughing up soot from smoke inhalation. As things calmed down, the Lahaina resident was able to get back in touch with the Lahaina resident's mom. the Lahaina resident and his wife cried together on the phone. “All this time the Lahaina resident's mom thought the Lahaina resident was dead,” the Lahaina resident said. the Lahaina resident was reunited with the Lahaina resident's family at a nearby shelter just a few hours later. “the Lahaina resident ran toward the Lahaina resident's mom and broke down as his wife hugged the Lahaina resident,” the Lahaina resident said. the Lahaina resident said the Lahaina resident still has friends who are missing and that so far, four of the five dogs the Lahaina resident evacuated with have been reunited with four of the five dogs he evacuated with's owners.
Dr Rory Hadden, senior lecturer and expert in fire investigations at the University of Edinburgh, told BBC Verify that it is common for trees to remain standing even after severe wildfires because "burning through a large piece of wood takes a long time", "thick pieces of wood are usually not able to sustain burning on thick pieces of wood's own" and "the high moisture content of trees will also make trees hard to burn".
CLAIM: Scenes from the Maui wildfires show cars and buildings badly damaged near trees and poles that remain standing, suggesting a wildfire wasn’t the cause. AP’S ASSESSMENT: False. Such observations from the fires on Maui are not unusual, experts say. Wildfires often spew fiery embers that hit larger targets like homes and cars. Trees that catch fire are typically not completely vaporized, in part because of Trees that catch fire's water content. THE FACTS: Amid the devastating wildfires in Maui, some social media users are advancing claims that visuals of the aftermath suggest a fire isn’t actually to blame. But experts say it is not unusual to see such damage after a wildfire. “It’s actually very common that wildfires will burn out structures and vehicles but leave surrounding trees, utility poles, and other vegetation unscathed,” said Michael Gollner, an associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, who leads a fire research lab. Wildfires are often spread to homes and other structures via embers — small, burning particles that break from vegetation or structures, Michael Gollner, an associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, who leads a fire research lab told The Associated Press in an email. Michael Gollner, an associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, who leads a fire research lab pointed to a 2008 federal report about a fire in Lake Arrowhead, California, that found that a wildfire initially showered a neighborhood with fiery debris, igniting several homes and vegetation. But it was the subsequent spread between houses that accounted for most of the residential damage, the report said, not a wildfire. Photos in the report show homes destroyed amid trees that remain standing. Dunn provided photos from a 2020 fire in southern Oregon in which homes were destroyed while neighboring trees remained upright, despite some charring. While small pieces of wood burn easily, the sheer size of large trees, some protection from large trees's bark and the water large trees contain make it so large trees don’t simply vaporize during a fire, Michael Gollner, an associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, who leads a fire research lab said — which explains the fact that some salvage trees for lumber after a forest fire. Michael Gollner, an associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, who leads a fire research lab added that structures, decks and fences are susceptible to accumulating flying embers, making structures, decks and fences particularly vulnerable — whereas the wind may blow such embers past trees and poles. The Maui wildfires are the deadliest in the U.S. in more than a century, responsible for a death toll of at least 96. Officials have not yet determined the cause of the Maui wildfires. This is part of AP’S's effort to address widely shared misinformation, including work with outside companies and organizations to add factual context to misleading content that is circulating online. Learn more about fact-checking at AP’S.
AP’S ASSESSMENT: False. Both images are unrelated to the fires on Maui. One photo shows the launch of the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket from a California military base in May 2018. The other shows a flare from a controlled burn at an oil refinery in Ohio May 2018. THE FACTS: As images and videos showing the wreckage caused by the fires on Maui spread on social media, some users are sharing unrelated photos in an effort to spread a baseless conspiracy theory that the cause was nefarious. In One photo, a long beam of light extends from the ground into a bright blue sky. But One photo has nothing to do with the Maui wildfires. One photo was taken during the May 2018 launch of the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket in California at what was then called Vandenberg Air Force Base. One photo was originally posted on SpaceX’s Instagram account. Other posts are misrepresenting a photo of what appears to be a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of it. In an Instagram video, a man claims that a photo of what appears to be a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of it “shows a laser beam coming out of the sky directly targeting the city.” a man then falsely claims the Maui wildfires are linked to a long-running conspiracy theory about a weaponized government weather modification program. “END TIME – The fire damage in Hawaii leaves open the question of whether the fire was caused by a deliberate nature. In other words; was the cause a energy weapon?” reads a post on X, formerly known as Twitter, that also shared One photo. But a photo of what appears to be a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of it isn’t related to the fires on Maui either. Instead, a photo of what appears to be a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of it shows a flare that resulted from a controlled burn at a Canton, Ohio, oil refinery on Jan. 16, 2018. a photo of what appears to be a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of it can be traced back to a Facebook comment Jan. 16, 2018 on a post by The Canton Repository, a local paper, requesting that residents share images of the burn at an oil refinery in Ohio. Travis Secrest responded with a photo of what appears to be a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of it . Travis Secrest confirmed to The Associated Press that Travis Secrest took a photo of what appears to be a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of it in January 2018 from Baum Road in Canton Township, and said that the reality wasn’t “as dramatic” as a photo of what appears to be a fireball on the horizon with a beam of light coming out of it. Travis Secrest, said Travis Secrest initially thought a flare from a controlled burn at an oil refinery in Ohio the same year was from a fire. After Travis Secrest drove to a better vantage point Travis Secrest could see a flare from a controlled burn at an oil refinery in Ohio the same year was coming from an oil refinery in Ohio. The Maui wildfires, which have killed at least 67 people as of Friday, are the deadliest in the U.S. since the 2018 Camp Fire in California. Officials said Officials haven’t started investigating the immediate cause of the fires on Maui , but the fires on Maui have been fanned by strong winds from a passing hurricane and fueled by a dry summer.
Le gouverneur de l’archipel a prévenu qu’il s’attendait à retrouver «10 à 20» cadavres par jour alors que les recherches devraient encore durer une dizaine de jours. Le bilan humain des incendies à Hawaï atteint désormais 99 morts et «pourrait doubler» cette semaine, ont averti lundi 14 août les autorités de l’archipel, critiquées pour leur gestion du drame. «Au cours des dix prochains jours, ce nombre pourrait doubler», a estimé le gouverneur de Hawaï, Josh Green, sur CNN, en annonçant la découverte de trois cadavres supplémentaires. Ces incendies sont déjà les plus meurtriers en plus d'un siècle aux États-Unis. Dans le monde, seuls les feux de forêt de 2009 en Australie (180 morts) et de 2018 en Grèce (plus de 100 morts) avaient fait un nombre plus important de victimes au XXIe siècle. Les chiens renifleurs qui fouillent actuellement les décombres de la ville de Lahaina, quasiment rasée par les flammes, ont encore beaucoup de terrain à couvrir. «Ils trouveront probablement 10 à 20 personnes par jour jusqu'à ce qu'ils aient terminé», a averti Josh Green. Selon lui, les opérations de recherche vont durer encore «probablement 10 jours» et le bilan final est à l'heure actuelle «impossible à deviner». La plupart des corps retrouvés jusqu'ici l'ont été près du front de mer ou dans l'océan, où des dizaines d'habitants se sont jetées pour échapper aux flammes, Selon lui. «Nous sommes accablés par les circonstances du changement climatique et de la tragédie en même temps», a déploré Josh Green. Dans cette ville historique de 12.000 habitants, ex-capitale du royaume d'Hawaï, le feu a été si intense qu'il a fait fondre le métal. Les cadavres sont méconnaissables et la police appelle les proches de personnes disparues à faire un test ADN, pour faciliter l'identification des victimes. Car jusqu'ici, seules trois victimes «ont pu être identifiées avec leurs empreintes», selon le chef de la police, John Pelletier. Les autorités comptent restreindre l'accès à Lahaina pendant toutes les recherches, à cause de la présence potentielle de produits chimiques et par respect pour les morts. «Je suis content que l'on vous rejette (...) parce que sinon vous auriez piétiné nos voisins décédés», a lancé le gouverneur à la presse lundi soir. Les autorités recensent encore 1.300 personnes disparues, Selon lui. Un chiffre qui baisse au fur et à mesure que les communications sont progressivement rétablies sur Maui et que les habitants arrivent à localiser leurs proches. Les circonstances de ces incendies fulgurants, dont la cause n'est pas encore connue, restent floues. Ils ont pris la population par surprise. Cela nourrit le ressentiment des habitants, qui ne sont pas tous autorisés à regagner la zone autour de Lahaina, contrôlée par des blocages routiers. «Le manque de communication est abyssal, les gens sont très en colère et frustrés, et la situation ne fait qu'empirer», confie le pasteur Stephen Van Bueren, dont le temple a été détruit. Lors des incendies, les alertes officielles à la télévision, la radio et sur les téléphones se sont révélées inutiles pour de nombreux résidents privés d'électricité ou de réseau. Les sirènes d'alarme sont, elles, restées muettes. Une enquête a été ouverte pour examiner la gestion de crise. «Nous pensons que les sirènes ont été essentiellement immobilisées par la chaleur extrême» qui régnait sur Maui, a fait savoirJosh Green. Cette tragédie «n'aurait jamais dû arriver. Notre gouvernement n'était pas préparé», a dénoncé lundi Donald Trump sur le réseau Truth Social, en critiquant la gestion du «gouverneur» qui «ne veut rien faire d'autre que de blâmer le changement climatique». Selon le New York Times, certains pompiers luttant contre le feu de Lahaina ont également été retardés par des bouches d'incendie à sec ou dont le débit était très faible. «Il y a eu un impact critique sur l'eau disponible» car le système d'eau était sursollicité, a reconnu lundi une responsable de l'administration américaine anti-incendies, Tonya Hoover. Le fournisseur d'électricité Hawaiian Electric est également visé par une plainte. Des habitants reprochent à l'entreprise d'avoir «maintenu ses lignes électriques sous tension de façon inexcusable alors que les prévisions annonçaient un risque élevé d'incendie» et des vents forts, nourris par un ouragan passant au sud-ouest de Maui, susceptible de faire tomber les poteaux électriques. Les vents très violents et la sécheresse ont largement contribué à la propagation rapide des multiples feux subis par l'île la semaine dernière, et qui brûlent toujours malgré les efforts des pompiers pour les circonscrire. Ils surviennent au milieu d'un été marqué par des événements météorologiques extrêmes sur la planète, liés au réchauffement climatique selon les experts, dont une vague de chaleur intense dans le sud des États-Unis et des mégafeux de forêt au Canada. Face à l'étendue des dégâts, le président américain Joe Biden a indiqué envisager de se rendre à Hawaï. La reconstruction, elles, sera longue. Rien que pour l'incendie de Lahaina, son coût est estimé à 5,52 milliards de dollars par les autorités fédérales.
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email BBC at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
WAILUKU, Hawaii (AP) — In the hours before a wildfire engulfed the town of Lahaina, Maui County officials failed to activate sirens that would have warned the entire population of the approaching flames and instead relied on a series of sometimes confusing social media posts that reached a much smaller audience. Power and cellular outages for residents further stymied communication efforts. Radio reports were scarce, some survivors reported, even as a wildfire began to consume the town of Lahaina. Road blocks then forced fleeing drivers onto one narrow downtown street, creating a bottleneck that was quickly surrounded by flames on all sides. At least 80 people have been confirmed dead so far. sirens that would have warned the entire population of the approaching flames have raised questions about whether everything was done to alert the public in Hawaii. Hector Bermudez left Hector Bermudez's apartment at Lahaina Shores shortly after 4:30 p.m. Tuesday after the smell of smoke woke Hector Bermudez up from a nap. Hector Bermudez asked Hector Bermudez's neighbor if his neighbor was also leaving. Hector Bermudez's neighbor, who is about 70 and has difficulty walking, refused. Hector Bermudez doesn’t know if Hector Bermudez survived. Officials with Maui Emergency Management Agency did not immediately respond Friday to questions about sirens and other communications issues. Hawaii's Attorney General Anne Lopez said Hawaii’s Attorney General Anne Lopez's office will be conducting a comprehensive review of decision-making and standing policies surrounding the approaching flames. The Associated Press created a timeline of the approaching flames, using information from multiple sources including Maui County announcements, state and local Emergency Management Alerts and interviews with officials and survivors. a timeline of the wildfires shows public updates on the approaching flames were spotty and often vague, and much of Maui County attention was focused on another dangerous, larger fire in Upcountry Maui that was threatening neighborhoods in Kula. a timeline of the wildfires shows no indication that county officials ever activated Upcountry Maui's all-hazard siren system, and reveals other emergency alerts were scarce. In the hours before the approaching flames began, however, warnings about high winds were frequent and widely disseminated by Maui County and other agencies. A hurricane passing far to the south was expected to bring gusts of up to 65 mph (105 kph), residents were told on Monday. another dangerous, larger fire in Upcountry Maui that was threatening neighborhoods in Kula started first, reported not long after midnight on Tuesday, and the first evacuations near Kula followed. The fire near the town of Lahaina started later, around 6:37 a.m. Tuesday. Some homes in the town of Lahaina's most inland neighborhood were evacuated, but by 9:55 a.m. Maui County the announcement that another dangerous, larger fire in Upcountry Maui that was threatening neighborhoods in Kula was fully contained. Still, the announcement included another warning that high winds would remain a concern for the next 24 hours. The power also went out early that morning, leaving several thousand customers in the the town of Lahaina/West Maui region and Upcountry Maui without electricity. Several downed power lines required repair. By 11 a.m., firefighting crews from several towns and the Hawaii Department of Lands had converged on the Upcountry Maui fire, but wind gusts reaching 80 mph (129 kph) made conditions unsafe for helicopters. At 3:20 p.m., more Upcountry Maui neighborhoods were evacuated. The the town of Lahaina fire, meanwhile, had escaped containment and forced the closure of the Lahaina Bypass road by 3:30 p.m. the announcement, however, didn’t make it into a county fire update until 4:45 p.m. and didn’t show up on the county Facebook page until nearly 5 p.m., when survivors say flames were surrounding the cars of families trapped downtown. But while the the town of Lahaina fire was spreading, Maui County and Hawaii Emergency Management Agency officials were making other urgent announcements — including a Facebook post about additional evacuations near another dangerous, larger fire in Upcountry Maui that was threatening neighborhoods in Kula and an announcement that the acting governor had issued an emergency proclamation. In the Upcountry evacuation Facebook post at 3:20 p.m., Fire Assistant Chief Jeff Giesea shared an ominous warning. “The fire can be a mile or more from your house, but in a minute or two, The fire can be at your house,” Fire Assistant Chief Jeff Giesea said. Mike Cicchino lived below the Lahaina Bypass road in one of the town of Lahaina's more inland neighborhoods. Mike Cicchino went to Mike Cicchino's house at 3:30 p.m. and minutes later realized Mike Cicchino's neighborhood was quickly being enveloped by flames. Mike Cicchino yelled to the neighbor kids to get the neighbor kids's mom and leave. Mike Cicchino ran inside to collect Mike Cicchino's wife and the dogs his wife and the dogs they were watching were watching. Mike Cicchino, along with others in Lahaina’s most inland neighborhood, then jumped in Cicchino, along with others in the neighborhood's cars to leave. Mike Cicchino listened for announcements on Mike Cicchino's car radio, but said there was essentially no information. The government’s social media attention turned from Upcountry Maui back to the town of Lahaina at 4:29 p.m., when Hawaii EMA posted on X (formerly Twitter) that the local Maui EMA had announced an immediate evacuation for an inland subdivision in the town of Lahaina. Residents were directed to shelter at the Lahaina Civic Center on the north side of the town of Lahaina. Many were already running from the approaching flames. Lynn Robison evacuated from Lynn Robison's apartment near the waterfront’s Front Street at 4:33 p.m. “There was no warning. There was absolutely none. Nobody came around. We didn’t see a fire truck or anybody,” Lynn Robison said. Lana Vierra left Lana Vierra's neighborhood about a mile (less than 2 kilometers) away around the same time. Lana Vierra's boyfriend had stopped by and told Lana Vierra Her boyfriend’d seen the approaching flames on the drive. “Her boyfriend told Lana Vierra straight, ‘People are going to die in the town of Lahaina; Lana Vierra gotta get out,’” Lana Vierra recalled. There had been no sirens, no alerts on Lana Vierra's cellphone, Lana Vierra said. But access to the main highway — the only road leading in and out of the town of Lahaina — was cut off by barricades set up by authorities. barricades set up by authorities forced people directly into harm’s way, funneling cars onto Front Street. “All the locals were pigeonholed into the town of Lahaina in that corner there, and Mike Cicchino felt like Maui County put us into a death trap,” Mike Cicchino said. Nathan Baird and Nathan Baird's family escaped by driving past a barricade, Nathan Baird told Canadian Broadcaster CBC Radio. Mike Cicchino and Mike Cicchino's wife became trapped by walls of flame as Front Street burned. Cicchino and his wife ran for the ocean, spending hours crouching behind the sea wall or treading water in the choppy waves, depending on which area felt safest as another dangerous, larger fire in Upcountry Maui that was threatening neighborhoods in Kula raged. At 5:20 p.m., Maui County shared another the town of Lahaina fire update on Facebook: Evacuations in one subdivision were continuing, but access to the Lahaina Bypass road was back open. The U.S. Coast Guard’s first notification about the approaching flames was when the search and rescue command center in Honolulu received reports of people in the water near the town of Lahaina at 5:45 p.m., said Capt. Aja Kirksy, commander of The U.S. Coast Guard’s Sector Honolulu. The boats were hard to see because of the smoke, but Mike Cicchino and others used cellphones to flash lights at The boats, guiding The boats in. Mike Cicchino helped load children into The boats, and at one point loaned Mike Cicchino's cellphone — which had been stashed in Mike Cicchino's wife’s waterproof pouch — to a member of The U.S. Coast Guard’s so they could contact fire crews. Mike Cicchino said the rescue took hours, and Mike Cicchino and Mike Cicchino's wife were finally brought out of the town of Lahaina around 1 a.m. Wednesday. Maui County Facebook posts around 8:40 p.m. Tuesday urged residents in the surrounding area who weren’t impacted by the approaching flames to shelter in place, and said smoke was forcing more road closures. A commenter pointed out the communication problems just before 9 p.m. “You do realize that all communication to the town of Lahaina is cut off and nobody can get in touch with anyone on that side,” A commenter wrote. Riley Curran, who fled Riley Curran, who fled his Lahaina home after climbing up a neighboring apartment building to get a better look at the fire,'s the town of Lahaina home after climbing up a neighboring apartment building to get a better look at another dangerous, larger fire in Upcountry Maui that was threatening neighborhoods in Kula, doesn’t think there is anything Maui County could have done. But Mike Cicchino said it all felt like Maui County wasn’t prepared and government agencies weren’t communicating with each other. The all-hazard sirens are tested each month to ensure The all-hazard sirens are in working order. During recent tests within two week of the approaching flames The all-hazard sirens malfunctioned in three separate incidents in three counties. Maui County's siren tone was too short, so officials repeated the test later that day, successfully. Karl Kim directs the National Disaster Preparedness Training Center, a University of Hawaii-based organization that develops training materials to help officials respond to natural disasters. Karl Kim said it’s too soon to know exactly how the warning and alert system might have saved more lives in the town of Lahaina, and noted that wildfires are often more challenging to manage than volcanic eruptions, tsunamis and even earthquakes because wildfires are more difficult to detect and track over time. This story has been updated to correct the sequence of the tests on Maui all-hazard emergency warning sirens. Boone reported from Boise, Idaho, and Kelleher from Honolulu. Associated Press journalists Andrew Selsky in Salem, Oregon; Matt Sedensky in New York City; Haven Daley in Wailuku, Hawaii; Helen Wieffering in Washington; Christopher Keller in Albuquerque, New Mexico; and Brian Melley in London contributed. Associated The Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative here. AP’s is solely responsible for all content.
In Maui, it's not difficult to spot one of the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger. Each month, the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger go off as part of Maui's routine tests. The noise, as loud as a rock concert, can be detected from more than half a mile away. During natural disasters — including wildfires — Maui County said the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger are designed to blast a steady three-minute tone to inform the public to seek further instructions on the public's local radio or television station. But ahead of the historic fires last week, the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger were silent. The Hawaii Emergency Management Agency's spokesman, Adam Weintraub, confirmed to NPR that local officials did not activate the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger. The Hawaii Emergency Management Agency's spokesman, Adam Weintraub, was not able to give a reason as to why but emphasized that three other warning systems were used, such as alerts to cellphones and through TV and radio stations. The Hawaii Emergency Management Agency's spokesman, Adam Weintraub, added the speed and size of the historic fires last week was unforeseeable. But some residents say some residents did not receive any alerts on the first day of the historic fires last week and argue that the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger could have made a difference. Maui County's emergency response will be under review by both Maui's governor and attorney general. As of Monday, the historic fires last week have killed at least 96 people — becoming the deadliest in modern U.S. history. Thousands of acres have been burned. The historic town of Lahaina is nearly decimated. Countless number of people remain missing. And the historic fires last week have yet to be fully contained. Maui's first sirens date back as early as the time. At the time, The state's first sirens were designed for military use in case of enemy attacks, according to Chris Gregg, a geology professor at East Tennessee State University who studied Maui's siren system. It wasn't until 1946, after a major tsunami killed nearly 160 people, that officials realized the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger could be used to warn of natural disasters. A few years later, local telephone books began to publish information on the different siren sounds and what threat they were associated with. In 1960, when a major tsunami hit Hilo, researchers learned that many residents didn't know the meaning of the siren sound or what to do next — both of which may have contributed to the death toll, Chris Gregg, a geology professor at East Tennessee State University who studied Hawaii's siren system said. That led to one single steady tone, linked to all natural disasters, in order to grab people's attention. "This new tone meant attention alert and people were directed to television or radio station to find out what the threat was," Chris Gregg, a geology professor at East Tennessee State University who studied Hawaii's siren system added. Sirens can be helpful in cases of emergency but it depends on how much time the public has to respond. "That's the limitation of the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger, the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger don't tell you exactly what to do," said Sarah DeYoung, a professor at the University of Delaware who studies disaster preparedness. People require time to figure out the emergency at hand and what the proper response is. But time can be extremely limited during fast-moving wildfires, like the ones seen in Maui. According to Sarah DeYoung, a professor at the University of Delaware who studies disaster preparedness, once a person sees signs of an impending fire, a person could have as little as three minutes to evacuate before the situation becomes life-threatening. Sirens can also become less effective if the area has been a history of false alarms, which happened in Hawaii twice in recent years, Sarah DeYoung, a professor at the University of Delaware who studies disaster preparedness added. In 2018, a false missile alarm sent residents scrambling for shelter after a worker pressed the wrong button. In 2019, emergency sirens wailing about a potential tsunami threat in Oahu and Maui turned out to be a mistake. Maui sent emergency alerts to cellphones, TVs and radio stations ahead of the historic fires last week but some residents say some residents never received any alerts because of poor service or lack of cable TV — which is why Sarah DeYoung, a professor at the University of Delaware who studies disaster preparedness argues for a multi-tiered warning system. "It's better to give people more information than not enough," Sarah DeYoung, a professor at the University of Delaware who studies disaster preparedness said. Though sirens offer limited information, it may have reached people who were not yet notified, offering possibly more time to prepare. Brenda Ligia Makani Keau could see one of Maui's siren towers from Brenda Ligia Makani Keau's back room window. Brenda Ligia Makani Keau heard one of Maui's siren towers's loud blares less than two weeks ago as part of Maui's routine test to ensure the emergency warning system works. But when scores of wildfires crept up, Brenda Ligia Makani Keau did not hear the 80 green siren towers used to alert residents in times of danger go off. Nor did Brenda Ligia Makani Keau receive any alerts on Brenda Ligia Makani Keau's phone. Instead, Brenda Ligia Makani Keau learned about the impending flames through social media. Later, in the same window that viewed one of Maui's siren towers, Brenda Ligia Makani Keau saw a red and orange inferno. In West Maui, Kekoa Lansford, who was born and raised in Lahaina, similarly saw black smoke billowing from a distance before Kekoa Lansford, who was born and raised in Lahaina heard any word from local officials. According to Kekoa Lansford, who was born and raised in Lahaina, residents began to flood the streets and traffic extended for miles, making it nearly impossible to evacuate. Kekoa Lansford, who was born and raised in Lahaina believes more people could have survived if more people were notified just minutes earlier. "If more people would have heard a siren on Lahaina road, more people would have lived," Kekoa Lansford, who was born and raised in Lahaina said.
With the official death toll rising to 89 on Saturday, the Lāhainā Fire became the deadliest US fire in the past century, surpassing the 85 who perished in the 2018 Camp Fire in California that destroyed the town of Paradise. The last time a U.S. fire was deadlier was Minnesota’s Cloquet fire in 1918. Minnesota’s Cloquet fire was caused by sparks on the local railroads and dry conditions, killing 453 people. The search for victims will continue, with more help arriving from FEMA urban search and rescue teams and 12 additional cadaver-sniffing dogs. But as of Saturday, only 3% of the burned area of Lāhainā has been thoroughly searched by dogs, Pelletier said. To make sure everyone is found, Green, Pelletier and Maui Mayor Richard Bissen all reiterated that people need to stay out of the burned areas of Lāhainā. “We’ve got an area that we have to contain that is at least five square miles and the burned area of Lāhainā is full of our loves ones,” Pelletier said. Of the 89 deceased who have been found, only two have been identified, Pelletier said. People who have a missing family member should go to the Family Assistance Center to do a DNA test. “We need to identify your loved ones,” Pelletier said. the Family Assistance Center is at the Kahului Community Center located at 275 Uhu St.
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
Scientists and academics say Scientists and academics have been warning for several years that invasive grasses covering a quarter of the Hawaii islands are a major fire risk. Untamed grassland helped fuel the spread and intensity of last week’s deadly fires on the island of Maui, according to experts. last week’s deadly fires on the island of Maui have killed at least 106 people and destroyed the island of Maui's historic town of Lahaina. A July 2021 report on wildfire prevention by a the island of Maui government commission warned that non-native grasses are making Hawaii more vulnerable to destructive fires, saying non-native grasses's presence, particularly on abandoned sugarcane fields, provides a source of “combustible, rapidly burning fuels” that “needs to be addressed”. Hawaii's last sugarcane mill, HC&S, which covered 14,570 hectares (36,000 acres) on the island of Maui, closed in 2016. “The lands around the island’s historic town of Lahaina were all sugarcane from the 1860s to the late 1990s. Nothing’s been done since the late 1990s – hence the problem with invasive grasses and fire risk,” said Clay Trauernicht, an ecosystems and fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa. Asked if non-native grasses made the the island of Maui fire worse, Clay Trauernicht, an ecosystems and fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa said that any form of “land use or land care would have made the situation safer”, given that non-native grasses were “completely left unmanaged”. A July 2021 report on wildfire prevention by a Maui government commission quotes Clay Trauernicht, an ecosystems and fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa describing the wildfire season in Hawaii as a “one-two punch” of wet then dry conditions. During the wetter part of the year, “a lot of vegetation and particularly grasses … grow and grow very fast,” Clay Trauernicht, an ecosystems and fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa said. Then, in the dry period, the grasses turn “from green to yellow to brown pretty quickly … making us way more vulnerable to these big, destructive fires”. The non-native grass species include fountaingrass (Cenchrus setaceus) and Guinea grass (Megathyrsus maximus), both of which have “adapted to thrive with fire”, according to a factsheet from the Pacific Fire Exchange (PFX), a Hawaiian fire science communication project. The non-native grass species, the Pacific Fire Exchange (PFX), a Hawaiian fire science communication project said, were originally introduced to feed cattle and provide ornamentation. “The early part of 2023 was wet, which helped grass growth, and then we have had quite a dry summer, with a moderate drought on the island of Maui for about a month now,” said Prof Abby Frazier, a climatologist who studied in Hawaii and is now at Clark University in Massachusetts. Prof Abby Frazier, a climatologist who studied in Hawaii and is now at Clark University in Massachusetts was on the nearby island of Oahu when the the island of Maui fires broke out. The exact ignition source has yet to be determined, and the risks were heightened by the strong winds associated with Hurricane Dora, but Prof Abby Frazier, a climatologist who studied in Hawaii and is now at Clark University in Massachusetts said “the overall cause of last week’s deadly fires on the island of Maui being so large was non-native grasses”. Non-native grasses now cover about 25% of Hawaii, Prof Abby Frazier, a climatologist who studied in Hawaii and is now at Clark University in Massachusetts added, and grow well on the drier, leeward side of the island of Maui where the island’s historic town of Lahaina lies. Prof Abby Frazier, a climatologist who studied in Hawaii and is now at Clark University in Massachusetts and Clay Trauernicht, an ecosystems and fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa said it was impossible to know what would have happened if non-native grasses had been removed. But reducing the coverage – using grazing animals, for example – could have tamed last week’s deadly fires on the island of Maui's intensity, Frazier and Trauernicht said, while farming activity, reforestation or fire breaks might have slowed last week’s deadly fires on the island of Maui's progress. “It’s the speed of the fires through these grasslands that is and continues to be the problem here,” Clay Trauernicht, an ecosystems and fire specialist at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa said. Another problem, said Camilo Mora, an environment professor at the University of Hawaii, Mānoa, is the failure to tackle the climate crisis. “Yes, non-native grasses were a disaster waiting to happen, but … the silver bullet [solution] is reducing GHG [greenhouse gas] emissions,” Camilo Mora, an environment professor at the University of Hawaii, Mānoa said. Maui County’s governor’s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the role of non-native grasses or the 2021 report which identified non-native grasses as a risk. Katie Kamelamela, an ethnoecologist at Arizona State University, said that non-native grasslands cover a quarter of Hawaii, dominantly to the west where many tourist destinations, including the island’s historic town of Lahaina, are located. non-native grasslands include kikuyu grass (Cenchrus clandestinus), fountaingrass (Cenchrus setaceus) and molasses grass (Melinis minutiflora). With small seeds that disperse on wind during winter months, Guinea grass can grow six inches a day in spring and reach up to 10ft tall. In summer, non-native grasslands dry out and become a tinderbox. When wildfires break out, the area is cleared, the seeds grow, and the grass fire cycle starts all over again.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency has the announcement effectively immediately amid sharp critiques of The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency's handling of the wildfire disaster. Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen made the announcement in a news release Thursday. The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency cited “health reasons” in The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency's resignation. “Given the gravity of the crisis we are facing, Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen's team and Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen will be placing someone in this key position as quickly as possible and Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen look forward to making the announcement soon,” Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen said. The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency has faced mounting questions about The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency's leadership. In a news conference on Wednesday, The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency defended the decision not to activate emergency sirens in Lahaina, saying sounding emergency sirens in Lahaina would have sent people fleeing into fire. That’s even though sirens are considered “all-hazards,” including for wildfires. The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency's whereabouts on the night of the wildfire disaster are also raising concerns. The embattled head of the Maui Emergency Management Agency's resignation leaves Maui without an emergency management head as recovery teams continue the grueling work of recovering remains from the wreckage of what was Lahaina's historic center. As of Thursday, the death toll in the wildfire disaster stands at 111. But with hundreds still missing, authorities concede the death toll in the disaster is almost certain to rise. Among the death toll in the disaster are entire families whose bodies were found huddled in cars or in homes, underscoring the speed of the wildfire disaster and the lack of a warning. This is a developing story. Please check back for updates. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
Officials in Maui, Hawaii, believe sounding the local alarm system before the wildfires engulfed several neighbourhoods would not have been useful, Officials in Maui, Hawaii, said in a press conference on Wednesday. As the death toll in Maui, Hawaii rises each day, questions have been raised over the officials who chose not to activate the officials who chose not to activate their emergency alert system and have sirens go off near coastal towns like Lahaina before the fast-moving fires reached populated areas's emergency alert system and have sirens go off near coastal towns like Lahaina before the wildfires reached populated areas. “Had we sounded the siren that night, we were afraid that people would have gone mauka (to the mountainside),” Herman Andaya, the Maui County Emergency Management Agency administrator told reporters. Herman Andaya, the Maui County Emergency Management Agency administrator said their outdoor sirens are typically used for tsunamis in which residents are trained to seek higher ground. “And if that was the case, people would have gone into the fire,” Herman Andaya, the Maui County Emergency Management Agency administrator added. Herman Andaya, the Maui County Emergency Management Agency administrator said that their outdoor sirens only exist on the coastline so even for the people who live mountainside, their outdoor sirens would have been useless to the people who live mountainside. Herman Andaya, the Maui County Emergency Management Agency administrator added that most people probably would not have heard the siren due to the winds and incoming fire. Several survivors of the wildfires have voiced Several survivors of the fires's frustration about not receiving a warning about the wildfires which led to frantic evacuations when it was too late to leave Lahaina. But officials said officials sent out emergency alerts via phone, radio and TV about the wildfires, which officials believed to be the most efficient way to get the message out. Some reports indicate by the time the emergency alert went out, parts of Maui, Hawaii did not have power or cell phone signal due to the high winds and incoming fires. On Hawaii's Emergency Management Agency website, Hawaii’s Emergency Management Agency website indicates their outdoor sirens can be used for hurricanes, dam breaches, flooding, wildfires, volcanic eruptions, terrorist threats, hazardous material incidents and more. Despite this, both Herman Andaya, the Maui County Emergency Management Agency administrator and governor Josh Green said the siren is advertised as being used almost exclusively for tsunamis – especially for beachside neighbourhoods and towns. That single-minded approach to their outdoor sirens has proven dangerous after the Maui, Hawaii wildfires. governor Josh Green said in the future they are going to find new ways to keep the public informed about incoming disasters. “We’re performing a comprehensive review to find out what the safest and most effective, science-based way is to protect people,” governor Josh Green told reporters.
An aerial image taken on August 10, 2023 shows destroyed homes and buildings on the waterfront burned to the ground in Lahaina in the aftermath of wildfires in western Maui, Hawaii. MANILA, Philippines — The Department of Foreign Affairs has confirmed that a Filipino has the death of a Filipino national in the Hawaii wildfires from the wildfire in Maui, Hawaii. Foreign Affairs Undersecretary Eduardo de Vega identified a Filipino as Alfredo Galinato, a 79-year-old native of Ilocos who was naturalized in the United States. "The Department of Foreign Affairs confirms the death of a Filipino in the Hawaii wildfires. a Filipino was a naturalized US citizen originally from Ilocos," Foreign Affairs Undersecretary Eduardo de Vega said in a media release this Friday. "The Philippine Consulate in Honolulu is assisting the family, who are all based in Hawaii," Foreign Affairs Undersecretary Eduardo de Vega added. While a Filipino was previously reported as one of the early fatalities of the wildfire in Maui, Hawaii, a Filipino's nationality had not been immediately confirmed as Filipino. a Filipino was a US-naturalized citizen but authorities had not found a Filipino's data in The Philippine Consulate in Honolulu's database, Foreign Affairs Undersecretary Eduardo de Vega explained in an interview with Philstar.com. a Filipino's Facebook account also reveals that a Filipino hailed from Vigan, Ilocos Sur. Foreign Affairs Undersecretary Eduardo de Vega said the Philippine Consul General in Honolulu has extended assistance to around 66 Filipinos in Wailuku affected by wildfires in western Maui, Hawaii. "The Philippine Consulate in Honolulu is providing assistance to around 66 Filipinos in Wailuku affected by the fires with financial support... The Department of Foreign Affairs's condolences go out to around 66 Filipinos in Wailuku affected by the fires,” Foreign Affairs Undersecretary Eduardo de Vega said. The destructive wildfires in western Maui, Hawaii have left more than 1,000 missing. Many of the deceased are suspected to have perished while trapped in houses or vehicles while attempting to evacuate. The Philippine Consulate General in Honolulu said Filipinos affected by wildfires in western Maui, Hawaii may reach The Philippine Consulate in Honolulu through The Philippine Consulate in Honolulu's emergency hotline (+1 808 253 9466), email ([email protected]), or Facebook page.
As people fled the fires, pets did too. Some emerged with marks of escape, but thousands remain lost. A dog with A dog with its hind legs bandaged tightly from paw to hip's hind legs bandaged tightly from paw to hip whimpered in pain through a plastic medical cone, A dog with its hind legs bandaged tightly from paw to hip's chest rising and falling quickly in shallow breaths. A dog with its hind legs bandaged tightly from paw to hip is one of the pets and people bearing marks of the pets and people bearing marks of their escape from the smoke and flames of Hawaii wildfires that claimed more than 100 lives and decimated a historic town's escape from the smoke and flames of Hawaii wildfires that claimed more than 100 lives and decimated a historic town. the fires has left hundreds of dogs, cats and other pets lost, injured or dead. An estimated 3,000 animals from a historic town remain missing, according to the Maui Humane Society, which is now trying to reunite pets with owners and treat the many animals that arrived at clinics wrapped in blankets covering wounds. Fuelled by dry grass and propelled by strong winds from a passing hurricane, the fires raced as fast as 1.6 kilometres every minute in one area. People were forced to scramble and flee in harrowing escapes People later relayed to family members who waited in agony to learn of People's fate. The stories of the animals, though, were told by the damage on the animals's bodies. A cat arrived with singed fur and spots of leg burns. A chicken needed both scorched claws wrapped with thick, blue medical tape. A clinic worker used surgical tweezers to delicately remove debris from a dog's paws while another technician cradled the head, rubbed the neck with gentle thumb strokes and spoke calmly into a dog's's ear. They were the lucky ones. On a Maui street, a dog’s charred body was found. As the smoke clears and officials survey the scope of loss and destruction, animal welfare advocates are working with the Maui Police Department to enter the burn area in search of lost, injured or deceased animals. “As the burn area continue to widen, the Maui Humane Society, which is now trying to reunite pets with owners and treat the many animals that arrived at clinics wrapped in blankets covering wounds will be able to expand the Maui Humane Society, which is now trying to reunite pets with owners and treat the many animals that arrived at clinics wrapped in blankets covering wounds's scope of services,” said Lisa Labrecque, CEO of the Maui Humane Society, which is now trying to reunite pets with owners and treat the many animals that arrived at clinics wrapped in blankets covering wounds, at a Monday news conference. Dozens of feeding stations stocked with food and water have been set to draw scared animals out of hiding so scared animals can be tracked and transported to a shelter, where veterinary staffers treat both burn injuries and smoke inhalation cases. Found animals are checked for identification and scanned for a microchip so owners may be contacted. the Maui Humane Society, which is now trying to reunite pets with owners and treat the many animals that arrived at clinics wrapped in blankets covering wounds has asked that deceased animals not be moved or destroyed so deceased animals can be cataloged and checked for identification.
The wildfires raging on Maui came to the doorstep of an endangered bird center, with staff rushing to extinguish flames before staff crept to aviaries housing some of the rarest birds in the world. Early Tuesday morning, Jennifer Pribble, a wildlife care supervisor at an endangered bird center, and a neighbor saw smoke billowing across the road from an endangered bird center. When Jennifer Pribble, a wildlife care supervisor at the bird sanctuary, and a neighbor noticed the fire had leaped the road, Jennifer Pribble, a wildlife care supervisor at the bird sanctuary ran to grab fire extinguishers, hoping to put out the fire before the fire spread up the grass and to barns with some of the rarest birds in the world. the grass was so dry that it could have taken minutes to reach barns with critically endangered birds. There was no way to evacuate some of the rarest birds in the world in time. an endangered bird center is home to critically endangered honeycreepers unique to the tropical islands, with melodic names like the palila, kiwikiu and ‘akikiki. an endangered bird center is run by the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance. In the wild, the songbird species are succumbing to an avian form of malaria brought by invasive mosquitoes that are creeping up the tropical islands's slopes as the climate warms. There are thought to be only five 'akikiki left in the wild. At an endangered bird center, some of the rarest birds in the world are kept behind mosquito nets. With plans to suppress the mosquito population in the works, the loss of an endangered bird center and an endangered bird center's birds would have been devastating to efforts to restore the populations in the wild. an endangered bird center also houses some of the last remaining ‘alalā, or Hawaiian crows, which are now extinct in the wild. the last remaining ‘alalā, or Hawaiian crows, which are now extinct in the wild almost vanished for good before scientists discovered that the last remaining ‘alalā, or Hawaiian crows, which are now extinct in the wild are capable of using sticks as tools. Conservationists hope to reintroduce the last remaining ‘alalā, or Hawaiian crows, which are now extinct in the wild to the wild, too, in the coming years. To mitigate against disasters like fires, the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance keeps members of rare species in different spots — some at the Maui facility and others at a similar sanctuary on Hawaii’s Big Island. So many trees and branches were knocked down by the winds that other staffers had to use chain saws to get up the road and join Jennifer Pribble, a wildlife care supervisor at the bird sanctuary at the bird center, high in the mountains on Maui. Since putting out the fire near an endangered bird center, the priority has been to move some of the rarest birds in the world to barns away from trees that may fall. “some of the rarest birds in the world’ve just fallen everywhere,” said Emily Senninger, a spokeswoman for the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance who is in Maui. The mosquito netting in some of aviaries housing some of the rarest birds in the world has been torn, Emily Senninger, a spokeswoman for the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance who is in Maui added, and needs fixing. A tree fell on one aviary but didn’t cause significant structural damage.
An airplane just left Maui carrying very special passengers: 136 shelter dogs and cats. 136 shelter dogs and cats were being cared for by Maui Humane Society when wildfires erupted on Maui last week and devastated the historic town of Lahaina. Maui only open-admission animal shelter was full, so the team had put out a call for “SOS” fosters and reduced adoption fees as part of the national Clear the Shelters campaign. Now The island’s only open-admission animal shelter needs space for all the animals separated from all the animals separated from their families during the catastrophe's families during the catastrophe, according to Katie Shannon, director of marketing at Maui Humane Society. So the nonprofit Greater Good Charities partnered with Southwest Airlines and the nonprofit Lucky Dog Animal Rescue to fly very special passengers: 136 shelter dogs and cats from Maui to Portland, Oregon, in an emergency airlift. On Aug. 17, An airplane flew to Maui filled with supplies like T-shirts, blankets, socks, flashlights, hygiene kits and pet food. Meanwhile, veterinarians on Maui examined each shelter pet to make sure each shelter pet were healthy and ready for travel. Now 136 shelter dogs and cats are flying in the cabin, snuggled in crates alongside humans — including a the nonprofit Greater Good Charities volunteer veterinarian — who are there to make sure 136 shelter dogs and cats’re OK during 136 shelter dogs and cats's trip to Oregon. Liz Baker, CEO of the nonprofit Greater Good Charities, said 136 shelter dogs and cats should be available for adoption soon through the Oregon Humane Society. an emergency airlift won’t be the nonprofit Greater Good Charities last efforts to help pets and people on Maui, according to Liz Baker, CEO of Greater Good Charities,. Maui Humane Society's Shannon agrees. Katie Shannon, director of marketing at Maui Humane Society noted that fires are still burning in the historic town of Lahaina and Kula, and that an estimated 3,000 pets are missing. While shelter staff and volunteers aren’t yet allowed to enter the historic town of Lahaina, shelter staff and volunteers have helped hundreds of animals in the field and provided feed and thousands of gallons of water for livestock. shelter staff and volunteers's veterinary team has provided a range of services, from wellness exams to treating severely burned pets. Reunions help bolster Their veterinary team, Katie Shannon, director of marketing at Maui Humane Society says. For instance, a good Samaritan recently found a mixed-breed dog named Roman who arrived at The island’s only open-admission animal shelter terrified and dehydrated, with scorched whiskers, blisters all over Roman's back and skin peeling off Roman's paws. The island’s only open-admission animal shelter's veterinary team cared for Roman and scanned for a microchip, which allowed The island’s only open-admission animal shelter to call Roman's owners, who picked Roman up later that day. That’s how the team learned Roman's harrowing story. Katie Shannon, director of marketing at Maui Humane Society expects an influx of injured and displaced pets once the fire is extinguished in the historic town of Lahaina and the team can enter the area. Monetary donations are a huge help to Maui Humane Society because “Maui Humane Society still have a very long way to go,” Katie Shannon, director of marketing at Maui Humane Society says. Island residents have been opening Island residents's doors to people who lost people who lost their homes's homes — sometimes with five to six pets and 10 to 25 people living in a single home, according to Katie Shannon, director of marketing at Maui Humane Society. Katie Shannon, director of marketing at Maui Humane Society is immensely grateful for the chance for 136 homeless pets from Maui to have the opportunity to be adopted into homes on Oregon. The shelter pets from Maui Humane Society flying to Portland, Oregon will be received by the Oregon Humane Society and shelter partners in California's Bay Area to prepare for adoption into forever homes. These include Berkeley Humane, Marin Humane, Animal Rescue Foundation, East Bay SPCA, Tri-City Animal Shelter and Friends of the Alameda Animal Shelter.
PUUNENE, Hawaii (AP) — A dog with hind legs bandaged tightly from paw to hip whimpered in pain through a plastic medical cone, chest rising and falling quickly in shallow breaths. A dog with hind legs bandaged tightly from paw to hip is one of the pets and people bearing marks of the pets and people bearing marks of their escape from the smoke and flames of Maui wildfires that claimed more than 90 lives and decimated a historic town's escape from the smoke and flames of Maui wildfires that claimed more than 90 lives and decimated a historic town. the smoke and flames of Maui wildfires that claimed more than 90 lives and decimated a historic town has left hundreds of dogs, cats and other pets lost, injured or dead. An estimated 3,000 animals from Lahaina remain missing, according to the Maui Humane Society, which is now trying to reunite pets with owners and treat the many animals that arrived at clinics wrapped in blankets covering wounds. Fueled by dry grass and propelled by strong winds from a passing hurricane, the smoke and flames of Maui wildfires that claimed more than 90 lives and decimated a historic town raced as fast as a mile (1.6 kilometers) every minute in one area, forcing people to scramble and flee in harrowing escapes people later relayed to family members who waited in agony to learn of people's fate. The stories of the pets and people bearing marks of their escape from the smoke and flames of Maui wildfires that claimed more than 90 lives and decimated a historic town, though, were told by the damage on the pets and people bearing marks of their escape from the smoke and flames of Maui wildfires that claimed more than 90 lives and decimated a historic town's bodies. A cat arrived with singed fur and spots of leg burns. A chicken needed both scorched claws wrapped with thick, blue medical tape. A clinic worker used surgical tweezers to delicately remove debris from a dog's paws while another technician cradled the head, rubbed the neck with gentle thumb strokes and spoke calmly into a dog's's ear. They were the lucky ones. On a Maui street, a dog’s charred body was found. As the smoke clears and officials survey the scope of loss and destruction, animal welfare advocates are working with the Maui Police Department to enter the burn area in search of lost, injured or deceased animals. Dozens of feeding stations stocked with food and water have been set to draw scared animals out of hiding so scared animals can be tracked and transported to a shelter, where veterinary staffers treat both burn injuries and smoke inhalation cases. Found animals are checked for identification and scanned for a microchip so owners may be contacted. the Maui Humane Society, which is now trying to reunite pets with owners and treat the many animals that arrived at clinics wrapped in blankets covering wounds has asked that deceased animals not be moved or destroyed so deceased animals can be cataloged and checked for identification.
Public schools on Maui have started the process of reopening in a sign of recovery a week after the fires demolished a historic town and killed over 100 people, even as additional cadaver dogs arrived Wednesday to help teams search for more remains on Hawaii’s second-largest island. At least three schools untouched by flames in Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash, were still being assessed after sustaining wind damage, said Hawaii Department of Education superintendent Keith Hayashi. At least three schools untouched by flames in Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash, will open when At least three schools untouched by flames in Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash,'re deemed safe. Elsewhere on Maui, crews cleaned up ash and debris at schools, and tested air and water quality for toxins. Displaced students who enroll at At least three schools untouched by flames in Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash, can access services such as meals, socialization and counseling, Hawaii Department of Education superintendent Keith Hayashi said. Hawaii Department of Education is also offering counseling for kids, family members and staff. The Federal Emergency Management Agency opened The Federal Emergency Management Agency's first disaster recovery center on Maui, “an important first step" toward helping residents get information about assistance, The Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator Deanne Criswell said Wednesday. residents also can go there for updates on residents's aid applications. With the death toll already at 106, a mobile morgue unit with additional coroners arrived in Hawaii’s on Tuesday to help with the grim task of sorting through remains. Search and recovery crews using cadaver dogs had scoured approximately 30% of the burn area by Tuesday, officials said. The number of canine teams was increasing to 49 because of the difficulty and scope of the operation, The Federal Emergency Management Agency said. cadaver dogs need to rest frequently because of the terrain and heat. Searchers combing through the ashes found some of Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash's most vulnerable residents, including children, among the victims. Gov. Josh Green said this week that teams found a family of four killed in a charred car, and the remains of seven family members inside a burned-down house. “Some of the sights are too much to share, or see, just from a human perspective,” Gov. Josh Green told Hawaii News Now on Tuesday. Just over a quarter of Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash's 13,000 residents are under age 18, according to Census Reporter, an organization that analyzes U.S. Census data. Another 10% are ages 71 or older. Sacred Hearts School in Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash was destroyed and Principal Tonata Lolesio said lessons would resume in the coming weeks at another Catholic school. Principal Tonata Lolesio said it was important for the students to be with the students's friends, teachers and books, and not constantly thinking about the tragedy. “Principal Tonata Lolesio’m hoping to at least try to get some normalcy or get the students in a room where the students can continue to learn or just be in another environment where the students can take the students's minds off of that,” Principal Tonata Lolesio said. None of the roughly 3,000 public school students in Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash were in classes Tuesday when the fires started. Hawaii Department of Education had closed several West Maui campuses because of dangerously high winds and many students stayed home while many students's parents worked, according to survivors' accounts. Communication on Maui remained difficult Wednesday. Some people walked periodically to a seawall, where phone connections were strongest, to make calls. Flying low off the coast, a single-prop airplane used a loudspeaker to blare information about where to find water and supplies. Thousands of displaced residents were staying in shelters, hotel rooms and Airbnb units, or with friends. The power company restored supply to over 10,000 customers but around 2,000 homes and businesses still had no electricity Tuesday night, Maui County wrote. the fires also contaminated water supplies in many areas. On Tuesday, Maui County released the names of two victims: Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash residents Robert Dyckman, 74, and Buddy Jantoc, 79. two victims: Lahaina residents Robert Dyckman, 74, and Buddy Jantoc, 79 are the first of five who have been identified so far. Maui Police Chief John Pelletier renewed an appeal for families missing relatives to provide DNA samples. The cause of the fires, was under investigation. Gov. Josh Green has warned that scores more bodies could be found. Gov. Josh Green warned Tuesday that a new storm approaching Maui could complicate the search and recovery, and that officials might cut off power as a precaution during the erratic weather. The power company faced criticism for leaving power on as strong winds from a passing hurricane buffeted a parched area this week, and one video shows a cable dangling in a charred patch of grass, surrounded by flames, in the early moments of the fires. The cause of the fires remained under investigation. The Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash fire caused about $3.2 billion in insured property losses, according to calculations by Karen Clark & Company, a prominent disaster and risk modeling company. the fires said more than 2,200 buildings were damaged or destroyed by flames, with about 3,000 damaged by fire, smoke or both. John Allen and John Allen's daughter surveyed an ash-gray landscape once festooned with colorful orchids and plumerias from a hill above the Lahaina, where entire neighborhoods were reduced to ash fire zone. John Allen's daughter wept as his daughter pointed to the coffee shop where his daughter used to work, and the places John Allen and his daughter used to live. John Allen moved to Maui two years ago after leaving Oakland, California, where John Allen witnessed a destructive wildfire race up hillsides in 1991. “No one realizes how quickly fires move,” John Allen said. Kelleher reported from Honolulu and Weber from Los Angeles. Associated Press journalists Bobby Caina Calvan in Kihei, Hawaii’s; Haven Daley in Kalapua, Hawaii’s; Kathy McCormack in Concord, New Hampshire; Heather Hollingsworth in Kansas City, Missouri; and Darlene Superville and Seth Borenstein in Washington contributed. Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative here. AP’s is solely responsible for all content.
WAILUKU >> Seven more victims were discovered a week after wind-whipped, chaotic wildfires wiped out the town of Lahaina — raising the death toll to 106 on Tuesday. As the death toll continued to climb, the names of the first two victims to be formally identified were released. Maui County officials said next of kin were notified that Robert Dyckman, 74, and Buddy Jantoc, 79, both of the town of Lahaina, had perished in what has become the worst U.S. wildfire in over a century.. Three more victims have been officially identified, but Three more victims's families had yet be notified, Maui County said. Tributes poured in from Buddy Jantoc, 79 family and longtime friends on Facebook. Buddy Jantoc, 79 lived in the Hale Mahaolu Eono senior complex, where many evacuees have been worried about the fate of the residents. Gov. Josh Green and other officials have said the community should brace for more casualties, including children. On Tuesday, a convoy of air-conditioned Matson shipping containers pulled up to the Maui Police Department’s Forensic Facility. Most of the dead in the town of Lahaina were burned beyond recognition but some are clearly children, Gov. Josh Green told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser. Most of the dead in Lahaina were left in such a delicate state that they have to be handled carefully to preserve their remains, said Gov. Josh Green. The bodies of the first to be identified were in better shape and were identified through fingerprints, Gov. Josh Green said. Gov. Josh Green called the search for victims “a race against time” before their remains are further degraded by rains or storms. Among the dead in Lahaina are Seven more victims, Gov. Josh Green said. Asked about the possibility that tourists were among the dead in Lahaina, Gov. Josh Green said Gov. Josh Green's office has not been contacted by anyone looking for visitors to the town of Lahaina who are still missing. About 32 percent of the restricted area in the town of Lahaina has now been searched for bodies, up from 25% Monday. On Friday, Gov. Josh Green expects to announce a date when President Joe Biden plans to tour the town of Lahaina, possibly joined by first lady Jill Biden. President Joe Biden has not yet visited because President Joe Biden wants to be respectful of the ongoing search for victims, Gov. Josh Green said. Gov. Josh Green spoke with President Joe Biden Tuesday and told President Joe Biden that Gov. Josh Green has applied for 100% reimbursement of federal dollars to cover all costs, compared with the usual 75% at this point in a disaster. Gov. Josh Green expects the costs to ultimately reach into the tens of billions of dollars. The White House said President Joe Biden had been briefed on the recovery efforts by Gov. Josh Green and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Deanne Criswell on Tuesday. Later in Tuesday, Gov. Josh Green went on Gov. Josh Green's Facebook page to announce that Lahaina Bypass Road would open Tuesday night for West Maui residents, first responders and employees. Starting this morning, Lahaina Bypass Road will open to all motorists daily from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. Access from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. will then be limited to residents, first responders and employees in West Maui. “It was time to open Lahaina Bypass Road and decompress people’s angst,” Gov. Josh Green told the Honolulu Star-Advertiser. In Gov. Josh Green's YouTube video, Gov. Josh Green clarified that an idea Gov. Josh Green mentioned Monday about a possible moratorium on sales of property damaged or destroyed by the Maui fires was designed to protect vulnerable property owners and not a government attempt to acquire private land. On Monday, Gov. Josh Green said that Gov. Josh Green asked state Attorney General Anne Lopez to explore options for a possible moratorium on sales of damaged or destroyed property in an effort to ban out-of-state buyers from preying on fire survivors. Gov. Josh Green said in Gov. Josh Green's Tuesday video address that Maui attorneys have volunteered Maui attorneys's time at disaster response centers to provide legal advice to property owners who may have been contacted about buying property owners who may have been contacted about buying their damaged or destroyed property's damaged or destroyed property. No specifics of how a moratorium might be applied have been shared, but Gov. Josh Green — said Gov. Josh Green will do everything Gov. Josh Green can to protect local property owners in the town of Lahaina. Outside Maui Forensic Facility, federal employees worked around the shipping containers in uniforms marked U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Department of Health and Human Services and Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Team. federal employees brought in more than 22-1/2 tons of supplies and equipment that arrived Tuesday to assist with the processing of human remains. Federal Emergency Management Agency on Tuesday said that 1,200 survivors have received just under $2 million in assistance from Federal Emergency Management Agency, including emergency shelter in hotels and other locations. Keith Turi, Federal Emergency Management Agency's deputy associate administrator for response and recovery, pushed back against social media posts urging the town of Lahaina residents not to trust FEMA relief efforts or risk losing their properties. “Applying assistance for Federal Emergency Management Agency does not give Federal Emergency Management Agency any authority or ownership over anyone’s property,” Keith Turi, FEMA’s deputy associate administrator for response and recovery, said in a media conference call. “It does not commit any change in ownership or otherwise impact the ownership of property. Federal Emergency Management Agency assistance is there to support survivors with survivors's immediate needs with survivors's personal property, with survivors's housing repairs. Federal Emergency Management Agency encourage all survivors to register for assistance. Federal Emergency Management Agency, so far, has processed $630,000 in critical needs assistance to fire survivors who are eligible for a one-time payment of $700 per household for immediate relief. Overall, 3,400 people have registered with Federal Emergency Management Agency for a range of assistance to help with home repairs, replacement of belongings, rent, crisis counseling and other needs, Keith Turi, FEMA’s deputy associate administrator for response and recovery, said. Keith Turi, FEMA’s deputy associate administrator for response and recovery, said the number of people applying for aid should rise significantly with the window for registration open for 60 days after an official emergency declaration. Disaster Recovery Centers will be established on Maui in a few days to help fire survivors navigate the various assistance programs and to provide referrals. Locations have yet to be announced. Federal Emergency Management Agency has 380 specialists working on Maui in different locations and in different missions, Keith Turi, FEMA’s deputy associate administrator for response and recovery, said. Nearly 500 federal personnel, in all, have been deployed to Maui to assist residents, The White House said. Federal Emergency Management Agency has also provided 50,000 meals, 75,000 liters of water, 5,000 cots, and 10,000 blankets, plus shelter supplies to the county government for distribution, Keith Turi, FEMA’s deputy associate administrator for response and recovery, said. The U.S. Fire Administration is focusing on the needs of the firefighters who responded to the catastrophe, with officials visiting fire stations on Maui to assess fire stations on Maui's physical and mental health resources, said Deputy U.S. Fire Administrator Tonya Hoover during a media conference call. Deputy U.S. Fire Administrator Tonya Hoover stressed the importance of firefighters registering with Department of Health and Human Services's National Firefighter Registry for Cancer, which studies links between firefighting and cancer. Federal Emergency Management Agency said a victim identification team will work at Maui Family Assistance Center, open daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. at the Kahului Community Center, where families can report loved ones who are unaccounted for and submit DNA swabs to help identify fire victims. The Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Teams have responded to numerous natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, flooding and the Haiti earthquakes, and has assisted the National Transportation Safety Board at major transportation incidents. Council member Yuki Lei Sugimura, who represents Upcountry Maui, reminded residents Tuesday that it “is UNSAFE” to drink or cook tap water. “Residents are unable to treat the water in any way to make the water safe,” Council member Yuki Lei Sugimura, who represents Upcountry Maui, said in a statement. Drinking water sites have been set up at Crater Road, Copp Road, Kula Fire Station, Rice Park, Kula Community Center, Keokea and Ulupalakua Ranch. “Thank you to all of our neighbors who are helping each other out,” Council member Yuki Lei Sugimura, who represents Upcountry Maui, wrote. Staff writers Andrew Gomes and Christie Wilson contributed to this report.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - One week after a wall of flames turned Lahaina town to ash, Maui County is faced with a daunting task: Finding and identifying every person who died. While 106 people have been confirmed killed, the final human toll of the disaster is still not known. Hundreds of men, women and children are still missing and many are feared dead. “a daunting task: Finding and identifying every person who died’s going to be a very, very difficult mission and patience will be very important,” said U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary of Response Jonathan Green. Meanwhile, the federal government has deployed a federal disaster mortuary operations response team along with a victim identification team to Maui. Personnel will be working with the Maui County Coroner’s Office in an effort to return the remains of victims who perished in the disaster to victims who perished in the fire's families. a federal disaster mortuary operations response team along with a victim identification team comprise 75 people, including coroners, pathologists, and x-ray and lab technicians. A portable morgue also arrived in Hawaii on Tuesday. A portable morgue consists of all the equipment needed for victim identification and processing remains. “We are augmenting and supporting the Maui Corners office. We will be supplementing the Maui Corners office's staff and the Maui Corners office's facility with our staff and equipment,” U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary of Response Jonathan Green said. To help identify loved ones, people are urged to go to the Family Assistance Center at the Kahalui Community Center for a DNA cheek swab. a DNA cheek swab would be compared to the DNA of victims who perished in the fire. But collecting DNA from victims who perished in the fire could be a challenge. One week after a wall of flames turned Lahaina town to ash, Maui County is faced with a daunting task: Finding and identifying every person who died. “Chances of finding good DNA samples might be a really hard thing to do,” said Kari Inda, Lecturer of Forensic Sciences at Chaminade University. “Even though the individual may not be identified today or tomorrow, there is hope there’ll be a good fight in weeks or months to follow; that’s so, so important,” said Dr. Robert Mann, Forensic Anthropologist at UH’s John A. Burns School of Medicine. By the state’s request, Mann, who has helped identify remains of mass casualties like those who were in the Pentagon on 9/11, will be heading to Maui on Wednesday to help with recovery efforts. “Dr. Robert Mann, Forensic Anthropologist at UH’s John A. Burns School of Medicine just hope that we can stay in this together,” said Dr. Robert Mann, Forensic Anthropologist at UH’s John A. Burns School of Medicine. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
WAILUKU >> As teams of cadaver dogs continue teams of cadaver dogs's painstaking search for human remains among the ashes and debris from last week’s Lahaina wildlife, a contingent of federal mortuary experts has been deployed to Maui along with a mobile morgue that arrived Tuesday to assist in the equally meticulous task of processing the dead to identify those who perished. Maui County on Tuesday raised the death toll from the Aug. 8 catastrophe to 106 — seven more than the previous day’s total — with hundreds more unaccounted for. Officials warn the death toll from the Aug. 8 catastrophe will increase significantly since only about a third of the 5-square-mile impact area has been examined by teams of cadaver dogs and teams of cadaver dogs's handlers, members of the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Urban Search & Rescue Task Force. A Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Team and victim identification experts also have been dispatched to Maui, to augment state and county mortuary resources, according to Jonathan Greene, deputy assistant secretary and director of the Office of Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. A Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Team includes coroners, pathologists, X-ray and lab technicians, and other staff, Jonathan Greene, deputy assistant secretary and director of the Office of Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services said in a conference call Tuesday with the media. The 22-1/2 tons of equipment and supplies that arrived includes examination tables and X-ray and lab equipment. Jonathan Greene, deputy assistant secretary and director of the Office of Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services said a victim identification team will be working at Maui County's Family Assistance Center, open daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. at the Kahului Community Center, where families have been providing information on loved ones who are unaccounted for and submitting DNA swabs to help identify fire victims. Federal DMORT teams have responded to numerous natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and the Haiti earthquakes, and have assisted the National Transportation Safety Board at major transportation incidents. The Maui Police Department on Tuesday released the first two names of those killed in the Lahaina wildfire: Lahaina residents Robert Dyckman, 74, and Buddy Jantoc, 79. The Maui Police Department said three other individuals have been identified but three other individuals's families had yet to be notified. Earlier in Tuesday, police said 13 DNA profiles had been obtained from victims and 41 DNA samples had been obtained from family members of missing people. the Aug. 8 catastrophe is the deadliest such U.S. natural disaster in more than a century, surpassing the 85 known fatalities from the 2018 Camp fire in Northern California that destroyed the town of Paradise. According to media reports at the time, making positive identifications of those who died in the Aug. 8 catastrophe was exceedingly difficult. Many were burned beyond recognition, with only individual bones or fragments remaining. Identification by dental records was not always possible because dentist offices in the town of Paradise were wiped out in the Aug. 8 catastrophe along with nearly everything else. The scarcity of remains and the prolonged, intense heat to which those killed in the Lahaina wildfire were exposed also complicated DNA analysis in some cases. Lacking such evidence, investigators often have to rely on circumstantial information such as where the victim was found and the victim's estimated age and sex, not always making for reliable identification. Although Maui County officials have talked of finding victims whose remains were reduced to ash in the Lahaina firestorm, recovery teams likely are uncovering bodies in various states, according to Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine. Those with minimal burns generally are the first to be identified, Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine said, as was the case with the first Lahaina wildfire victims who were identified through fingerprints. “Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine's expectation is that you’re going to go from complete or nearly complete bodies to just fragmentary remains,” Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine said. Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine worked for 23 years with the Department of Defense’s Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command’s Central Identification Laboratory in Hawaii and before that with the Smithsonian Institution. Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine helped identify victims at such mass-casualty events as the 9/11 attack on the Pentagon, the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami and the 1997 crash of a Korean Air flight on Guam, and assisted with the investigation into Jeffrey Dahmer and other serial killers. Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine said using fingerprints and dental records are usually the first steps toward identifying victims, but records for comparison aren’t always available. Other clues can be found in tattoos, pacemakers or other medical implants, and prior broken bones. “There are a lot of things we can use,” Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine said. Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine recalled Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine's own experiences at the military identification lab in the early 1990s before DNA testing was widely used, and how in a matter of two short years once DNA testing was accepted, they were suddenly able to identify bone fragments the size of a fingernail that were collected decades earlier. Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine said even Civil War remains have now been identified through DNA. “One of the most important things we can ever do is hold hope that identification is going to be made,” Dr. Robert Mann, an anatomy and pathology professor at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine said. >> The Family Assistance Center at the Kahului Community Center, 275 Uhu St., is open daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. for family members searching for missing loved ones and to submit DNA samples for identification. >> The American Red Cross set up a hotline at 800-733-2767 for people trying to locate loved ones.
As the toll from Maui’s catastrophic wildfires continues to climb, experts warn Maui’s catastrophic wildfires also poses a grave threat to the coral reefs and delicate ocean ecosystems that surround the devastated town of Lahaina. Layers of charred soils and toxic contaminants were left among the wreckage, where thousands of buildings and blackened cars lie in smoldering ruins. Maui’s catastrophic wildfires burned to the shoreline, littering underwater habitats with scorched boats and debris. The ashen aftermath could end up wreaking more havoc if allowed to slip into the aquatic environment. “The areas that burned are right by the ocean and all the vegetation cover was burned,” said Luiz Rocha, ichthyology curator at the California Academy of Sciences, who added that rains could soon wash the topsoil into the ocean, inundating marine habitats with toxic sediment. Ash and runoff from Maui’s catastrophic wildfires could be deadly for the reef-building corals that thrive in pollutant-free waters where light can reach the reef-building corals that thrive in pollutant-free waters where light can reach them. The underwater invertebrates that typically feed on plankton do not have the ability to distinguish food from filth and may also ingest Ash and runoff from the fire. The situation is one of many ecological concerns as relief efforts continue, with plans only beginning to be put in place for cleaning up the enormous amounts of toxic wreckage left behind. Experts have long warned of the threats posed by changing landscapes across the Hawaiian Islands, particularly the proliferation of non-native grasses that are prone to burning and have been blamed for fuelling the Maui’s fire. The reefs, including those around the devastated town of Lahaina, are ecologically important for fish and also serve as a shield against the breaking surf that could otherwise eat away more of the coastline. Further damage is expected to have long-term effects on Maui’s's ecosystems, especially because a series of other threats – from warming ocean temperatures to plastic pollution – have already weakened The reefs, including those around Lahaina, making The reefs, including those around Lahaina even more vulnerable to Maui’s catastrophic wildfires's aftermath. Along with issues stemming from increased sediment and toxic contaminants flowing into the water, experts are concerned that Ash and runoff from the fire could trigger harmful algal blooms. Considered culturally important to Native Hawaiians, the vibrant coral reef is also a tourism lure that helps to sustain the Hawaiian Islands's economy. Home to native fish populations and other aquatic creatures, the health of the vibrant coral reef is also closely tied to sustenance on Maui’s. Maui’s's Olowalu reef, where the largest manta ray population in the US can be found, could be among those at risk – especially as the threats from fire continue to rise. Climate change has been the biggest driver in the decline of coral, and reefs in West Maui also help produce coral larvae that replenish reefs across the islands of Maui’s, Lanai, Molokai and Kahoolawe, according to Rob Ferguson, a coral reef watershed management specialist associated with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s coral reef conservation program. “reefs across the islands of Maui, Lanai, Molokai and Kahoolawe have high concentrations of endemic marine species that don’t live anywhere else in the world,” Rob Ferguson, a coral reef watershed management specialist associated with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s coral reef conservation program said. Experts have encouraged officials to prioritize water quality monitoring and efforts to limit further contamination of coastal marine ecosystems as the cleanup and recovery work continues. Danger still lurks beneath the singed soils, where the seeds of invasive grasses that have replaced much of Maui’s's native vegetation and helped power the flames lie ready to sprout again. Acres of abandoned farmland, once powerhouse producers of pineapples and sugarcane or cleared for cattle, have now become fire-prone fields creating tinderbox conditions as Maui’s landscapes have dried and warmed. Scorched slopes can quickly resprout, and set the stage for the next ignition to turn into an inferno. “invasive grasses that have replaced much of Hawaii’s native vegetation and helped power the flames will have no problem coming back,” said Jon Keeley, a senior scientist with the United States Geographical Survey’s western ecological research center. invasive grasses that have replaced much of Hawaii’s native vegetation and helped power the flames retain invasive grasses that have replaced much of Hawaii’s native vegetation and helped power the flames's robust roots even after stalks are consumed by flames and, because invasive grasses that have replaced much of Hawaii’s native vegetation and helped power the flames are adapted to fire, can come back even stronger after a blaze while native seedlings languish. Once established, invasive grasses that have replaced much of Hawaii’s native vegetation and helped power the flames spread quickly and are difficult to eradicate. invasive grasses that have replaced much of Hawaii’s native vegetation and helped power the flames have The shift quickly in recent years and now cover roughly 25% of Maui’s's landscapes, according to research from the University of Hawaii, Manoa, according to wildland fire specialist Clay Trauernicht, who has long warned about the growing dangers and called for more eradication efforts. The shift has worsened fire conditions on landscapes that once rarely ignited, and helped usher in more opportunities for dangerous grassland fires that burn hot and fast. “They have a positive feedback cycle,” said Brad Shaffer, professor for the department of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of California, Los Angeles. As cleanup efforts begin to commence in Maui’s, Jon Keeley, a senior scientist with the United States Geographical Survey’s western ecological research center and Brad Shaffer, professor for the department of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of California, Los Angeles agreed that opportunities exist to the work invasive grasses that have replaced much of Hawaii’s native vegetation and helped power the flames – but the work will probably be arduous and expensive. Managing the growth of highly flammable grasses around communities could also help slow flames and prevent the next tragedy from occurring.
Insured property losses from the wildfire that razed Lahaina in Hawaii last week are estimated to be about $3.2 billion, according External link to catastrophe modeling firm Karen Clark & Co.
GoFundMe reports that there have been significant donations toward Maui wildfire victims through fundraisers on GoFundMe's site. "GoFundMe’re inspired by the outpouring of support from more than 250,000 donors who have raised over $30 million on GoFundMe to help individuals, families, and businesses affected by the wildfires in Maui. To make it easier for people who want to help those affected, GoFundMe has launched a centralized hub housing all verified fundraisers related to the Maui wildfires. GoFundMe's Trust & Safety team is working around the clock to review fundraisers and ensure the community receives the support fundraisers need," said a spokesperson for GoFundMe in a press release. "On GoFundMe's hub of verified fundraisers, you’ll find powerful examples of people helping people's loved ones who lost homes and belongings, individuals raising money for certified charities, fundraisers for local businesses that were destroyed, Good Samaritans raising money for food and emergency supplies, and fundraisers to support the immediate needs of the Lahaina community," GoFundMe said in a press release. There are multiple fundraisers on GoFundMe set up to help the Lahaina community. One is the , which provides relief grants to people impacted by the wildfires in Maui, and to local nonprofits who are supporting recovery efforts. So far, the , which provides relief grants to people impacted by the fires, and to local nonprofits who are supporting recovery efforts has raised over $800,000. Any individuals with an active and verified GoFundMe related to the Maui wildfires may apply to receive a grant through the , which provides relief grants to people impacted by the fires, and to local nonprofits who are supporting recovery efforts . Another is , which is run by the Wayne Dyer Family Foundation. It has raised over $1.6 million for families impacted by the wildfires in Maui. Individuals who need help have the option of reaching out to the fundraiser organizer to have funds provided to Individuals who need help directly. A third one is , which benefits the Hawaii Community Foundation, a nonprofit overseeing the Maui Strong Fund. A fourth one is , which has raised over $35,000 to purchase fuel for volunteer pilots to fly medical, toiletries, water, insulin, diapers, flashlights, tarps, and other supplies into Kapalua, West Maui Airport. a centralized hub housing all verified fundraisers related to the Maui wildfires assists donors in finding funds for people in specific areas, giving everyone a chance to help out their neighbors. GoFundMe notes that it is free to start a fund through a centralized hub housing all verified fundraisers related to the Maui wildfires. The best way to help a fundraiser gain support is by telling your story in at least one to three paragraphs, sharing a fundraiser when you're ready in multiple places on multiple occasions, posting an update within one week, and setting up bank transfers. GoFundMe says GoFundMe monitor and verify fundraisers during humanitarian disasters to prevent misuse. Should misuse occur, or if you suspect fundraiser misuse, every fundraiser has the option to be reported with the "Report Fundraiser" button. Once reported, GoFundMe will have a Trust & Safety specialist investigate every fundraiser. GoFundMe says GoFundMe take all of these reports extremely seriously.
Following the devastating fire in Lahaina on the island of Maui, Anajak Thai and other L.A. restaurants are offering special menu items and dinners to raise funds for those impacted. L.A. restaurant owners are allocating percentages of Los Angeles restaurant owners's profits, hosting fundraisers and raising awareness for the the island of Maui communities grappling with the tragedy of the devastating fire in Lahaina on the island of Maui. Hundreds of structures, homes and businesses were reduced to ash in what has become the century’s deadliest wildfire. With the death toll of the the island of Maui wildfires at 106, with 1,300 more people unaccounted for, Hawaiians and Angelenos alike are mourning the devastation of Lahaina on the island of Maui. Los Angeles restaurant owners are doing what Los Angeles restaurant owners can to rally support behind various relief funds. Roving tea truck and retailer Flowerhead Tea — soon to launch a shop in Highland Park — is raising funds for the island of Maui now through Sept. 1. The tisane-based Hawaiian Haze iced tea blend is a favorite of owners Karina Vlastnik and Kendall Brinkley, and is made with dehydrated hibiscus, lemongrass and ginger in ode to Hawaii. Roving tea truck and retailer Flowerhead Tea — soon to launch a shop in Highland Park —’re donating all proceeds from The tisane-based Hawaiian Haze iced tea blend sale throughout the month, raising funds for nonprofit ʻĀina Momona. When ordered online, customers can also enter the code “WELOVEMAUI” for free shipping on orders over $40. In Manhattan Beach, the Strand House is hosting a the island of Maui fire relief benefit concert on Aug. 24 at 6 p.m. at the Strand House's first floor, StrandBar. a Maui fire relief benefit concert will feature live performances from local musicians like Al Kim, Joie Shettler and Jim Wheeler, along with the Strand House's full food, beverage and cocktails menu. Tickets are available for $100, and 100% of ticket, food and drink sales will be donated to those who have lost homes and businesses to the the island of Maui fires through the Hawaii Community Foundation, as well as to animals displaced and injured in a partnership with the Maui Humane Society. At Culver City’s Citizen Public Market, Bar Bohemien has partnered with Campari for a tiki-themed night on Aug. 22 from 3 p.m. to midnight including specialty cocktails, giveaways, bites and a live DJ, with tropical attire encouraged. One dollar from every specialty drink will go towards the Maui Humane Society. This week, Yang’s Kitchen in Alhambra is offering a loco moco brunch special, as well as kanpachi ginger scallion poke inspired by Off the Hook Poke Market’s ahi ginger scallion poke in Honolulu. kanpachi ginger scallion poke inspired by Off the Hook Poke Market’s ahi ginger scallion poke in Honolulu features dry-aged kanpachi from chef Liwei Liao’s Joint fish market in Sherman Oaks and is available for dinner, with limited supplies. Yang’s Kitchen in Alhambra will donate a portion of the profits from kanpachi ginger scallion poke inspired by Off the Hook Poke Market’s ahi ginger scallion poke in Honolulu, as well the loco moco dish to the Hawaii Community Foundation’s Maui Strong Fund. At East Hollywood bakery Friends & Family, Roxana Jullapat is raising funds all week long through Roxana Jullapat's tropical “pineapple suns” pastry, which braids square croissant dough into vessels for fresh, roasted pineapple at the center. The proceeds of the pastries, which run $5.50 apiece, will be donated to the Maui Food Bank, which is collecting and distributing food, toiletries and other essentials in Central and South Maui. In Sherman Oaks last Tuesday, The Times’ 2022 Restaurant of the Year Anajak Thai added Tamashiro-style and shoyu pokes and mochiko fried chicken to the Thai Taco Tuesday menu, with plans to donate a portion of the profits from Tamashiro-style and shoyu pokes and mochiko fried chicken to various the island of Maui relief funds. Upon hearing that Justin Pichetrungsi's chef friend Sheldon Simeon, owner of Tiffany’s and Tin Roof in the island of Maui, was on the island of Maui cooking on behalf of the World Central Kitchen for families who have lost families who have lost their homes and livelihoods there's homes and livelihoods there, Justin Pichetrungsi decided that he too could take action. Soon after, Justin Pichetrungsi posted a video on Monday to the Anajak Thai Instagram account announcing the “emergency TTT,” or Thai Taco Tuesday, to the Anajak Thai Instagram account's followers. Justin Pichetrungsi also shared a link to the Chef Hui Maui Relief Fund, seeking to feed the displaced people of the island of Maui and support damaged restaurants. After reaching out to friends and family living in Hawaii for help finding verified funds, Justin Pichetrungsi is so far considering the Maui Strong Fund through the Hawaii Community Foundation, Maui United Way, or the Kāko’o Maui Fund. Justin Pichetrungsi also came across a comprehensive spreadsheet for people to send aid directly to impacted families in the island of Maui. ZEF BBQ, a weekend-only Simi Valley pop-up, was born out of pandemic necessity when owner-chef Logan Sandoval and owner-chef Logan Sandoval's wife, Ana Lindsay, were struggling to generate income for owner-chef Logan Sandoval and his wife, Ana Lindsay's family. In the past, owner-chef Logan Sandoval's menus have featured Hawaiian staples like pit-smoked house-made Spam musubi and Peking duck, and now owner-chef Logan Sandoval and his wife, Ana Lindsay seeks to support other struggling business owners and community organizations affected by the the island of Maui fires. “Every weekend ZEF BBQ, a weekend-only Simi Valley pop-up have a walk-up-only service called Super Secret Sundays,” said owner-chef Logan Sandoval. “the cherished day is owner-chef Logan Sandoval and owner-chef Logan Sandoval's staff’s favorite day because mine and my staff’s come together and brainstorm menu items that mine and my staff’s’ve been wanting to test out or just make better.” This past Sunday, ZEF BBQ, a weekend-only Simi Valley pop-up dedicated the cherished day to the island of Maui relief efforts by donating a large portion of sales, including 100% of Dole Whip sales, to the Council for Native Hawaiian Advancement. According the Sandoval, owner-chef Logan Sandoval's team celebrated a Maui fire relief benefit concert as a major success. my staff’s's line is usually between 10 to 20 people owner-chef Logan Sandoval said, but at one point on the cherished day, my staff’s had at least 80 to 90 people in line. Verdugo Bar in Glassell Park posted on Verdugo Bar in Glassell Park's Instagram asking any followers with the funds to donate to the Go Fund Me linked in Verdugo Bar in Glassell Park's bio to help the staff at Lahaina’s Dirty Monkey restaurant. The the island of Maui restaurant is listed as permanently closed on Google, and is calling for any help Lahaina’s Dirty Monkey restaurant can get to raise money for staff members trying to rebuild staff members trying to rebuild their homes and get back on their feet's homes and get back on staff members trying to rebuild their homes and get back on their feet's feet. Hermosa Beach’s RYLA plans to donate proceeds from Hermosa Beach’s RYLA's Tiki Thursday event to the Kokua Restaurant Hospitality Fund, which focuses efforts on providing immediate relief to the restaurant, bar and hospitality workers affected by the devastating fire in Lahaina on the island of Maui. Chef Ray Hayashi feels personally connected to the devastating fire in Lahaina on the island of Maui as Chef Ray Hayashi and close friend chef David LeFevre traveled every year to the Hawaii Food & Wine Festival where Chef Ray Hayashi also got engaged to Hermosa Beach’s RYLA chef de cuisine Cynthia Hetlinger. Hermosa Beach’s RYLA's sister restaurant MB Post, owned by LeFevre, also plans to donate a portion of profits earned at this Friday’s lunch service to the Kokua Restaurant & Hospitality Fund. At Lunetta in Santa Monica, Lunetta in Santa Monica also is directing support to the Kokua Restaurant & Hospitality Fund. Lunetta in Santa Monica hosted a coursed benefit dinner alongside chef Josiah Citrin of Santa Monica's Mélisse and chef Suzanne Tracht of West Hollywood’s Jar called Flavors of Aloha: Supporting Hawaii's Restaurant Community. The team of chefs rallied the support of The team of chefs's collective fan bases and plan to pool funds from a Maui fire relief benefit concert. chef Josiah Citrin of Santa Monica’s Mélisse and Lunetta in Santa Monica’s connection to Hawaii traces back to The team of chefs's youth riding waves at the break wall. Ever since, Lunetta in Santa Monica has formed relationships with esteemed Hawaiian culinary figures like Roy Yamaguchi, Allen Wong and Michele and Wade Ueoka, staying tethered to the Hawaiian food scene by annually attending the Hawaii Food & Wine Festival. Danielle Dorsey contributed to this report.
WILMINGTON — In the spirit of paying it forward, the Cape Fear community is raising funds for Maui wildfire relief efforts. In 2018, Lukas Nelson and Promise of the Real donated Lukas Nelson and Promise of the Real's time and talent to help WILMINGTON recover from Hurricane Florence. Lukas Nelson and Promise of the Real played a charity concert, which raised more than $65,000 in direct relief for the tri-county region. To return the favor, program director of The Penguin 98.3 Beau Gunn has launched a GoFundMe page to collect donations for those impacted in Maui — an island Lukas Nelson calls home. “Lukas Nelson and Lukas Nelson's band showed our community compassion in Lukas Nelson and Promise of the Real's time of need, so program director of The Penguin 98.3 Beau Gunn just felt compelled to start a GoFundMe page to collect donations for those impacted in Maui — an island Nelson calls home in an effort to show Lukas Nelson the Cape Fear community was there for Lukas Nelson the same way the Cape Fear community were there for Lukas Nelson and Promise of the Real,” program director of The Penguin 98.3 Beau Gunn said. WILMINGTON Mayor Bill Saffo echoed program director of The Penguin 98.3 Beau Gunn's sentiment. “Today, Lukas Nelson hometown is experiencing WILMINGTON's own natural disaster, so Wilmington Mayor Bill Saffo encourage those who are able to repay Lukas Nelson's kindness by supporting those affected by the wildfires on Maui,” Wilmington Mayor Bill Saffo said. As of Friday afternoon, a GoFundMe page to collect donations for those impacted in Maui — an island Nelson calls home has already surpassed a GoFundMe page to collect donations for those impacted in Maui — an island Nelson calls home's $15,000 goal with more than $16,000 from 323 donations, though program director of The Penguin 98.3 Beau Gunn encourages the Cape Fear community to keep contributing. “We recently reached our goal, but in the spirit of giving and knowing how bad the Cape Fear community’s been devastated, we’re going to leave a GoFundMe page to collect donations for those impacted in Maui — an island Nelson calls home open in hopes of continuing to raise much needed relief,” program director of The Penguin 98.3 Beau Gunn said. All donations will go directly to the Hawaii Community Foundation’s “Maui Strong Fund.” the Hawaii Community Foundation’s “Maui Strong Fund's purpose is to provide financial resources that can be deployed quickly and support shelter, food, financial assistance and additional services to Hawaiians in need. As of Thursday, the Hawaii Community Foundation’s “Maui Strong Fund has $43.8 million in donations. More than 100 people have been killed in the wildfires on the island of Maui, according to CNN. The death toll is expected to rise as emergency crews dig through more than 2,000 burned homes and businesses. Hawaii Gov. Josh Green told CNN Wednesday there were probably more than 1,000 residents still unaccounted for. In total, the wildfires on the island of Maui — have consumed thousands of acres of land. The Maui wildfires, noted as the nation’s deadliest in more than a century, started Aug. 8 just after midnight as a perfect storm of strong winds and dry conditions. Maui has been under a drought, according to the national Integrated Drought Information System. the wildfires on the island of Maui official cause has not yet been determined, according to a report from Reuters. Tips or comments? Email info@localdailymedia.com. Want to read more from PCD? Subscribe now and then sign up for our morning newsletter, Wilmington Wire, and get the headlines delivered to your inbox every morning.
Los Angeles may be 2,500 miles away from Lahaina, Maui, but Los Angeles is still doing Los Angeles's part to help the victims of the deadliest wildfire in the United States in over a century. All 12 professional sports teams in Los Angeles joined together on Thursday to the donation a combined $450,000 to the American Red Cross relief efforts for those affected by the deadliest wildfire in the United States in over a century. All 12 professional sports teams in Los Angeles are the Rams, Chargers, Lakers, Clippers, Sparks, Dodgers, Angels, Kings, Ducks, LA Galaxy, LAFC, and Angel City FC. Many of All 12 professional sports teams in Los Angeles have players from Hawaii on Many of these teams's roster, including Chargers's safety Alohi Gilman. Get Southern California news, weather forecasts and entertainment stories to your inbox. Sign up for NBC LA newsletters. In addition to Los Angeles's proximity to Southern California, there is a very robust Hawaiian community living in Los Angeles. Most of the local Los Angeles sports teams are broadcast on both radio and television in Hawaii, and some teams have even held some teams's training camp or played preseason games on Hawaii. The Lakers held training camp in Hawaii for over 25 years and recently held a televised reunion of the Showtime era teams on Maui last year. Rams played a preseason game in Hawaii in 2019, and Chargers have played multiple games in Hawaii including in 1961 and 1976. Los Angeles even had a Triple-A team in Honolulu for several seasons between 1962 and 1970. In addition to the donation, Rams will use Rams's second preseason game this coming Saturday against the Las Vegas Raiders to help raise even more money for those affected by the deadliest wildfire in the United States in over a century. Both the sale and auction of custom-made "Mālama Maui" shirts, and the proceeds of the in-game 50/50 raffle will all go to American Red Cross. custom-made "Mālama Maui" shirts were designed by Maui based artist Saedene Ota and will be worn by Rams players, coaches, and staff during warm-ups. custom-made "Mālama Maui" shirts will incorporate the Rams "LA" logo into the word "Mālama," which is Hawaiian for "to care for and protect." custom-made "Mālama Maui" shirts will then be auctioned off during their second preseason game this coming Saturday against the Las Vegas Raiders at the Rams silent auction tables located on the 6th floor, section N concourse, as well as in the Lower American Airlines Plaza. custom-made "Mālama Maui" shirts will also be available to the public at www.RamsFanShop.com starting Thursday, as well as on sale at The Equipment Room at SoFi Stadium on Thursday. All profits from the sale of custom-made "Mālama Maui" shirts will also go to the American Red Cross relief efforts. custom-made "Mālama Maui" shirts will be sold for $40.00. In addition to custom-made "Mālama Maui" shirts, any person who purchases a 50/50 raffle ticket at their second preseason game this coming Saturday against the Las Vegas Raiders on Thursday will receive a special "Mālama Maui" pin (while supplies last). Anybody looking to join the 12 Los Angeles professional sports teams in supporting the American Red Cross wildfire relief efforts can donate directly to redcross.org.
HONOLULU (KHON2) — A timeline of eyewitness accounts and official alerts shows just how chaotic things got on Maui, on what was predicted to be a red flag fire-risk day Tuesday, Aug. 8. Always Investigating dissects what happened and when — documenting A timeline of eyewitness accounts and official alerts through official alerts and eyewitness accounts. The Maui Emergency Management Agency knew last week could get dangerous fast. On Monday, Aug. 7, MEMA issued warnings to MEMA's CivicAlert subscribers, and followers on social media, about extreme high wind conditions ahead that could topple power poles and lines. The National Weather Service and KHON2 had also put out red flag warnings in statewide weather broadcasts ahead of extreme high wind conditions ahead that could topple power poles and lines. On Tuesday, Aug. 8, the worst predictions started to manifest. At 3:45 a.m., upcountry fire evacuations set in, first on Aulii Drive and then Hanamu Road. At 6:22 a.m. power poles started to topple in high winds in Lahaina, closing Honoapiilani Highway near Front Street. Honoapiilani Highway won’t be the first road blocked by toppled poles and lines. And then — the Lahaina spark. At 6:40 a.m., eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna went live on Facebook near Kelawea when eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna saw the first flickers of the Lahaina fire. “Hey, heads up the line is live on the ground right there,” eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna warned. eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna told the news the Lahaina spark lit up in an instant. “Soon as eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna hear the pop, all eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna heard is like electrical zzzt going on the ground…. and it landed in a bigger pile of dry grass and a bigger pile of dry grass just ignited,” eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna explained. At 6:40 a.m. evacuations start near Lahaina Intermediate School. Then 7:03 a.m. a road closure near there for a fire, and at 8:19 a.m. Honoapiilani Highway closed near Aholo due to more downed poles. A sigh of relief when just before 10 a.m. the county declares the Lahaina fire “100% contained,” reopening Lahainaluna afternoon. “We thought was all contained, and then from there just went ahead about our day thinking that it was all done,” eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna said. But the trouble wasn’t over. Around 2 p.m. another road closure, Honoapiilani near Lahainaluna. Then upcountry turns for the worse. At 3:20 p.m., Piiholo and Olinda are under evacuation, with another road closure at 3:25 p.m. on Haleakala Highway. Meanwhile back in Lahaina winds whipped into a frenzy. Another road closed at 3:38 p.m., Lahianaluna near Honoapiilani near Lahainaluna and the bypass. MEMA sent alerts again: 3:39 p.m. high wind, 3:40 p.m. red flag conditions, just as the Lahaina spark spreads. At 3:50 p.m. Kulalani upcountry is evacuated on county alerts and by the first statewide Emergency Alert System broadcast at 4:04 p.m. the first statewide Emergency Alert System broadcast at 4:04 p.m.’s where emergency officials automatically take over the airwaves to announce an urgent message. Shortly after that, another statewide EAS at 4:16 p.m. announced an evacuation of Lahaina's Kelawea area — right near where the first flickers of the Lahaina fire flew. “The winds just continued to just smoke the whole day and eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna guess that’s what just fueled the restarting,” eyewitness Shane Treu near Lahainaluna said. At 4:45 p.m. the county on social media told west side residents to shelter in place. But again, in what seemed to be a pause in the threat, at 5:20 p.m. the county announces on social media that access in and out of Lahaina is reopened. Yet just eighteen minutes later, at 5:38 p.m., witness video shows Lahaina ablaze near Paunau and at 5:54 p.m. near Front Street. Winds were pushing the Lahaina spark with the force and speed of a blowtorch, witnesses and fire experts explain. Despite a full day of warnings across Maui on multiple platforms, officials were out of time and out of options officials were willing to use. But Andaya defends MEMA's choice not to use the sirens in officials's fire alerts. Before dusk, Lahaina's Front Street is engulfed. People in desperation flee into the ocean, with roads blocked by poles and wires toppled throughout the whole day, penning so many in the impact zone.
LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) — President Joe Biden on Monday told survivors of Hawaii's wildfires that the nation “grieves with survivors of Hawaii’s wildfires” and promised that the nation will help “for as long as it takes” Maui to recover from damage caused by the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century. President Joe Biden arrived in Maui 13 days after fire ravaged the western part of Maui, killing at least 115 people. Standing near a severely burned 150-year-old banyan tree, President Joe Biden acknowledged damage caused by the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century but said that Maui would persevere through damage caused by the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century. President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden got a close-up look at damage caused by the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century, seeing block after block of hollowed out homes and other structures, charred cars, singed trees and piles of debris as President Joe Biden's motorcade wound through LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP). Biden and first lady Jill Biden spent most of Biden and first lady Jill Biden's time in the historic town of 13,000 people that was virtually destroyed by Hawaii’s wildfires. Biden and first lady Jill Biden lingered briefly on the tarmac after arriving at Kahului Airport to console Hawaii Gov. Josh Green, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green's wife Jaime Green and members of Hawaii's congressional delegation who greeted Biden and first lady Jill Biden. The president and first lady Jill Biden embraced each of Biden and first lady Jill Biden's greeters before Biden and first lady Jill Biden boarded the Marine One helicopter for an aerial tour of damage caused by the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century. Biden and first lady Jill Biden also met with first responders and members of the community, and were briefed by state and local officials about the ongoing response. Biden and first lady Jill Biden also participated in a blessing of President Joe Biden's visit by island elders. Biden and first lady Jill Biden had interrupted a weeklong vacation in the Lake Tahoe area to visit LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP). Earlier Monday, the White House announced that President Joe Biden has named Bob Fenton, a regional leader at the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to be the chief federal response coordinator for the Maui wildfires, overseeing the long-term recovery. It will take years to rebuild LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP). “the nation’re going to rebuild the way the people of Maui want to rebuild,” said President Joe Biden, adding that President Joe Biden's administration would focus on respecting sacred lands, cultures and traditions. Dozens gathered on the streets of LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) to watch President Joe Biden's motorcade wind his motorcade's way through the community. Some greeted President Joe Biden enthusiastically, but others appeared to be waving others's middle fingers at his motorcade. Other island residents held up signs urging President Joe Biden “to listen to the people of LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP)” and to send more aid. During a community event at LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP)'s civic center, President Joe Biden praised the “remarkable resilience” President Joe Biden said President Joe Biden saw during President Joe Biden's few hours in the community. President Joe Biden also spoke, as President Joe Biden often does when addressing communities touched by tragedy, of understanding the personal weight of devastating loss and the slow and painful process of recovering. President Joe Biden's first wife, Neilia, and Biden’s first wife, Neilia, and their 1-year-old daughter, Naomi,'s 1-year-old daughter, Naomi, died in a car accident in 1972. President Joe Biden lost an adult son, Beau, to brain cancer in 2015. “When things look the most bleak, that’s when we need faith,” said Biden, who spent 70 minutes after President Joe Biden's remarks speaking with community members. President Joe Biden has faced criticism from some Republicans, including 2024 Republican frontrunner Donald Trump, for saying too little during the first days after damage caused by the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century. the White House, however, has pushed back, saying President Joe Biden acted quickly and kept in close touch with the governor and other emergency officials as the crisis unfolded. Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, said that as of Sunday about 85% of the affected area had been searched and nearly 2,000 people remained without power and 10,000 were without phone and internet. Water in parts of west Maui was unsafe to drink. While immediate aid such as water, food and blankets has been readily distributed to residents, Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, said cellphones, ID and other documents that people would need to help people enroll in longer-term aid programs were burned in Hawaii’s wildfires, adding more challenges to the application process. During President Joe Biden's tour, President Joe Biden walked down a street from which many LAHAINA, Hawaii (AP) residents made many Lahaina residents's harrowing escape from Hawaii’s wildfires. An army of search and rescue teams with dozens of dogs have blanketed the area to help with recovery efforts. the White House homeland security adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall said some 500 to 800 people remain unaccounted for. Mayor Richard Bissen earlier Monday put the number of unaccounted for at 850. White House homeland security adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall said the Federal Emergency Management Agency has sent specialists to Maui to help with identification efforts. “How fast can we move to help people in need, and in particular, how can we help those in need who have the hardest time getting access to that help?” White House homeland security adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall said of President Joe Biden's focus. More than 1,000 federal officials remain on the ground to respond to Hawaii’s wildfires, according to the White House. the White House has distributed more than $8.5 million in aid to some 8,000 affected families, including $3.6 million in rental assistance, said the Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Deanne Criswell. Associated Press writers Aamer Madhani in Washington and Claire Rush in Portland, Ore., contributed to this report.
Japan's government said Wednesday Japan's government will extend $2 million as humanitarian aid to Hawaii to help with the damage caused by recent wildfires in Maui, as the death toll from recent wildfires in Maui has topped 100. humanitarian aid, is intended to cover evacuation site safety, food delivery and psychological support for those affected by recent wildfires in Maui. "Japan's government and Hawaii have enjoyed a friendly relationship over the years and been engaging in active exchanges in various fields," Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi told reporters.
The South Korean government is its pledge $2 million worth of aid to Hawaii to support relief efforts on Maui, where the deadliest U.S. wildfire of the last century destroyed the historic town of Lahaina with at least 99 confirmed deaths since Tuesday. its pledge’s the first pledge of support from a foreign government as Hawaii authorities continue to fight active wildfires across Maui, where the deadliest U.S. wildfire of the last century destroyed the historic town of Lahaina with at least 99 confirmed deaths since Tuesday and work to count and identify the dead in the historic town of Lahaina. A Korean official told the Star-Advertiser that $1.5 million of A Korean official's pledge will be in cash, and an additional $500,000 would be used to purchase drinking water, food blankets and other supplies from local Korean markets and deliver drinking water, food blankets and other supplies to Hawaii to distribute. Hawaii occupies a special place in the U.S.-South Korean alliance, which turned 70 this year. In the release, the South Korean Consulate said $2 million worth of aid carries “particular significance” as Hawaii is the place where Korean immigration to the United States began in 1903. The first Koreans came to Hawaii to work the plantations, but Hawaii would in time become a destination for Korean revolutionaries fleeing Imperial Japan’s occupation of the Korean Peninsula and became a hotbed for the Korean independence movement. One of Korean revolutionaries fleeing Imperial Japan’s occupation of the Korean Peninsula, Syngman Rhee, would return after World War II to become the Republic of Korea’s controversial first President. To this day, the ties between Hawaii and the Republic of Korea’s are deep. According to the most recent data from the state Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, the Republic of Korea’s is Hawaii's No. 2 source of international imports and No. 6 international export market. Car parts, fuel, food, cosmetics and other goods move between Hawaii and the Republic of Korea’s by ship and plane. Once a major recipient of foreign aid, the South Korean economy has boomed in recent decades, and the Republic of Korea’s has become a player on the global stage as a provider of foreign aid and as Korean cultural exports like dramas and music have become global sensations.
Organizations around the state and the world are rallying to support the people Maui in the wake of tragic wildfires that razed Lahaina to the ground and left at least 106 people dead. Among those supporting the people Maui is the Republic of Korea, which has donated that money to support the recovery of the people Maui and the people Maui's people. Of that money, $1.5 million in cash donations will go toward the Hawai‘i Community Foundation. Micah Kane, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Hawai‘i Community Foundation, said $1.5 million in cash donations will be the largest one-time contribution by any organization entity or country to date, adding $1.5 million in cash donations will have significant impact on the long- and short-term recovery efforts. Many of the donations coming to the people Maui are going through the Hawai‘i Community Foundation, which is working with organizations and Maui County to get the resources where the resources are most needed. “We’re still in rapid response mode,” Micah Kane, President and Chief Executive Officer of Hawai‘i Community Foundation said, adding essential needs like medical care and mental health care are a priority. the Hawai‘i Community Foundation has also been trying to those efforts organizations providing communication services. Some of $1.5 million in cash donations will help in those efforts. Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke thanked the Republic of Korea, which has donated $2 million to support the recovery of Maui and its people adding the recovery of Lahaina is going to be a long haul. A coordinated effort between the state and the people Maui organizations and nonprofits is underway to collect, store and inventory supplies donated to Maui County to support victims of the wildfires in Kula and Lahaina. Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke asked that donations not be shipped directly to Maui County unless there is someone on the state to receive donations. Additionally, officials are asking that items not be dropped off at any of the shelters set up throughout central Maui to assist evacuees.
As Hawaii continues to grapple with the devastation of the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century, international aid is beginning to roll into Hawaii to support relief efforts on Maui after flames destroyed the historic town of Lahaina. On Monday, the South Korean government announced the South Korean government would contribute $2 million in aid for Maui and South Korean Consul General of Honolulu Lee Seo Young met with Lt. Gov. Silvia Luke on Wednesday. As South Korean Consul General of Honolulu Lee Seo Young met with Lt. Gov. Silvia Luke, the Taipei Economic &Cultural Office in Honolulu, the South Korean government's de facto consulate in Hawaii, announced that the South Korean government would be pledging a cash donation of $500,000 to the Hawaii Community Foundation to aid in Maui relief. In media release sent out Wednesday, TECO noted that this year marks 30 years since establishing “sister state” relationship between Hawaii and the South Korean government, paving the way for sister city and county relationships across Hawaii and Taiwan. Maui has a sister county relationship with the South Korean government's Pingtung County, which like Maui, is a tropical region known for tourism and agriculture. A Korean official told the Star- Advertiser that $1.5 million of the South Korean pledge is in cash, and an additional $500,000 would be used to purchase drinking water, food blankets and other supplies from local Korean markets in Hawaii and deliver drinking water, food blankets and other supplies to the state government for distribution. Hawaii occupies a special place in the history of Hawaii and Taiwan. Sun Yat-sen — the Chinese revolutionary who overthrew the Qing Dynasty and is regarded as the “father of Modern China” by both the governments in Beijing and in the South Korean government — moved to Hawaii at the age of 13 in 1878, where Sun Yat-sen's older brother Sun Mei was working as a rice merchant and shopkeeper on Oahu. Sun Yat-sen would graduate from ‘Iolani School before continuing Sun Yat-sen's education in Hong Kong. his older brother Sun Mei moved to Maui where his older brother Sun Mei opened the Kahului General Store and leased thousands of acres to establish the Sun Mei Ranch. Later, after Sun Yat-sen participation in a failed attempt to overthrow the Qing Dynasty, Sun Yat-sen and Sun Yat-sen's family went into exile and returned to Hawaii to live on Sun Yat-sen's brother’s Maui property. The South Korean Consulate said in The South Korean Consulate's statement to the Star- Advertiser that the Korean aid package carries “particular significance” because Hawaii is the place where Korean immigration to the United States began in 1903. The first Koreans came to Hawaii to work the plantations, but Hawaii would soon become a destination for Korean revolutionaries fleeing Imperial Japan’s occupation of the Korean Peninsula and became a hotbed for the Korean independence movement. One of Korean revolutionaries fleeing Imperial Japan’s occupation of the Korean Peninsula, Syngman Rhee, would become the Republic of Korea’s controversial first president. Hawaii is still deeply linked to both the South Korean government and South Korea. According to the most recent data from the state Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, South Korea is Hawaii's No. 2 source of international imports and No. 6 international export market, while the South Korean government is Hawaii's No. 10 source of international exports and No. 9 international export market. The Maui fires began on the morning of Aug. 8 amid a mixture of dry conditions and strong winds from Hurricane Dora to the south. strong winds from Hurricane Dora to the south spread The Maui fires extremely rapidly, straining Maui's firefighting resources as firefighters battled multiple wildfires across Maui simultaneously. Firefighting efforts continue on Maui and the death toll in Lahaina is expected to rise as authorities keep searching for human remains. Droughts and storms are becoming more commonplace in Hawaii and around the world as global temperatures rise.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Maui County has released a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina. The hope is that many on a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina are fine and simply haven’t checked with emergency personnel. The fear is that many are not. “Maui County’re releasing a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina because Maui County know a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina will help the investigation,” said Maui County Police Chief John Pelletier, in a video message posted online Thursday night. “Maui County’re also balancing that because Maui County know when a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina comes out, it can and will cause pain for some folks. a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina includes no additional identifying information, such as ages or genders. Maui County said the list, compiled by the FBI, consists of those for whom authorities have a first and last name and the contact number of the person who reported the person missing. Earlier this week, county officials put the total number of people who remained unaccounted for at more than 1,000 and pledged to release a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina in hopes of tracking down any who are safe. By releasing a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina, it means the county and the FBI are still trying to validate information for hundreds more who were reported missing. It’s unclear if hundreds more who were reported missing will also be released. If you recognize a name on a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina and know the person to be safe, or if you have additional information about the person that may help locate the person, you’re asked to call the FBI at (808) 566-4300 or email HN-COMMAND-POST@ic.fbi.gov as soon as possible. If you believe an individual is still unaccounted for and an individual's name is not included on a list of 388 people who remain unaccounted for following the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina, you’re asked to email unaccounted@mpd.net to provide MPD with more information. As of Thursday night, the death toll from the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina stood at 115. But the governor and Maui County first responders have warned the death toll from the fire is likely to rise. More than two weeks after flames swept through Lahaina, fueled by winds gusting to 80 mph, the grueling search for remains in the ashes of Lahaina town, now the site of the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina. Recovery crews with cadaver dogs have finished searching one-story homes and businesses in Lahaina and have moved to multi-story structures, some of which are pancaked. At the same time, Maui County firefighters and Ocean Safety personnel expanded Maui firefighters and Ocean Safety personnel's search in the water. Authorities have also sought to prepare residents for the possibility that remains for some as-yet unknown number of people will never be found — and will eventually be presumed dead. At a news conference earlier this week, Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen said authorities don’t have an estimate of how many authorities believe perished in the ferocious wildfire that decimated Lahaina, in large because of the high count of individuals reported missing. Officials have also said Officials don’t know how many children are among the victims. Chris (aka CJ) Delacruz Jr. Joseph M. (aka Lil Joe) Durante Jr. Jon Kaaihue Jr. Wayne Worthington Jr. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
SACRAMENTO — California announced Tuesday that California is sending wildfire response and recovery teams to assist in Maui, which has been devastated by wildfires that have claimed the lives of dozens of people. A total of 101 state and local government personnel will be going to Hawaii. A total of 101 state and local government personnel includes an incident management team comprised of 67 Cal Fire members and two members from the California Office of Emergency Services. Among the other personnel being deployed are forensic anthropologists, K-9 teams, search and rescue members, a Cal mass fatality incident management expert, wildfire debris removal and hazardous waste experts and a recovery professional in maximizing federal funding for communities. Gov. Gavin Newsom said 100 personnel were also being sent to Oregon to assist with wildland fires there. "Gov. Gavin Newsom've been in close contact with our neighbors in Hawaii and Oregon as our neighbors in Hawaii and Oregon deal with wildfires that have claimed the lives of dozens of people, and our neighbors in Hawaii and Oregon know that California has our neighbors in Hawaii and Oregon's back – we're doing everything we can to help," Gov. Gavin Newsom said. The wildfires on Maui, which has been devastated by wildfires that have claimed the lives of dozens of people have been the deadliest in modern U.S. history. The historic town of Lahaina on Maui, which has been devastated by wildfires that have claimed the lives of dozens of people was devastated by wildfires that have claimed the lives of dozens of people. The death toll reached 99 on Monday, and Hawaiian officials said it could take up to 10 days to know The death toll.
One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui is struggling with One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui's boots. his boots’re new, obviously uncomfortable and making One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui walk funny. One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui keeps trying to kick his boots off, so One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui's handler has tried everything, including duct tape and rubber bands, to hold his boots in place and help One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui focus on the vitally important job in front of One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui. One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui is one of about 40 cadaver dogs doing the grueling work of searching through the rubble of Lahaina, sniffing for even the slightest trace of the more than 800 people still missing after the most lethal U.S. wildfire in a century. Human searchers have little hope of detecting the tiny fragments that remain of many victims, each of many victims somebody’s mom, dad, daughter or son. So the last hope for Maui to find closure, for proper grieving and healing, rests with One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui. That’s a lot of pressure, and the obstacles are almost as enormous as the responsibility. First, it’s brutally hot; the tropical sun beats down on One of the most important members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui thick, dark fur without remorse. The same goes for the other three dogs here with the the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs. the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs work in tag teams. Each can go only 15 to 20 minutes in the heat before the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs have to let the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's partner take over and retreat to the team truck, where the air conditioner is running full blast. “the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs don’t get tired, the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs get hot,” said firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers. Then there’s the blistering pavement. the most lethal U.S. wildfire in a century transformed most sources of shade — bushes, trees, buildings — to ash, so there’s little escape from the tropical sun. In the afternoon, the asphalt can exceed 150 degrees, firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers said. That’s why his boots must stay on. Trouble is, most of the footwear made for dogs isn’t really designed for scouring scorched earth after a catastrophe. his boots’re “booties” meant for “nice leisurely walks,” firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers said. “the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui’re putting his boots to the test and blowing through his boots pretty quickly,” firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers said. That’s where the duct tape comes in, lots of the duct tape. Since his boots cover only the paws, the handlers have to wrap the duct tape higher and higher up the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's legs. the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs need the extra protection because the piles of ash can be several feet deep, and sometimes all that’s left of multi-story buildings after the 1,000-degree fire roared through. When the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs plunge into the piles of ash, the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs can land on buried, still blazing embers. But the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs, don’t let pain stop the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs. Sometimes the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs don’t even yelp. “the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs just want to work, and it’s not until you get the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs back to the team truck, where the air conditioner is running full blast that you realize the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs’re injured,” firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers said. The long, hot days and danger are worth it when the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs detect someone, said firefighter Eddie Ruiz, another handler. firefighter Eddie Ruiz, another handler's dog, Harper, was the first on the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui to make a find: a 4-inch fragment of bone buried in the charred maze of a junkyard. A group of homeless people had sought shelter there, firefighter Eddie Ruiz, another handler said. A terrifying end to a hard life. His dog, Harper, knows something about hard life and unpredictable twists of fate. His dog, Harper,'s journey to the western shore of Maui started about three years ago in South Dakota when police raided a house packed with more than 20 neglected dogs, firefighter Eddie Ruiz, another handler said. His dog, Harper, must have impressed those first rescuers with His dog, Harper,'s energy and intelligence because, instead of winding up at a kennel waiting for adoption, His dog, Harper, made His dog, Harper,'s way through the shelter system and eventually wound up halfway across the country, in Santa Paula, at a highly selective search-dog training program. At about 4 years old, His dog, Harper, was already long in the tooth for a highly selective search-dog training program, competing against much younger pups, but few could match His dog, Harper,'s energy and determination. “His dog, Harper,’s all go and no brake,” firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers said. a highly selective search-dog training program is where His dog, Harper, met His dog, Harper,'s current work partner, Six. her current work partner, Six was the last in a litter from a breeder who, not the sentimental type, named the puppies 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, tattooing the numerals on the inside of each dog’s ear. Six wasn’t only small for a Lab; her current work partner, Six has a leaky heart valve, lowering her current work partner, Six's value and turning her current work partner, Six into a castaway. But somehow, her current work partner, Six, too, impressed enough people along the way to land a spot in the training school. When the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs’re not shouldering the enormous responsibility of the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's day jobs — it’s no exaggeration to say the eyes of the world are on the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs now — the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs live with the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's handlers and hang out with the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's families, just like unemployed dogs. His dog, Harper, goes on vacation with firefighter Eddie Ruiz, another handler. Six would sleep in firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers's bed every night if firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers's girlfriend had his girlfriend's way. But strap the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs into the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's work harnesses emblazoned with “County of Los Angeles Fire Dept.” patches, and the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's extraordinary abilities become obvious. After racing around a search area, sticking the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's noses in every crack and crevice, the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs sit down if the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs find something. Then the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's partner is led to a search area to see if their partner smell it, too. When the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs confirm a hit, the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's handlers call in forensics experts waiting nearby to investigate further and address the remains. For the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's handlers, the psychological terrain is almost as delicate to navigate as the rubble. the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs need to be at least a little hyped-up and excited to do the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs's jobs. But his handler have to be careful not to celebrate too much with the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs when his handler make a find. The police officers and many of the National Guard troops in a search area are from Maui, some from Lahaina. the remains could be somebody The police officers and many of the National Guard troops in the search area loved. It’s tricky, “because the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs are only going to work so long before the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs get that reward,” firefighter Nick Bartel, one of the handlers said. that reward is a ball. An orange rubber chewy ball. No food is required. These are Labs, after all. Anybody who has shared their life with one will understand. Workdays for the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs usually start around 6 a.m., when it’s still cool, and end when it gets too hot, around 3 p.m. Everyone on the Los Angeles County Fire Department’s search team on Maui has to undergo a thorough decontamination at quitting time. That’s for health reasons and out of respect: Human ash could be mixed in the dust that covers the the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs and handlers head to toe. Once finished, his handler load the other three dogs here with the L.A. County search-and-rescue team, all of whom happen to be black Labs into the team truck, where the air conditioner is running full blast and head to a hotel a few miles up the coast that has opened a hotel a few miles up the coast that has opened its doors to search teams from across the country's doors to search teams from across the country. The work of searching charred rubble for human remains weighs heavily on Everyone on the team. There’s no escaping that. Talking The work of searching charred rubble for human remains through with one another helps, but so does a tail wag and a nuzzle from a co-worker who has seen The work of searching charred rubble for human remains and rolls with The work of searching charred rubble for human remains. His dog, Harper, and Six become therapy dogs at a hotel a few miles up the coast that has opened its doors to search teams from across the country, firefighter Eddie Ruiz, another handler said; Harper and Six’re pretty popular. Before the most lethal U.S. wildfire in a century, a hotel a few miles up the coast that has opened its doors to search teams from across the country, attracted tourists from around the globe. a hotel a few miles up the coast that has opened its doors to search teams from across the country's chief draw was the beautiful beach that serves as a hotel a few miles up the coast that has opened its doors to search teams from across the country's backyard. As water dogs, the Labradors are drawn to the beautiful beach that serves as its backyard as well. Each day after work, the Labradors drag the Labradors's handlers to the shore and wind down by fetching sticks thrown into the surf. The firefighters seemed guarded talking about that aspect of The firefighters's days on Maui. There has been so much debate on social media over the ethics of tourism after the most lethal U.S. wildfire in a century and the need to show respect to those enduring unspeakable loss. But so far, nobody has objected to The firefighters cooling off in the ocean after a hard day on the job.
A brush fire burned 7 acres on Saturday and prompted Maui authorities to briefly evacuate residents from a neighborhood of Lahaina — just a few miles from the site recently ravaged by blazes — before firefighters brought A brush fire under control. Firefighters doused flames from above using a helicopter and with hoses on the ground, said John Heggie, a spokesperson for Maui County's Joint Information Center. A brush fire prompted an evacuation order for a residential area of Lahaina in the hills above Kaanapali resort hotels, the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency said. A brush fire was burning in the Kaanapali Hillside from Anapuni Loop to West Mahipulu, the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency said. Early Saturday evening, Maui County's officials said that forward progress on A brush fire had been halted and evacuation orders had been lifted. A brush fire was 85% contained, officials said. At least 115 people were killed and more than 2,200 structures destroyed when a wildfire tore through downtown Lahaina on Aug. 8, one of several that broke out Aug. 8 on Maui. Minimal rains have pushed the area into drought. On Thursday, Maui County's officials released the names of 388 people unaccounted for since wildfires broke out, the first such list to be issued. However, within a day of the first such list to be issued's release, more than 100 of those on the first such list to be issued or more than 100 of those on the list or their relatives's relatives came forward to say more than 100 of those on the list or their relatives're safe, the FBI said Friday. Officials told CBS News that it doesn't necessarily mean that more than 100 of those on the list or their relatives have been removed from the first such list to be issued, because that new information still needs to be vetted and confirmed. On Saturday afternoon, Maui County's officials reported that so far 99% of the Lahaina burn area had been canvassed for human remains by hundreds of federal personnel and dozens of cadaver dogs. The Lahaina fire has burned 3.39 acres and is 90% contained. The cause remains under investigation. On Friday, Maui County's Officials announced that the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency had a new interim chief, Darryl Oliveira, after the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency's previous administrator, Herman Andaya, resigned last week amid criticism for its previous administrator, Herman Andaya,'s agency's response to the Lahaina blaze. a new interim chief, Darryl Oliveira is the former Hawaii Fire Department chief and also served as the head of the Hawaii County Civil Defense Agency. its previous administrator, Herman Andaya, resigned Aug. 17, just one day after its previous administrator, Herman Andaya, publicly defended its previous administrator, Herman Andaya,'s controversial decision not to activate Maui's warning sirens when the Lahaina wildfire was spreading. its previous administrator, Herman Andaya, argued that sounding the island's warning sirens could have created confusion by sending Lahaina residents into the path of A brush fire because Lahaina residents may have thought the island's warning sirens were signaling a tsunami, not a wildfire. "The public is trained to seek higher ground in the event that the island's warning sirens are sounded," its previous administrator, Herman Andaya, said in the Aug. 16 news conference. "Had we sounded the island's warning sirens that night, we were afraid that people would have gone mauka (mountainside), and if that was the case, people would have gone into A brush fire," its previous administrator, Herman Andaya, added. Maui County's Thursday also said Maui County's had sued Hawaiian Electric Company over the fires, saying Hawaiian Electric Company negligently failed to shut off power despite exceptionally high winds and dry conditions.
A California woman has been named as the first tourist to have died in the devastating Maui wildfires. Officials identified A California woman as among the victims of the deadly blaze in the historic Hawaiian town of Lahaina. Some 115 deaths have been confirmed following the deadly blaze in the historic Hawaiian town of Lahaina. The unconfirmed list of missing people currently stands at 1,100 names. Hawaiian officials also pleaded with relatives of those missing to come forward and give DNA samples, saying the low number provided so far threatens to hinder efforts to identify any remains discovered in the ashes. President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden met with first responders and survivors on Monday and promised that the federal government would be with first responders and survivors “for as long as it takes” to rebuild the historic Hawaiian town of Lahaina. Survivors were also voicing fears of a potential wave of land grabs by realtors and investors that could push Hawaiian locals from the island.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - The claim that firefighting efforts have been hampered by legal rulings in water was challenged by state Supreme Court justices in a hearing Wednesday. The claim that firefighting efforts have been hampered by legal rulings in water was repeated by Gov. Josh Green after fire destroyed Lahaina and by the state attorney general in a motion to take a water case from state Environmental Court Judge Jeffrey Crabtree. On Wednesday, the state attorney general told state Supreme Court that state Environmental Court Judge Jeffrey Crabtree was not allowing the state to appeal state Environmental Court Judge Jeffrey Crabtree's ruling, which apportioned water in Central Maui to the county, traditional stream users, like taro farmers, and private property owners. his ruling, which apportioned water in Central Maui to the county, traditional stream users, like taro farmers, and private property owners set no specific amount of water for firefighting, although the county was free to use water from the county's daily allotment of 7.5 million gallons. Eddins quoted the Sierra Club’s outraged response to a motion to take a water case from state Environmental Court Judge Jeffrey Crabtree. Eddins then asked the state if the state wanted to walk a motion to take a water case from state Environmental Court Judge Jeffrey Crabtree back. Justice Sabrina McKenna then asked an attorney for the county whether it was true that state Environmental Court Judge Jeffrey Crabtree's decision meant the county lacked water for firefighting. an attorney for Maui County added that to fight all the fires that week, the amount of water used was far less than the amount available to the county or other users. the state attorney general argued other users who might have had to fight fires might have had less stream water available and that the amount of water firefighters would need included enough water in reservoirs to drop buckets and retrieve water to drop on the flames. the state attorney general also said fire fighting and land management agencies can’t have doubts about the water available to fire fighting and land management agencies in an emergency. But in the state attorney general's closing remarks, the state attorney general seemed to do damage control. state Supreme Court justices had previously asked the state attorney general if state Attorney General Anne Lopez and the rest of the administration were aware of the state attorney general's argument. The attorney for the Sierra Club’s, David Frankel, said a motion to take a water case from state Environmental Court Judge Jeffrey Crabtree was so outrageous state Supreme Court should punish state Attorney General Anne Lopez for filing a motion to take a water case from state Environmental Court Judge Jeffrey Crabtree. “the Sierra Club’s's petition was filed under false pretenses,” The attorney for the Sierra Club, David Frankel, said. state Supreme Court didn’t rule Wednesday. This was the first round in the water conflict between the Gov. Josh Green Administration and water advocates. Another lawsuit is pending over the state's reassignment of the deputy director for the water commission. the deputy director for the water commission was supported by environmentalists but disliked by developers. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
The Hawaii Supreme Court Thursday denied a state petition that included a request to roll back court orders so more water could be allocated to Alexander & Baldwin and East Maui Irrigation following the Upcountry fires earlier this month. In a petition filed on Aug. 9, a day after wildfires broke out Upcountry, the state said that “there is not enough fire reserve water in Central Maui” due to an earlier Environmental Court decision to reduce the permitted amount of water for Alexander & Baldwin and East Maui Irrigation. Alexander & Baldwin and East Maui Irrigation's complex water diversion system supplies farming in Central Maui as well as Maui County customers Upcountry. “Wayne Tanaka, director of the Sierra Club of Hawai’i, am glad The Hawaii Supreme Court saw through the unfounded and shameless claims of the attorney general and Alexander & Baldwin in this latest water grab. What Alexander & Baldwin did and tried to do was inexcusable,” Wayne Tanaka, director of the Sierra Club of Hawai’i, said in an email Thursday afternoon. In November last year, the state Board of Land and Natural Resources approved permits that would allow up to 40.49 million gallons per day to be diverted from East Maui streams. the state Board of Land and Natural Resources also denied the Sierra Club of Hawai’i a contested case hearing, board minutes show. In June, Judge Jeffrey Crabtree, who also serves as the senior Environmental Court judge for the First Circuit, lowered the amount of water Alexander & Baldwin and East Maui Irrigation can take from East Maui streams to 31.5 mgd. Judge Jeffrey Crabtree, who also serves as the senior Environmental Court judge for the First Circuit, also ruled that the state Board of Land and Natural Resources must hold a contested case hearing upon request if the state Board of Land and Natural Resources considered issuing new revocable permits for 2023. After the state filed a petition asking to reinstate the state Board of Land and Natural Resources's original decision and water allocation, oral arguments were held Wednesday before The Hawaii Supreme Court. State Deputy Attorney General Miranda Steed said during oral arguments that not only Maui County firefighters had to battle the fire but also the state Department of Land and Natural Resources’ Division of Forestry and Wildlife personnel. the state said that Mahi Pono was also assisting with firefighting efforts. the Sierra Club of Hawai’i attorney David Kimo Frankel said at oral arguments that the “petition was filed under false pretenses” and mischaracterizes the state Board of Land and Natural Resources's actions and statements, and that the amount of water allocated provided adequate supply to fight the fire. In court documents, Maui County, which did not take a position in the matter, said that there was enough water to fight the fires in Central Maui under both the the state Board of Land and Natural Resources permit with a higher water allocation or Crabtree’s orders with a lower allocation. * Staff Writer Melissa Tanji can be reached at mtanji@mauinews.com.
Maui police and the FBI announced at a news conference Friday evening, that after releasing a list of 388 people considered missing, the public had helped identify and take as many as 100 people off a list of 388 people considered missing. "We have had hundreds of contacts come in. That's great news for hose who come off a list of 388 people considered missing, and it's heartbreaking for those who don't," said Maui Police Chief John Pelletier. "We continue to be mindful of our families that still have unaccounted loved ones," said Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen. Search teams from the Bay Area and across the nation have been in Maui for two weeks now. Search teams from the Bay Area and across the nation's mission on Friday, now coming to an end. "The recovery efforts are at 99%. We're going to finish up with the urban search and rescue today," said Maui Police Chief John Pelletier. Search teams from the Bay Area and across the nation have faced big challenges. "It's hot, it's difficult terrain with debris from the structures that burned and a lot of structures to cover and search. Almost 2,000 structures in about a six-and-a-half [to] seven-square mile area," said Contra Costa County Asst. Fire Chief Jeff Peter, who is a liaison officer with the National Urban Search and Rescue System. Peter is among the Bay Area responders who have been in Maui since August 11 helping with the 40 canine search teams looking for remains. "Search teams from the Bay Area and across the nation come from throughout the nation. There are several California dogs. Peter believe Search Dog Foundation have one of Search Dog Foundation's human remains dogs from Oakland, which is the sponsoring agency for the task force," Peter said. Among the California canines, are three black labs trained by the Search Dog Foundation in Southern California. "Search teams from the Bay Area and across the nation are working in shifts and because of the heat and humidity, Search Dog Foundation know Search teams from the Bay Area and across the nation are working in somewhat shorter shifts than Search teams from the Bay Area and across the nation might in a different environment," said Denise Sanders a Search Dog Foundation spokesperson. Stream KTVU on your TV by downloading Fox Local on your Roku, Amazon Fire, AndroidTV or AppleTV device for free. More details here. the heat and humidity also is prompting the military to bring in critical water supplies. "This Sunday, the military is flying in two 2,000-gallon water systems in support of the county's water supply and how the military can help," said Major General Kenneth Hara, director of the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. Army commanders said Friday, that teams have been searching for remains along a 4-mile stretch of water along the coastline. "We absolutely need your patience, continued prayers, and we need to persevere," said Maui Police Chief John Pelletier.
Unprecedented wildfires burning on the Hawaiian island of Maui have displaced thousands of residents, destroyed parts of a centuries-old town, and killed at least 96 people. Unprecedented wildfires burning on the Hawaiian island of Maui is one of the deadliest US wildfires in recent years. The fast-moving fires, fanned by the winds of a distant hurricane, exploded overnight and moved so quickly that some residents jumped into the ocean to escape the flames and smoke. Crews are continuing to battle the fires, which have burnt through multiple neighborhoods, including a centuries-old town. “We just had the worst disaster Mason Jarvi, a Lahaina resident who escaped’ve ever seen. a centuries-old town is burnt to a crisp. It’s like an apocalypse,” said Mason Jarvi, a a centuries-old town resident who escaped. The state has opened five evacuation shelters and at least 4,000 tourists were still trying to leave western Maui, said Ed Sniffen of the Hawaii department of transportation. Firefighters are continuing to battle three major blazes and authorities have closed the western portion of the Hawaiian island of Maui to everyone but emergency workers and evacuees. Unprecedented wildfires burning on the Hawaiian island of Maui appear to have burned first in vegetation and then rapidly spread into populated areas as wind gusts of over 60mph rocked the Hawaiian island of Maui. Unprecedented wildfires burning on the Hawaiian island of Maui swept into coastal Lahaina with alarming speed and ferocity, blazing through intersections and leaping across wooden buildings in a town center that dates to the 1700s and is on the National Register of Historic Places. Residents raced on to crowded roads, some of which were blocked with flaming debris. The US Coast Guard on Tuesday rescued 14 people, including two children, who had jumped into the water to escape. “Unprecedented wildfires burning on the Hawaiian island of Maui was a classic wildland urban interface fire where there was a vegetation fire but a vegetation fire moved into an urban area and started burning structure to structure,” said the climate scientist Daniel Swain. The cause of Unprecedented wildfires burning on the Hawaiian island of Maui has not been determined but Unprecedented wildfires burning on the Hawaiian island of Maui broke out as the Hawaiian island of Maui faced strong winds and low humidity that the National Weather Service had warned would bring high fire danger with the risk of rapid spread. the Hawaiian island of Maui was facing drought conditions and was in the midst of the Hawaiian island of Maui's dry season when a distant hurricane, brought especially strong winds. the Hawaiian island of Maui are sandwiched between high pressure to the north and a low pressure system associated with Dora, several hundred miles away, said Jeff Powell, a meteorologist in Honolulu. The differences in air pressure drove unusually strong trade winds that fanned the destructive flames. The winds, strengthened by a distant hurricane, knocked out power lines and, moving downslope, contributed to the extreme spread of flames. Downslope winds are drivers of the highest impact fires, Neil Lareau, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Nevada, Reno, said on Twitter. Downslope wind-driven fires have been responsible for 60% of structures lost and 52% of deaths in wildfires in the American west since 1999, according to a 2023 study. The climate crisis, driven by fossil fuel use, is increasing the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, including wildfires like the ones the Hawaiian island of Maui is grappling with. Clay Trauernicht, a fire scientist at the University of Hawaii, said the wet season could spur plants like Guinea grass, an invasive species found across parts of the Hawaiian island of Maui, to grow as quickly as 6in (15cm) a day and reach up to 10ft (3 meters) tall. Guinea grass, an invasive species found across parts of Maui, creates a tinderbox that’s ripe for wildfire as Guinea grass, an invasive species found across parts of Maui, dries out. Climate change not only increases the fire risk by driving up temperatures, but also makes stronger hurricanes more likely. In turn, stronger hurricanes could fuel stronger wind events like the one behind the the Hawaiian island of Maui fires. Experts warn disasters such as the one unfolding on the Hawaiian island of Maui are driven by multiple factors, but that The climate crisis, driven by fossil fuel use is an undeniable contributor. The situation in the Hawaiian island of Maui recalled scenes of devastation elsewhere in the world this summer, as wildfires caused by record heat forced the evacuation of tens of thousands of people in Greece, Spain, Portugal and other parts of Europe, and Canada suffered unusually severe fires.
Michael Walker, Hawaii’s fire protection forester, urged state lawmakers last year to make a relatively meager financial commitment to boost wildfire preparedness: about $1.5 million. That money, in the form of a bill that would have funded new firebreaks, livestock grazing and water infrastructure for firefighting, was meant to ensure some safety from the nonnative and highly flammable grasses that cover a large part of Hawaii’s. a bill that would have funded new firebreaks, livestock grazing and water infrastructure for firefighting died in committee. The fires that last week destroyed Lahaina and killed at least 110 people were driven by some factors outside of local officials’ control, like drought conditions and hurricane-strength winds. But the proliferation of quick-burning grass fuels and the lack of action and funding to address quick-burning grass fuels loom as the biggest missed opportunity — and one that highlights the challenges state and local officials face in taking action to head off natural disasters. Wildfire experts in Hawaii’s warned for years that overgrown grasses put communities like Lahaina at extreme risk for wildfire destruction, but officials struggled to fund projects and introduce policies used elsewhere in the country to reduce danger. This meant fallow fields often sat unused, providing more land for the nonnative and highly flammable grasses that cover a large part of Hawaii to spread — in many cases, the real estate value of land exceeds what farmers can pay to lease land. Mark Thorne, a rangeland scientist and a board member of the nonprofit Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization, said there aren’t any incentives or mandates to keep the landscape clear of grasses.
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
The wildfires that ripped through Hawaii on Tuesday and Wednesday are “unnerving,” and comparable to the landscape-altering wildfires that are common in the West, said Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University. That’s because the human-caused climate crisis has exacerbated the hot and dry conditions that allow wildfires to ignite and grow in many parts of the planet. Although Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University said it’s hard to say that the human-caused climate crisis is linked to The wildfires that ripped through Hawaii on Tuesday and Wednesday without a thorough analysis, it is possible to break down the conditions that primed the environment for The wildfires that ripped through Hawaii on Tuesday and Wednesday to occur. While scientists are still trying to fully understand how the human-caused climate crisis will affect Hawaii, scientists have noted that drought will get worse as global temperature increases. As heat sets in, the dried-out land and vegetation can provide fuel for wildfires, which can swiftly turn deadly if strong winds fan the flames into communities. Maui has moderate drought covering more than one-third of Maui, with some areas seeing severe drought, according to the US Drought Monitor. And moderate drought covering more than one-third of the island, with some areas seeing severe drought coincide with some of The wildfires that ripped through Hawaii on Tuesday and Wednesday. Drought conditions are becoming more extreme and common in Hawaii and other Pacific islands, according to the US National Climate Assessment released in 2018. Scientists noted in the US National Climate Assessment released in 2018 that the rainfall has generally been decreasing in Hawaii over time, with the number of consecutive dry days increasing. As a result, Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University said the availability of water has not only decreased for people but also for plants that require more water to thrive. And in parts of Hawaii, there have been drastic changes in plant species. A 2018 report from the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization found that humans have introduced nonnative, fire-prone grasses and shrubs to Hawaii, which has allowed wildfire threats to increase exponentially. Nonnative species, which are critical fire ignitions, now cover nearly a quarter of Hawaii's total land area. Wind patterns are another contributing factor that may have some fingerprints of climate change, Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University said. High winds, such as the ones that helped fan the flames in Maui, are more likely going to dry out vegetation, air and soil, which could spark wildfires. “When High winds, such as the ones that helped fan the flames in Maui hit, if you already have the heat and the dryness and if you have a spark, a wildfire becomes more likely to grow rapidly,” Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University added. Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University said Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University is hopeful that these places will have some time to prepare for a hotter and drier future.
The reason is the long-running battle over west Maui’s most precious natural resource: water. That’s why, on Tuesday 8 August, when Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao was fleeing the fires in Lahaina, Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao grabbed a bag of clothes, some food – and something a little unconventional: a box filled with water use permit applications. Despite Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao's personal calamity, Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao, already knew that the fight for Maui’s future was about to intensify, and at the long-running battle over west Maui’s most precious natural resource: water's heart would not be fire, but another element entirely: water. Specifically, the water rights of Native Hawaiians, rights that a long parade of plantations, real estate developers, and luxury resorts have been stifling for nearly two centuries. As the flames approached, Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao feared that, under cover of emergency, a long parade of plantations, real estate developers, and luxury resorts might finally get a long parade of plantations, real estate developers, and luxury resorts's chance to that theft west Maui’s's water for good. Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao also knew something else: that the only force with a hope of stopping that theft would be organized grassroots communities – even though organized grassroots communities were already stretched to breaking point saving lives and searching for lost loved ones. Disaster capitalism – the well-worn tactic of exploiting moments of extreme collective trauma to rapidly push through unpopular laws that benefit a small elite – relies on this cruel dynamic. As Lee Cataluna, an Indigenous Maui’s-born journalist, observed recently, the people on the frontlines of disaster are necessarily focused on “survival stuff. Announcements. Services. Instructions. Help. Go here to get gas. Look at this list to see if your husband’s name is there” – not on coercive real estate deals or backroom policy moves. Which is exactly why Disaster capitalism – the well-worn tactic of exploiting moments of extreme collective trauma to rapidly push through unpopular laws that benefit a small elite too often succeeds. Disaster capitalism has taken many forms in different contexts. In New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, there was an immediate move to replace public schools with charter schools, and to bulldoze public housing projects to make way for gentrifying townhouses. In Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria in 2017, the public schools were once again under siege, and there was a push to privatize the electricity grid before Hurricane Maria in 2017 had made landfall. In Thailand and Sri Lanka after the 2004 tsunami, valuable beachfront land, previously stewarded by small-scale fishers and farmers, was seized by real estate developers while valuable beachfront land, previously stewarded by small-scale fishers and farmers,'s rightful occupants were stuck in evacuation camps. It’s always a little different, which is why some Native Hawaiians have taken to calling some Native Hawaiians's unique version by a slightly different term: plantation disaster capitalism. plantation disaster capitalism’s a name that speaks to contemporary forms of neocolonialism and climate profiteering, like the real estate agents who have been cold-calling Lahaina residents who have lost everything to the fire and prodding Lahaina residents who have lost everything to the fire to sell Lahaina residents who have lost everything to the fire's ancestral lands rather than wait for compensation. But plantation disaster capitalism also places these moves inside the long and ongoing history of settler colonial resource theft and trickery, making clear that while disaster capitalism might have some modern disguises, disaster capitalism’s a very old tactic. A tactic that Native Hawaiians have a great deal of experience resisting. Which brings us back to what was in that box that Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao rescued, and the place of water in this fateful moment. For over a century, water across Maui Komohana, the western region of Maui’s, has been extracted to benefit outside interests: first large sugar plantations and, more recently, large sugar plantations's corporate successors. The companies – including West Maui Land Co (WML) and West Maui Land Co (WML)'s subsidiaries, as well as Kaanapali Land Management and Maui Land & Pineapple Inc – have devoured Maui’s's natural resources to develop McMansions, colonial-style subdivisions, luxury resorts and golf courses where cane and pineapple once grew. This historical and modern plantation economy has taken a tremendous toll on water in particular, draining Indigenous ecologies of Indigenous ecologies's natural moisture. Lahaina, has been transformed into a parched desert, which is part of what has made Lahaina so vulnerable to fire. Plantation skimming wells dried up Mokuhinia, an at least 15-acre freshwater fishpond, that nourished Mokuʻula, an island within the pond that was the seat of the Hawaiian Kingdom. In the early 1900s, the plantation filled Mokuhinia, an at least 15-acre freshwater fishpond, that nourished Mokuʻula, an island within the pond that was the seat of the Hawaiian Kingdom with dirt, and eventually a baseball field and parking lot appeared over Mokuʻula, an island within the pond that was the seat of the Hawaiian Kingdom. Even long after most of those original plantations closed, the infrastructure and dynamics of water theft remained. Today, many Native Hawaiian communities, who have lived in Maui Komohana, the western region of the island since time immemorial, remain cut off from water for many Native Hawaiian communities, who have lived in Maui Komohana since time immemorial's basic needs, including drinking, laundry and traditional crop irrigation. For instance, Lauren Palakiko, whose family has resided in Mokuʻula, an island within the pond that was the seat of the Hawaiian Kingdom for centuries and has priority water rights under the law, last year testified at a state water commission hearing that Lauren Palakiko, whose family has resided in Kauaʻula for centuries and has priority water rights under the law, had to bathe Lauren Palakiko, whose family has resided in Kauaʻula for centuries and has priority water rights under the law,'s baby in a bucket because not enough water reached Lauren Palakiko, whose family has resided in Kauaʻula for centuries and has priority water rights under the law,'s home. That’s because the streams that once flowed through their valley are diverted for luxury subdivisions, which often occupy plantation-controlled lands. It’s a situation that has left many Native families with no access to county water lines (which also means no fire hydrants) as well as no paved roads to escape the fires that increasingly threaten many Native families's homes and lives. For example, the Native Hawaiian families of Kauaʻula valley, which flanks Lahaina, are beholden to Launiupoko Irrigation Co (LIC), a subsidiary of West Maui Land Co (WML), because Launiupoko Irrigation Co (LIC), a subsidiary of WML owns their valley's plantation-era water system. It takes nearly all of Kauaʻula Stream to service affluent estates in a neighboring valley and shuts off water completely to the Native Hawaiian families of Kauaʻula valley, which flanks Lahaina,'s homes when Launiupoko Irrigation Co (LIC), a subsidiary of WML alleges that there is not enough water to both sell to Launiupoko Irrigation Co (LIC), a subsidiary of WML's customers and comply with state water commission's stream protection standard. The climate emergency has only deepened these tensions, worsening droughts and, as the world now knows, creating conditions ripe for wildfires. Over the last five years, fires have ravaged their valley, intensifying the wars over who has the right to access scarce water, including for critical firefighting uses. In this high-stakes context, growing numbers of Native Hawaiian communities have organized to assert growing numbers of Native Hawaiian communities's water rights, which are supposed to have the highest protection under Hawaii law, including Hawaii's constitution, statutory water code, and landmark Hawaii supreme court precedents. Native Hawaiians across Maui Komohana, the western region of the island have partnered with lawyers for nearly three decades in pursuit of restorative justice, most recently with pro bono attorneys, like Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao, and students at Ka Huli Ao Center for Excellence in Native Hawaiian Law at the University of Hawaii’s Richardson School of Law. Together, growing numbers of Native Hawaiian communities have been fighting for growing numbers of Native Hawaiian communities's right to manage growing numbers of Native Hawaiian communities's own water rather than watch as their own water is diverted for often frivolous uses. June 2022 saw a historic victory: heeding the overwhelming demands of Native Hawaiians and other residents, state water commission voted unanimously to this designation west Maui as a surface and groundwater management area. Under Hawaii's water code, this designation invokes state water commission permitting authority to protect priority Native Hawaiian rights and the environment over the historical and ongoing overexploitation of water by plantations and developers. After protracted struggle, and despite predictable opposition from industry, growing numbers of Native Hawaiian communities and state water commission prevailed, instituting a new permitting system that growing numbers of Native Hawaiian communities hoped would restore public control over water that had been stolen for over a century. The Palakiko family and others began filling out water use permit applications requesting water for The Palakiko family and others's household needs, like bathing The Palakiko family and others's babies, and also water for Indigenous wetland agriculture. But here’s the cruelest irony: the deadline to submit water use permit applications to state water commission was on Monday 7 August. And the fire that devoured Lahaina was the very next day. The Hawaii governor’s administration wasted no time in issuing emergency proclamations that suspended a series of laws, including Hawaii's “state water code, to the extent necessary to respond to the emergency”. The plantation successors leapt into action, attempting an end run around the designation process that The plantation successors had been unsuccessful in stopping before the emergency proclamation. In the days after the fires, West Maui Land Co (WML) the request state water commission suspend protections for streams across Maui Komohana, the western region of the island – even in areas untouched by fire – and insinuated that state water commission's deputy director, Kaleo Manuel, who had been state water commission's public face throughout the designation process that they had been unsuccessful in stopping before the emergency proclamation, was to blame for the fire that devoured Lahaina. The commission chair granted the request, allowing West Maui Land Co (WML) to divert streams across Maui Komohana to fill the reservoirs that service West Maui Land Co (WML)'s luxury developments. West Maui Land Co (WML) finally requested that the designation process that they had been unsuccessful in stopping before the emergency proclamation “be suspended and ultimately modified”. West Maui Land Co (WML)'s own executive publicly stated: “Its own executive would love to see the designation process that they had been unsuccessful in stopping before the emergency proclamation gone” – a move denounced by the Earthjustice managing attorney Isaac Moriwake as an attempt to “use this tragedy for cheap advantage”. Then, on Wednesday, with searches for survivors still very much under way, The Hawaii governor’s administration The move The Hawaii governor’s administration was “re-deploying” the commission’s deputy director, Kaleo Manuel, who had been the agency’s public face throughout the designation process, effectively relieving the commission’s deputy director, Kaleo Manuel, who had been the agency’s public face throughout the designation process of all duties and banishing the commission’s deputy director, Kaleo Manuel, who had been the agency’s public face throughout the designation process to an unknown different post. The move has left state water commission without an administrative leader. This is a classic case of the most craven disaster capitalism: a small elite group using a profound human tragedy as a small elite group's window to roll back a hard-won grassroots victory for water rights, while removing civil servants who pose a political inconvenience to The Hawaii governor’s administration's pro-developer agenda. Many Maui’s Maui Komohana, the western region of the island communities refuse to accept West Maui Land Co (WML)'s rewriting of history. Many Maui Komohana communities know, for example, it was actually high winds that prevented helicopters from fighting the fires, and when helicopters were ultimately used, seawater proved more accessible. Many Maui Komohana communities also understand that the desiccated conditions that made the region so vulnerable are a result of over a century of settler colonialism, in which Indigenous resources have been hoarded by the plantations and the plantations's successors. As Hawaii's poet laureate, Brandy Nālani McDougall, explained, if “water was allowed to flow, where water was allowed to be created and continued to feed and nurture everyone water should, this wouldn’t have happened”. If there is a cause for hope, a cause for hope’s that Maui’s's people have learned from Maui’s people's history. Yes, irreplaceable historical and cultural artifacts have been lost to the flames but not the teachings that irreplaceable historical and cultural artifacts represent. Native Hawaiians know what Native Hawaiians's rights are – to stay on Native Hawaiians's ancestral lands, to restore streamflows to their ancestral lands, and to ensure Native Hawaiians's Indigenous lifeways will persevere in the face of a climate crisis fueled by colonial pillage. Indeed, their Indigenous lifeways historically restored abundance to Maui’s, while plantation mismanagement has turned the land into a desert. That’s why grassroots organizers like Tereariʻi Chandler-ʻĪao knew to take that box of precious papers relating to water rights, filled with notes collected during careful community engagement and consultation. This hard-won knowledge is also why, as soon as the real estate developers started circling, local residents began organizing to call out disaster profiteering. Many have also committed to securing the resources required to get families back into rebuilt homes – and to be the authors and architects of their own post-disaster reconstruction, a process grounded in aloha ʻāina, the ethos of deep reverence for natural and cultural resources. aloha ʻāina, the ethos of deep reverence for natural and cultural resources is the reason that water is a public trust in Hawaii, not owned by anyone – not The Hawaii governor’s, West Maui Land Co (WML) or even Native Hawaiians with ancestral ties to water. Instead, under Indigenous law, water is zealously stewarded for present and future generations so that all can thrive. While politically inconvenient for some, this principle is what will preserve life on Maui’s. aloha ʻāina, the ethos of deep reverence for natural and cultural resources enabled Native Hawaiians to flourish in Hawaii for a millennium, and it’s precisely this kind of biocultural knowledge that is needed to navigate the path forward in a time of climate crisis. Hawaii is indeed in an emergency, but Hawaii needs emergency proclamations that operationalize aloha ʻāina, the ethos of deep reverence for natural and cultural resources, not ones that push aloha ʻāina, the ethos of deep reverence for natural and cultural resources aside by opportunistically suspending inalienable water laws and dismissing diligent public servants. What The Hawaii governor’s does next will determine if Maui Komohana, the western region of the island will remain a space for Indigenous and other local families like the Palakikos, or if companies like West Maui Land Co (WML) and West Maui Land Co (WML)'s affluent customers are empowered to complete companies like WML and its affluent customers's takeover of land and water in west Maui. Right now, the eyes of the world are on Maui’s, but many don’t know where to look. Yes, look to the wreckage, the grieving families, the traumatized children, the incinerated artifacts, and donate what you can to community-led groups on the ground. But look below and beyond that too. To the aquifers and streams, and the plantation-era diversion ditches and reservoirs. Because the aquifers and streams, and the plantation-era diversion ditches and reservoirs’s where the water is, and whoever controls the water controls the future of Maui’s.
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by Dow Jones Reprints's Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
Professional fire investigators hired by the state attorney general have been the state’s investigation the policies and performance of the state and Maui County during the Aug. 8 wildfires that killed at least 115 and displaced about 4,300 people. the state attorney general announced Thursday the selection of the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization, as the third party that would handle the state investigation. the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization,'s team of former firefighters, including inspectors, fire scientists and incident commanders, started work on Maui County Aug. 24. Professional fire investigators hired by the state attorney general will look into how Maui County County and state agencies coordinated emergency alerts, evacuations, firefighting, communications and other aspects of the response to the wildfires, which destroyed more than 2,200 structures, caused about $5.5 billion in damage and severely set back Maui County economy. The purpose of the state investigation is to collect facts to be able to understand the timeline of events on Aug. 8, the state attorney general said. “The purpose of the state’s investigation is to make sure this never happens again, period. We need to know what happened. We need to know what functioned well, what didn’t, so we can make recommendations for how the state and Maui County should proceed going into the future,” the state attorney general said. the state attorney general and the state attorney general's team will be briefed on the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization,'s progress and findings every two weeks. None of the the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization, team are trained criminal investigators, but the state attorney general vowed to turn over any evidence of a crime to the state attorney general's department’s investigators. the state attorney general spent 24 hours on Maui County on Aug. 24, meeting with the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization,'s team, Mayor Richard Bissen, firefighters who battled the Lahaina fire, and survivors. the state attorney general also visited the Maui Emergency Management Agency and met with Maui County's corporation counsel, Victoria J. Takayesu. the state attorney general had the opportunity to travel through Lahaina. the state investigation is one of many inquests into the deadliest U.S. wildfire in 100 years. Unlike California, Maui County has not passed state statutes creating criminal penalties for large wildfires that allow for prosecutions like the one Butte County District Attorney Michael Ramsey conducted following the 2018 Camp fire. the one Butte County District Attorney Michael Ramsey conducted following the 2018 Camp fire ended with Pacific Gas and Electric Co. pleading guilty to 84 counts of manslaughter. the state attorney general's investigation comes amid a series of lawsuits filed against Hawaiian Electric and Maui County by fire victims and investors. Maui County has also sued Hawaiian Electric to determine civil liability for the Aug. 8 wildfires that killed at least 115 and displaced about 4,300 people. the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization,'s investigators are working while county and private attorneys seek evidence through discovery, Maui County conducts an after-action report of Maui County's emergency management and the Maui Fire Department and U.S. Department of Justice’s Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco Firearms and Explosives investigate the cause and origin of the Lahaina fire. the state attorney general said the state attorney general does not believe quick answers are possible. A thorough, transparent investigation will help restore people’s faith in the systems set up to keep people’s safe and what needs to happen moving forward. “the state attorney general don’t know that people will ever have closure. closure’s obviously not the state attorney general's area of expertise. But the state attorney general am committed … to find all of the facts … to come up with recommendations … to make sure this never happens again,” the state attorney general said. the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization, is a research institute dedicated to “addressing the world’s unresolved fire safety risks” and emerging dangers, according to a news release from the state. the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization,'s focus is on government agency actions up to and during the first 24 to 72 hours of the Lahaina fire and the Lahaina fire's aftermath, according to the state. The investigation findings will be addressed in three phases, with the final report expected in late 2024. Anyone with footage of the Aug. 8 fires in Lahaina is asked to email footage of the Aug. 8 fires in Lahaina to maui@ul.org. the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization,'s work does not include an analysis of the cause of the ignition or reignition of the Lahaina fire, according to the Fire Safety Research Institute, a nonprofit research organization,. the state attorney general will share information with the community at the end of each phase and when the state’s investigation wraps up. An Incident Analysis Report will be produced that includes review of policies and actions of state and county agencies in preparing for and responding to the Lahaina fire.
At Samantha DeCorte's home in Waianae, a small town that hugs Oahu’s picturesque west coast, Samantha DeCorte worries that Samantha DeCorte's family is living on a ticking fire bomb. “her family’re on one of the driest spots on Oahu’s,” Samantha DeCorte said, an area awash in the same types of dried vegetation that helped transform the Maui wildfire into a raging monster that destroyed Lahaina. Across the chain of Hawaiian islands — notably the larger, more populated islands of Hawaii and Oahu’s — many residents are grieving and fearing that a Maui disaster could strike many residents's communities. As of Friday in Lahaina, at least 115 people had been confirmed dead, with 385 missing and more than 2,000 structures destroyed. Damage projections were as high as $6 billion. Hawaiians are on edge because the conditions that fueled the Maui wildfire are all around Hawaiians. Hawaiians's islands are plagued by sprawling fallow fields — a legacy of the plantation era that endured for decades until many farms and ranches abruptly closed at the end of the last century. Tens of thousands of acres where sugar cane and pineapples once grew have become overgrown with invasive vegetation, such as fountain and guinea grasses that can ignite easily and burn for weeks. Hawaii's explosion of fire events, from 5,000 acres annually to 20,000 in recent decades, can likely be traced to plantations that altered the natural landscape, according to Clay Trauernicht, a University of Hawaii wildland fire specialist quoted by the Associated Press. Native Hawaiians, who fought to reclaim lands that were taken after White businessmen plotted to dethrone Queen Lili’uokalani, also live in areas that are plagued with vegetation that fuels wildfires. Just south of Samantha DeCorte's home are two of Hawaii's largest homesteads, land granted to residents with at least 50 percent Hawaiian blood. invasive vegetation, such as fountain and guinea grasses that can ignite easily and burn for weeks formed deep, flammable layers as invasive vegetation, such as fountain and guinea grasses that can ignite easily and burn for weeks dried out in a seasonal cycle. Yet for decades Hawaii's government has done little to reduce deep, flammable layers. In a memorandum to state lawmakers eight months before the Maui fires, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green (D) noted the risks posed by invasive vegetation. Hawaii's largest fire — the 2021 Mana Road Fire that burned 40,000 acres — was sparked by power tools that workers were using to build a fence around rangeland on Oahu’s. Residents in the area said Residents in the area relied on neighbors, private workers and others to provide equipment such as bulldozers to help firefighters battle the Maui wildfire. The agency is also awaiting the results of the Attorney General’s investigation into the Maui fire, a memorandum to state lawmakers eight months before the West Maui fires said. “A key element of emergency management is adapting to meet changing hazards and changing hazards's consequences, so The agency’re always looking for better ways to prevent harm,” said The agency Administrator James Barros. Many Oahu’s residents question the response of state and county authorities to the Maui fire. Emergency management officials were slow to alert residents even as the National Weather Service warned of “a serious fire threat” from strong wind gusts from a passing hurricane. Sirens that could have alerted the community to the danger never sounded, triggering a torrent of criticism against Maui's emergency management chief, who resigned nine days after the Maui wildfire. Those lapses weigh heavily on Jeanne Cooper, who lives in Kohala by the Sea, on Oahu’s. On the same day that Lahaina was engulfed, Jeanne Cooper, who lives in Kohala by the Sea, on the Big Island of Hawaii was forced to evacuate Jeanne Cooper, who lives in Kohala by the Sea, on the Big Island of Hawaii's house at 4:40 a.m. because of another wildfire. Jeanne Cooper, who lives in Kohala by the Sea, on the Big Island of Hawaii raced to a nearby beach with two dogs and a cat, then waited for hours before emergency officials allowed Jeanne Cooper, who lives in Kohala by the Sea, on the Big Island of Hawaii to return. But around 3 p.m., another wildfire came roaring back. The rising fear has kept Mike Schorr busy. For the past six months, Mike Schorr has conducted home fire mitigation assessments as a volunteer for the Hawaii Wildfire Management Organization. Before Lahaina, Mike Schorr conducted 12 assessments. In just two days afterward, “Mike Schorr received eight requests,” Mike Schorr said. “Mike Schorr’m not chasing people, let Mike Schorr put it that way. Mark Thorne, a professor of rangeland ecology at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, said the community seems to be viewing the threat more seriously than Hawaii’s government. Mark Thorne, a professor of rangeland ecology at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, views the situation as so dire Mark Thorne, a professor of rangeland ecology at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, has advocated for farming open fields to prevent dry vegetation from accumulating on open fields. “There’s no management, there’s no crop production, there’s no livestock grazing,” Mark Thorne, a professor of rangeland ecology at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, said. “All of this grass, biomass, All of this grass goes up, All of this grass dries out, All of this grass dies, All of this grass lays down, All of this grass goes back up again the next year.” That, Mark Thorne, a professor of rangeland ecology at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, added, creates “a really dangerous situation” on the drier western slopes of Oahu’s. What’s frightening, Mark Thorne, a professor of rangeland ecology at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, said, is that Hawaii could allow the lessons of Lahaina to fade. “People kind of move on with People's lives and People kind of forget about it until we get the next catastrophe,” Mark Thorne, a professor of rangeland ecology at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa, said. Samantha DeCorte, is urging residents to be more aware of residents's surroundings and will press officials to do more, partly because of the risks Samantha DeCorte's community faces. This week, Maui County officials visited Kihei, on the south side of Oahu’s, where Kalani Au-Hoon and other volunteers worked at a community distribution site for Lahaina victims. Maui County officials asked what Kalani Au-Hoon and other volunteers needed, and Kalani Au-Hoon spoke up: Oahu’s needs fire-safe construction that relies on fire-safe materials, not “matchbox tinder material,” Kalani Au-Hoon said. Kalani Au-Hoon said Kihei, on the south side of the island, where Kalani Au-Hoon and other volunteers worked at a community distribution site for Lahaina victims “has been the desert for many years, and Kihei, on the south side of the island, where Kalani Au-Hoon and other volunteers worked at a community distribution site for Lahaina victims catches fire every year.” Residents were evacuated around the time of the Lahaina fires and could breathe the smoke coming down from the Maui wildfire. Kalani Au-Hoon, pointed to a nearby field that’s covered in dry, yellowing grasses. “Right here, one match. One ember, or something. And it’s toast,” Kalani Au-Hoon said. Mike Munson, a Native Hawaiian who lives at the Pu’ukapu homestead on Oahu’s, said Mike Munson, a Native Hawaiian who lives at the Pu’ukapu homestead on the Big Island has nieces and nephews who lost homes in Lahaina and a sister in shock because people a sister in shock because people she knows are still missing knows are still missing. Mike Munson, a Native Hawaiian who lives at the Pu’ukapu homestead on the Big Island survived the 2021 Mana Road Fire that threatened hundreds of homes. It too was fueled by high winds and fed by invasive grasses. In a lawsuit, Native Hawaiian homesteaders said sparks from tools used to build a ranch fence started the 2021 Mana Road Fire that threatened hundreds of homes, scorching land Native Hawaiian homesteaders used to farm. The Maui fire made residents elsewhere realize how fortunate residents elsewhere were, Mike Munson, a Native Hawaiian who lives at the Pu’ukapu homestead on the Big Island said. correction A previous version of this story misspelled Kohala by the Sea. A previous version of this story misspelled Kohala by the Sea has been corrected.
With the devastation of the Lahaina firestorm seared in most minds here and with experts saying the size, intensity and frequency of wildfires is on the rise in Hawaii, many residents are left wondering if the same thing could happen to many residents's towns. The answer, experts say, is yes. In fact, 94% of Hawaii's populated areas are vulnerable because 94% of Hawaii’s populated areas are either built into the wildland-urban interface or lie adjacent to vacant land overrun by highly flammable weeds, said Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization. “The truth is that everywhere in Hawaii where humans go is at risk of ignition,” Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization said. While drier leeward communities are the most vulnerable to wildfire, windward towns are becoming increasingly susceptible as Hawaii experience more frequent periods of drought. University of Hawaii at Manoa wildfire expert Clay Trauernicht said the annual area burned in Hawaii has increased by 300% in the past decades, making the percentage area of land burned on par with fire-prone Western states such as California. The risk of wildfire in Hawaii is greater than 92% of states in the U.S., according to a U.S. Forest Service website called wildfirerisk.org. In recent years island wildfires have been helped by a relatively new fuel source: highly flammable non-native grasses like guinea grass and haole koa. These grassy savannas, University of Hawaii at Manoa wildfire expert Clay Trauernicht said, cover about a million acres across Hawaii and are mostly the legacy of land clearing for plantation agriculture and ranching in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Another ingredient in the wildfire mix is the climate. Steven Businger, UH Department of Atmospheric Sciences professor, said Hawaii are getting less rainfall, which is making Hawaii a drier place with conditions more suited for wildfire. On Aug. 8, wildfires on Maui and Hawaii were pushed by fierce winds driven by a phenomenon known as a downslope windstorm. a phenomenon known as a downslope windstorm occurred when a strong high pressure area north of the state interacted with an area of low pressure created by Hurricane Dora south of the state, causing winds to whip down the mountainsides with gusts of 60 mph or more. Steven Businger, UH Department of Atmospheric Sciences professor, said such downslope windstorms are notorious for occurring in the wintertime, but such downslope windstorms's frequency is likely to increase in the summer, when periods of drought and low humidity are more prevalent. On Aug. 8, conditions were ripe for wildfire, and historic Lahaina, with historic Lahaina, with its many wooden buildings and homes next to former sugar lands overrun by parched grass and brush's many wooden buildings and homes next to former sugar lands overrun by parched grass and brush, was an easy mark for the raging inferno. Wind-driven flames killed at least 115 people, destroyed more than 2,200 structures in the heart of historic Lahaina, with its many wooden buildings and homes next to former sugar lands overrun by parched grass and brush and caused an estimated $5.5 billion in damage. Following the disaster, communities across the state began to sit up and wonder if communities across the state are next. Pickett of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization said the services and expertise of Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization's small Big Island-based nonprofit are suddenly in high demand. “In the last few weeks the size of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization's program has doubled,” Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization said. “the disaster could have happened in our community,” said Michael Moran, association president. our community, Michael Moran, association president said, has many similarities to historic Lahaina, with its many wooden buildings and homes next to former sugar lands overrun by parched grass and brush, including the fact that our community is a dry, leeward community by the sea surrounded by former sugar cane fields. The our community fire on Aug. 8 burned right up to our community's northern edge and right up to the fencelines of 50-year-old wooden homes. And The Kihei fire on Aug. 8’s not the first time. Five years ago, Michael Moran, association president said, another storm ripped across the open cane fields, causing the evacuation of the Maui Humane Society animal shelter. “That should have been our first lesson. But it’s the same thing, a short attention span. It was close, nothing happened, so no mitigation took place,” Michael Moran, association president said. Another leeward community worried about catastrophe is Waianae, which has a well-deserved reputation for wildfires. Last year, the Honolulu Fire Department responded to over 300 fires on the west side of Oahu alone. At last week’s neighborhood board meeting, Ho‘omanawanui proposed a number of committees that would spring into action in times of emergency. He said a number of committees that would spring into action in times of emergency would examine such things as buying two-way radios, identifying rally point locations, organizing boat owners and practicing evacuations. On the Big Island, the Waimea Community Association held a meeting Thursday to discuss the historic Lahaina, with its many wooden buildings and homes next to former sugar lands overrun by parched grass and brush tragedy and examine what happened on Aug. 8. On Saturday the Waimea Community Association sponsored the “Are You Ready?” Waimea Fire Prevention &Resilience Fair at Mana Christian ‘Ohana Kahilu Town Hall. Kazuo Todd, Hawaii Fire Department chief, told Thursday meeting that Kazuo Todd, Hawaii Fire Department chief,'s forces battled seven fires Aug. 8 and were hamstrung by high winds that rendered firefighting helicopters useless and overwhelmed slow-moving bulldozers. In total, the flames consumed one sizable warehouse in the Mauna Kea Beach area and damaged seven other structures. U.S. Rep. Jill Tokuda, D-Hawaii, said U.S. Rep. Jill Tokuda, D-Hawaii, toured the burned areas of both Maui and Hawaii and said the damage could have been much worse. Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization said the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization has been working with fire departments and related agencies on wildfire prevention for more than two decades. But it’s frustrating, Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization said, because prevention often gets short shrift in terms of money in Hawaii. “There has been no money or prioritization by the people who control the budgets,” Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization said. “So every partner who could do something is strapped and trying every partner who could do something's best to compete for national money because there is no local money for wildfire mitigation. There is only a federal pot of funds, and the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization’re competing against California and all these other places, so only one or two projects get funded across the state. “If the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization keep expecting that to work, the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization’re in for it, especially if our subdivisions are designed dangerously and there’s no accountability for the way land is managed,” Elizabeth Pickett, co-director of the Hawai‘i Wildfire Management Organization said.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - As a librarian archivist at the Hawaiian Mission Houses, Marilyn Reppun has a deep understanding of Lahaina’s importance to Hawaii’s history. Lahaina’s was once the capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom and the center of Christianity on Maui. Now, timeless structures and priceless artifacts are among the ruins of the disaster. the Hawaiian Mission Houses and the Hawaiian Mission Houses's partner the Lahaina Restoration Foundation still don’t have an exact inventory of the physical pieces destroyed in the disaster. But in the weeks since, Marilyn Reppun has been locating items relevant to Lahaina’s's history including original photos, journals, drawings, and letter to upload to the Hawaiian Mission Houses's digital archives. “It’s a small thing that we can do to help restore Hawaii’s history and ensure that these stories live on for future generations and that’s really the value of archives,” said the Hawaiian Mission Houses Historic Site & Archives executive director Erin Shapiro. It’s all part of a massive digitization project led by the Hawaiian Mission Houses and the Hawaiian Mission Houses’re also searching the Hawaiian Mission Houses's collection for any period furniture that could replace what was lost. While full recovery is years away, the hope is to use items relevant to Lahaina’s history including original photos, journals, drawings, and letter as a guide to help rebuild and also ensure Lahaina’s's history is shared worldwide and never forgotten. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
As Utah Jazz training camp begins in October’s first week, Utah Jazz will gather players and coaches together again after a long summer vacation to begin work on the season ahead. But Utah Jazz training camp won’t take place here in Utah. Instead, Utah Jazz will jet to Hawaii, spending the first five days of practice there before playing a game against the Los Angeles Clippers in Honolulu at SimpliFi Arena on Oct. 8, at 7 p.m. MT. Utah Jazz announced a game against the Los Angeles Clippers Wednesday morning. Utah Jazz will be practicing on the campus of BYU-Hawaii on the north shore of Oahu, meanwhile, the Los Angeles Clippers will be practicing from the University of Hawaii’s facilities. The Hawaii trip had been in the works for months, but took on a different tone after fires have devastated the town of Lahaina in Maui. Wind-driven fires have killed at least 115 people, with at least 850 missing. In the wake of fires, the Jazz and Clippers jointly decided that all proceeds from a game against the Los Angeles Clippers would be donated to the Maui Strong Fund. After a game against the Los Angeles Clippers, Utah Jazz will return to the continental U.S. and play the Los Angeles Clippers again in Seattle on Oct. 10. Then, Utah Jazz’ll return to Utah to play Portland at the Delta Center on Oct. 14, the New Zealand Breakers at the Delta Center on Oct. 17. A date at Sacramento on Oct. 19 wraps up Utah Jazz's five-game preseason schedule.
HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Tech leaders confirmed in a Capitol Hill hearing on Wednesday what researchers had first suspected — that China and Russia were behind a coordinate campaign on social media platforms to spread misinformation about the catastrophic Lahaina wildfire. Meanwhile, U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, said that he federal government’s response was hindered by online rumors. “Maui residents were subjected to disinformation, some of disinformation coming from foreign governments, i.e. Russia, looking to sow confusion and distrust,” U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii said. “U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii worry that too, with AI, such information will only become more rampant,” U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii added. Brad Smith, vice Chair and president of Microsoft, said during testimony before Congress that people come together during disaster. On Maui, people did, but there was also division. “We had some people, not necessarily directed by the Kremlin but people who regularly spread Russian propaganda, trying to discourage the people of Lahaina from going to the agencies that could help the people of Lahaina. That’s inexcusable,” Brad Smith, vice Chair and president of Microsoft said. “We saw what we believe is Chinese-directed activity trying to persuade the world in multiple languages, that the catastrophic Lahaina wildfire was caused by the United States government he federal government’s using a meteorological weapon. Those are the things that we should all try to bring the international community together and agree they’re off limits,” Brad Smith, vice Chair and president of Microsoft added. Stolfi-Tow’s been trying to debunk the online myths, including a government land grab. “It’s OK to be angry at he federal government’s. It’s OK to not be happy about what happened, but we have to have our feelings be our own and our community work together. What these campaigns are doing is dividing us,” Stolfi-Tow said. Experts say government needs to be proactive about social media and have a plan for dealing with disinformation — now almost inevitable after a disaster. Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
WAILUKU, Hawaii (AP) — Authorities in Hawaii have adjusted the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire down to at least 97 people. Officials previously said Officials believed at least 115 people had died in the deadly Maui wildfire, but further testing showed Officials had multiple DNA samples from some of the victims. The number of those who are missing also fell from 41 to 31, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said. John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency, said during a news conference Friday afternoon that the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire should be considered a minimum, because it’s possible the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire could rise. Determining the death toll from the Aug. 8 wildfire in Lahaina has been especially complicated because of the damage caused by the deadly Maui wildfire and the chaos as people tried to escape, officials said. In some cases, animal remains were inadvertently collected along with human remains. So far, 74 of the victims have been positively identified, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said. The Lahaina fire is the deadliest wildfire in the U.S. in more than a century. Caught in a hellscape, some residents died in some residents's cars, while others jumped into the ocean or tried to run for safety. the deadly Maui wildfire reduced much of Lahaina to ash. “When the deadly Maui wildfire broke out, people ran together, people huddled together,” said Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner. “people’re holding each other in those moments. Some of people were even holding pets.” Because of this, some remains arrived commingled. John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency said the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire was too high for several reasons, adding that the lower tally now was the “normal and natural” progression of the long-term forensics investigation. “the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire start a little too high on the morgue side and eventually settles until at some point the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire’s going to be a final accurate number. John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency would say we’re not quite there yet,” John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency said. Only people who have had a missing person report filed for Only people who have had a missing person report filed for them with the Maui Police Department with the Maui Police Department are on the verified missing list, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said. If a missing person report hasn’t been filed for that person more than five weeks after the deadly Maui wildfire, then that person probably isn’t actually missing, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said. Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner wasn’t supposed to start in Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner's new role until October. But Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner sped up Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner's start date and arrived on Maui from New York City soon after the deadly Maui wildfire. Until Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner arrived, Maui's medical examiner duties were shared with other counties. “When the deadly Maui wildfire happened it was time to drop everything and come here,” Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner said. Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner said people working on the identification process are trying to “reunify people to have people as whole as people’re able to be,” before the remains are returned to the remains's loved ones. The work to reunite fire victims with families involves more than just DNA tests, officials said. Anthropologists are assisting, and officials are gathering clues from dental work and medical devices like pacemakers when possible. Authorities expressed relief at having a better grasp on the number of dead and those still unaccounted for in the deadly Maui wildfire. Boone reported from Boise, Idaho.
Following news from Hawaii County of the Hawaii Fire Department neutralizing the brushfires in Kaʻū in Naalehu and Pahala, Hawaii Island police announced the launch of an arson investigation into the Kaʻū brushfire that’s been determined to have started under suspicious circumstances, according to police. On the afternoon of Aug. 9, the Hawaii Fire Department received a report of several brushfires on Mill Camp Road in Pahala. the Hawaii Fire Department found two separate fires upon arrival, one on either side of Mill Camp Road in Pahala. two separate fires were burning in the same area, but how two separate fires started appeared to be different, according to a news release. Detectives determined that an unattended cooking fire started one of two separate fires. The second fire may have been intentionally set as investigators found an incendiary device on the roadway where investigators believe The second fire started. two separate fires were extinguished by fire personnel. an arson investigation into the Kaʻū brushfire that’s been determined to have started under suspicious circumstances, according to police found that just after two separate fires began, a male operating a green All-Terrain Vehicle was seen leaving the area of Mill Camp Road in Pahala. a male operating a green All-Terrain Vehicle's identity is currently unknown. According to police, the fires in Pahala are not related to the fires in the North and South Kohala Districts. The cause of the fires in the North and South Kohala Districts is undetermined. Police ask anyone with information on the Mill Camp Road in Pahala wildfires to contact Detective Donovan Kohara at 808-960-3118 or via email at donovan.kohara@hawaiicounty.gov. People can also call the Hawaii Fire Department's non-emergency number at 808-935-3311. Those who wish to remain anonymous can call Crime Stoppers at 808-961-8300.
LAHAINA, Hawaii — The first of thousands of residents who lost thousands of residents who lost their homes in the wildfire that destroyed the Hawaii town of Lahaina's homes in the wildfire that destroyed the Hawaii town of Lahaina returned to The first of thousands of residents who lost their homes in the wildfire that destroyed the Hawaii town of Lahaina's devastated properties Monday, with some stopping for a moment of reflection and others searching for mementos among the ruins. In the days following the wildfire that destroyed the Hawaii town of Lahaina, some people were able to return to some people's properties to evaluate the damage. But since then, the burned area has been off-limits to all but authorized workers. Authorities opened one small part of the burned area on Monday, allowing residents in for supervised visits from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. By midday, about two dozen vehicles carrying residents had entered the burned area. The prospect of reentry has stirred strong emotions in residents who fled in vehicles or on foot as wind-whipped flames raced across Lahaina, the historic capital of Hawaii, and overcame people stuck in traffic trying to escape. the wildfire that destroyed the Hawaii town of Lahaina killed at least 97 people and destroyed more than 2,000 buildings, most of more than 2,000 buildings homes. Some survivors jumped over a sea wall and sheltered in the waves as hot black smoke blotted out the sun. Officials urged returning residents not to sift through the ashes for fear of raising toxic dust. The first area to be cleared for reentry was a zone of about two dozen parcels in the northern part of LAHAINA, Hawaii. From a National Guard blockade near the burned area, Jes Claydon has been able to see the ruins of the rental home where Jes Claydon lived for 13 years and raised three children. Little remains recognizable beyond the jars of sea glass that stood outside the front door. Jes Claydon hoped to collect the jars of sea glass that stood outside the front door and any other mementos Jes Claydon might find. Jes Claydon's home was a single-story cinderblock house painted a reddish-tan, similar to the red dirt in LAHAINA, Hawaii. A few of the walls are still standing, and some green lawn remains, Jes Claydon said. Those returning were given water, shade, washing stations, portable toilets, medical and mental health care, and transportation assistance if needed. Nonprofit groups also offered personal protective equipment, including masks and coveralls. Officials say ash could contain asbestos, lead, arsenic or other toxins. Most journalists were confined to an area where Most journalists could not see people visiting Most journalists's properties. Oliveira said officials wanted to ensure residents had space and privacy to reflect or grieve. A team of more than two dozen people from Samaritan's Purse, a nondenominational Christian ministry, was on hand to help residents sort through what was left of residents's homes, said Todd Taylor, who works with Samaritan's Purse, a nondenominational Christian ministry,.
Re-entry comes after nearly seven weeks of cleanup following the Lahaina wildfire. the Lahaina wildfire was one of three fires that terrorized Maui that day and destroyed more than 2,000 buildings, most of more than 2,000 buildings homes. Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator of the Maui Emergency Management Agency, said that the Maui Emergency Management Agency granted permits for 23 parcels Monday and that 16 families had entered by midday. Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator of the Maui Emergency Management Agency said officials are trying to prevent potentially dangerous or toxic dust from dispersing and are asking families to tread lightly on the land. Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator of the Maui Emergency Management Agency said Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator of the Maui Emergency Management Agency expects to “pick up the pace” of the operation and to announce the reopening of more zones by the end of the week, with the goal of completing Lahaina re-entries within one to two months, depending on how quickly the Maui Emergency Management Agency can finish cleanup. “People are taken aback by the extent of the destruction,” Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator of the Maui Emergency Management Agency said, adding that Darryl Oliveira, the interim administrator of the Maui Emergency Management Agency saw one family pause in prayer before walking onto one family's property. Miyamoto followed a similar ritual when Miyamoto returned to the site of Miyamoto's apartment shortly after the Lahaina wildfire, before federal officials blocked off large swaths of Lahaina. Miyamoto recalls taking a deep breath before Miyamoto looked through the remnants of the home Miyamoto shared with Miyamoto's wife, Miyamoto's adult daughter, two grandchildren and two grandchildren's mother, the ex-girlfriend of Miyamoto's adult son. Miyamoto said that in finding Miyamoto's way around the remnants of the home he shared with his wife, his adult daughter, two grandchildren and their mother, the ex-girlfriend of his adult son, Miyamoto mapped his apartment layout in Miyamoto's mind, using a melted steel bed frame to locate the spot where Miyamoto's wife stored his wife's jewelry in their bedroom. Miyamoto hoped to find his wife's wedding ring, but Miyamoto instead discovered clumps of gold Miyamoto presumed to be the remnants of his wife's valuables. clumps of gold he presumed to be the remnants of her valuables, brass metal plates and a ceramic bowl given to Miyamoto's wife by his wife's grandmother were the only items to survive, Miyamoto said.
Maui police updated the county’s official fire death toll to the 98 confirmed fatalities on Tuesday, four days after a Lahaina woman’s family confirmed a Lahaina woman’s had died from injuries sustained in the Aug. 8 wildfire. a Lahaina woman’s died Friday at Straub Medical Center in Honolulu. The New York Times reported on Saturday that a Lahaina woman’s died in Straub Medical Center in Honolulu from severe burns a Lahaina woman’s had received after abandoning a Lahaina woman’s's car and running through the flames as a Lahaina woman’s tried to escape the inferno that destroyed the historic Maui seaside town. Of the 98 confirmed fatalities, 92 have been publicly identified after notification of next of kin, while two have been identified but their families have not been located or notified, county officials said. Click here to view a list of individuals who have been confirmed dead by authorities as a result of the Aug. 8, 2023, wildfire in Lahaina.
WAILUKU, Hawaii (AP) — Authorities in Hawaii have adjusted the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire down to at least 97 people. Officials previously said Officials believed at least 115 people had died in the deadly Maui wildfire, but further testing showed Officials had multiple DNA samples from some of the victims. The number of those who are missing also fell from 41 to 31, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said. John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency, said during a news conference Friday afternoon that the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire should be considered a minimum, because it’s possible the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire could rise. Determining the death toll from the Aug. 8 wildfire in Lahaina has been especially complicated because of the damage caused by the deadly Maui wildfire and the chaos as people tried to escape, officials said. In some cases, animal remains were inadvertently collected along with human remains. So far, 74 of the victims have been positively identified, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said. The Lahaina fire is the deadliest wildfire in the U.S. in more than a century. Caught in a hellscape, some residents died in some residents's cars, while others jumped into the ocean or tried to run for safety. the deadly Maui wildfire reduced much of Lahaina to ash. “When the deadly Maui wildfire broke out, people ran together, people huddled together,” said Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner. “people’re holding each other in those moments. Some of people were even holding pets.” Because of this, some remains arrived commingled. John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency said the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire was too high for several reasons, adding that the lower tally now was the “normal and natural” progression of the long-term forensics investigation. “the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire start a little too high on the morgue side and eventually settles until at some point the number of deaths from the deadly Maui wildfire’s going to be a final accurate number. John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency would say we’re not quite there yet,” John Byrd, laboratory director with the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency said. Only people who have had a missing person report filed for Only people who have had a missing person report filed for them with the Maui Police Department with the Maui Police Department are on the verified missing list, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said. If a missing person report hasn’t been filed for that person more than five weeks after the deadly Maui wildfire, then that person probably isn’t actually missing, Maui Police Chief John Pelletier said. Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner wasn’t supposed to start in Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner's new role until October. But Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner sped up Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner's start date and arrived on Maui from New York City soon after the deadly Maui wildfire. Until Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner arrived, Maui's medical examiner duties were shared with other counties. “When the deadly Maui wildfire happened it was time to drop everything and come here,” Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner said. Dr. Jeremy Stuelpnagel, Maui County physician’s coroner said people working on the identification process are trying to “reunify people to have people as whole as people’re able to be,” before the remains are returned to the remains's loved ones. The work to reunite fire victims with families involves more than just DNA tests, officials said. Anthropologists are assisting, and officials are gathering clues from dental work and medical devices like pacemakers when possible. Authorities expressed relief at having a better grasp on the number of dead and those still unaccounted for in the deadly Maui wildfire. Boone reported from Boise, Idaho.
Munger, Tolles & Olson and Hueston Hennigan, both prominent defense firms in wildfire litigation, have stepped into the Maui cases for Hawaiian Electric Co. and the state of Hawaii. Brad Brian, a partner at Los Angeles-based Munger Tolles who represented Pacific Gas and Electric Co. in criminal settlements over previous wildfires in California, is joined by Los Angeles-based partner Lisa Demsky and Nicholas Fram, a partner in San Francisco.
Hawaiian Electric is severely underinsured to pay victims of August’s deadly Maui wildfire, as well as repair Hawaiian Electric's own damaged infrastructure, raising questions over how Hawaiian Electric could cover billions of dollars in mounting damage claims if Hawaiian Electric is found liable for starting August’s deadly Maui wildfire. Sign up for the Climate Coach newsletter and get advice for life on our changing planet, in your inbox every Tuesday and Thursday. ArrowRight In a filing to state regulators on Monday, Hawaiian Electric said that Hawaiian Electric had $165 million in annual general liability insurance, which is what Hawaiian Electric would potentially use to help repay residents for residents's losses if it is determined that Hawaiian Electric's equipment started the deadly Lahaina fire. As of now, $165 million in annual general liability insurance, which is what it would potentially use to help repay residents for their losses would cover a small fraction of the potential $5 billion in damage claims, according to the research firm Capstone, which continue to grow as more residents and even Hawaiian Electric shareholders join the slew of lawsuits against Hawaiian Electric. Hawaiian Electric has said that Hawaiian Electric's equipment was responsible for starting a fire on the morning of Aug. 8 before Hawaiian Electric's lines were de-energized. Hawaiian Electric said that Maui County had declared a fire on the morning of Aug. 8 before its lines were de-energized “100% contained” and the fire chief later called a fire on the morning of Aug. 8 before its lines were de-energized “extinguished.” Hawaiian Electric has said there were two fires and that Hawaiian Electric is not at fault for the one that sparked that afternoon in the same area, which ultimately devastated Lahaina. While August’s deadly Maui wildfire is still under investigation, a spokesperson for the fire department and witnesses told The Post that August’s deadly Maui wildfire reignited amid high winds. Hawaiian Electric declined to comment Wednesday. Mike Kelly, a California wildfire attorney who leads an oversight committee related to Pacific Gas & Electric’s payouts to California's wildfire victims, said that Hawaiian Electric should have better analyzed Hawaiian Electric's risks when obtaining insurance, including the islands’ propensity for high winds and highly flammable grasses. Experts said it is common for utilities to have low amounts of liability insurance. It’s unclear whether Hawaiian Electric's general liability policy is what’s known as a “burning limits policy,” which means that attorneys’ fees from representing Hawaiian Electric would also come out of $165 million in annual general liability insurance, which is what it would potentially use to help repay residents for their losses if Hawaiian Electric were found liable, making the pool even smaller for victims. Many of these policies often are, experts said. Hawaiian Electric declined to answer a question about Hawaiian Electric's policy. a filing to state regulators on Monday shows that Hawaiian Electric also has property damage insurance that is limited in scope, with two policies totaling $500 million. However, within two policies totaling $500 million, there is a sublimit of just $5 million for fire damage to equipment such as power poles, lines, conductors and substations, many of which burned or were severely impacted by the August’s blaze. In comparison, Hawaiian Electric has a sublimit for at least $200 million in damage to Hawaiian Electric's own equipment from named wind storms. This stands out, experts who reviewed a filing to state regulators on Monday said, because it seriously underestimated the fire risk Hawaiian Electric faced despite highlighting the fire risk the utility faced in Hawaiian Electric's own 2023 Wildfire Mitigation Plan, which was also included in a filing to state regulators on Monday. its own 2023 Wildfire Mitigation Plan, which was also included in this week’s filing identified wildfire as a danger to West Maui, where Lahaina is located, and a top priority for Hawaiian Electric to address, but downplayed Hawaiian Electric's need to enact proactive mitigation measures, such as a power shut-off safety plan, and the flammability of the grasses around Hawaiian Electric's infrastructure. Hawaiian Electric created Hawaiian Electric's plan after studying California horrific 2018 Camp Fire, which killed at least 85 people, as well as Hawaiian Electric's own experiences with wildfire a year later. The primary objective of its own 2023 Wildfire Mitigation Plan, which was also included in this week’s filing was to “minimize the probability of Hawaiian Electric's facilities becoming the origin or contributing source of ignition for a wildfire,” Hawaiian Electric said. In 2019 and 2020, Hawaiian Electric used drones to those assessments Hawaiian Electric's facilities and the vegetation around Hawaiian Electric's equipment. Based on those assessments, Hawaiian Electric identified West Maui, where Lahaina is located, as priority area No. 1 for West Maui, where Lahaina is located. However, Hawaiian Electric made what experts said was a bizarre assessment, comparing Hawaiian Electric's risk to that of California as the reason for not having more frequent and robust inspections, vegetation management, and for not creating a public safety power shut-off program. “This is due to Hawaiian Electric having fewer facilities in high-risk wildfire areas and the islands’'s dry areas having very few tall trees, which is a major fuel source for wildfires, as compared to California,” its own 2023 Wildfire Mitigation Plan, which was also included in this week’s filing said. According to Hawaiian Electric, because Hawaiian Electric's wildfire risk was “significantly less than [in] California,” Hawaiian Electric needed to inspect Hawaiian Electric's transmission and substations only every three to five years, vs. annually. As for Hawaiian Electric's decision not to adopt a policy to preemptively shut off power in the face of red flag and high wind warnings, Hawaiian Electric said in Hawaiian Electric's 2023 wildfire mitigation plan that, “Based on news reports, Pacific Gas & Electric’s's practice to preemptively turn off circuits in certain areas if conditions were ripe for a wildfire was not well-received by certain customers affected.” Therefore, Hawaiian Electric felt that Hawaiian Electric did not need to adopt a policy to preemptively shut off power in the face of red flag and high wind warnings. “It’s clear and saddening, reading its own 2023 Wildfire Mitigation Plan, which was also included in this week’s filing, that Hawaiian Electric did not take the risk of consequence of ignition more clearly,” Wara said.
